RETURN TO
Document of              REPORTS         I DE
The World Bank                       WITHIN
FILE COpy                                                    ONE W-EK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2110-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 30, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of August 16, 1977)
Currency Unit                                           Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                                                    Cr$14.81
Cr$l                                                    US$.0675
Cr$1,000                               =                US$67.52
Cr$1,000,000                                            US$67,522
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BB             Bank of Brazil
BNB            Bank of the Northeast of Brazil
BNDE           National Economic Development Bank
CAGECE         Ceara Water and Sanitation Company
CEPA-CE        Ceara State Agricultural Planning Commission
CERPI          Ibiapaba Rural Electrification Cooperative
CHESF          Sao Francisco Hydroelectric Company
CIBRAZEM       Companhia Brasileira de Armazenamento (Brazilian Storage Company)
CODAGRO        Ceara Agricultural Development Company
COELCE         Ceara Electricity Company
CONSORCIO
RODOVARIO    Ceara State Road Construction Consortium
DAER           State Highway Department
DNER           National Highway Department
ELETROBRAS     Brazilian Electricity Holding Company
EMATER-CE      Ceara Technical,Assistance and Rural Extension Company
EPACE          Ceara Agricultural Research Company
FESP           Foundation for Special Public Health Services
FUNRURAL       Assistance Fund for Rural Workers
ICM            State value added tax
MOBRAL         Brazilian Literacy Movement
MVR            Maximum Reference Value
PIPMO          Intensive Program for Manpower Training
POLONORDESTE   Development Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast
SENAR          National Service for Rural Training
SOEC           Ceara Superintendency of Works
SUCAM          Superintendency for Medical Campaigns
SUDEC          Ceara State Development Superintendency
SUDENE         Northeast Development Superintendency
FINANCIAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:            US$17 million equivalent
Terms:             Payable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at 8 % interest per annum.
Project
Description:    The project would consist of a series of coordinated actions
to improve the living standards and incomes of the low-
income population of the Serra da Ibiapaba region in the
Brazilian State of Ceara. It would include: (a) the
strengthening of extension services; (b) the development
of a field experimentation program; (c) the intensified
agricultural development of some 5,800 farm operations of
less than 200 ha, and the provision of investment and in-
cremental working capital credit required for the increased
production of manioc, sugarcane, oranges, peanuts, passion
fruit, avocados, beans, annato (a food coloring), corn, and
miscellaneous vegetables; (d) the provision of land purchase
credit to some 450 sharecroppers, tenants or owner-operators
with insufficient land; (e) the development of other comple-
mentary agricultural support services such as administrative
and technical assistance to agricultural cooperatives and
provision of certain mechanized land clearing and cultivation
services; (f) the construction and/or upgrading of about
370 km of feeder roads and improvement of rural road mainte-
nance capabilities; (g) the installation of rural electrifi-
cation facilities to serve some 5,000 new rural customers;
(h) the provision of improved health facilities and services
for some 25,000 families, the development of simple village
water supply systems and the execution of pilot programs
for provision of latrines and distribution of water
filters; (i) the construction of 8 multi-purpose community
learning centers, and 50 rural primary schools, the retrain-
ing of 478 rural teachers and education supervisers, and
the provision of rural primary education for 8,820 children,
and non-formal education for a total of about 6,800 farmers
and 10,000 women and young-adults; (j) organizational
support for project administration, monitoring and evalua-
tion; and (k) soil surveys, water resource development
studies and soil conservation studies to help provide the
basis for rural development projects for several of the
other POLONORDESTE priority areas in Ceara.
This document has a rtricted distribution and may be sd by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Dank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
…--     (US$ Millions)--------
Foreign   Local    Total    %
Agricultural Development                  1.94    11.33   13.27  23.8
Credit
Land Purchase Credit                       -       0.65    0.65    1.2
Productive Support                        4.84    13.41   18.25  32.7
Social Infrastructure                     1.03     4.76    5.79  10.4
Administration/Studies                    0.42     3.79    4.21   7.5
Contingencies                             2.64    10.94   13.58  24.4
Total                              10.87     44.88   55.75 100.0
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Beneficiaries                               2.1
Government                                 36.7
IBRD                                       17.0
Total                                55.8
Estimated
Disbursements:                ------US$ Million by Fiscal Year-------
1978   1979   1980    1981   1982   1983
Annually                2.2    3.6     4.5    3.6    2.8    0.3
Cumulative              2.2    5.8    10.3   13.9   16.7   17.0
Rate of Return:       The economic rate of return cannot be calculated for
the project as a whole. It is estimated at 19% for
the parts of the project with directly quantifiable
benefits, such parts representing 72% of the total
costs of the project.
Appraisal Report:     Report No. 1580a-BR dated August 5, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF CEARA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$17 million to
help finance the Ceara Rural Development Project. The loan would be for 15
years, including 3 years of grace with interest at 8% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (1267a-BR), dated
January 26, 1976, was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 8,
1977. An economic mission visited Brazil in March 1977 and its report will
be issued shortly. Country data sheets attached as Annex I reflect the find-
ings of this mission.
3.        The late 1960s and early 1970s were years of remarkable economic
growth and development for Brazil. The 10% average annual rate of growth in
GDP during this period was accompanied by a strong balance of payments perfor-
mance. The dollar value of exports rose by 300% from 1967-1973 and a process
of export diversification significantly reduced Brazil's dependence upon
coffee as the single primary source of foreign exchange earnings. At the same
time, inflation was brought progressively under control. During the early
1970s prices rose at less than 20% per annum on average -- a considerable
improvement upon the inflation of a decade earlier. The crawling peg exchange
rate combined with widespread monetary correction and indexation minimized the
distortions which often accompany inflation (although the indexing also tends
to perpetuate inflation).
4.        The world economic crisis of 1974 marked a turning point in the
recent economic performance of Brazil. Although growth continued at a strong
9.5% in that year, it proved impossible to maintain the good balance-of-
payments performance that had accompanied growth in previous years. The
continuation of expansionary policies during 1974 in the context of a sharp
deterioration in the terms of trade resulted in a trade deficit amounting to
US$4.7 billion. The elimination of that deficit, and the reestablishment
of the previous near equilibrium in merchandise trade has been a major
objective of economic policy since that time and continues to be a major
policy objective today.



-2-
5.        Growth since 1974 has been deeply affected by balance-of-payments
constraints. In 1975 GDP increased by only 4% and the trade deficit was
reduced to US$3.5 billion. Unaccustomed to such a relatively low growth rate,
however, the Government feared that Brazil might be heading for a recession
and once again adopted more expansionary policies towards the end of 1975. As
a result of these policies, and notwithstanding subsequent measures introduced
during the course of 1976 to control the-situation, growth last year reached
8.8%. It is remarkable that despite such a high rate of GDP growth, the trade
deficit was reduced further to US$2 billion. This was due to a rapid 17%
growth in export earnings while imports were practically unchanged from the
previous year, following the exceptionally high level of imports in previous
years and the increasing effectiveness of the Government's import-substitution
program.
6.        The acceleration of growth in 1976 was not without its cost, however.
The high level of aggregate demand associated with the Government's expan-
sionary policies in late 1975 contributed significantly to higher inflation.
Prices rose by 41% on average in 1976 compared with 28% in the previous year.
This was a disturbing departure from the much lower levels of inflation that
had characterized the early 1970s. The Government is concerned that prices do
not get out of hand and control of inflation has now been adopted as a major
policy objective alongside control of the balance of payments.
7.        During the course of 1976, measures were introduced on a number of
fronts to curb inflationary pressures. Half way through the year the official
wage guidelines were modified in such a way as to reduce wage increases below
the current rate of inflation. In the field of monetary policy, commercial
bank reserve requirements were progressively raised from 27% to the legal -
maximum of 35%, and the Central Bank's rediscount rate was raised from 22% to
28%. Stiffer terms were decreed for installment credit and for real estate
credit, and there was an upward shift in the overall interest rate structure.
Additional credit restrictions were introduced in mid-1977 to curb the expan-
sion of Bank of Brazil credit.
8.        Fiscal policy is yet another area in which the Government has
announced measures designed to curb inflation. Plans have been drawn up to
reduce the gap between public sector investment and public sector savings
by some Cr$44 billion (in 1977 prices) -- equivalent to about 2.2% of GDP.
Measures to achieve this goal include the limitation of wage increases in 1977
to 30% for federal government employees. Strict controls are also being
imposed on the hiring of additional personnel. In addition, the investment
programs of state enterprises are to be closely controlled.
9.        The Government recognizes the need for growth to be moderated in
the next two or three years if inflation is to be kept under control, the
balance of payments is to be further improved and a sound basis for longer-
term growth is to be established. It is projected that growth may be in the
order of 7% in 1977 but that it may average little more than 6% during the
remaining years of the decade. Beyond that, however, there is every indication
that Brazil has the potential to sustain high levels of growth similar to



those in the past provided that the present difficulties can be overcome and
provided that sound economic policies are consistently pursued. In this
respect the Government's development strategy provides a sound framework for
future development.
10.       The second National Development Plan (1975-79) was published in the
wake of the world petroleum crisis and incorporates a sectoral development
strategy which focuses sharply upon relieving Brazil's balance-of-payments
constraints in the longer term. The export potential of agriculture has
received explicit recognition in the development plan and the results achieved
during the last several years (particularly in soya production) justify the
priority given to this sector. Agriculture constitutes a vehicle for raising
the living standards of the rural poor and for developing the vast frontier
lands of Brazil's interior. In the case of industry, sophisticated incentive
schemes have been introduced to encourage exports. The major thrust of
Brazil's industrial development strategy, however, concentrates upon massive
import-substitution programs in steel, non-ferrous metals, petrochemicals,
fertilizers and capital goods. Brazil aims at self-sufficiency in many of
these products by the early 1980s. Beyond that point these same industries
may develop a good export potential.
11.       Despite its previous impressive growth performance and vast future
potential, Brazil is still a country with a very unequal distribution of income
and extensive absolute poverty. The present Government acknowledges the coun-
try's income distribution problem and accepts responsibility for its allevi-
ation. Whil-e, like the previous Government, it believes that a high rate of
growth is necessary to increase the incomes of the poor, it does not believe
that the "trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough and has formulated
a new policy which could be labeled as "redistribution along with growth." To
implement this policy in addition to pursuing some of the social programs ini-
tiated by its predecessor, the Government is taking new measures in three
broad areas: (a) regional development; (b) provision of social services; and
(c) wage policy. In addition, recent tax changes have tended to have a
favorable, albeit marginal, impact on income distribution.
12.       As one of its measures to help promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural devel-
opment in the Northeast. The program which covers the 1975-79 period is de-
signed to raise the productivity and incomes of small farmers through, inter
alia, formulation and execution of integrated rural development projects,
which are likely in some cases to include changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE
is based on the assumption that the rural Northeast cannot be regarded as a
homogeneous whole and, therefore, standardized programs are inadequate. The
Government has identified 31 sub-regions covering large portions of the
Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds would be used initially. The Rio Grande
do Norte project (Ln. 1195-BR approved in December 1975) was one of the first
under POLONORDESTE.



- 4 -
13.       In the area of social services, the Government has created a new
Ministry of Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit programs
and to extend these programs to a larger share of the population. The Govern-
ment is also strengthening the nutrition program which, under the previous
Government, got off to a slow start. Greater emphasis is being given by the
National Housing Bank to low-income housing, the beneficiaries of which will
enjoy better financial terms than in the past. The Housing Bank is also
developing a site and services program to encourage construction of self-help
housing by families that cannot afford builder-constructed units. In agri-
culture, the recently reorganized rural extension agency will expand and
strengthen its activities directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer;
and the new federal agriculture research institution is defining its program
to include a selection of crops and farming systems which will ensure that
small-scale farms benefit from research efforts. Finally, the Government has
pursued a more liberal wage policy to maintain the real value of the minimum
wage and improve personal income distribution. For this purpose in November
1974 it revised the formula governing the adjustment of the union wage scale
and the real minimum wage was increased by 6.5% in 1975 and by 3% in 1976.
While in 1977 the Government is restricting wage increases as part of a policy
package designed to control overall demand and to combat inflation, this does
not signify any basic change in the Government's longer term goal of improving
income distribution.
14.       In order to achieve the twin goals of high growth and an improved
distribution of income, Brazil will continue to require large inflows of
capital in the medium-term future. These inflows should be less than in the
recent past, however. Compared with a US$6 billion three-year average for
1974-76, it is estimated that the annual net inflow of medium- and long-term
capital (that is, direct foreign investment and net disbursements from offi-
cial and private sources) may be in the order of US$4.5 billion for 1977-80.
This projection assumes a return to equilibrium in the trade balance beginning
in 1977, with export volume rising at an average rate of 11.5 percent annually
in 1977-80, and import growth held down to only 2.8 percent a year in real
terms during this period. The outlook for Brazil's principal export commodi-
ties is quite favorable for the next several years, and it is expected that
the good overall export performance projected here can be achieved, provided
that the country continues to follow present exchange rate policies to ensure
the competitiveness of manufactured exports. On the import side, Brazil has
embarked since 1975 on a series of massive import substitution programs which
are expected to have a substantial impact on import requirements in the next
few years. Considerable progress is being made in many fields, including in
particular fertilizers, steel, nonferrous metals, cement, paper and capital
goods. A major effort is also being made to expand domestic petroleum produc-
tion, although the outcome in this sector is still a major imponderable at
this time.
15.       At December 31, 1976, Brazil's public external debt amounted to
almost US$15 billion and the public debt service ratio for 1976 is estimated
at between 18% and 19%. This is somewhat higher than the 15% average public
debt service ratio estimated for the first half of the seventies and reflects



- 5 -
a higher proportion of medium-term financial credits within the overall debt
structure. Total external debt (both public and private) registered by the
Central Bank at end 1976 amounted to US$26 billion and rather more than two
thirds of this debt (some US$18 billion) was in the form of financial credits.
The net debt service ratio on total external debt during 1976 was about 43%
compared with an average of 38% during the early seventies. However, net
foreign exchange reserves at the end of 1976 stood at US$6.7 billion, equiv-
alent to some six months imports of goods and non-factor services and suffi-
cient to cover nearly one quarter of the total outstanding external debt.
Despite Brazil's heavy debt service burden the substantial level of foreign
exchange reserves ensure that the country will have the liquidity to meet its
debt service obligations in the short term. The breakdown between public and
private debt in the longer run can be projected only tentatively. Much will
depend upon the extent to which the government will extend its guarantee
to loans contracted externally by non-government entities. Even assuming that
a government guarantee will be granted in an increasing number of cases, it is
projected tentatively that the public debt service ratio will peak in the late
seventies at about 20%. Subsequently, a fall to about 16% by 1985 is projected
assuming that Brazil can increase its exports by an average of 17% per annum
and that the average maturities of new financial credits gradually improve from
six to eight years. The country's record of financial and economic management
provides grounds for confidence in the maintenance of creditworthiness over
the longer run. Nevertheless, there can be no doubt that very careful manage-
ment of the external accounts will be necessary in the next two to three years.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
16.       By June 30, 1977 the Bank had approved 72 loans for Brazil, amount-
ing to US$3,155.5 million, of which 37 were not yet fully disbursed. During
FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing to
an average of US$136 million per year during FY70-74, reaching US$225 million
in FY74, US$248 million in FY75 and US$202 million in FY76. In the first half
of FY77 US$97.1 million was disbursed. The decline in disbursements in FY76
and FY77 is due primarily to the reduced level of lending in FY73-74. Dis-
bursements are expected to increase during the next few years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of June 30, 1977 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven loans
were approved totalling US$437 million, including three loans totalling
US$192 million for the Stage II expansion of the steel industry. In FY73-74
nine loans were approved amounting to US$429.7 million; in FY75 five loans
totalling US$426.5 million; and in FY76 ten loans totalling US$498 million
were approved. In FY77 seven loans were approved: US$40 million for a second
Minas Gerais water supply and sewerage project, US$83 million for a second
agro-industries credit project, US$82 million for power transmission in the
south.of Brazil, US$42 million for an integrated rural development project in
the State of Minas Gerais, US$64 million for a nitrogen fertilizer project,



-6 -
US$82 million for a phosphate fertilizer project, and US$32 million for a
vocational training project. For FY78 we are working actively with the
Brazilians on the preparation of sewage treatment and industrial pollution
control projects for the metropolitan area of Sao Paulo; an agricultural
extension project; three rural development projects in the Northeast; a power
distribution project in the Southeast; a highways maintenance and rehabilita-
tion project; an aluminum project; and a petrochemicals project.
18.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1976, amounting to nearly US$15 billion, the Bank held about 8.5%. The
Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present trends
continue as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt outstand-
ing would increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt service
would rise in 1980 to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total (public and
private) external debt service would remain at the present level of 2.8%.
19.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. As of June 30, 1977, IFC had made 32 commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$322.3 million, of which US$32.6 million had been cancelled,
US$26.4 million repaid and US$136.9 million sold. Of the balance of US$126.4
million, US$101.9 million represented loans and US$24.5 million equity. A
summary of IFC's investments up to June 30, 1977 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
20.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. An important lending objective in Brazil is to support
the effort of the Government to identify and develop projects designed to
increase productivity and incomes of the lowest income segment of the popula-
tion, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and to
alleviate poverty. The proposed Ceara Rural Development Project is addressed
to this objective. The recently approved loans for nutrition research and
development, agricultural research, Rio Grande do Norte and Minas Gerais
integrated rural development, and Lower Sao Francisco Polders projects were
all designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas. Government authori-
ties, with the collaboration of Bank staff, are making a particular effort to
help Brazil develop additional integrated rural development projects of this
type. The recently approved water supply and sewerage project for the State
of Minas Gerais was designed to help reach low-income groups in towns and
cities as would proposed sites and services and water supply and pollution
control projects now in preparation, and the Vocational Training Project
was also directed mainly at low-income groups.
21.       A second Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform designed to develop rational policies and pro-
cedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and help maximize public
savings and ensure that they are used economically. The institution-building
objective has been important in Bank assistance for vocational training, and
for the transportation sector where emphasis has been given to the rational



- 7 -
selection of investments, the strengthening of railway operations, and the
improvement of the railways' financial performance. Loans for electric power,
industrial finance, highways, agricultural research and extension, and urban
development also have important institution-building objectives.
22.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic policy.
Bank support of fertilizer projects is assisting Brazil to substitute imports
with large-scale efficient domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments
position. Bank lending for agro-industries in the Center and South of Brazil
has also supported this objective and much of the Bank-assisted investment in
the transport sector--railways, ports and highways--is designed to facilitate
the smooth and economical flow of exports. Also, support of the steel expan-
sion program is helping Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional
import commodity which can be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the
country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore and the scale of its internal
markets.
23.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence
in Brazil and encourages them to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power, steel and fertilizer, Bank participa-
tion is helping Brazil obtain additional bilateral resources in greater
amounts and on more favorable terms.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Physical Environment
24.       Brazil is the largest nation in South America in area (8.5 million
km2) and in population (110 million inhabitants) and its ecology is very
diverse. Essentially there are five main ecological zones; namely, the wet
tropics, the dry tropics, the woodland savannah, the humid temperate zone, and
the grassland zone. The wet tropics include about 250 million ha of tropical
rain forest of the Amazon Basin and the narrow strip along the east coast known
as the "Zona da Mata." The latter was the first part of Brazil to be settled
and is the most heavily populated. The dry tropics cover about 150 million
ha and include most of the Northeast. The vegetation is dominated by thorny



-8-
deciduous shrub and drought resistant grasses and trees. The region includes
the "Sertao," where periodic and very severe droughts pose major problem3.
The woodland savannah of about 200 million ha is known as the "Campos Cerrados"
region. It includes the Central Plateau (Planalto), whose average elevation
is about 1,000 m and part of the Brazilian escarpment as well as the head-
waters of two of Brazil's three major river systems. The humid-temperate zone
covers about 200 million ha of the central highlands and the southeastern
escarpment. It includes a large but heavily depleted area of tropical hard-
wood forest on the eastern coast and the temperate rainforest in the south.
The grassland zone includes about 50 million ha in the south which are similar
to the Argentine and Uruguayan "Pampas", as well as the tropical tall grass
prairies ("Pantanal") of Mato Grosso.
Agricultural Products
25.       The most important crops for the domestic market include manioc
(cassava), maize, rice, wheat, beans, potatoes, vegetables, bananas, citrus
fruit, dairy products, poultry, beef and swine; and coffee, sugar, soybeans,
cotton, and cocoa which are important for both the export and domestic markets.
Three of these commodities (coffee, soybeans, and sugar) generate 40% of the
country's total export earnings. The agricultural sector accounts for more
than 60% if unprocessed and semiprocessed agricultural exports are included.
26.       Brazil is still the largest exporter of coffee in the world, although
its share of the world market has declined from 50% in the early 1950s to about
30% at present. The severe frosts of 1975, which drastically reduced produc-
tion to about 9 million bags in 1976, may result in coffee producers gradually
moving out of frost-prone areas. With the decline in Cuban production since
1970, Brazil is now the largest producer of cane sugar in the world, and in 1974
sugar surpassed coffee as Brazil's principal foreign exchange earner. Due to
unusually bad weather, production declined in 1975, but in 1976, another large
increase in production took place (17% over 1975). The production of soybeans
has increased from less than one million tons in 1968 to over 11 million tons
in 1976, making Brazil the third largest producer in the world. This expan-
sion has been instrumental in restructuring agriculture in southern Brazil,
and production is expected to reach 18 million tons by 1980.
Recent Sectoral Performance
27.       Over the 1967-74 period, the agricultural sector performed well in
supplying domestic demand for food and fiber as well as a rising volume of
export commodities, with output growing at 5.7% annually despite adverse
climatic conditions in three out of seven years. The agriculture sector's
contribution to GDP has declined from 20% in 1967 to about 15% at present, but
its contribution to exports has remained significant (about 60% of the total
value). Until 1970, growth in agricultural production was attributed almost
entirely to expansion of land under cultivation and relatively little effort
was made to improve productivity. Inflation, price controls, unsystematic
Government intervention in marketing of products, overvalued exchange rates
and export controls tended to distort prices, particularly in the early 1960s,
discouraging increased production and limiting exports.



-9-
Government Policy
28.       The agricultural development strategy of Brazil's Second National
Development Plan (1975-79) aims at a more efficient exploitation of Brazil's
agricultural potential by increasing agricultural output by 40% in real terms
during the 1975-79 period. This goal reflects the Government's intention to
provide for an increasing share of Brazil's growing domestic requirements for
food and fiber, as well as to increase the volume of agricultural exports.
In addition, the Government has acknowledged the gravity of the country's
income distribution problems and has (i) allocated substantial public resour-
ces to incorporate new areas into production; (ii) promoted a significant
expansion in the overall supply of agricultural credit; (iii) reorganized
federal research and extension services; and (iv) introduced special regional
programs such as POLONORDESTE. The overall package of new programs represents
an important shift in Brazilian agricultural policy, to give emphasis to the
development of programs to raise the productivity of the rural poor.
Northeast Agriculture 1/
29.       The nine states of Northeast Brazil have a total population of about
30 million, of which some 60% live in rural areas. Agricultural productivity
is low and rural per capita incomes are roughly estimated at only one quarter
the national average (which was about US$1,000 in 1975). Aside from a rela-
tively narrow coastal strip in which sugarcane is the principal crop, much of
the Northeast has a semi-arid climate, with periodic serious droughts, and
generally poor soils. The problems of reducing the incidence of poverty in
the region are further compounded by a highly skewed distribution of land
ownership. Less than 1% of the total number of farm establishments account
for 40% of the area, and in some areas up to 80% of the rural labor force
owns no land at all, though this proportion varies considerably within the
Northeast. Numerous Government programs in the past have been directed at
speeding economic development in the Northeast. Past Government programs
directed to the rural population have often been in the areas of public works
(including substantial efforts in drought-prone areas to develop small dams
and ponds) or social services. Other initiatives by the Government in-
clude a development superintendency (SUDENE), a special development bank
for the Northeast (Bank of the Northeast, BNB), and substantial fiscal and
monetary incentives for developing both industry and agriculture. However,
programs to generate jobs in the industrial sector have not kept pace with
overall population increases, and the gradual emigration from rural to
urban areas has been coupled with considerable continued emigration from
the Northeast to the more industrialized Center-South of Brazil.
30.       The POLONORDESTE program, which was established in 1974 (see
paragraph 12), is helping to finance: (i) various project preparation
activities and initial expenditures for new projects in priority subregions,
1/   Readers are directed to "Rural Development Issues and Options in Northeast
Brazil", (Report No. 665a-BR dated June 23, 1975).



- 10 -
and (ii) the continuation or completion of projects (particularly in the
areas of land settlement and irrigation) begun or planned before the creation
of POLONORDESTE. By the end of 1976, around US$370 million had been allocated
to these various efforts, with much of the expenditure actually being made
for projects in the latter category. Project preparation guidelines and
operating policies have only recently begun to emerge and the institutional
capacity to plan, coordinate and execute the program requires strengthening.
As a result, some of the projects are still suffering execution delays.
Notwithstanding these difficulties, the establishment of the POLONORDESTE
program has helped to mobilize the energies of various Government bodies
in programs directed toward improving the agricultural productivity of the
rural poor.
Bank Participation in Brazil's Agricultural Sector
31.       The proposed loan for the Ceara Rural Development Project would
be the Bank's eleventh loan for the development of Brazil's agricultural
sector. The Bank has made two loans, totalling US$66 million, for livestock
development; three amounting to US$167 million in support of agroindustry and
grain storage credit programs; one of US$6.7 million for the Alto Turi Land
Settlement project in the State of Maranhao; one of US$23 million for the
Lower Sao Francisco Polders project; one of US$12 million for the Rio Grande
do Norte Rural Development project; one of US$40 million for agricultural
research, and one of US$42 million for the Minas Gerais Rural Development
project. The proposed loan would be the third loan made for an integrated
rural development project in Brazil. Although still in its initial year,
implementation of the first project (Rio Grande do Norte, Loan 1195-BR) is
progressing satisfactorily. The Minas Gerais project was approved by the
Bank's Executive Directors on January 11, 1977. Other rural development
projects are under preparation in several Northeast states.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
The Prolect Area
32.       Ceara, with a total population in 1970 of about 4.4 million (59%
rural), and a land area of about 148,000 km2, is one of the largest Northeast
states. The metropolitan area of the capital city, Fortaleza, which is
situated on the coast, has a population of over one million and accounts
for the bulk of the state's light industry. While agricultural potential
is limited in most of the state by poor soils and low or irregular rainfall,
potential is relatively higher along a narrow coastal strip, in several
humid highland areas (one of which is the focal point of the proposed proj-
ect) and a few river valleys. The majority of the state's land area, however,
falls within the sertao, which is subject to periodic severe drought and
which ecologically is most suited for cattle ranching or other extensive
systems of land use.



33.       The project area constitutes a plateau (Serra da Ibiapaba) located
in the northwestern part of Ceara, bordering the State of Piaui (see map).
It is one of the priority regions within the federal POLONORDESTE program,
and includes seven municipalities which cover about 4,800 km2 or 3% of the
state's territory. It extends about 100 km in a north-south direction and
about 50 km east-west. The project area rises from about 500 m altitute in
the west to some 800 m in the east where a steep escarpment separates the
plateau from a low-lying area with an altitude of about 200 m. The
average annual temperature and rainfall vary with the altitude. As a
result of climate, topography and soil characteristics, the area can be
divided into three land capability classes: the western part (carrasco)
which covers about 70% of the area, with moderate to poor agricultural
potential; the central part, commonly referred to as the humid zone,
corresponding to approximately 20% of the area, with good agricultural
potential; and the lower part (sertao) east of the escarpment, correspond-
ing to about 10% of the area with very limited agricultural possibilities.
34.       The population of the project area was estimated in 1976 to be about
194,000, or some 4.5% of the population of the state. Average population density
is 40 per km2. Approximately 80% (155,000) of the population is considered
rural (25% are farm owner-operator families, 9% nonowner-operator families
including sharecroppers, and the remaining 66% mainly farm laborers and their
families). Between 1960 and 1970, rural population grew by about 1.3% annually
and urban by 2.2%. Educational and health standards of the population in the
project area are low. Only about 45% of the adult population are able to
read and write, and roughly 30% of school-age children are attending schools.
Health problems are reflected in high rates of infant mortality (125 per 1,000),
and in communicable diseases such as leishmaniasis and trachoma, which are
endemic in the area.
35.       The area's economy is almost exclusively based upon agriculture.
About 80% of the economically active population are engaged in agricultural
activities and some 10% each are employed in the secondary sector (largely
small-scale agricultural processing) and in services. Regional product in
1971 was estimated at about US$30 million-of which approximatey US$23 million
originated in agriculture. This would suggest a regional product of US$170
per capita and, assuming 85% of the regional product constitutes regional
value-added, an average income of about US$140 per capita in 1971. During
the 1970s, a north-south and east-west road system was constructed, and this
has led to an increase in agricultural and service activities and to the
decline of open unemployment and emigration.
Project Concept
36.       The Ibiapaba area has been chosen by the state government for a rural
development project because it is an area with a relatively high population
density, it has a better than average rainfall, above average agricultural
potential, and numerous small farmers whose circumstances lend themselves to



- 12 -
an accelerated development program. It is hoped that the lessons learned
during the implementation of the proposed project may have wider application
throughout the state, and, with this in mind, several other rather similar
projects are in various stages of preparation by the state government. The
proposed project would increase output, productivity and farm incomes for
small farmers in the Serra da Ibiapaba, and provide new or improved basic
social and physical infrastructure and services to the project area. Improve-
ments in income would be achieved both by increasing yields on existing farms
and by increasing the area under cultivation, supported by improved extension,
agricultural experimentation, and greater credit coverage. Emphasis would
be placed on improved inputs and farming techniques coupled with relatively
low on-farm investment. On-farm development would be reinforced through
the provision of better health and sanitation services, cooperative support,
non-formal and primary education, feeder roads and rural electrification.
About two thirds of project participants would be in the carrasco zone, and
the remainder in the humid zone.
37.       The project would consist of:   (a) the strengthening of extension
and demonstration services; (b) the development of a field experimentation
program; (c) the intensified agricultural development of some 5,800 small-scale
farms, and the provision of investment and incremental working capital credit
required for increased food production; (d) the provision of land purchase
credit to some 450 sharecroppers, tenants or owner-operators with insufficient
land; (e) the development of complementary agricultural support services to
agricultural cooperatives and provision of certain mechanized land clearing
and cultivation services; (f) the construction or upgrading of about 370 km of
feeder roads and improvement of rural road maintenance capabilities; (g) the
installation of rural electrification facilities to serve some 5,000 new rural
customers; (h) the provision of improved health facilities and services for
about 25,000 families, the development of simple village water supply systems
and of pilot programs for provision of latrines and distribution of water
filters; (i) the construction of 8 multi-purpose community learning centers
and 50 rural primary schools, the upgrading of some 478 rural teachers and
primary education supervisers, the provision of non-formal education for a
total of about 6,800 farmers and 10,000 women and young adults; and formal
primary education for about 8,280 children; (j) soil surveys, water resource
development studies and soil conservation studies to help provide the basis
for rural development projects for several of the other POLONORDESTE priority
areas in Ceara; and (k) organizational support for project administration,
monitoring and evaluation.
Agricultural Extension
38.       The project would include the expansion and reorganization of exten-
sion services provided in the project area by the Ceara Technical Assistance
and Rural Extension Company (EMATER-CE), directed to some 5,800 small-scale
farmers previously not assisted or inadequately assisted. The proposed exten-
sion methodology would install demonstration plots in the fields of "contact
farmers" to allow for greater extension coverage and improved cooperative
action. Agricultural field extension specialists would concentrate solely on



- 13 -
know-how dissemination and demonstration, while agricultural credit specialists
would plan, prepare and supervise agricultural credit. Extension staff would
be increased from 14 to 107, and would also include cooperative organization
agents, social assistance agents and other specialists, who would receive
special pre-service as well as in-service and field training.
Agricultural Research and Experimentation
39.       Agricultural experimentation would be aimed both at development of
new and improved practices for existing crops and at gaining know-how for
crops new to the area. Intensified extension is expected to have a signifi-
cant initial impact by promoting wider application of practices already used
by the area's better farmers or developed in similar regions. The Ceara
Agricultural Research Company (EPACE) has already begun a preliminary program
of research related to the project area needs at a new research station near
Tiangua. The program is being executed with the support and guidance of the
Brazilian Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA). During negotiations,
assurances were provided by the state that it would continue to develop and
maintain research at the Tiangua station adequate to the project needs (see
Section 3(a) of the Project Agreement). To supplement the ongoing research at
Tiangua the project would include satellite field experimentation on some 10
semi-commercial experimentation sites of about 10 ha each. These sites would
be developed within the project area during the five-year project period and
would be managed by EPACE.
Agricultural Credit for On-Farm Development
40.       Agricultural credit would be provided to approximately 5,800 small-
scale farmers (including about 1,000 sharecroppers and tenants) in the
project area, almost all of whom would have farms of less than 200 ha (in the
humid zone, most farms would be less than one-tenth this size). Most of these
farmers have had little or no access to institutional credit. It is estimated
that farmers would contribute about 10-15% of development costs. Production
credit would be made available to help finance on-farm investments (land
clearing, establishment of permanent crops, small equipment, tools, and
fencing) and incremental working capital requirements (laborers, fertilizer,
seeds, pesticides, and other seasonal production inputs). Credit would be
extended by the Central Bank through the Bank of Brazil (BB) agency and the
Bank of the Northeast of Brazil (BNB) agency in the project area and two
additional BB branches near the project area. The participating banks
would be required to repay the Central Bank in line with repayment dates of
sub-loans made, and would be allowed to retain a spread of 5% to cover admin-
istrative costs. When possible, credit would be channelled through one of the
four area cooperatives (they would receive a 2% spread, leaving the participat-
ing banks with 3%). This spread appears sufficient to cover costs as well as
provide an incentive to the banking system to participate. Nevertheless, the
adequacy of the spread would be reviewed periodically.



- 14 -
41.       The agricultural credit terms to the farmer would be those estab-
lished by the Government for the POLONORDESTE program. The nominal interest
rate would be 7%, unindexed, for both investment and seasonal working capital
credits, with the exception of credit for fertilizer purchase which would
carry no interest charge.   Credit for "semi-fixed" investments (work animals,
light equipment, etc.) would have a final maturity of up to 8 years, including
up to 4 years' grace, and for "fixed" investments (land clearing, establishment
of permanent crops, small-scale irrigation, etc.) up to 12 years, including up
to 6 years' grace. Given Brazil's inflation rate, the interest rates adopted
by the Government for POLONORDESTE projects are severely negative in real
terms. We have reluctantly accepted this since the beneficiaries would be
low-income farmers. Furthermore, credit would be closely supervised and would
be made only to farmers also receiving technical assistance. Hence, the
chance of misallocation of resources is very small. Moreover, the financial
intermediaries (which in real terms are most likely to recover only a small
portion of the funds thus lent) are financially strong and can count on
continuing support from the federal budget. The Government would advise the
Bank promptly of any changes in interest rates (see Section 3.03(a) of the
Loan Agreement).
42.       The participating banks would give priority to lowest income and
landless farmers in granting credit and, for loans under 50 times the Maximum
Reference Value (MVR, a periodically adjusted unit equivalent to about the
minimum monthly wage, or roughly US$60 at present), would not require property
guarantees. To help ensure that the credit facilities of the project reach a
large number of beneficiaries, Bank disbursements would be limited to sub-loans
in which the outstanding seasonal and investment credits for the farmer did
not exceed 100 MVR (or about US$6,000). Also, to help ensure that the project
credit allocations are incremental to, and not replacement for, existing
institutional credit, Bank disbursements for seasonal production credit in any
single year would be made only against credit in excess of the amount extended
during the previous year (see Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement). Since the
amount of incremental working capital credit required during the first year of
the project is expected to be quite small, Bank disbursements for seasonal
credit would begin during the second year. The Government would ensure that
the effectiveness of the credit promotion, processing and delivery activities
would be subject to systematic annual reviews, that the findings and recommen-
dations for any necessary modifications would be provided to the Bank for
discussion by November 30 each year, and that such changes as are agreed upon
are carried out (see Section 3.03 (c) of the Loan Agreement).
Land Purchase Credit
43.       An amount of US$650,000 is included in the project for land purchase
credit, from local BB and BNB branches. The proposed Bank loan would not be
disbursed for that component. POLONORDESTE terms and conditions for land
purchases (12% interest, unindexed, with repayment up to 20 years including up
to 6 years of grace, and covering up to 100% of the purchase price) would be
applied. It is expected that about 450 (around 10%) of the nonowner-operator
*farmers or very small-scale owner-operators would benefit over the project



- 15 -
period, with individual plots generally ranging in size from 5 ha in the humid
zone to 30 ha in the drier carrasco zone. The credit would be available both
directly to individuals purchasing land privately, and through cooperatives,
particularly for the smaller plots in the humid zone. Cooperatives would be
allowed to purchase blocks of land for distribution to members. The rela-
tively small size of individual plots financed, the use of cooperatives as
intermediaries and the setting of a modest target number of recipients should
help avoid land speculation.
Cooperative Support
44.       The project would include a program of technical and financial
assistance to strengthen and expand the 4 agricultural cooperatives operating
in the project area. They are in precarious financial condition, their organi-
zation is weak, and membership totals about 1,200 farmers, of whom only about
one-fourth are active members. A-study will be carried out with the assistance
of consultants to define a medium-term program of technical assistance, train-
ing and financial assistance (e.g., credit for investments or working capital)
suited to the specific needs of the individual cooperatives. Disbursements
from the proposed Bank loan would be made initially only up to US$25,000
against the costs of the cooperative support component (covering principally
the study but also some continued administrative assistance to the coopera-
tives) with disbursements for the second phase contingent upon agreement
between the Government, Bank and State on the action program defined as a
result of the study (see Schedule 1, Section 3 (b) of the Loan Agreement).
Mechanization Services
45.       Not all of the necessary land clearing and initial soil preparation
requirements are suitable for labor intensive techniques, and peak season
requirements would in some cases.exceed the available local labor supply.
Therefore, while about half the land clearing and initial soil preparation
requirements would be met by family and hired labor, the remainder would
have to be covered through partial mechanization. The number of privately
owned farm tractors and related equipment in the project area is small. In
order to help assure adequate machinery availability during the project's
early years and as an interim measure, the project would provide the state-
owned Ceara Agricultural Development Company (CODAGRO) with a small stock of
equipment to meet part of the early estimated demand by project participants
for mechanization-services. The state would enter into an agreement with
CODAGRO under which the latter would-provide priority services to the project
participants and would establish user charges covering full operating and
maintenance costs (including overhead) and recovery of capital over a reason-
able period making timely adjustments to such charges to reflect inflation
(see Section 3(b) of the Project Agreement).



- 16 -
Rural Electrification
46.       The project would include the reinforcement and extension of
rural electrification facilities in the Ibiapaba area, principally for pro-
ductive uses. Over 75% of the estimated load would be small motors used
for sugar and manioc milling'and small-scale irrigation. The component
would consist of the installation of about 30 km of 69 kV subtransmission
lines from the present terminus in Ibiapina north to Tiangua and south to
Sao Benedito, with 2.5 MVA substations at each of the latter two towns,
and the provision of about 1,000 km of primary (13.8 kV) and low-tension
distribution lines, transformers, meters and other equipment to serve some
5,000 new rural customers. Part of the facilities would be installed by
the Ceara Electricity Company (COELCE), which is also a beneficiary of part
of the proceeds of Bank Loan 1300-BR for the Northeast Power Distribution
Project. COELCE would retain ownership of, and operational responsibility
for, the subtransmission and primary distribution facilities. The recently
formed Ibiapaba Rural Electrification Cooperative (CERPI) would have owner-
ship of, and operation and maintenance responsibilities for, the low-tension
distribution facilities.
47.       Customers are required to pay the cooperative a membership fee
covering the pro rata share of the low-tension system cost, payable over a
16-year period, including 2 years of grace, with interest of 12% unindexed
(standard terms established by the Government). The Government funding to
COELCE and CERPI would be grant assistance. Electricity would be purchased by
COELCE from CHESF, the Sao Francisco Hydroelectric Company, the Government's
principal electricity generating company in the Northeast, and sold to CERPI
for resale according to the state's electricity tariff structure. The average
investment cost per consumer, about US$1,300, is relatively high, although
comparable to similar recent works in Northeast Brazil. ELETROBRAS, the
Brazilian Government electricity holding company, agreed in conjunction with
Bank Loan 1300-BR to undertake studies analyzing methods of reducing, within
acceptable safety limits, total installed costs of rural distribution facilities.
The state would ensure that COELCE would apply relevant findings of the study,
when available, to project electrification works (see Section 3(c) of the
Project Agreement). Also, because COELCE does not have adequate experience in
international competitive bidding, the state would ensure that COELCE would
retain suitable consultancy services to assist in the preparation of specifi-
cations and bidding documents and bid evaluation for the equipment to be
procured through international bidding (see Section 3.02 (b) of the Loan
Agreement), the same arrangement which is being successfully operated under
Loan 1300-BR.
Feeder Roads
48.       The system for feeder roads in the project area, currently composed
largely of poorly drained dirt tracks, would be upgraded to reduce transport
costs, assure in many cases year-round usability, help facilitate the pro-
posed modernization and expansion of agricultural production and help increase



- 17 -
access to improved social services. The component would include: construction
or rehabilitation of about 370 km of earth tracks, 231 km of which would be
improved to all-weather standards and the other 139 km provided only with
essential drainage and surface improvements but remaining basically dry-season
roads; consulting services to assist in the preparation of design, bidding
documents and supervision of construction; and road maintenance tools and
equipment.
49.       The design and construction of the roads would be contracted by the
Ceara Highway Consortium (Consorcio Rodoviario), the state-controlled agency
which is responsible for most road construction in Ceara. The design stand-
ards, which are satisfactory, would be consistent with those established by
the National Economic Development Bank (BNDE) and the National Highway Depart-
ment (DNER) for the feeder road program which is being partly financed by the
Bank (Loan 1207-BR) (see Annex to Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement). The
maintenance equipment would be provided to the State Highway Department (DAER),
which is r-esponsible for maintaining state roads and providing mechanized
maintenance of rural municipal roads. Maintenance tools would be provided
to the municipalities which would be responsible for grass-cutting, cleaning
ditches and culverts. Prior to the construction of the project roads, the
state would secure the agreements of the municipalities to provide adequate
continued maintenance of the rural roads in the project area (see Section 3(d)
of the Project Agreement).
Health and Sanitation
50.       The project would include the development of a low-cost, integrated
health service delivery system for the rural population. It would consist of:
(i) construction or rehabilitation of 62 village health posts, 8 intermediate
health centers for referral services, and improvements to existing hospitals;
(ii) an endemic disease control program to reduce the incidence of trachoma
and leishmaniasis; (iii) a public sanitation program including construction
and' equipping of about 62 simple water supply systems (community wells and
standpipes), provision for a small stock of maintenance equipment and spare
parts, a pilot program for installation of pit latrines and water filters; and
(iv) health manpower training and administrative support. Implementation of
the health component would be supervised by the State Secretariat of Health.
Other agencies would participate in various facets of the component: the
Government's Superintendency for Medical Campaigns (SUCAM) in the endemic
disease control program; the Ceara Water Supply and Sanitation Company (CAGECE)
and the Ceara Superintendency of Works (SOEC) in the village water supply
program; a Government Foundation for Special Public Health Services (FSESP) in
the pilot program of latrine distribution and installation; the Government's
Assistance Fund for Rural Workers (FUNRURAL) in funding operating costs in the
rural health system; and EMATER-CE in helping promote the creation of community
health committees as a mechanism for mobilizing community interest and in
providing health and nutrition education.



- 18 -
51.       The improved health and sanitation conditions, which should benefit
a total of about 150,000 people, would play an important role complementary to
other project efforts, to improve the productivity of the rural poor. The
success of the component would depend, however, on the active participation of
a relatively large number of agencies and the generation of active community
participation. The Government would agree to ensure that (i) adequate recur-
rent funding to maintain the operations of the health services would be
available (see Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement); (ii) the details of
the village water supply program would be completed and provided to the Bank
for comment by December 31, 1977, along with the manual to be prepared by
CAGECE for training the local sanitation auxiliaries to be hired by the
community health committees to operate and maintain the village water systems
(see Section 3.04(a) of the Loan Agreement); (iii) water supply systems would
be constructed only in communities where at least 100 families would benefit
directly, thereby helping assure a reasonably low investment cost per family
and a broad enough consuming public to allow full recovery of operating and
maintenance costs; provided such communities have established health committees
which have agreed to contribute labor and materials to the construction of the
systems and to collect user payments to cover operating and maintenance costs
(see Section 3.04(b) of the Loan Agreement).
Education and Community Training
52.       The project will include both the provision of adult nonformal train-
ing as well as improvements to formal rural primary education. The component
will be executed by the State Secretariat of Education with the collaboration
of several other agencies, including EMATER-CE, for agricultural courses
for farmers and gardening, nutrition and home economics courses for women;
the Brazilian Literacy Movement (MOBRAL) for adult literacy courses; the
privately operated Basic Education Movement (MEB) for artisan courses, and
the Ministry of Labor's Intensive Program for Manpower Training (PIPMO) (which
is now being absorbed by SENAR, the Ministry's National Service for Rural
Training) for occupational courses such as masonry, electricity, and carpentry.
The project would include funding for the construction and equipping of 8
multipurpose community learning centers for adult nonformal education (which
would also provide 1,280 double-shift places for rural primary students) as
well as 50 two-classroom rural primary schools providing for an additional
7,000 double-shift student places for the first four years; the training of the
staff of each community center and of MOBRAL literary instructors and the
retraining or upgrading of 450 rural primary teachers and 28 rural education
supervisors; instructor salaries, materials and transport costs for the
specific training courses offered to the rural population during the project
period; a special baseline education survey; and salary complements, materials
and operating expenses during the project period of a small unit in the State
Secretariat of Education to administer the entire education component in the
project. Direct beneficiaries would include some 6,800 farmers, 10,000 women
and young adults and 8,280 children. The municipalities, which are normally
responsible for financing rural primary education, would not be able to bear
the financing burden immediately. The Federal Government therefore intends to
participate, on a declining scale over about a 10-year period (initially



- 19 -
mainly with POLONORDESTE funds and subsequently mainly with Ministry of
Education budgetary resources), in financing the recurrent costs of rural
primary education in the project area.
53.       Prior to starting construction of project primary schools in a
paricular municipality, the State would obtain from the municipality commit-
ments that: (i) the primary school teachers who successfully complete the
project teacher upgrading program would be given first priority for employment
on a full-time basis in either the project-financed schools or other rural
primary schools in the municipality area and would receive remuneration
appropriate to their new level of qualifications according to the prevailing
state teachers' salary scales; and (ii) a minimum of 75% of all new rural
primary teachers hired by the municipality in the project area would, at the
time of entrance, already have at least the minimum qualifications required by
the State for teachers it hires. (See Section 3(e) of the Project Agreement.)
The Federal Government would agree to provide adequate funding to maintain and
operate the facilities provided under the project. By December 31, 1977, the
Government would provide, for the Bank's approval, a site plan for all 50
primary schools, taking appropriate account of population densities, existing
school infrastructure and other planned project activities. With respect to
the nonformal training subcomponent of the project, by December 31, 1977, the
details of the various home economics and vocational training course programs
would be provided to the Bank for comment. Construction of the respective
community centers would not be started before the center director was hired
(to allow time for training), and the agricultural technicians (who would
provide agricultural courses to primary school students) for each center would
be appointed and trained before completion of construction (see Section 3.05
of the Loan Agreement). A condition of disbursement for the overall education
and training component would be the provision to the Bank of evidence of the
acquisition of sites for the community learning centers. Thereafter, disburse-
ments against the phased construction of the individual primary schools would
also be conditioned upon provision to the Bank of evidence of the acquisition
of the respective sites (see Schedule 1, Section 3 (f) of the Loan Agreement).
Surveys and Studies
54.       The project would also include the execution of semi-detailed soil
surveys and water resource development studies in parts of several of the
POLONORDESTE "priority areas" in sertao or semi-arid of Ceara, and the devel-
opment of soil conservation studies and recommendations for all POLONORDESTE
priority areas in the state. The water and soil surveys would help provide
the basis for the definition of rural development projects to be prepared
by the state over the next 3-4 years, and the soil conservation work would
help assure that appropriate soil conservation techniques are introduced
together with the intensified agriculture which forms the core of POLONORDESTE
projects.  The studies will be contracted to SUDEC, the state's development
superintendency, which has experience in this type of work. SUDEC's capacity
will, however, require strengthening, particularly in the organization and
detailing of work programs and supervision of study execution. SUDEC would



- 20 -
contract consultancy services, satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in the
studies (see section 3.02 (d) of the Loan Agreement). The detailed work plans
for the studies would be provided to the Bank for approval by December 31,
1977 (see section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement). The study costs would include
those of incremental staffing, equipment and materials for SUDEC as well as
consultancy and other specialized services (aerial photography, etc.) to be
sub-contracted.
Prolect Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation
55.       Though the project would be executed by existing institutions,
a project unit would be maintained in the Ceara State Agricultural Planning
Commission (CEPA-CE) to coordinate the planning, implementation and control
of the project. A separate unit to monitor and evaluate the project would
also be established at CEPA-CE. The costs of equipping, staffing and provid-
ing necessary materials for those units during the five-year project period
are included in project investment costs. Provision would also be made for an
estimated total of 42 man-months of consultancy services (largely local), at
an estimated cost of Cr$59,000.00 (US$5,000 equivalent) per man-month, for
technical assistance to the project unit and the monitoring and evaluation
unit and for specialized requirements such as data analysis or interpretation.
The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of the
consultants would have to be satisfactory to the Bank (see Section 3.02 of the
draft Loan Agreement). To help assure continued timely budgetary support,
each participating agency would prepare jointly with the Project Manager and
his team an annual plan detailing the activities and expected expenditures
under the project for the next year. The Government would submit the annual
plans to the Bank for review and comment (see Section 3.07 of the Loan
Agreement). The integrated package of state plans would be submitted to the
regional and federal POLONORDESTE commissions as the basis for the yearly
budget allocations.   The state would enter into written agreements (convenios)
with certain of the executing agencies to specify their respective responsibili-
ties under the project and help assure timely project completion. The signing
of such convenios between the state and the agencies involved in the health,
feeder road, education and mechanization components would be conditions of
disbursement for the particular components involved (see Schedule 1 Sections
3(c), 3(d), 3(e) and 3(f) of the Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
56.       The total project cost is estimated at US$55.8 million, including
physical contingencies equivalent to 6% of the baseline cost, and price con-
tingencies equivalent to 24% of the baseline cost plus physical contingencies.
Baseline costs have been estimated at appraisal prices (i.e., US$1 = Cr$11.80).
The estimated foreign exchange component is US$10.9 million or about 20% of
total project costs.



- 21 -
------- (US$ Millions) -------
Foreign  Local  Total      %
Agricultural Development
and Credit                         1.94   11.33   13.27   23.8
Land Purchase Credit                     -    0.65    0.65    1.2
Productive Support                    4.84    13.41  18.25   32.7
Social Infrastructure                 1.03    4.76    5.79   10.4
Administration/Studies                0.42     3.79   4.21    7.5
Contingencies                         2.64   10.94   13.58   24.4
Total                           10.87   44.88  55.75   100.0
57.       The proposed loan of US$17 million would be for 15 years with
3 years of grace, and would be equivalent to 30% of the estimated total cost
of the project (100% of the foreign exchange costs of US$10.9 million, as
well as US$6.1 million equivalent, or 14%, of local costs). About 4% of the
total cost would be financed by participating farmers, and the balance (66%)
by the Federal Government under the POLONORDESTE program. Retroactive financ-
ing of up to US$500,000 would be allowed for eligible expenditures (i.e.,
necessary for project initiation) incurred after April 1, 1977 but before the
loan is signed (see Section 3(a) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement). In a
country like Brazil, which is making a vigorous effort to mobilize domestic
resources, it appears appropriate for the Bank to give some assistance in the
financing of local currency expenditures on projects which, like the present
one, have very high priority and yet have a very low foreign exchange content
(in the present case, 20%). If the Bank is to be effective in supporting a
project of this kind, it seems reasonable for it to contribute at least 30% of
the costs even though this entails financing some local currency expenditures.
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       Farm inputs would be procured by individual farmers through local
trade channels. The major items of equipment and materials required for the
rural electrification component (about US$2.3 million) would be grouped into
packages for bulk purchasing, and procured through international competitive
bidding. Manufacturers of such equipment containing components manufactured
in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the bid would be given a
margin of preference of 15%, or the prevailing import duties, whichever is
lower.  As Brazilian manufacturers of the items are quite competitive, few
if any foreign suppliers are likely to participate and Brazilian firms are
expected to win virtually all contracts. Other miscellaneous equipment and
materials for the electrification works would be procured through competitive
bidding advertised nationally. Equipment for road maintenance, which would be
limited to several pieces each of a small number of types of equipment, would
be procured by the State Highway Department also through competitive bidding
advertised nationally. Tractors and farm implements for the mechanization
service would be procured similarly. The total procured in this way over the



- 22 -
project period would amount to about US$3.6 million. Other materials and equip-
ment (including vehicles) required for extension, experimentation, health and
sanitation, education and training, and project administration components are
also locally produced and readily available. Such items (amounting to about
US$1.1 million) would be procured in accordance with local procurement and
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The Government would ensure that
all necessary licenses or permits for items which need to be imported would be
granted in a timely manner (see Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement). Construc-
tion works (totalling US$4.8 million) for the feeder roads would be divided
into three packages (one per year). Contracts for these packages and for the
civil works required for the community training centers and primary schools
(totalling an additional US$2.3 million) would be awarded to prequalified
bidders on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accord-
ance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Miscellaneous other construc-
tion works (for health posts, water supply and latrine installation and the
like, and totalling some US$1.9 million) would be of very minor size, varied
design and geographically dispersed. Consequently, these would be carried out
through a combination of self-help, force account and local bidding.
59.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over about a 5-year period
against all project expenditures except land purchase credit. Bank disburse-
ments would, therefore, be equivalent to 31% of expenditures for each component
other than land purchase. Disbursements would be made to the Central Bank of
Brazil, the fiscal agent for the POLONORDESTE program, against withdrawal
applications covering statements of expenditures initiated by the various
implementing agencies under the project and certified by the Project Unit in
CEPA-CE. Supporting documentation covering civil works, vehicles and equip-
ment, and technical assistance would be submitted to the Bank.
Auditing
60.       Each of the participating agencies would maintain accounts of its
project expenditures, which would be audited annually by Government auditors
according to standard practice for POLONORDESTE projects. Both Banco do
Brazil and BNB are audited by the Central Bank's auditing unit and BNB is
audited by satisfactory independent auditors. Copies of these audits would be
provided to the Bank within six months following the end of the fiscal year
(see Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
61.       The costs of the project's agricultural investments and services
over the five-year implementation period would average roughly US$4,500 per
direct beneficiary family. This, however, overstates the cost to the extent
that the agricultural activities would generate important demonstration and
employment benefits to area residents outside the core agricultural target
group of 5,800 families. The sum of all other project investments (mainly
physical and social infrastructure) will benefit the area's rural population
as a whole, at an average per family cost of some US$1,200. The bulk of the
project beneficiaries have incomes below the relative poverty level in Brazil



- 23 -
(which was roughly US$300 per capita in 1975). Of the estimated US$37 million
total in "off-farm" project costs (i.e., those other than on-farm investment,
incremental farm working capital and land purchase), it is expected that
around US$12 million (about one-third) will be recovered through a combina-
tion of direct financial contributions by beneficiaries (particularly in the
health and sanitation component) during the execution period, connection
charges for electrification services and various direct and indirect user
charges and taxes.  The extent to which on-farm project costs will be recovered
in real terms is, however, very difficult to estimate because of the current
inflationary environment in Brazil and the Government's policy to provide un-
indexed agricultural credit. Assuming a gradually declining though continuing
moderate inflation, real recovery of on-farm project costs could well be less
than half. Following project completion, additional recurrent costs to the
Government would be just over US$2 million per annum. These expenses would be
incurred principally for agricultural extension and experimentation, but would
also include some residual project administration costs as well as the con-
tinued operating costs of the improved health system and the training and
formal education facilities. The additional recurrent expenditures are
expected, however, to be largely offset by additional revenues of roughly
US$1.9 million annually generated as a result of the ICM and FUNRURAL taxes
which would apply to incremental production. The costs of continuing other
project-related services (electricity, mechanization, etc.) would be recovered
by direct user charges. The Government would agree to ensure that all facili-
ties and services under the project would be operated and maintained, and that
adequate funding for this purpose would be provided (see Section 4.03 of the
Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
62.       The project would result, at full development, in substantial
increases in food production for consumption or processing in the project area
and in several major Northeast cities linked by paved road to the project area.
Marketable production would increase at full development by some US$14 million
annually over the pre-project level, with significant increases in production
of sugarcane, manioc, miscellaneous vegetables, oranges, peanuts, passion
fruit, avocado, beans, annato (a food coloring) and corn. The incremental
production would be a result of improvements in yields as well as increases in
the areas under production. The estimated financial rate of return to the
farmer, as tested on eight representative farm models, ranges from 22% to over
50%. The relatively high rates of return to the farmer reflect the currently
very low levels of productivity and the fact that significant production
increases can be achieved with the use of improved inputs and techniques but
with relatively low on-farm investment, assuming that certain critical off-farm
investments such as in feeder roads are made simultaneously. Family incomes
of participating farm families from agricultural activities are expected to
increase from a current weighted average of US$425 (ranging from a weighted
average of US$110 in the carrasco zone to US$1,015 in the humid zone) to a
weighted average of about US$3,860 within about nine years of participating in
the project (ranging from a weighted average of US$1,255 in the carrasco zone
to US$8,760 in the humid zone). These increases are high largely because some



- 24 -
of the crops to be produced (especially fruits and vegetables) provide unusualy
good returns, and market prospects are very promising. The project would
provide increased employment opportunities equivalent to some 6,020 worker-
years annually.
63.       After about 9 years, some 35% (divided 60:40 between carrasco and
humid zones) of the project participants would have incomes, resulting from
their own agricultural operations, placing them above the relative poverty
level in Brazil. Prior to the project, less than 10% of the expected partici-
pants were estimated to have incomes (just barely) above the relative poverty
level; those were mainly larger farmers in the humid zone. Overall, the
carrasco zone, with 65% of the project participants, will generate some 55%
of the incremental project production, and the humid zone, with 35% of the
participants, will generate about 45%.
64.       The estimated rate of return to the economy from those aspects of
the project with directly quantifiable benefits (such aspects representing
about 72% of the total project cost) would be 19%. The rate of return of the
agricultural aspects would be 21%, and of the rural electrification component,
17%, reflecting especially the important savings in substituting the use of
hydroelectric power for diesel fuel. Important other benefits which are
difficult or impossible to quantify would stem from the improved health and
sanitation services and the education and training activities.
65.       The project bears the administrative risk attached to any project
whose success depends on the coordinated implementation of activities in
various sectors by numerous agencies. Also, there is the risk that the steps
taken or proposed to assure greater coverage of small farmers by the credit
and extension systems will be insufficient. However, the measures taken by
the state to establish full-time project coordination and evaluation units,
the annual review mechanism to be followed in setting and adjusting the
project work plans of participating agencies, the potential of the project to
benefit some 30,000 people with its directly productive components and 150,000
with improved health and education services and the strengthening of the
institutions in the state which serve the rural poor make the project risks
acceptable and worth taking.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the State of Ceara and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.



- 25 -
67.       Disbursement for the mechanization service, feeder roads, health
and education components would be conditional upon receipt by the Bank of
satisfactory evidence that contractual arrangements had been made with the
agencies and municipalities carrying out the respective components. Dis-
bursement for the education component would also be conditional upon receipt
of evidence that land required for the component had been acquired. No more
than $25,000 would be disbursed for technical assistance to cooperatives until
a satisfactory program of technical assistance to cooperatives had been fur-
nished to the Bank (see Loan Agreement, Schedule I, Section 3).
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
August 30, 1977






-  Zh                                                                                                 h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0   h 
*   .                                                                                  0 
- th       r  0     ..hh      04    0 h3-            CO        Oh              0                 0C0                       0t
~~~~~~ii  B).                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~I41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~  T-
2L                                    Z 50             . CSa Z                     ='to                                       o
-                                                                         -                                               S~~~~~~~~r  --:v  
Wit.   t                                                                             Oh~~~~~OM.t  1
49  0 *C                                     C                        440    -                                    N  WE S~~~~~~~~~~C 
*  Rh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
h., S                                                                                                                           h~~C, 



ANNEX I
Page 2
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Moot Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
a   GNP par capita data are based on World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
a.Japan has been selected aa an objective country since the Brazilian Government has shown particular interast in Japan's development experience,
also the two governments have conducted joint studies to identif-y possible future econnomic problens of Brazil on the basis of the experience in
Japan.
BRAZIL      1960     /s  Economically active population.
1970     /a  Economically active population;        /b  Hospital personnel;      /c   Insida only.
MOST RECEINT ESTIXATh      j   1976;      /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;            /c  1972;     /d   1971;
[aInside only.
MEXICO      1970     /a  including assistant nurses;       /b   1964-66;     /c   inside only.
URUGUAY     1970     /a  Montevideo only;      /b   1967.
R13, August 2, 1977
DZ0iTIOU Of SOCIAL mNDICATOB
Land Ares (thou ke2)                                                                       Population oar nursing parson - Population divided by number of practicing
Total   Total surface area comprising land area end inland waters.                           nale and female graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified' nurses, and
Agric. -Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or parms-                 auxsiliary personnel vitb training or experience.
nently for crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie fallcw.                   Population oar hospital bad - Population divided by number of hospital beds
available In public and private general and specialized hospital and
GNP Per   apoita (US$-) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                 rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing homes and astablialomets for
calculated by same cvonvrsion method as world Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                  cus todial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                               Par capita supply of calories Cl of reguirements) - Computed from energy
equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita per day;
Population and vital sattistici                                                              available supplies comprise domestic production, Imports less exports, and
Population (mid-year million)     As of July first: If not available, average                changes in atock; net supplies exclude animal foad, seads, quantities used
of two end-year estimates; 1"60, 1970 end 1975 data.                                       in food processing and losses in distribution; requiremsnts ware estima ted
by FAO ba...d on physiological needs for normal ac-tivity and health nonaid-
Pop.lation der.iry - Par square iso - Mid-yssr population per square kilometer               aring euvirommenta1 temperature, body weights, age end sex distributions of
(100 hectares) of total area.                                                              populstion, end allmwing 1151 for waste at household level.
Population density - oar square kn, of asric. land - Computed as above for                 Per capita aupply of Protein (arame Per day) - Protein conitent of per cepita
agricultural land only.                                                                    net supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined as above; require-
ments for all countries established by USDA Economic Research Services
Vital statistics                                                                             provide for a minimumn allowance of 60 grams; of total protein par day, and
Crude birth rate oar thousand. average - Annual live births per thousand of                  20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grins should be animal
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic everages ending in 1960 and 1970,                 protein; these atandards are lower than those of 75 grins of total protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                             and 23 grows of ani:mal protein as an overage for the vorld, propoeed by FAQ
Crude death rate oar thotneaad. averaste - Annual deaths par thousand of mid-year            in the Third World Food Survey.
population ; ten-year arithmsetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-             Par capita orotein supply from animal and Pulse - Protein supply of food
year avarsge ending in 1975 for -est recent estimate,                                      derived from animlal end pulses in grams par day.
Infant mortality rate U/thou)- Annual deaths of infants under one year of age              Death rate (/thou) agtes 1-4 - Annual deaths par thousand in age group 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                  years, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life expectancy at birth (yra) -Average snmber of years of life remining at                  malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                           Education
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of live daughters a woman will bear               Adiusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all ages as par-
in her normsal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specific                 centage of pimary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                  but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for developing countries.                                                                  universal education, enrollment may exceed 1001 since    es, pupils are below
Population growth rate (%) - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-year                or above the official school sge.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                             Adiusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above ; secondary
P.pulation growth rate (%) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                      education requires at least four years of approved primary Imatruction;
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect comnparability of              provides general, vocational or teether training instructions for pupils
data among c otuntries.                                                                    of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally excluded.
Urban Population (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different              Years of schoolina provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban aras may aEfect comparability of data amonng counttries,              schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction mafy be partially or
completely excluded.
Ace structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),                Vocational enrollment (7. of secondary) - Vocational institutions include
and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year population,                     technical, industrial or other programs vhich operate independently or as
Age deoendency ratio - Ra.tio of population under IS and 65 and ovr to those                 departments of secondary institutions.
of oges 15 through 64.                                                                   Adult literacy rate Cl) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as per-
Econmic  epedenc  rato -Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to               centage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
the l.bor force in age group of 15-64 years.
Family planning - acceptors (-,nl.tive, thou) - Cumulative nnber of acceptors              Housing
of birth-control devices under ...npices of national fanily planning program             Person  par room (urban) - Average number of person    per room in occupied
nince inception.                                                                           conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-permanent
Fonily pl.nning - users (7. of married wome.) - Perceatagen of married woman of              structures and unoccupied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to all married             Occupied dwellings without Piped water CZ.) - Occupied conventional dwellings
women in none sge group.                                                                   in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped aster facilities
as percenrage of all occupied dwellings.
E.ployment                                                                                 ACccess to electricity (% of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
Total labor force (thousand) - Eicnoically active persona, including armed                  electricity in living quarters, aso parcent of total dwellings in urban and
forces and unemployed but excluding hounewiv-s, students, etc.; definitions                rural areas.
in various countries are not comparable.                                                 Rural dwellings connected to electricity Cl) - Computed as above for rural
Labor force in agriculture Cl) - Agrico1t.r.1 labor force (in farming, forestry,             dwellings only.
hunting and fishing) so percentage of total labor forte.
Unemployed (% of labor force)- Unemployed are usually defined as parsons who               Consumption
are able and willing to tabke    job, out of a Job on a given day, remained out          Radio receivers (per thou Pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a Job, and seeking work for a specified minimum period not exceeding one                to general public per thousand of population ; excludes unlicensed receivers
week; may not he comparable between countries due to different definitions                 in nountries and in years when registration of radio sets was in effect;
of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employment office statistics, sample               data for recent years may not be comparable since mast countries abolished
surveys, compulsory unemployment insurance,                                                licensing.
Passen:ger cars (per thou nop) -P Passenger core nompr iso motor oars seating
income distribution - Percentage of private incone (both in cash and bind)                   lesta      ight persons; secludes ambulances, hearses and military
rece.ived by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest 60% of house-               vehicles.
holds.                                                                                   Electricity (kwh/yr Per nap) - Annual consomption of industrial. consercial,
public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Distribution of land ownership - Percentages of land ownd by welthiest 10%                   based on production data, without allowance for l"oses in grids but allow-
and poorest 10% of land owners.                                                            ing for imparts and exports of electricity.
Newsprint (ks/yr Per csa) - Per capita annual comaumption in kilograzz
Hesith and Nutrition                                                                         estimated from domestic production plus net imports of ne.sprint.
Population per physician - Population divided by n-ber of practicing
physicians quslified from    medical school at university level.



ANNEX I
Pa8e 3
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Accoal                                                      Prteicted                         Compoud Acean     Gooh Rate
19~73           1974             1975             1976                 1977                     1980      93        1947        17-80       1981-85       1973         1976           1980           1985
A.      NATIONAL ACCOUNRT                                Milli-m 00$ at 1973 Pr ices and Encha... R-te                                                                                                                     Ac Percent of GDRY
1.  GDP (Merkct Price.).     -                       77,891          85,361            89,934          96,693            103.473         124,1 72         188,849         7,5          6.5          8.7        100.0         101.7         102.3          182.2
2.  Edna. fro   Term   af Trade                         -               -791           -1,:794         -1,409               -777          -2,746           -4,036           -            ----1.5                                            -2.3           -2,4
3., Gina     D; . R etic Inca                        7 7,891         84,570            87,140          95,103            182,698         121,428          184,793          70          6.3         8.8          000.0        100.0         100.0          100.0
4  Imp.tte                 -757                                       ,57806                          8,239              8097            9 205           14,184          2.0          2.8         909.7                      8.7           7.8            7.7
5.  Inot       Vlsa.6,596                                             6,306             7.305           7,313              7953           11,286           18515          2.5          11.3        0.             8.37.                      9.3           10.0
6. Iporr  - T    doe                                6,596            ,515            5,511           3.904              7,187           8,557           1449           -.899                    1.              .           6.2           7.0             7.8
7.  RecotonGap (4-68                                                  4,282             3.96            2,335                910             648             -2735                                                1.2          2.5           0.5           -0 .2
-8.  Cocop..   oml815291                                              66,8'66           69,83           76,9680,596                        93,890          129,407          7.4          3.3        8.3           79.08.                     77.2           75.4
9.  Onceemet                                         17,342.         21,846            20~,501         261,4923           23,010          28,385           45311I          7.3          5.8         9.7          22.3         202.5         23.4           24.4
10.  Natlnnal SeeIng.                    1~~~~~    ~    ~~~~~~5.655  16,9533 1,4          17,4582,6                           5784.0                          3.          102          0.           20.1         184           21.2           23.4
10.Rom-tl lavl.ga                                   16,362          17,704           1030             19,0887           202,100          27,736           45,386         5..8                    1.32.                      28.1          22.8            24.6
8.      MERCOMISE1 TRADE                                 M illi... 010 at Curcet Prirc-                                                                                                                                     A. P- ... t  f Tt.1 ___________p ____
1.  Impor.
Conn-      Gcoda                                1,125           1,620            1,358            1,518             1,385            2,036            4,208        00.3          7.7        05.8          18.2         12.3          11.0            11.1
Petrlelm end Derl-tlce                            711           2,840            2,873            3,585             3.853            5,050            8,2584       701.4        10,          9,5          11.5         29.2          28.9            21.6
Intatmdiata G.nde                               2,214           5,023            4.006            3,664             3,55             5,024           11,029        18.3          8.02       17.0          35.8         28.8          27.7           28.8
CaPIta   Oode                                   2,163           3,1.08           3,9032           3,317             3,996           9,860            14,733        18 .0        13.5        20.3          34 .6        28.6          32.2           38.5
Total (FOB)                              6,192           12,641           12,169          12,277             12,698          18,051           38,242        18.7          10.3        16.0         100.0        100.0         100.0          108.0
2.  Impart.                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ac Percen.t nO TetelIeta
Caffac                                          1,3649094                                         2,98              3,492            2,736            2,969        21.0          3.4        -0.7         2T1.7         23.7          14.5             6, 19
Other Agrlcoltor-    Condn                      2,490           3, 4815           3.94831         3,0'29             3,948           6,315           14,783         6.8         20.2        18.5          40.2          29.9          33.4           34.3
MInerals                                          400             641            1,022            0,085             1,082            2,433            5,941        39.5         22.4        18.5           6.4          10.7         12.9            13.8
Semi-Praceeced Goode  476           634               645             789                969           1,269            2,753        18.3          12.6       16.8            7.7          7,8           6.799          6.62,75  3  6 16 .  7.77:1  7  6.
Ptmfatre  ode                            1,328           2,0888           2,79             2,449             2,948            5,574           15,723        22,           28         23.1          21.4         24.2          295             34.5
Other-                                            161             195               209             380               497              595              930        33,0         11.9         9.6            2.6          3.8           3.1            2.2
Total                                     6,199           7,951            8,670          10,130             12,934          18,922           43,099         17.8         18.9        17.9         100.0        100.0         100.0          188.0
C.      1OCT08 OUTPUT                                    Percei of 8DPa     Pectr C-cr at 1973 Prie, and En-h,cme Rate
1.  Agricn1tnr.                                          15.3            05.1              15.0             14.3            14.4             14.4             12.2         5.6          6.5         5.3
2.  ldar                                                  33.3            32.8             32.8             33.5            33.4             32.8             34.2         7.7          5.9         9.6
3.  RareInnsY                                             51.3            52.0             52.2             52.1            52.3           .52.8              53.6         7.9          6.8         9.1
D.      PAICES 11973 .1005
1.  Enpnrt Price Ide                               180             135               126             146                172             179               251        9.9          5.2          7.0
2.  Import Price loden                                  1                156              171             184                12       .      242                328       16.5          7.1         6.3
3.  T,-.,IfTIadelc,de                                    100              86               74              89 0                                74                786        ---
4,  Geneal  eo    lden                                 100             129              164              232                -                . 
5.  Avec8    Och.  g   Rote                              100             112              134             176                                 .-                            --
E.      SELECTED INDIOCATORS                             1989-73         1974.76          1977-80          1981-5                                                  E MPLOYMEN                          0970        1875       1988
1.  ICOR                                              1.80            3,60             3.50            2.63                                                0.   Lebc- PotF(.     Il                 29.4       34.1       39.4
2.  Import Elcetlolty                                 1.93           .0.03             0.46            1.03                                                2.   0mpc.et7.5                                      5.0        6.9
3.  Avnra9e National Sa-inge Ratc                     0.21            8.13             0.27            0.23                                                       (5. fc 0.1.)
4.  MarNn1Rtlama        Oc-lge Rate                   0.31            0.03             0.29            0.28                                                 3.  lEplnyont (ilo)27.2                            32.4       36.7
3.  IeWorte/0DP                                       0.070           0.099            0.076           8.074                                                      (. ehsrec
6.lacom/CDP                                   0.229           0.237            0,215            8, 235                                            3.1.  A rcloc43.8                                     39.5      37.6
7.  Roa...ce Gap/UDP                                    o     0.01     .4              0.81           -0.02                                              3.2.   Indoetry                            08.0       09.8       18,8
C.  PUBLIC FlUNCE                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,3.  Servlcec.    30.2      40.7       43.6
1.  Current Inuemie                    ~~~~~           ~~~~~          ~    ~~11.0  11.2  11.2  12.1
1.. Ton"  oc                                        10.             10.              10,3            11.
2.  Coenet Expanditeene                              6.1              5.8              6.2             7.3
3.  Carrot OaVimgc                                   4.9              5.4              5.0             4.8
4.   CaPItal Empeditor-                              4.6              4.9              5.4             4,8
4.1.   Gnoercn      PFiod Capitol Porotloc E/           3.9             4.2              4.8
9.      CORONb FEDERAL. GOVERNMEN8T OEXPENDITURE         Percent at Tntel
1975            1974             1975
1.    Edoctiom                                        8.69.98
2.    016rSocial See_itae                            25,6             24.0             24.0
3.     Aerti-ltore                                    21               1.9              2.1
4.     Other Ecao-ic Saryitee                         11.7            12,              15.7
5.    Admlnltratlo       cad Rofona                   35.9            01.9             38.
6,    Other                                           18.0            16.7             10.4
Tonal Corceon    npenditorn                  100.00          100.0            100.0
a/Deteiln may       co  to totl    bo--vc of -nodlg.                                                                                                                                                      Aoguet 1977
4/Pder-l Gcr--mt.
c/   Ictlndt.o atate and -okoipsl g-        -rcnte.



BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERN.L ASSISTANCE                                     ANNEX I
(Million US$)
A CT U AL                                                    PROJiE C T ED
1973          1974          1975           1976         1977           1978          1979          1980          1985
A.  Summary of Balance of Pavments
1.    Exports (incl. NFS)                                     6,596         8,471         9,255         10,657        13,583        15,464        17,374        20,232        46,766
2.    Imports (incl. NFS)                                     7,577        14,678        14,296         14,435        14,902        16,829        18,948        21,276         44,809
3.    Resource Balance                                        - 981        -6,207        -5,037         -3,778        -1,3t9        -1.365        -1,574        -1.043          1,957
4.    Net Factor Service Income                               - 734         - 916        -1,735         -2,288        -2,624        -3,051        -3,383         -3,791        -5,416
1. Net Interest Payments                                   - 514         - 652        -1,463         -1,758        -2,159        -2,533        -2,810        -3,155         -4,336
2.  Direct Investment Income                               - 198         - 248         - 235          - 380         - 415         - 468         - 523         - 586         -1,030
3.  Other Factor Service Income                            -  22         - 16          -  37          - 150         - 50          - 50          - 50          - 50           -  50
5.    Current Tranafers (Net)                                    27             1           -                4            10            10            10             10            lo
6.    Balance on Current Account                             -1,688        -7,122         -6,772         6,062        -3,933        -4,407         -4,948        -4,825        -3,449
7.    Private Direct Investment                                 940           887           895           ,01d         1,050         1,100         1,265          1,455         2,340
Medium and Long Term Loans
a. Official Sources
8.    Disbursements                                             562           979           856             68         1,024         1,234          1,404         1,585         2,722
9.    Amortization                                             -217         -191          -273           - 54          - 367         - 391          - 488         - 597        -1,519
10.    Net Disbursements                                         345           788           583              4           657           842            915           988         1,203-
b. Private Sources
11.    Disbursementa                                           3,993         6,080         5,974          7,3;,1        5,218         6,354          7,416         7,370         9,215
12.    Amortization                                           -1,455        -1,716        -1,868         -2,4£;        -2,992        -3,892         -4,649        -4,989        -7,024
13.    Net Disbursements                                       2,538         4,364         4,106          4,902         2,226         2,462          2,767         2,381         2,191
14.    Use of IMF Resources                                      -               7            -             -             -             -              -
15.    Short-term Capital and Capital NEI                        424         - 123         - 142          1,961           _              _             _
16.    Change in Reserves (- - increase)                      -2,559           953         1,046         -2,193           -             -              -             -          -1,706
17.    Foreign Exchange Reserves                               6,551         5,598         4,552          6,745         6,745         6,745          6,745         6,745        11,202
(End of Period)
B. Grant and Loan Commitments
1.    Total M&LT Loan                                         4,770        * 7,034        6,946          8,687
1.1.  IBRD                                                      199           140           426            486
1.2.  IDB                                                        86           203           167            186
1.3.  Governments                                               529           518            512         1,251
1.4.  Suppliers                                                 857         1,088         1,376          1,300
1.5.  Bonds                                                      37            25           -              139
1.6.  Financial Credits                                       3,146         5,103         4,515          6,076
C.  memorandum Items
1.    Grant Elenment of Total Commitmenits                        2.5           2.5           2.5            2.5
2.    Avcranx  interest (Peicent)                                 8.8           9,5           9.5            9.4
3.    Avcrage Nmattrity (Years)                                   7.2           9.0           9.9            8.3
August 1977



ANNEX I
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHIPESS                           Page 5
1973            1974           1975          1976
A. Medium-and Long-Term Debt
(Disbursed only)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                    12,571          17,166         21,171        25,985
1.  Financial Credits                                      7,848          11,211        14,561         18,194
2. Others (Bit., Multi., Bonds, Suppliers)                 4,723           5,955         6,610          7,791
3.  Public and Publicly Guaranteed                         6,496           8,533        11,461         14,852
4.  Private                                                6,075           8,633         9,710         11,133
2.  Net Debt Service                                           2,186           2,572         3,583          4,668
1.  Total Interest                                           840           1,370         1,828          2,039
2.  Net Interest                                             514             652         1,463          1,758
3.  Public Debt Service                                         --             1,287         1,550          1,990
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Net Debt Service Ratio                                         28.6           30.4          38.7           43.3
2.  Total Net Debt Service Ratio al                                36.1           33.3          45.1           46.5
3.  Public Debt Service Ratio                                       --            15.2          16.7           18.7
4.  Liquidity Ratio b/                                             19.4           24.7          35.0           33.6
5.  Net Debt Service/GDP c/                                         2.8            2.5           2.9            3.4
6.  Public Debt Service/GDP c/                                      --             1.2           1.2            1.4
7.  Total DOD/GDP ct                                              16.1            16.4          17.2           19.1
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                 8.8           10.9          10.5           10.6
2.  Net Debt Service/Total DOD                                     17.4          15.0           16.9          18.0
D.  Dependency Ratios for M&LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (ind. NFS)                         60.2          48.1           47.1          56.5
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (ind. NFS)                                27.0          25. 7          19.4          22.5
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                              44.9           52.6           41.3          39.8
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                    4.2           3.5            3.7           2.1
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                              5.1           5.1            5.2           4.7
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                              3.2           3,3            2.6           2.9
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                                Outstanding December 31. 1976
Amount                           Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                 1,217                              4.7
2.  Other Multilateral                                                     557                              2.1
3.  Governments                                                          2,862                             11.0
4.  Suppliers                                                            2,414                              9.3
5.  Bonds                                                                  289                              1.1
6.  Financial Credits                                                   18,194                             70.0
7.  Other                                                                  452                              1.7
8.  Total M&LT Debt                                                     25,985                            100.0
9.  Total Public M&LT Debt                                              14,852                             57.1
G.  Debt Profile
1.  Net Debt Service 1977-80/Total DOD end of 1976                              108.5
a/ Including Net Direct Investment Income.
u/ Net Debt Service as a percent of exports plus reserved in excess of 3 months imports.
a/  In constant 1973 Prices.                                                                               August 1977
--  Not Available



ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL                 Page 1
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(AS OF JUNE 30, 1977)
Amount less    Undis-
Loan #   Year              Borrower                     Purpose        Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Million)
Thirty-Five Loans Fully Disbursed                                           924.9
677      1970    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas            Power                80.0       3.8
Marimbondo
728      1971    Centrais Eletricas dd Sul do           Power                70.0       5.5
Brasil - Salto Osorio_
755      1971    Brazil                                 Education             8.4       2.5
756      1971    Brazil                                 Ports                45.0      23.8
786      1971    Rede Ferroviaria Federal               Railways             46.0       5.1
797      1972    Companhia Siderurgica Nacional         Industry             64.5       1.5
813      1972    Brazil                                 Roads                89.0       1.2
828      1972    Companhia Siderurgica                  Industry             64.5       3.1
Paulista
829      1972    Centrais Eletricas de Minas            Power                60.0       4.6
Gerais - Sao Simao
853      1972    Brazil                                 Land Settlement       6.7       5.4
887      1973    LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade S.A.    Power                20.0       8.6
923      1973    Furnas Centrais Eletricas -            Power               125.0      72.5
Itumbiara
924      1973    Brazil                                 Agro-Industry        54.0      32.3
1008      1974    Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao             Power                81.0      65.6
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009      1974    Banco Nacional de Habitacao            Water Supply         36.0      16.8
1087      1974    Brazil                                 Education            23.5      23.0
1074      1975    Rede Ferroviaria Federal               Railways            175.0      85.5
1075      1975    Brazil                                 Roads               110.0      75.7
1151      1975    Companhia Siderurgica Nacional         Industry           ..95.0      94.9
1152      1975    Companhia Siderurgica Paulista         Industry             60.0      59.3
1153      1975    Brazil                                 Agriculture          23.0      19.7
1171      1975    FEPASA-Ferrovia Paulista               Railways             75.0      73.6
1195      1976    Brazil                                 Rural Development    12.0      11.7



ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (CONTINUED)
(AS OF JUNE 30, 1977)
Amount less   Undis-
Loan #     Year              Borrower                Purpose        Cancellations  bursed
(US$ million)
1206       1976     Brazil                           Develop. Bank      85.0         85.0
1207       1976     Brazil                           Feeder Roads       55.0         55.0
1249       1976     Brazil                           Agriculture        40.0         39.7
1256       1976     Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer         50.0         43.3
1257       1976     Companhia Paraense de            Power              52.0         51.5
Energia Eletrica - COPEL
1300       1976      Eletrobras                      Power              50.0         50.0
1302       1976      Brazil                          Nutrition          19.0         18.9
1309       1976     Banco Nacional do Habitacao      Water Supply       40.0         39.2
1317       1976     Brazil                           Agro. Industry     83.0         83.0
1343       1977      ELETROSUL                       Power              82.0         82.0
1362       1977      State of Minas Gerais           Rural Develop.     42.0         42.0
1406  /2   1977     Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer         64.0         64.0
1411       1977      Fertilizantes Vale do                              82.0         82.0
Rio Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL    Fertilizer                    _
Total                                           3,092.5 /1
Of which has been repaid to the Bank              387.4
Total now outstanding                           2,705.1      1,431.3
Amount sold                       45.5
of which has been repaid        22.9             22.6
Total now held by Bank                          21682.5
Total undisbursed
/1 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
/2 Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Pa ge 3
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC IMVESTEINTS (A. of June 30, 1977)
Fiscal Year                           Obligor                                     Type of Business                                        Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equitv    Total
1957            Siemans do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                        Electrical Equipment                                    2.00       -       2.00
1958            Olinkraft, SA. Celulose a Papal                               Pulp and Papor                                           1.20              1.20
1958           D0L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                               Automotive Parts                                        0.45       -       0.45
1958            Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria a Comercio                                        Motor Vehicles                                           2.45      -       2.45
1959            Companhis Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                   Cement                                                   1.20      -       1.20
1959            Champion Celulose, S.A.                                       Pulp                                                    4.00       -       4.00
1966/196S/
1972            Acos Villares, S.A.                                           Steel                                                    8.00     1.93     9.93
1966/1969       Papel a Celulose Catarinanse, S .A.                            Pulp and Paper                                          3.78     3.41     7.19
1967/1972       Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria a Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                            Fertiliznrs                                              8.22     3.03    11.25
1969            Petroquimica Unico, S.A.                                       Petrochemicals                                          5.50     2.88     8.38
1970            Poliolafinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                        Petrochmsicals                                          5.50     2.88     8.38
1971            Oxit o, S.A. industria e Comercio                              Petrochemicals                                          4.60     1.44     6.04
1971            Industris de Colulose Borregoard, SA.                          Pulp                                                    4.90      -       4.90
1972/1975       Companhia de Cimento Macional de Minas                         Cment                                                  29.14     3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977  Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                   Steel                                                  T6.96     7.50    84.46
1973            Capital Market Development Fund - FU!CAP                       Capital Market Development                              5.00      -        5.00
1973            Empreaa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                     Nickel Mining and Refining                             26.00     4.40     30.40
1974            Industries Villares, S.A.                                      Elevatork and Industrial Equipment                      6.00       -       6.00
1974   -        Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                               Textiles                                               31.00       -      31.00
1975            Capuava Carbonos Industriais Ltd.                              Carbon Black                                            6.18      1.08     7.26
1975            Oxiteno Nordeste, SA.                                          Petrochemicals                                          10.00      -      10.00
1976            Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.                  Textiles                                                 6.45     1.00     7.45
1976            Tecanor S.A. - Teatil Catarinense do Nordeste                  Textiles                                                 6.00      -       6.00
1977            FMB S. A. Productos Metalurgicos                               Iron and Aluminum Castings                              20.00      -      20.00
1977            Mineraca. Rio do Norte S.A.                                    Mining                                                  15.00      *      15.00
Total Gross Comitments                                                                                                289.53    32.75   322..8
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                                                187.67     8.27   195.94
Total Coanitments  ow MHeld by IFC                                                                                    101.86    24.48   126.34
Total Undisbursed                                                                                                      29.29     0.53    29.82



ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
There are now 35 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:   US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date:
August 31, 1978. The Marimbondo hydroelectric station and the
bulk of the related transmission lines were completed on schedule,
and the Marimbondo power plant (1440 MW) was inaugurated on May 28,
1976. The project has been successfully implemented by FURNAS, the
consultants and the contractors, in spite of a cost overrun of
about 43%. In part, the cost overrun resulted from an increase in
the scope of the transmission system component to allow for the
construction of a more economical and reliable system, and from
larger civil works as a result of unforeseen geological problems.
The cost overrun, however, does not affect the economic justif-
ication of the project. The original closing date of August 31,
1977 was postponed by one year to August 31, 1978 to enable the
Borrower to meet retention payments on major equipment contracts.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:   US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19. 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1978.
The physical component of the project has been successfully com-
pleted. Two of the four generating units are now in commercial
operation. A cost overrun of about US$120 million, 79% of the
original cost estimate, has not significantly affected the economic
justification of the project. This cost overrun was financed by
loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank. The Closing Date for
this loan, originally May 31, 1977, has been postponed to May 31,
1978 to allow the Borrower sufficient time to meet retention pay-
ments on major equipment contracts.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present-a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
755       Education ProJect:  US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 28, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977. Prog-
ress on the construction and equipping of the project schools is
now proceeding satisfactorily, and 80% of the project has been
completed. A 20% cost overrun, mainly for civil works, is being
financed by the Government. Project implementation is behind the
original schedule due to initial delays in establishing and staffing
the project unit and because of subsequent changes in project
content. The original Closing Date was December 31, 1975.
756       Santos Port Project:   US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. Execution of
the project is now proceeding satisfactorily, although there have
been delays and cost overruns-which will be financed by the Borrower.
The Government has approved legislation which converted the National
Ports and Navigable Waterways Department (DNPVN) from a government
agency to a public corporation, PORTOBRAS. PORTOBRAS, with the
assistance of management consultants, has been improving port
operations in Santos. The National Port Development Study financed
under the project is now completed. The financial situation of the
Borrower deteriorated in 1976 due to increased costs of materials and
labor, which were not matched by adequate tariff increases.
786       Railway Project - MBR:   US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed, except for the construction and equip-
ping of the Borrower's main workshop at Jaceaba. The purchase of
equipment for this workshop was delayed because of a change in the
location of the workshop resulting from the Government's decision to
build a new railway line between the cities of Belo Horizonte and
Volta Redonda. To allow additional time required for the purchase
of this equipment, the Closing Date, originally September 30, 1975,
was postponed to March 31, 1978.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:   US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$736 million, an
increase of about 83% over the appraisal estimate due to design
evolution, unforeseen site works and increases -in local construc-
tion costs. This cost increase will not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The project is now physic-
ally complete--about one year behind the appraisal schedule.
The original Closing Date was July 1, 1976.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:   US$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Effective Date: December 4, 1972; Closing Date:
March 31, 1978. Construction works are more than 98% completed
but are slightly behind schedule; the estimated total contract



ANNEX II
Page 6
cost is about 2% above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility
studies and detailed engineering financed under the loan were
started later than planned, but are now completed at a cost
substantially below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements
have improved during the past year, but are still lagging behind
the appraisal forecast. The Closing Date, originally June 30,
1976, has been postponed to March 31, 1978.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:   US$64.5 million loan
of June 14. 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: January 15, 1978. The latest cost estimate is US$862
million, an increase of about 60% over the appraisal estimate
due primarily to increased local construction costs. This will
not significantly affect the economic justification of the project.
The project is now 75% complete but is about 24 months behind
the original schedule. The- original Closing Date was January 15,
1976. It is expected that the project will be completed by
June 1978, and the Closing Date will be postponed accordingly.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:   US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which
does not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:   US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978. The settlement agency, COLONE, has prepared revised farm
development plans whose credit component, to be financed by public
financial institutions, will be significantly higher than originally
estimated, although still low in comparison to other settlement
projects. Administrative delays in the release of public funds for
farm credit and COLONE working capital requirements and difficulties
in recruiting project staff delayed the start of project execution.
COLONE continues to be hampered by lack of assured financing, and
this problem is compounded by cost overruns presently amounting
to 130%. The project must now be considered to have major financial
problems.
887       Light-Power Distribution and Subtransmission Project:   US$20 million
loan of April 16, 1973; Effective Date: July 31, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977. Principally due to difficulties encountered in pre-
paring bidding documents and delays in deliveries of equipment and
materials, the project is about two years behind schedule. Complete
delivery and installation of the bulk of these items was
accomplished by June 30, 1977. However, installation of oil-filled
cables may require an. additional six months and a postponement of
the Closing Date will be required.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:   US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Construction of the earth-fill dam has been delayed by about
nine months due to very heavy rains. However, construction of the
concrete dam and power house is ahead of schedule. FURNAS expects
to complete the power plant in December 1981, about four months
behind schedule. The present cost estimate is about 88% over the
appraisal cost estimate, 13% of which is due to the need for
increased physical quantities due to geological problems. The rest
of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size of the
transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil works.
However, the project remains economically justified.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:   US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were
made during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance
with the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by
the Government. The Central Bank is presently revising credit
procedures for this loan to conform with the Loan Agreement. It
is expended that the balance of the loan will be fully committed by
year-end.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:   US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. Resettlement of the 9,700 families to be dis-
placed by the Sobradinho reservoir is underway, and construction
of new towns to house the urban portion of the population has begun.
The rural population is being offered the opportunity of resettlement
in a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region
in the western part of the State of Bahia. Those who prefer to
remain near their present houses will be resettled in new villages
on the edge of the future reservoir. The construction of the
underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on
schedule. Construction of the transmission lines and sub-stations
is about 18 months behind schedule.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:   US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1979. Difficulties in subproject preparation, which are now
resolved, caused disbursements to fall behind schedule. However,
the loan is now almost fully committed to 40 subprojects of which
34 are under construction and 6 completed. To allow adequate time
to complete disbursements; the Closing Date, originally August 15,
1977 has been postponed to August 15, 1979.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
1067      Second Education Project:   US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution has started reasonably well, and is ex-
pected to be completed by the target date.   Project implementation
units have been established in all eight project states and these,
together with the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The
pre-investment studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan,
have been completed and are expected to yield useful information for
future sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:   US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed.. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. The financial situation
of the Borrower deteriorated seriously in 1975 and 1976 because of
increased costs of materials and higher social charges which were
not matched by adequate tariff increases. The Borrower intends to
revise its tariffs on a quarterly basis, and to reach full cost
recovery by 1978. Procurement is progressing reasonably well,
although slower than expected.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:   US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Contracts for
civil works for all 21 lots have now been awarded and construction
works' are proceeding generally on schedule, except for three con-
tracts. Implementation of the road maintenance component of the
project has been delayed by about 15 months due to protracted
negotiations for the hiring of consultants.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:   US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: .April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. As a result of these difficulties, CSN has contracted
consultancy services which have reviewed the project scope with a view
to trimming capital costs and to helping improve project management.
The project is about 12 months behind the original schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:   US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. Procurement for equipment is about
75% complete. The project is 12 months behind schedule. A decision
to change from a cold mill to a plate mill is being considered due
to changes in forecast demand. The effect of this change on the
economic justification of the project is being investigated.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:   US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979. Construction of dikes and the
irrigation and drainage system for the Betume varzea has begun.
Bidding for most of the other civil works and equipment procure-
ment is underway. Preliminary estimates, prior to bid evalua-
tion, are that project costs might increase considerably over
the appraisal estimate due to partial design changes and more
rapid than expected increases in equipment and construction
prices and in costs of land expropriation. The emergency works
remain the least cost way to offset the effects of the upstream
hydroelectric developments on the project area population.
Nevertheless, further possible modifications in the design of
emergency and irrigation works are being studied by CODEVASF and
its consultants withi a view to limiting cost increases.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):   US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Terms of reference
have been approved for the Transport Master Plan for Sao Paulo, and
for the technical assistance program intended to improve FEPASA's
operations, marketing and data processing systems. Procurement is
progressing reasonably well. The financial situation of FEPASA
deteriorated in 1975 due to lower than forecast traffic, cost
inflation and salary increases, while tariffs were not increased
correspondingly. FEPASA intends to revise its tariffs on a quar-
terly basis, and to reach full cost recovery by 1978.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:   US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1206      Development Banking Project:   US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
Initial commitment of funds under this project was delayed until
after January 1, 1977, by differences between the relending terms
of the agencies concerned and those required under the Loan Agree-
ment. Those differences have now been resolved, and commitment of
the loan is proceeding.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:   US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1978. The project is proceeding according to
schedule.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:   US$40.0 million loan of April 27,
1976; Effective Date: September 21. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is proceeding according to
schedule. Civil engineering for 21 experiment stations is well
advanced.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:   US$52.0 million loan of March 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1-976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:   US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:   US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30.
1980. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:   US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. The project is proceeding according
to schedule.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:   US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. The project is proceeding
according to schedule. The Bank has approved 90 sub-projects
under this loan, the majority of which are for communities with a
population of under 5,000 people.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:   US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
are not expected to begin before 1978.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:   US$82.0 million loan of February
23. 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. The Project is proceeding according to schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1363      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:   US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29. 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The Project is proceeding according to schedule.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:   US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980. The Project is proceeding according to schedule.



ANNEX III
BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: approximately
11 months (from October 1975 to November 1976).
(b) Project prepared by: CEPA-CE.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: March 1975.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: October 18, 1976.
(e) Completion of Negotiations: July 29, 1977.
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: December 31, 1977.
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) As condition for disbursement for technical assistance to
cooperatives exceeding an aggregate of US$25,000, a satis-
factory program of action for technical and financial
assistance to cooperatives would be furnished to the Bank
(para. 44).
(b) Payments for expenditures made prior to the date of the
Loan Agreement (but after April 1, 1977) would not exceed
a total of US$500,000 (para. 57).
(c) As conditions for disbursement for the mechanization
services, feeder roads, health and education components,
the Bank would be furnished with satisfactory evidence that
contractual arrangements had been entered into with the
agencies and municipalities carrying out the respective
components; and that land required for the education com-
ponent had been obtained (para. 67).






I A
STATE OF CEARA
bb _,,°omASERRA DA IBIAPABA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA 52
T--            OFA                                  o     C     I [r  Coders
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6k 'rneisO LineseG ne-->fi
Pmdosuobo b < TIANGU~~~~~~~A ;°   f      %O Sb,o      ............... F-.,.. eder Rods. be C-rt-f.td or  Iproved
.   I;              ffi                     {|}  i, Vrnseleiro              *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F,  Prop-sd H.olih oMmnp.,t,
.   \   W                           o    ;                           *   P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rop-sd Comounty Lonr etr
:   s  _                           \     Mlgo losuoruro              -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~69 kv6 nmsenDe
Po13 8  Ar DoI Rboon -
EXIST NG
-CTeresmo .   _-                     Mon High-y No or-ol)    00
Os Thr.sro  -V                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pose.d St.ne Rood
C                                                                                      Cr_I Or  Oraoel RjToods / Upgroding in P-o-ess
Pirsres.fl                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~69 lvToo-,i on Loe
13 8 Lv Distr but-on  noes
0, i      sro                             BANK AGENCIES NETWORK
- - - - - - - -                             0 ~~  ~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~ Bor  do B-esi
Jbrr         .    o                          A   R0oo do No-dsit dn ErosI
_   Bonco do Estodo do Ceard
Senrdo Pndobo  BeooniCrsv;odO  . ,,b.,,!C - t-\            CLIMATE ZONES
-   j  ErC~~4t  /4A4nsi sMoto  r   ---  Mu--icipol Bou-daries
_   ,   y                    S     r    n    l db- \ Offl§'              _- -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Store Rounecries
/                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Disp IodA-re Rosec P  -m ad Coordi
/                       Corb,EI Dos o.          '        j
.  1                    ~~~~~~~FosrrdooO%  ooOs SA0  3%                   0       S    K0        iSETR   20
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                  K D.O.TORS
56o Froroisco  Seroor 0o 0peo  '    -     >     >    -
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
CARNAXOX         F        .9X 
e,30,                                             i  ,  MrnoCL      *°"0                                                            4'30'
l                                                t  T  ,   '  .  . ... .............. .. ..... 501qrdc%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ ,, L gUo\@O NORTE R~~~~~~~~..   ..... 
I                                    00 NO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
. R A Z                                                                                               C E 40 00
F     ~        ~~~ C ER  \                        bom        ,,    /                                                                .
II
ox                          Sor       os      orre Sr    Poloero /.1. .r>/
.j   U   T H      /7                                                                                        L1
; ,   ,  ~C A                                            A                                           -,/ 
NAC                                                                              5 00M  -                   i .    r



