Report No. 1580a-BR
Northeast Brazil: Appraisal of
Ceara Rural Development Project- IBIAPABA
August 22, 1977
LCPA 3
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients
oniv in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                     Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                                              Cr$14.56 (Selling Rate,August 1977)*
Cr$1                                              US$0.0687
Cr$1 million                                      US$68,681
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                                      3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km?)                                0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)        2                          10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer( m )            =             100 ha = 247.1 acres=0.386 sq. miles
1 cubic meter (m3)=                              1.31 cubic yards=264.2 US gallons
1 kilogram (Kg)                                  2.2 pounds
1 ton                                            1,000 Kg = 2,205 pounds
1 kilovolt-ampere(KVA)                           1,000 volt-amperes
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)                            1,000 watt hours
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
(see next page)
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR - January 1 to December 31
POLONORDESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR - April 1 to March 31
* Average Exchange Rates (Selling):
Nov.
1974         1975          1976
US$1 - Cr$           6.789        8.128        11.800



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BB           =Banco do Brasil (Bank of Brazil)
BEC          =Banco do Estado do Cearg (Bank of the State of Ceara)
BNB          =Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (Bank of the Northeast)
CAGECE       =Companhia de Agua e Escoto do Ceara (Ceara Water & Sanitation Company)
CEPA-CE      =Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola
(Ceara State Agricultural Planning Cormmission)
CERPI        =Cooperativa da Eletrificacao Rural do Planalto da Ibiapaba
(Ibiapaba Rural Electrification Cooperative)
CIBRAZEM     =Companhia Brasileira de Armazenamento (Brazilian Storage Company)
CODAGRO      =Companhia Cearense de Desenvolvimento Agropecuario
teara Agricultural Development Company)
COELCE       =Companhia de Eletricidade do Ceara (Ceara Electricity Company)
CONSORCIO    =Consorcio Rodoviario Estadual do Ceara
(Ceara State Road Construction Consortium)
DAER         =Departamento Autonomo de Estradas de Rodagem
(State Highway Department)
ELETROBRAS   =Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras
(Brazilian Electricity Holding Company)
EMATER-CE    -Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Ceara Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA      =Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRATER     =Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EPACE        =Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Ceara (Ceara
Agricultural Research Company)
FSESP        =Fundacao Servico Especial de Saude Publica (Foundation for
Special Public Health Services)
FUNRURAL     =Fundo de Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural (Assistance Fund
for Rural Workers)
IBC          =Instituto Brasileiro de Cafe (Brazilian Coffee Institute)
MEB          =Movimento de Educacao de Base (Basic Education Movement)
MOBRAL       =Movimento Brasileiro de Alfabetizacao (Brazilian Literacy Movement)
PIASS        =Programa de Interiorizacao das Acoes de Saude e Saneamento
(Program for the Interiorization of Health and Sanitation Activities)
PIPMO        =Programa Intensivo de Preparacao de Mao-de-Obra
(Intensive Program for Labor Force Training)
POLONORDESTE =Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast)
SES          =Secretaria Estadual de Saude (State Secretariat of Health)
SOEC         =Superintendencia de Obras do Estado do Ceara  (State
Superintendency of Works)
SUCAM        =Superintendencia de Campanhas Medicas (Superintendency
for Medical Campaigns)
SUDEC        =Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Estado do Ceara
(Ceara State Development Superintendency)
SUDENE       =Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Northeast Development Superintendency)
Thi d unnt has a mtricteddistribution tnd may be wo byrecipients onlY inthe pcrf0nhua
oftheirofficialduties. Its contents may not otherwise be disced witbout Word ank authoraton.
hu~~ a reti.e ditiuinadmyb  sdb ecpet nyI h  efra






NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SU1MUARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...................  ..............   i - iv
I.   INTRODUCTION ........      ...............................1 
II.   BACKGROUND           ..............................................  2
General ............................................           2
The Northeast .................        ..   2
Federal Rural Development Policies and Programs  ....          3
The State of Ceara and its Development ....        .........   4
III.   THE PROJECT AREA ....... .................                           4
Location and Physical Features .....................           4
Socio-Economic Conditions ..........................           5
Agriculture ........................................           6
Infrastructure .....................................           7
IV. THE PROJECT ....... 8
Objectives and Approach ............................           8
Brief Description ..................................           9
Detailed Features ..................................    10
Agriculture Extension .....        ....................    10
Agricultural Research and Experimentation  1.....    1
Agricultural Credit for On-Farm Development ...    12
Land Purchase Credit ......        ....................    14
Cooperative Support ......        .....................    15
Mechanization Services .....        ...................    15
Rural Electrification ......        ...................    16
Feeder Roads ........       ..........................    17
Health and Sanitation ......        ...................    18
Education and Community Training ....       ..........    19
Project Administration, Monitoring and
Evaluation and Special Studies ....       .........   21
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in October/November
1976 composed of Messrs. A. Uhlig, E. Senner, 0. Lafourcade, G. Ashkenazi,
E. Pinilla, Y. Tencalla (Bank) and E. Calderon (consultant) and following-up
missions by Messrs. J. Graves (Bank) and J. I4ora (consultant) in January 1977.
Mr. C. Koch-Weser (Bank) also assisted in the preparation of this report.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .............................    22
Cost Estimates .....................................    22
Financing ..........................................    24
Procurement ........................................    25
Disbursements ......................................    25
Accounts and Auditing ...............................    26
VI.   ORGANIZATION4, MANAGEMENT AND hIPLEMENTATION ....         .........    26
Overall Project Administration .....................    26
Operating Agreements ...............................    28
Implementation Schedule ............................    28
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation ....          ...........    28
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..............................    29
Incremental Production .............................    29
Markets and Prices .................................    30
Producer Income and Employment .....................    31
Economic Analysis ..................................    33
Fiscal Impact ......................................    35
Ecological Impact ..................................    36
Project Risks ......................................    36
VIII.   RECOMM!ENDATIONS .........................................    37
ANNEXES:  1.  Project Area Summary Data
2.  Agricultural Extension
3.  Credit
4.  Project Organization and Implementation, Monitoring
and Evaluation and Special Studies
5.  Cost Summary
6.  Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
7.  Agricultural Development, Production Technology, Production
Estimates, Markets and Prices
8.  Producer Income and Employment
9.  Economic Analysis
10. Fiscal Impact
*11.  Agricultural Research and Experimentation
*12.  Cooperatives, Mechanization, Off-Farm Storage
*13.  Rural Electrification
*14.  Feeder Roads
*15.  Health and Sanitation
*16.  Education and Community Training
MAPS: POLONORDESTE Priority Areas in State of Ceara (IBRD-12315)
Project Area (IBRD-12316)
* These annexes are working papers which are available upon request.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA. RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        In Northeast Brazil, which has a population of about 30 million of
whom 60% live in rural areas, agricultural productivity is relatively low and
rural per capita incomes are only about one-quarter the national average.
Generally poor soils, periodic droughts, and an often highly unequal distri-
bution of land add to the difficulty encountered in efforts to ameliorate the
considerable poverty still existing in the region.
ii.       The Government initiated in 1974 a major new program, POLONORDESTE,
to raise the productivity and the incomes of the rural population in Northeast
Brazil, largely through integrated projects in selected micro-regions or prior-
ity areas which have especially pronounced proverty problems and/or immediate
development possibilities.  Whereas many of the past Government programs di-
rected to the rural population had been mainly in the areas of public works
or social services, the POLONORDESTE program adds the specific aim of re-
orienting and strengthening, in an integrated approach, the various institu-
tions which offer the support services required to develop a more productive
small-scale agriculture.
iii.      Ceara, with a population of about 4-1/2 million and a land area of
148,000 km2, is one of the largest northeast states. Much of the state con-
sists of semi-arid country, with relatively low immediate agricultural poten-
tial, and is subject to periodic severe drought. Within the state, however,
there are certain areas of relatively higher agricultural potential, partic-
ularly along the coast and in several areas of higher altitude (serras). The
Serra da Ibiapaba, which is located in the western part of the state, is one
of these areas. The proposed project was prepared by a team in the state's
agricultural planning commission (CEPA-CE) beginning in 1975 and in consulta-
tion with several Bank missions. It is the first POLONORDESTE project to be
prepared in Ceara and, therefore, would provide a range of experiences partic-
ularly useful in the preparation and execution of similar projects in the
other POLONORDESTE priority areas of Ceara. The project is the second
appraised by the Bank in the context of the POLONORDESTE program after the Rio
Grande do Norte project, for which a loan of US$12 million was signed in 1976
and which is generally proceeding satisfactorily.
iv.       The Serra da Ibiapaba project area, a plateau of about 800 m alti-
tude, covers some 4,800 km2 and has a population of 194,000 of which 155,000
are rural. The area has considerable potential for increased production of a
variety of crops including coffee, corn, bananas, sugarcane, beans, manioc,
peanuts and miscellaneous other vegetables and fruits through both expansion
of the area cropped and increases in yields. Geographically, the area is
situated so as to make it one of the important sources of food supply for



- ii -
several urban areas in the Northeast and North of Brazil. Recent development
activities such as the completion of the primary road network, the initiation
of a coffee expansion program by the Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC) and
the construction of an agricultural produce trans-shipment market are reflected
in an obvious spurt of economic activity in the area. However, inadequate
penetration of infrastructure and services still presents a serious constraint
to realizing the intensification and considerable potential expansion of agri-
culture.
v.        The proposed project would include:  (a) the development of some
5,800 farms with up to 200 hectares (including about 1,000 sharecroppers/
tenants) and the provision of agricultural investment and production credit
and agricultural extension to these farmers and land purchase credit to about
450 of those who currently own no or very little land; (b) the provision and
improvement of other productive support services including the development of
agricultural experimentation, the provision of technical and administrative
assistance to existing cooperatives, the provision of farm machinery services
and rural electrification, and the improvement and construction of feeder
roads; (c) the provision of improved health and sanitation services benefit-
ting a total of some 25,000 families (including provision of upgraded or new
health posts and centers, community wells, and, on a pilot basis, family
latrines and water filters, all linked with intensified health education) and
of improved primary education and expanded vocational training for a total of
about 10,000 rural families; and (d) the provision of special project coor-
dination and evaluation units and the execution of several water resource,
soil and soil conservation studies required for the preparation of projects in
other of the POLONORDESTE priority areas in Ceara.
vi.       The project would be executed by existing agencies, with overall
project coordination and administration provided by a special project unit
established by the state in CEPA-CE. Various pre-project investments and
activities (establishment of a small research station, construction of some
feeder roads and electrification works, staff recruitment and selection, etc.)
began in 1976 with POLONORDESTE funding. Implementation of the project items
selected for Bank financing would be over the five year period beginning in
April 1977. A separate monitoring and evaluation unit would be established
to review project impact, to help identify adjustments which might prove
necessary, and to help assure that the experience gained in this project will
be applied to the design of other similar projects to be undertaken elsewhere
in the state.
vii.      The proposed loan of US$17 million equivalent to the Federal Govern-
ment would finance the foreign exchange component of the project (US$10.9 mil-
lion) and about 14% of local costs. This would represent 30% of the total
project cost of US$56 million. Disbursements would be made over a five-year
period against all project costs except the land purchase credit which would
be provided solely by the Government. It is estimated that beneficiary farmers
will contribute, on average, over 10% toward project farm development costs.
Contributions of cash, labor or materials would also be made toward the costs
of the health and sanitation services. Farm inputs to be financed by the



- iii -
credit component would be procured by individual farmers through local com-
mercial channels. The principal items of equipment for the rural electri-
fication component (amounting to about US$2.2 million baseline cost) would be
procured through international competitive bidding. Other smaller purchases
of equipment and materials for electrification, road maintenance and the
mechanization service component, and civil works for the feeder road and
education components (all together totalling some US$10.7 million) would be
procured or contracted through competitive bidding advertised nationally; as
the size of these contracts is relatively small and the works relatively
scattered, international bidders, though not excluded, are not likely to
participate. Local competitive bidding, negotiated contracts or force account
would be applied, in accordance with established Government procedures, for
other minor and varied works or purchases.
viii.     Funds for agricultural credit would be channelled through Banco do
Brasil (BB) and Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB) and lent to farmers for
investment or seasonal production purposes up to a maximum total outstanding
of about US$6,000 per farmer. The investment credits would be of up to 12
years, including up to 6 years grace. The Government has established interest
rates to farmers of 7%, unindexed, for investment and seasonal credit with the
exception of credit for fertilizer purchase, which carries no interest charge.
These rates are negative in real terms given the current inflationary environ-
ment. The credit, however, would be closely supervised and all of the benefi-
ciaries would receive technical assistance from the extension service to help
avoid a misallocation of funds. The bulk of the beneficiaries would be small
farmers from the lower income groups.
ix.       The project would result, at full development, in substantial in-
creases in food production for consumption or processing, both in the project
area and in several major Northeast cities linked by paved road to the project
area. Marketable production (excluding coffee, for which the separately
financed IBC program is already underway) would increase at full development
by some US$14 million annually over the pre-project level, with significant
increases in production of sugarcane, manioc, miscellaneous vegetables,
oranges, peanuts, passion fruit, avocado, beans, annato (a food coloring)
and corn. The incremental production would be a result of improvements in
yields as well as increases in the areas under production. The estimated
financial rate of return to the farmer, as tested on eight basic representative
farm models, ranges from 22% to over 50%. The relatively high rates of return
to the farmer must be viewed in the context of the very low base or starting
point, and the fact that significant production increases can be achieved in
the area with the use of improved inputs and techniques but with relatively
low on-farm investment, assuming that certain critical off-farm investments
such as in feeder roads are made simultaneously. Family incomes of parti-
cipating farm families from agricultural activities are expected to increase
from a current weighted average of US$425 (or a range from a weighted average
of US$110 in the scrubland zone to US$1,015 in the humid zone) to a weighted
average of about US$3,860 within about nine years of participating in the
project (or to a range from a weighted average of US$1,255 in the scrub-
land zone to US$8,760 in the humid zone). These increases are high largely



- iv -
because some of the crops to be produced (especially fruits and vegetables)
provide unusually good returns, and market prospects are very promising. The
project would provide increased employment opportunity equivalent to some
6,020 worker-years annually.
x.        The estimated rate of return to the economy from the directly quanti-
fiable agricultural aspects of the project would be 21%, dropping to 16% with
either a 10% decrease in output or a 10% increase in cost. The rate of return
of the rural electrification component, calculated separately, would be 17%,
reflecting especially the important savings in substituting the use of hydro-
electric power for diesel fuel. The combined rate of return would be about 19%.
Important other benefits which are difficult or impossible to quantify would
stem from the improved health and sanitation services and the education and
training activities.
xi.       The project bears the administrative risk attached to any project
whose success depends on the coordinated implementation of activities in
various sectors by numerous agencies. Also, there is the risk that the steps
taken or proposed to assure greater coverage of small farmers by the credit
and extension systems will be insufficient, or might not be adjustable as
quickly as would be desired to offset possible declines in farmers' returns
which could result for example from shifts in input and output price relation-
ships or less than expected production increases. However, the measures taken
by the state to establish a high level project coordination council and full
time project coordination and evaluation units; the annual review mechanism
to be followed in setting and adjusting the project work plans of partici-
pating agencies; and the potential of the project to benefit some 30,000
people with its directly productive components and 150,000 with improved
health and education services and to strengthen the capacity of the institu-
tions in the state which serve the rural poor, make the project risks well
worth taking.
xii.      The project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$17 million
equivalent, with a term of 15 years including 3 years of grace.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In October 1974, the Government of Brazil created a special devel-
opment program named POLONORDESTE to help improve the incomes and welfare of
low income rural families in Northeast Brazil, a region which contains one of
the largest concentrations of poverty in Latin America. The program is
intended to provide the basis for expanding past programs and launching new
efforts, particularly integrated rural development projects designed to raise
the productivity and incomes of small-scale farmers. POLONORESTE is being
focused initially on some 31 sub-regions which cover a large portion of the
Northeast and which have been selected by the Government in view of both
productive potential and concentrations of rural population.
1.02      In March 1975, the Government requested IBRD assistance for the
preparation and financing of a rural development project in the State of
Ceara. The project is the second of the new projects being initiated by the
Government in the context of the POLONORDESTE program to be considered for
Bank financing. The first was the Rio Grande do Norte rural development
project for which a loan of US$12 million (1195-BR) was signed in early
1976 and which is now proceeding satisfactorily. Other projects have also
begun or are being prepared by the Government and the Bank is maintaining
close contact with several of these efforts, particularly in the states of
Paraiba and Bahia, where projects may be ready during the next year for
possible Bank consideration.
1.03      The proposed project for the Serra da Ibiapaba region in the State
of Ceara was prepared by a team in the state's agricultural planning commis-
sion (CEPA-CE), assisted by a number of visits oL Bank staff and consultants.
Particular attention was given to the selection and refining, from a somewhat
larger package of investments included in the original project proposal, those
investments most urgently required to reach agricultural production targets,
and those social and productive support improvements considered feasible in
light of the administrative capabilities of the agencies offering those
services. Appraisal was carried out in October/November 1976.
1.04      The Bank has so far made 10 loans, totalling US$339.4 million, for
agriculture and rural development in Brazil. These include two, amounting to
US$60.5 million, for livestock development; two, amounting to US$137 million,
for agro-industries; one, of US$18.2 million, for grain storage; one, of US$40
million, for an agricultural research program for the Northeast, North and
Center West of Brazil; and four, totalling US$83.7 million, for various settle-
ment, irrigation and rural development projects, three of which are located in
Northeast Brazil. Recently approved loans for a nutrition project and a sec-
ondary and feeder road project will also provide important benefits to the rural
population. In addition to other agricultural and rural development projects,
a rural education program is also under consideration for possible future Bank
financing.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Brazil's economy has traditionally had a strong agricultural base.
Although industrial expansion has become increasingly important, the relative
contribution of agriculture to the national product has shown only a slow
decline over the past decade, from about 20% of GDP in 1967 to about 15% at
present. The sector still accounts for 60% of export earnings (soya, sugar
and coffee are major export items) and provides the means of livelihood for
45% of the population. During the period 1967-75, agricultural production
grew at an average annual rate of about 6% despite adverse climatic conditions
in three of the years.
The Northeast I/
2.02      The nine states of Northeast Brazil have a total population of about
30 million, of which some 60% live in rural areas. Agricultural productivity
and rural per capita incomes are very low.  Aside from a relatively narrow
coastal strip in which sugar cane is the principal crop, much of the Northeast
has a semi-arid climate, with periodic serious droughts, and generally poor
soils. The problems of reducing the incidence of poverty in the region are
further compounded by a highly skewed distribution of land ownership. Less
than 1% of the total number of farm establishments account for 40% of the
area, and in some areas up to 80% of the rural labor force own no land at all,
though this varies considerably within the Northeast. However, since in many
parts of the Northeast land is of very poor quality, even many of those farms
which might in other countries be considered medium-sized (say 100-300 ha)
produce very low incomes.
2.03      Numerous Government programs in the past have been directed at
speeding economic development in the Northeast.  The Goverment operates a
development superintendency (SUDENE) and a special development bank for the
Northeast (Bank of the Northeast, BNB), and substantial fiscal and monetary
incentives have been made available over the past decade for both industry and
agriculture. Overall per capita income in the region is still, however, only
about half the national average (Northeast rural per capita income being only
one quarter the overall national average). Programs to generate jobs in the
industrial sector have not kept pace with overall population increases, and
the gradual emigration from rural to urban areas has been coupled with consid-
erable continued emigration from the Northeast to the more industrialized
Center-South of Brazil. Past Government programs directed to the rural popula-
tion have often been in the areas of public works (including substantial efforts
in drought-prone areas to develop small dams and ponds) or social services, and
only recently has the Government been moving actively toward the reorientation
and strengthening of the institutions offering the services required to
develop a more productive labor-intensive small-scale agriculture.
1/   Readers are directed to "Rural Development Issues and Options in
Northeast Brazil," (Report No. 665a-BR dated June 23, 1975).



- 3 -
Federal Rural Development Policies and Programs
2,04      While the Government, in setting its agricultural policies, is pur-
suing multiple objectives--to stimulate output to meet a rapidly increasing
domestic demand for food and fibers; to contribute to an improved balance of
payments through increased production of export commodities or import substi-
tutes; and to raise income levels of the rural poor--increasing emphasis is
being placed on the last of these objectives. This is evidenced in the North-
east by the formulation in late 1974 of the POLONORDESTE program which is
designed, inter alia, to raise the productivity and incomes of small farmers
through integrated rural development projects, focusing initially on selected
priority areas which have expecially pronounced poverty problems and/or
immediate development possibilities. Consultants were appointed to help
prepare projects for some of these areas while the states themselves are pre-
paring projects for others. The normal pattern is for the projects then to be
executed by existing agencies, coordinated by special units set up at the
state level. All projects are reviewed and monitored by the regional POLO-
NORDESTE team (located in SUDENE) which reports to a federal interministerial
commission responsible for overall policy guidance of the POLONORDESTE program
and for approval of project proposals and allocation of funding among projects.
2.05      So far, the POLONORDESTE program has mainly helped finance:  (i) vari-
ous preparation activities and/or some initial expenditures for 31 integrated
rural development projects in the priority sub-regions, and (ii) the continua-
tion or completion of several projects (particularly in the areas of land
settlement and irrigation) begun or planned before the creation of POLONORDESTE.
By the end of 1976, around US$370 million had been allocated to these various
efforts, with much of the expenditure actually being made for the latter
category. Project preparation guidelines and operating policies have only
recently begun to emerge and the institutional capacity to plan, coordinate
and execute the program requires further strengthening. As a result, some of
the projects are still suffering execution delays as their administrative,
policy and financial implications had not been fully thought through before
they were initiated.
2.06      Notwithstanding the various start-up difficulties, the establishment
of the POLONORDESTE program has helped generate support at different levels
of Government for the development of programs directed toward the rural poor,
with increased attention to improving economic productivity. For example,
the national agricultural research company, EMBRAPA, is carrying out a re-
search program (partly financed with Bank Loan 1249-BR) focussing especially
on the Northeast and crops grown by small-scale producers. The national exten-
sion agency, EMBRATER, is preparing a special program aimed particularly at
strengthening extension services offered to small farmers and improving the
training of extension workers (a program which the Bank has been requested to
help finance). In addition, a partial reformulation of credit policies in
early 1977 (including the earmarking of POLONORDESTE credit funds to small
scale farm operations and the increase from 12 years to 20 years in the maxi-
mum term of credits for small land purchases) has helped improve the prospects
of reaching larger numbers of the rural poor with productive support. Also,



while no major land reform programs are foreseen in the near future, land
redistribution efforts may be included in the context of some POLONORDESTE
rural development projects, where inadequately used large estates exist and
where institutions serving small farmers can be strengthened to a point where
they can effectively service new small-holders as well. The Government is
formulating a new rural health program, PIASS, as well as new rural education
policies and programs, all with a view to improving substantially the poten-
tial productivity and the welfare of the rural poor.
The State of Ceara and its Development
2.07      Ceara, with a total population in 1970 of about 4.4 million of which
about 59% are rural, and a land area of about 148,000 km2 (see map), is one
of the largest Northeast states. The metropolitan area of the capital city,
Fortaleza, which is situated on the coast, has a population of over one mil-
lion and accounts for the bulk of the state's light industry (mainly food
processing, textiles and clothing, but recently also including some non-
metalic mineral, metal and chemical processing). While agricultural potential
is limited in most parts of the state by poor soils and low or irregular rain-
fall, potential is relatively higher along a narrow coastal strip, in several
humid highland areas (one of which is the focal point of the proposed project)
and a few river valleys. The majority of the state's land area, however, falls
within the sertao or semi-arid zone which is subject to periodic severe drought
and which ecologically is most suited for cattle ranching or other similar ex-
tensive systems of land use. Cotton (including drought resistant arboreal
varieties grown in the sertao), beef, bananas, beans, corn, manioc and sugar
have, in that order, traditionally been the state's most important agricultural
products in terms of value. In recent years, however, production of cashew
nuts, coffee and various fruits has been introduced on an increasing scale,
and the coastal fishing industry has expanded. Overall, the state's five year
development plan (1975-79) calls for a gradual decentralization of economic
activity away from the Fortaleza area (partly through development projects in
the several POLONORDESTE priority areas in the state), and an annual agri-
cultural production growth rate of 6-7%.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
Location and Physical Features
3.01      The project area is located in the northwestern part of Ceara, bor-
dering the State of Piaui (see map). It is one of the priority regions within
the federal POLONORDESTE program, and includes 7 municipalities which cover
about 4,800 km2 or 3% of the state's territory. It extends about 100 km in
the north-south direction and about 50 km east-west. The main part of the
project area constitutes a plateau (Serra da Ibiapada) which rises from about
500 m altitude in the west to some 800 m in the east where a steep escarpment
separates the plateau from a low lying area with an altitude of about 200 m.



- 5 -
The average annual temgerature and rainfall vary with the altitude.  Tempera-
tures average about 26 C in the lower areas and 22 0C in the higher areas with
little fluctuation during the year. Rainfall increases from less than 1,000
mm per year in the lowlands to 1,900 mm in the higher areas, with a heavy
concentration (90%) during the period December to June. Soils in the area
are variable but in general of moderate to low quality, dominated by deep but
light sandy soils with low water and nutrient retention capacity and relatively
high acidity. As a result of climate, topography and soil characteristics,
the area can be divided into three land capability classes: the western part
(carrasco) which covers about 70% of the area, with moderate to poor agri-
cultural potential; the central part, commonly referred to as the humid and
subhumid zone, corresponding to approximatley 20% of the area, with good
agricultural potential; and the lower part (sertao) east of the escarpment,
corresponding to about 10% of the area with very limited agricultural possibil-
ities.
Socio-Economic Conditions
3.02      The population of the project area was estimated in 1976 to be about
194,000. Average population density is 40 per km2. Approximately 80%
(155,000) of the population is considered rural of which about 25% are farm
owner-operator families, 9% nonowner-operator families (including sharecrop-
pers) and the remaining 66% mainly farm laborers and their families. Between
1960 and 1970, the rural population grew by about 1.3% annually and the urban
segment by 2.2%.
3.03      Educational and health standards of the population in the project
area are very inadequate, and low in relation to the average national situa-
tion. Only about 45% of the adult population are able to read and write, and
only about 30% of the school-age children are attending schools. Health
problems are reflected in high rates of infant mortality (125 per 1,000) and
of mortality from a variety of communicable diseases. Trachoma 1/ and
leishmaniasis 2/ are endemic in the area.
3.04      The area's economy is almost exclusively based upon agriculture.
About 80% of the economically active population are engaged in agricultural
activities and some 10% each are employed in the secondary sector (largely
small-scale agricultural processing) and in services. Regional product in
1971 was estimated at about US$30 million of which approximately US$23 million
originated in agriculture. This would suggest a regional product of US$170
per capita and, assuming 85% of the regional product constitutes regional
1/   Chronic infectious eye disease, in its later stages leading to visual
disability and frequently to blindness.
2/   Disease which, in its cutaneous form, is characterized by ulcerated
lesions of the face and, in its visceral form, is characterized by
anemia, fever, liver and spleen enlargement and is fatal if untreated.



-6-
value-added, an average income of about US$140 per capita in 1971. These
figures are estimated to have risen since then by about 10-20% especially due
to an increase in agricultural and service activities which followed the con-
struction of the main road system (para. 3.10). In the course of this latest
development, open unemployment and the emigration of able-bodied people, which
used to be very common in the area, have declined, and localized shortages of
labor during the agricultural planting and harvesting seasons have occurred
recently.
Agriculture
3.05      About 88% of the geographical project area, or some 423,000 ha, is
estimated to be incorporated in farms. Roughly 55% of this farm area is actu-
ally used (29% crops, 21% pastures, 5% forest); approximately half of the un-
used farm land is considered potentiallly productive while the remainder is
largely unsuitable for agriculture. There are some 9,300 farms in the project
area. About 4,800 (52%) have less than 10 ha each and occupy a total of 6% of
the land; 2,150 (23%), with between 10 ha and 24 ha, incorporate 11% of the
land; 2,120 (23%), with between 25 ha and 200 ha, occupy 39% of the land; and
some 230 (2%), with more than 200 ha, control 44% of all farm land. Although
far from even, the land distribution is less concentrated than the general
pattern in Northeast Brazil and most of the very large farms are located in the
carrasco and sertao which have relatively lower quality land and low farm
income. Some 88% of the value of agricultural output in 1971 related to crops
(of which manioc, 37%; cane, 27%; bananas, 9%; coffee, 7%; beans, 5%), 8% to
livestock (of which beef, 46%; pork, 39%; milk, 9%) and 4% to forestry
extractions.
3.06      Since 1971 both the level and structure of agricultural production
have changed as a result of improvements to the trunk road system in the
project area, an active Government credit policy, and the coffee development
program carried out by the Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC). Although
recent production figures are not available, there is evidence that crop pro-
duction has increased considerably over the past five years. In particular,
production of coffee, bananas and vegetables is now playing a much more
prominent role than in 1971.
3.07      The prevailing farming systems vary with the ecological conditions
of the area. In the high rainfall areas of the serra, farms are generally of
small to medium size, and are mixed enterprises producing sugarcane, bananas,
tropical fruits, coffee and some vegetables. Farms in the lower rainfall
areas of the carrasco and sertao are usually larger and simpler in their
organization, producing mainly manioc, sorghum and livestock, with some sub-
sistence crops, including vegetables, if irrigation possibilities exist. In
general, the farming systems are extensive. Substantial parts of the farms
are unused, and the cropping intensity of the utilized parts is low. The use
of improved farm practices and inputs is limited to a relatively small number
of farms and, so far, to only a few crops (notably coffee and some vegetables).
There are, however, indications that an intensification of land use is taking



place and the use of improved farming practices in spreading. However, pro-
ductivity, output and, consequently, farm incomes are still significantly below
the area's physical potential. At present, the average annual output per hec-
tare of land in farms is equivalent to about US$50.
3.08      Supporting services available to the farmers are precarious at best,
except for supply of agricultural inputs and to some extent credit. Especial-
ly weak are extension, crop research, agricultural education, marketing and
all social services. Prior to the proposed project, agricultural extension
was mainly provided by some ten extension agents from the State Extension
Agency (EMATER-CE) and the Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC). The effectiveness
of that service has been low because of low service density (1 extensionist
for about 1,000 farmers), inadequate training of the extension personnel,
very poor support services, isolation from research and an overwhelming
orientation to credit supervison at the expense of technical assistance.
Agricultural research, mainly carried out in the past by the State University,
has not produced a great deal of know-how relevant to the project area.
Agricultural education is virtually nonexistant in the project area either
through specific training or the formal education system. Marketing relies
almost exclusively upon the private middle-man to whom the farmer sells either
at the farm-gate or at the weekly markets in the municipal centers. The
system has had relatively high primary assembly costs, mainly because of very
poor rural roads. Recently, a produce trans-shipment market was established
to help facilitate collection and shipment.
3.09      Agricultural inputs are available throughout the project area at
competitive prices, mainly from private suppliers, but also from the State
Supply Agency (CODAGRO) and from other public agencies. With the recent
introduction of coffee and vegetable production in the area, suppliers now
offer a variety of chemical fertilizers. Three banks, through five branches,
provide agricultural credit for the area, using mainly special credit lines
made available by the Central Bank. Coverage is still small, however, in
comparison to the region's potential credit demand.
Infrastructure
3.10      The project area is well connected with the national highway system
by federal highway, BR-222, which passes through the center of the project area
in an east-west direction. In addition, a newly paved state highway, CE-75,
runs in a north-south direction through the humid zone of the project area,
connecting very adequately all but one of municipal centers with each other
and with inter-state BR-222. These two roads constitute an excellent, but
still under-utilized, trunk road system for the area. The rural hinterland
is served by some 1,200 km of earth tracks, by-and-large of very poor quality
and impassible during the rainy season.
3.11      All the municipal centers in the project area have electricity and
are served by the national postal service. All but one of these centers have
telephone service, and each has a limited public water supply system and a
small hospital. The rural population lacks these services, and access to the



- 8 -
centers is limited due to poor transportation conditions. Most of the rural
primary schools in the area are one-room schools, in many instances in the
teachers' houses. Five out of the seven municipal centers have secondary
schools. Improved facilities are sorely needed, as are improvements in the
training of rural primary school teachers and substantial increases in teachers'
salaries.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Approach
4.01      The POLONORDESTE program has as a principal overall objective the
improvement of the incomes and the standard of living of the rural population
in Northeast Brazil, and the reduction of the disparities in economic and
social development between the rural Northeast and much of the rest of the
country. The proposed Serra da Ibiapaba project embodies this objective, as
it does the important parallel objectives of strengthening the permanent plan-
ning and project execution and coordination capacity of the agencies responsi-
ble for different aspects of rural development in the state, and defining cost
effective means to sustain and broaden that development.
4.02      The project would have a regional focus, concentrating on opening
more fully one of the relatively high potential food production areas in Ceara.
It is intended as the first of several regional projects the state hopes to
carry out under the POLONORDESTE program and, as such, should provide important
experience relevant to subsequent projects. It also represents a vehicle for
helping achieve the state's target of slowing the rural-urban migration (partic-
ularly from the hinterland to Fortaleza, where the development of urban ser-
vices and employment opportunity has lagged behind the population pressure, or
to other cities outside the state) by promoting the accelerated development
of areas in the interior of the state. Within the selected project area, the
project activities would be directed particularly at improving the conditions
of small-scale farmers and the low-income rural population.
4.03      The project strategy would be to achieve parallel coordinated im-
provements in infrastructure and services in several critical sectors. Given
the project's principal objectives and the area's resource base, project inter-
ventions would concentrate on increasing agricultural production and related
employment and income through on-farm investment and the provision of the
improved agricultural services (including extension, credit, experimentation
and mechanization) required for the introduction of improved farming techniques
and an expansion of the area cultivated. These activities would benefit par-
ticularly some 5,800 low-income farm families (including around 1,000 share-
croppers) operating less than 200 ha each, still a relatively "small-scale"
operation in terms of income, particularly in the drier and less fertile
carrasco portion of the project area. Project interventions beyond those con-
sidered directly agricultural--namely the improvement of feeder-roads, expan-
sion of rural electrification, development of nonformal adult education and
gradually improved rural primary education, and expansion of health care and



-9-
sanitation services--would support the overall development of a broad section
of the rural population. The project will build upon initial POLONORDESTE-
funded activities and investments begun in 1976, which included construction
of a produce trans-shipment market, some feeder roads and electrification
facilities, the creation of a research station and the early recruitment and
training of project staff.
4.04      Although multi-sectorial, the project would not provide for an
all-inclusive package of development actions. In the first place, it is
complementary to several important recent investments as well as to other
separately-financed programs now underway (e.g. coffee expansion) or planned
(e.g., construction of a storage facility and of a private alcohol refinery).
Furthermore, technical, financial and administrative constraints limit the
number of components that can be executed with reasonable efficiency. Hence,
some potential activities such as livestock and small-scale irrigation develop-
ment, comprehensive improvement of the upper grade level in rural primary
education and of secondary education, promotion of rural industries, and the
like, would be gradually pursued by the state at a later stage. Project
monitoring and evaluation (para 6.07) and an annual review mechanism to be
followed in setting and adjusting the detailed project plans (para 6.04) will
help assure that, should particular complementary or additional activities
become urgent for the project's success, the state will be made aware of the
needs in a timely manner.
Brief Description
4.05      The project would consist of:
(a) the strengthening of extension services;
(b) the development of a field experimentation program;
(c) the intensified agricultual development of some 5,800 farm oper-
ations of less than 200 ha, and the provision of investment and
incremental working capital credit required for the increased
production of manioc, sugarcane, miscellaneous vegetables,
oranges, peanuts, passion fruit, avocados, beans, annato (a
food coloring) and corn;
(d) the provison of land purchase credit to some 450 sharecroppers,
tenants or owner-operators with insufficient land;
(e) the development of other complementary agricultural support ser-
vices such as administrative and technical assistance to agri-
cultural cooperatives and provision of certain mechanized land
clearing and cultivation services;
(f) the construction and/or upgrading of about 370 km of feeder
roads and improvement of rural road maintenance capabilities;
(g) the installation of rural electrification facilities tcWserve
some 5,000 new rural customers;



- 10 -
(h) the provision of improved health facilities and services for
some 25,000 families, the development of simple village water
supply systems and the execution of pilot programs for provi-
sion of latrines and distribution of water filters;
(i) the construction and equipping of 8 multi-purpose community
learning centers and 50 rural primary schools, the provision of
non-formal courses for a total of about 6,800 farmers and 10,000
women and young adults, and the upgrading or retraining of 478
primary school teachers and supervisors; and
(j) the provision of organizational support for project adminis-
tration, monitoring and evaluation; and
(k) the preparation of soil surveys, water resource development
studies and soil conservation studies to help provide the basis
for rural development projects for several of the other
POLONORDESTE priority areas in Ceara.
4.06      The project would be executed by existing federal, state and local
agencies with overall project coordination and policy guidance provided by a
management council made up of high level representatives of the principal
executing agencies, and day-to-day project coordination provided by a special
full-time project support unit and project manager located in CEPA-CE (paras
6.01-6.07). The project would include activities and investments undertaken
during a 5-year period beginning in April 1977.
Detailed Features
Agricultural Extension
4.07      The project would include the expansion and reorientation of exten-
sion services provided in the project area by EMATER-CE, the state extension
company. It would provide technical assistance to some 5,800 small-scale
farmers previously not assisted or inadequately assisted (prior to the project,
the area had only one extensionist per 1,000 farmers). The proposed agricul-
tural extension methodology will contrast with the traditional pattern in the
area in that the transfer of technology to small farmers will be mainly
through small groups of farmers in the fields of "contact farmers" where
demonstration plots will also be installed. The groups should allow greater
extension coverage as well as help lay the groundwork for improved cooperative
action. In some cases, the groups could help form the basis for more effi-
cient assembly of production for marketing and/or storage, and more efficient
use of mechanization services. A second innovation will be that responsibil-
ities for credit-related activities and for purely technical assistance
activities will be assigned to separate, but closely collaborating, extension
agents. This will allow the latter type of agent (agricultural field exten-
sion specialists) to concentrate solely on know-how dissemination and demon-
stration, with another type of agent (agricultural credit specialists) to add
specialized assistance in helping plan, prepare and supervise agricultural
credit.



- 11 -
4.08      The expanded extension staff would receive special pre-service as
well as in-service and field training and would be composed of field exten-
sion agents, agricultural credit agents, cooperative organization agents,
social assistance agents and several higher level subject matter specialists.
While the field extension agents and the social assistance agents will each
work principally through 8-10 contact farmers or families (thereby reaching
eventually up to 200 and 450 families per agent, respectively), the credit
agent would deal directly with the individual farmers (eventually up to 300
per agent) and the cooperative agents with cooperatives. The field staff
will be coordinated and supervised by a regional extension office, with local
extension offices in each of the project area municipalities. The project
costs include the costs of equipment and vehicles, incremental materials
and operating costs, salaries of the incremental staff during the five year
project period, training costs, and the costs of establishing and maintaining
demonstration plots.
Agricultural Research and Experimentation
4.09      At present there is only a very low usage of available improved
farming practices and inputs both because of the lack of broad awareness of
the benefits and lack of guidance. Hence, intensified extension can make a
significant initial impact by promoting wider application of practices already
used by the area's better farmers or developed in other similar regions. The
project, however, also calls for the diversification of cropping patterns and
the introduction of several relatively new crops such as passion fruit, annato
(a food coloring) and peanuts. As a result, agricultural experimentation will
have to be geared both to sustain the development of new or improved practices
for existing crops and to adapt know-how for new crops to local conditions.
The state research company (Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Ceara, EPACE)
has already begun, at a new research station near Tiangua, a preliminary
program of controlled adaptive research related to the project area. This
research is being executed with EMBRAPA (the national agricultural research
institution) support and guidance, and is part of the overall development of
the state's research capacity and program. During negotiations, assurances
were received from the state that it would continue to maintain and develop
research at the Tiangua station adequate to the project needs.
4.10      To supplement the ongoing research at Tiangua (which would not be
financed by the proposed loan), the project would provide for the development
of satellite experimentation carried out on some 10 experimentation sites of
about 10 ha each. These sites will be developed within the project area
during the five year project period and will be managed by EPACE, out of its
Tiangua station. Technological packages, based initially on results of
research in other areas, would be tested in the local rural milieu on fields
rented for this purpose from farmers, with their active participation. To
start, this experimentation would focus on five crops (beans, peanuts, manioc,
sugarcane and annato), with work on other crops added as administrative and
technical capacity is developed. To help assure continued local interaction
between the extension and research services, the area's new experimentation
programs will be defined jointly by EPACE, the extension service and the
project management team. The actual experimentation will be the responsibility



- 12 -
of EPACE, while subsequent transmission and application of the recommended
technological packages on small farmer demonstration plots will be the respon-
sibility of the extension service. The project costs of the field experi-
mentation scheme would include direct costs such as equipment, materials and
production input costs, as well as salaries of the related technical and
administrative personnel during the project period.
Agricultural Credit for On-Farm Development
4.11      The proposed increases in agricultural productivity and expansion
of the area under production will require substantial farmer investments as
well as increases in working capital. Agricultural credit would be provided
to approximately 5,800 farmers in the project area with less than 200 hectares
(including about 1,000 sharecroppers and renters). In 1975, a total of just
under US$3 million in agricultural credit was extended to about 1,000 farmers
in the entire project area, but about two-thirds of this was absorbed by farm
operations over 25 hectares. Hence, it is expected that the large majority of
the expected project participants will be receiving institutional credit for
the first time. Agricultural credit would be made available to help finance
on-farm investments (mainly land clearing and establishment of permanent crops,
but also including small equipment or tools, fencing, etc.) and incremental
working capital requirements (for laborers, fertilizer, seeds, pesticides,
and other seasonal production costs). It is estimated that farmers will be
able to tap some of their own resources and usually contribute 10-15% to
development costs.
4.12      Credit would be extended by the Banco do Brasil (BB) agency and the
Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB) agency in the project area and two addi-
tional BB branches near the project area. The Central Bank has opened credit
lines with these participating banks making funds available for application in
the project to cover 100% of sub-loans to farmers. The participating banks
are required to repay the Central Bank in line with repayment dates of sub-
loans made, and are allowed to retain a spread of 5% to cover administrative
costs, etc. (terms and conditions to farmers are described in paragraph 4.13
below). When possible, credit would be channelled through one of the 4 area
cooperatives. In those cases the cooperative, which would assume part of the
administrative burden of the credit operation, would receive a 2% spread,
leaving the participating banks with 3%. Preliminary experience under the
POLONORDESTE program in the Northeast suggests that (especially in view of the
more intense technical assistance from the extension service to the small
farmer and the somewhat simplified credit procedures outlined in Annex 3) the
spread to banking intermediaries appears sufficient to cover costs as well as
provide incentive for engaging in this business. However, the adequacy or
relative importance of this incentive, taking into account the fact that the
banks are Government controlled institutions acting under Government instruc-
tions, cannot yet be clearly established. For this reason, the adequacy of
the interest spread will be one of the several items to be subject to special
annual review (see para. 4.15).



- 13 -
4.13      The agricultural credit terms to the farmer, established by the
Government for the POLONORDESTE program, provide for a nominal interest
rate of 7%, unindexed, for both investment and seasonal working capital
credits, with the exception of credit for fertilizer purchase which carries
no interest charge. Credit for "semi-fixed" investments (work animals, light
equipment, etc.) would have a final maturity of up to 8 years, including up
to 4 years grace, and for "fixed" investments (land clearing, establishment
of permanent crops, small-scale irrigation, etc.) up to 12 years, including
up to 6 years grace. Given Brazil's inflation rate, the interest rates
adopted by the Government for POLONORDESTE projects are negative in real
terms. However, the large majority of beneficiaries would be low-income
farmers. Furthermore, credit would be closely supervised and would be made
only to farmers also receiving technical assistance. Hence, the chance of
mis-allocation of resources is very small. While a substantial subsidy
element exists in credit conditions to be applied under the proposed project,
the Government did recently eliminate the previous 40% subsidy on the price of
credit-financed fertilizer purchases, and the previously available interest-
free credit for "modern" production inputs other than fertilizer. During
negotiations, assurances were received from the Government that the Central
Bank would maintain its arrangements with BB and BNB to act as intermediaries
for the credit component, that credit funds under the project would be lent on
the terms and conditions of the POLONORDESTE program and that the Government
would advise the Bank promptly of any changes in these terms.
4.14      Several aspects of the proposed project should help assure that
credit coverage is expanded. Agricultural extension services directed toward
the small farmer will be intensified. Also, the Government has instructed
the participating banks to give priority to small-scale and landless farmers
in utilizing available POLONORDESTE funds, and, for loans under 50 times the
MIaximum Reference Value (MVR, a periodically adjusted amount equivalent to
about the minimum monthly wage, or now roughly US$60), not to require property
guarantees, thereby reducing the loan application time and the bank's process-
ing costs for small loans. Sharecroppers or tenants, who with the permission
(though not guarantee) of the landowner may now secure institutional credit,
have already begun to participate, as was evidenced by initital POLONORDESTE
credit results in the project area in 1976. To help assure that the project
credit reaches a large number of beneficiaries, Bank disbursements would be
limited to sub-loans in which the outstanding seasonal and investment credits
for the farmer do not exceed 100 MVR (or about US$6,000). Also, to help
assure that the project credit allocations are incremental to and not replace-
ment for existing institutional credit, Bank disbursements for seasonal produc-
tion credit in a particular year of the project would be made only against
amounts of credit in excess of the amount extended during the previous year.
Since the amount of incremental working capital credit required during the
first year of the project is expected to be quite small, Bank disbursements
for this item would begin during the second year.
4.15      The procedures and initiatives established by the Government for
expanding credit coverage for small-scale farmers under POLONORDESTE projects
have only recently taken effect and should be monitored closely. It is possi-
ble that other mechanisms (differentiated or revised interest spreads to banks



- 14 -
to help cover higher administrative costs for small loans; further modifica-
tions to loan application procedures or to the role of the extensionist; new
bank branches; establishment of compulsory credit insurance or of a guarantee
fund for bad debts, etc.) may have to be developed to help ensure that, in
fact, substantial increases in the number of small farmers served are achieved.
During negotiations, assurances were received from the Government that the
effectiveness of the credit promotion, processing and delivery activities
would be subject to systematic annual reviews, that the findings and recommen-
dations for any necessary modifications would be provided to the Bank for
discussion by November 30 each year, in line with the timing of the preparation
of annual project work plans (para 6.04), and that it would carry out such
actions as are agreed following the exchange of views.
Land Purchase Credit
4.16      Some 1,000 landless farmers and even more very small-scale owner-
operators are expected to participate directly in the extension and production
credit aspects of the project. The Government intends to encourage at least
some of the participating landless or very small scale farmers to take advant-
age of the Government's land purchase credit program and thereby benefit to
a greater extent from the production increases foreseen under the project.
This initiative, which is intended as a means to sharpen the focus of the
land purchase credit mechanism as a tool of income redistribution, would be
innovative in Brazilian rural development experience as it would be carried
out with the support of other aspects of the rural development program and
would be closely linked to extension services and cooperative development
activities. It would build upon the important recent policy decision taken
by the Government to make land purchase credit terms for the small farmer
more attractive, and would provide a controlled test of the effectiveness
of broader use of the credit by small farmers. Land purchase credit (which,
though included in the project costs, would not be subject to disbursements
from the proposed Bank loan) would be channelled through local BB and BNB
branches. The POLONORDESTE land purchase credit terms and conditions (12%
interest, unindexed, with repayment over up to 20 years including up to 6
years of grace, and covering up to 100% of the purchase price) would be
applied. It is expected that about 450 (around 10%) of the nonowner-operator
farmers or very small-scale owner-operators would benefit over the project
period, with individual plots generally ranging in size from 5 ha in the humid
zone to 30 ha in the drier carrasco zone. 1/ The credit would be available
both directly to individuals purchasing land privately and, particularly for
the smaller plots in the humid zone, through cooperatives, which could purchase
larger blocks of land for distribution to members. The use of cooperatives as
intermediaries and the setting of a modest target number of recipients (allow-
ing the component to be carried out with a relatively low profile) should
help avoid land speculation.
11   30 ha is the amount of land ("module") defined by the National Institute
for Colonization and Land Reform, INCRA, to be the minimum necesary to
generate a farm income of four times the annual minimum wage in the average
(carrasco) part of the project area. The maximum amount of land that could
be individually purchased with POLONORDESTE credit is 6 "modules."



- 15 -
Cooperative Support
4.17      The project will provide for the development and execution of a
program of technical and financial assistance to strengthen and enable the
expansion of the 4 agricultural cooperatives operating in the project area.
At present, they are receiving periodic technical assistance from the area
banks (mainly BNB), but they are still mostly in precarious financial condi-
tion; membership totals about 1,200 farmers, of whom only about one-fourth
are active members. Their generally weak organization and management have
precluded the development of potentially broader roles of the cooperatives in
such matters as provision of inputs, storage or marketing of produce, in
addition to the current activity of credit distribution. A study will be
carried out with the assistance of consultants, to define a medium-term
program of technical assistance, training and financial assistance (e.g.,
credit for investments or working capital) suited to the specific needs of
the individual coops. Agreement was reached during negotiations that dis-
bursements from the proposed Bank loan be made initially only up to US$25,000
against the costs of the cooperative support component (covering principally
the study but also some continued administrative assistance to the coopera-
tives) with disbursements for the second phase contingent upon agreement
between the Government, Bank and State on the action program defined as a
result of the study.
Mechanization Services
4.18      The project's production increase will be derived agriculturally
from both improvements in yields and significant increases in the area culti-
vated. The region has relatively higher agricultural potential than most
other parts of the state and, with the provision of improved feeder roads and
other services, quite dramatic increases in the use of available cultivable
land can be achieved. This is evidenced by recent experiences in the area
following the opening of several improved roads. However, not all of the
necessary land clearing and initial soil preparation requirements are suitable
for labor intensive techniques. Also, peak season requirements would exceed
the available local labor supply. It is therefore estimated that, while over
half the land clearing and initial soil preparation requirements would be met
by family and hired labor, the remainder would have to be met through partial
mechanization. The number of privately owned farm tractors and amount of
related equipment in the project area is still very small. As production and
incomes increase, individual farmers will begin to purchase their own equip-
ment, in some cases also selling services to neighboring farmers. Private
contractors entering the area as a result of the accellerated overall develop-
ment can also be expected to provide such services as demand increases. How-
ever, to help assure adequate machinery availability during the project's early
years and as an interim measure, the project would provide CODAGRO, the state-
owned Ceara Agricultural Development Company, with a small stock of equipment
(mainly farm tractors and related implements but including several crawler
tractors as well for heavier land clearing jobs) to meet part of the early
estimated demand by project participants for mechanization services. CODAGRO,
which already operates input supply stores in the project area municipalies,
has in the past provided mechanization services elsewhere in Ceara, but mostly



- 16 -
with heavy equipment for larger jobs and at a somewhat subsidized price.
The state is planning to eliminate the subsidy, and CODAGRO, the state exten-
sion company and the project coordination unit are jointly defining means
to use, for example, the informal groups of farmers formed for extension
purposes as a means to bulk the mechanization requirements of concentrations
of smaller farmers and thereby help assure their access to mechanization
services. During negotiations, assurances were received from the state
that it will enter into an agreement with CODAGRO under which the latter agrees
to provide appropriate services, with priority, to the project participants
and that it will promptly establish (and make timely adjustments to reflect
inflation) user charges covering full operating and maintenance costs (inclu-
ding overhead) and recovery of capital over a reasonable period.
Rural Electrification
4.19      The project would provide for the reinforcement and extension of
rural electrification facilities in the Ibiapaba area. Though expected partly
to meet traditional household requirements, the investment would serve prin-
cipally productive uses. Over 75% of the estimated load to be connected would
be small motors (used variously for sugar and manioc milling and small scale
irrigation). The component would consist of the installation of about 30 km
of 69 kV subtransmission lines from the present terminus in Ibiapina north to
Tiangua and south to Sao Benedito, with 2.5 MVA substations at each of the
latter two cities, and the provision of about 1,000 km of primary (13.8 kV)
and low tension distribution lines, transformers, meters and other equipment
to serve some 5,000 new rural customers. The facilities would be installed by
COELCE (the state electricity company, which is also a beneficiary of part of
the proceeds of Bank Loan 1300-BR for the Northeast Power Distribution Project)
and contractors. COELCE would retain ownership of and operational respon-
sibility for the subtransmission and primary distribution facilities. CERPI
(the recently formed Ibiapaba Rural Electrification Cooperative) would have
ownership of and operation and maintenance responsibilities for the low-tension
distribution facilities.
4.20      Customers would be required to pay the cooperative a membership fee
covering the pro rata share of the low-tension system cost, payable over a
16 year period, including 2 years of grace, with interest of 12% unindexed
(the standard terms established by the Government for projects of this type).
The Government funding to COELCE and CERPI would be grant assistance. Tariffs
for electricity purchased by COELCE from CHESF (Companhia Hidro Eletrica do
Sao Francisco, the Government's principal electricity generating company in
the Northeast) and sold to CERPI for resale to consumers would be set according
to the state's electricity tariff structure which is established to assure
COELCE and CERPI continued adequate financial performance and to provide for
some cross-subsidization among customers, with slightly lower rates to the
smaller, generally lower income, consumer.
4.21      The average investment cost per consumer, about US$1,300, is rela-
tively high, although comparable to similar recent works in Northeast Brazil.
Because of these generally high costs, ELETROBRAS (the Government's Electricity
Holding Company) agreed in conjunction with Bank Loan 1300-BR to undertake



- 17 -
studies analyzing methods of reducing, within safety limits, total installed
costs of rural distribution facilities. During negotiations assurances were
received from the state that it would secure COELCE's agreement to apply
relevant findings of the study, when available, to any remaining project elec-
trification works. Also, because COELCE does not have adequate experience in
international competitive bidding, assurances were received from the Government
during negotiations that COELCE would retain suitable consultancy services to
assist in the preparation of specifications and bidding documents and bid
evaluation for the equipment to be procured through international bidding (see
para 5.04). It is expected that COELCE will continue to use for this purpose
the services of CAEEB (Companhia Auxiliar de Empresas Eletricas Brasileiras),
which it contracted to assist in procurement for the Northeast Power Distribu-
tion Project (Loan 1300-BR).
Feeder Roads
4.22      The system for feeder roads in the project area, currently composed
largely of poorly drained dirt tracks, would be upgraded to reduce transport
costs, assure in many cases year-round usability, help facilitate the proposed
modernization and expansion of agricultural production and help increase
access to improved social services. The component would include: construc-
tion or rehabilitation of about 370 km of earth tracks, 231 km of which would
be improved to all-weather standards and the other 139 km provided only with
essential drainage and surface improvements but remaining basically dry-season
roads; consulting services, satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in the prepara-
tion of design, bidding documents and supervision of construction; and the
provision of road maintenance tools and equipment.
4.23      The design and construction of the roads would be contracted by the
Ceara Highway Consortium (Consorcio Rodoviario), the state controlled company
which is responsible for most road construction in Ceara. The design stan-
dards would be consistent with those established by the National Economic
Development Bank (BNDE) and the National Highway Department (DNER) for the
nation-wide feeder road program which is being partly financed by the Bank
(Loan 1207-BR). The maintenance equipment would be provided to the State
Highway Department (DAER), which is responsible for maintaining state roads
and providing mechanized maintenance of rural municipal roads. Tools for
other labor intensive maintenance (grass-cutting, cleaning ditches and
culverts) would be provided to the municipalities who would continue to be
directly responsible for executing this aspect of maintenance. During nego-
tiations, assurances were received from the Government that the project roads
would be constructed in line with design standards satisfactory to the Bank;
and that, although most of the construction can be expected to be carried out
on existing rights-of-way, timely provision of any additional rights-of-way
will be made. Assurances were also received that, prior to the construction
of the project roads, the state would secure the agreements of the municipali-
ties to provide adequate funding for the continued maintenance of the rural
roads in the project area.



- 18 -
Health and Sanitation
4.24      The project would provide for the development of a low-cost, inte-
grated health service delivery system serving the rural population. It would
include development of: (i) a system of village health posts (minipostos),
intermediate health centers for referral services, and improved existing
hospitals, all to strengthen basic medical care and to provide the structure
through which public health and nutrition services can be channelled; (ii) an
endemic disease control program to reduce the incidence of trachoma and
leishmaniasis; (iii) improved water supply and sanitation services; and (iv)
health manpower training and administrative support. Implementation of the
component would be supervised by the State Secretariat of Health. Other
agencies would participate in various facets of the component--SUCAM (the
Government's Superintendency for Medical Campaigns) in the endemic disease
control program; CAGECE (the Ceara Water Supply and Sanitation Company) and
SOEC (the Ceara Superintendency of Works) in the village water supply program;
FSESP (a Government Foundation for Special Public Health Services) in the
pilot program of latrine distribution and installation; FUNRURAL (the Govern-
ment's Assistance Fund for Rural Workers) in funding operating costs in the
rural health system; and EMATER-CE (the state extension agency) in helping
promote the creation of community health committees (which would act as a
mechanism for mobilizing community interest and contributions to construc-
tion and for recovering from beneficiaries part of the cost of health services
and the operating and maintenance costs of the water supply systems) and
collaborating in the health and nutrition education efforts of local health
workers.
4.25      The proposed loan would help finance the equipment for and the con-
struction or upgrading of 62 village health posts and 7 health centers; the
equipment and vehicles required for the epidemiological surveillance system
and vector control (mainly house-spraying) program for endemic disease control;
the execution of a village water supply study which, among other things, would
help complete the inventory of existing wells, locate exact sites for new
wells, develop technical norms and standards and annual investment plans; the
phased construction and equipping of about 62 simple water supply systems
including the provision of community standpipes; the provision of a small
stock of maintenance equipment and spare parts for CAGECE's water supply main-
tenance facility serving the Ibiapaba area; the initiation of pilot programs
for the installation of pit latrines and distribution of water filters; the
training of health workers; and the costs of staff salary supplements and
materials required during the project period for a special health component
administration and coordination unit in the Health Secretariat.
4.26      The project health component is one of the Government's initial
efforts to integrate the program of various health-related agencies under its
new national program to improve health and sanitation services in rural areas
(PIASS). The improved health and sanitation conditions, which should benefit
a total of about 150,000 people, will play an important complementary role
to other project efforts to improve the productivity of the rural poor.
The success of the component depends, however, on the active participation of
a relatively large number of agencies and the generation of active community



- 19 -
participation. The phasing of project works in individual communities will
be closely linked to the interests, needs and commitments of local health
committees to be formed. During negotiations, assurances were received that
the village water supply survey would be completed and provided to the Bank
for comment by December 31, 1977 along with the manual to be prepared by
CAGECE for training the local sanitation auxiliaries to be hired by the
community health committees to operate and maintain the village water systems.
Agreement was also reached that water supply systems would be constructed only
in communities (i) where at least 100 families would benefit directly, thereby
helping assure a reasonably low investment cost per family and a broad enough
consuming public to allow full recovery of operating and maintenance costs;
and (ii) where community health committees had already been established and
where the committee had agreed to contribute labor and/or materials to the
construction of the systems and to maintain and collect user payments to cover
operating and maintenance costs.
Education and Community Training
4.27      The project will provide adult nonformal training for farmers and
their families, as well as improve and expand formal rural primary educa-
tion. The project would include funding for the construction and equipping of
8 multi-purpose community learning centers (which would include facilities for
nonformal training and a total of 1,280 double shift places for rural primary
students) as well as 50 two-classroom rural primary schools (providing an
additional 7,000 double shift student places for the first 4 years of primary
education); the training of the staff of each community center and of MOBRAL
literacy instructors, and the training or retraining of 478 rural primary
teachers and supervisors; instructor salaries, materials and transport costs
for the adult non-formal training courses during the project period; a special
baseline education survey (the terms of reference of which were discussed
during negotiations and found acceptable); and salary complements, materials
and operating expenses during the project period of a small project execution
and coordination unit for the component in the Secretariat of Education. The
component will be executed by the State Secretariat of Education with the
collaboration of several other agencies, including EMATER-CE (the state
extension service) for special agricultural courses for farmers, and garden-
ing, home economics and nutrition courses for their families; MOBRAL (Brazilian
Literacy MIovement) for adult literacy courses; MEB (the privately operated
Basic Education Movement) for artisan craft courses; and PIPMO! Primary Sector
(the Minist-ry of Labor Intensive Program for Labor Force Preparation, which is
now being absorbed into the 21inistry's National Service for Rural Training)
for occupational courses in masonry, electricity, carpentry and the like.
4.28      Direct beneficiaries of the education and training component would
include some 6,800 farmers, 10,000 women and young adults and 8,280 children.
The increase in the share of the 7-10 age group in the project area enrolled
in primary school would increase from about 30% now to just over 60% by 1981.
The quality of primary education should also increase significantly. Cur-
rently, only about 10% of the rural teachers in the area have completed



- 20 -
primary school themselves. Although this situation cannot reasonably be
expected to be fully corrected immediately, the teacher upgrading program,
improved rural education supervision and more rigorous teacher hiring prac-
tices to be introduced under the project (and affecting both new and existing
rural primary schools in the area) represent a very important first step in
improving the area's educational system. The enrollment increase is rela-
tively modest but, together with the necessary increases in rural teachers'
salaries to assure adequate compensation for the upgraded teacher qualifica-
tions, it would nevertheless result in a significant increase in the recur-
rent costs of rural primary education. The municipalities, which are normally
responsible for financing rural primary education, would not be able to bear
the financing burden immediately. The Federal Government therefore intends
to participate, on a declining scale over about a 10-year period (initially
mainly with POLONORDESTE funds and subsequently mainly with Ministry of
Education budgetary resources), in financing the recurrent costs of rural
primary education in the project area.
4.29      During negotiations, assurances were received from the State that,
prior to starting construction of project primary schools in a particular
municipality, it would obtain from the municipality commitments that: (i) the
primary school teachers who successfully complete the project teacher upgrading
program would be given first priority for employment on a full-time basis
(four-hour shift daily) in either the project-financed schools or other rural
primary schools in the municipality area and would receive remuneration
appropriate to their new level of qualifications according to the prevailing
state teachers' salary scales; and (ii) a minimum of 75% of all new rural
primary teachers hired by the municipality in the project area would, at the
time of entrance, already have at least the minimum qualifications required
by the state for teachers it hires. Assurances were also received from the
Federal Government that (i) it would provide adequate funding to maintain and
operate the facilities provided under the project (see para 5.03); (ii) by
December 31, 1977 it would provide, for the Bank's approval, a site plan for
all 50 primary schools, taking appropriate account of population densities,
existing school infrastructure and other planned project activities; (iii)
with respect to the nonformal training subcomponent of the project, by December
31, 1977, the details of the various home economics and vocational training
course programs would be provided to the Bank for comment; and (iv) construc-
tion of the respective community centers would not be started before the
center director is hired (to allow time for training), and the agricultural
technicians (who will provide agricultural courses to primary school students)
for each center would be appointed and trained before completion of construc-
tion. A condition of disbursement for the overall education and training
component would be the provision to the Bank of evidence of the acquisition of
sites for the community learning centers. Thereafter, disbursements against
the phased construction of the individual primary schols would also be condi-
tioned upon provision to the Bank of evidence of the acquisition of the
respective sites.



- 21 
Project Administration, tionitoring and Evaluation and Special Studies
4.30      Though the project would be executed by existing institutions, a
special project unit would be maintained in CEPA-CL to coordinate the planning,
implementation and control of finances of the project (para 6.02). In addi-
tion, a separate unit to monitor and evaluate the project (para 6.07) would
be established. The costs of equipping, staffing and providing necessary
materials for those units during the five year project period is included in
project investment costs. Provision is also made for an estimated total of
42 man-months of consultancy services for technical assistance to the project
unit and the monitoring and evaluation unit for specialized requirements such
as data analysis or interpretation. During negotiations, assurances were
received from the Government that the qualifications, experience, and terms
and conditions of employment of the consultants would have to be satisfactory
to the Bank.
4.31      The project would also include the execution of semi-detailed soil
surveys and water resource development studies in parts of several of the
POLONORDESTE "priority areas" in sertao or semi-arid parts of Ceara, and
the development of soil conservation studies and recommendations for all
POLONORDESTE priority areas in the state. The water and soil surveys would
help provide the basis for the definition of rural development projects to be
prepared by the state over the next 3-4 years, and the soil conservation work
would help assure that appropriate soil conservation techniques are introduced
together with the intensified agriculture which forms the core of POLONORDESTE
projects. The studies will be contracted to SUDEC, the state's development
superintendency, which has experience in this type of work. SUDEC's capacity
will, however, require strengthening, particularly in the organization and
detailing of work programs and supervision of study execution. Assurances
were therefore received that SUDEC would contract consultancy services, satis-
factory to the Bank, to assist in the studies. Assurances were also obtained
that the detailed work plans for the studies would be provided to the Bank
for approval by December 31, 1977. The study costs would include those of
incremental staffing, equipment and materials for SUDEC as well as consultancy
and other specialized services (aerial photography, etc.) to be sub-contracted.



- 22 -
V.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
5.01      The total project cost over the 5 year project period (April
1977-March 1982) is estimated at US$55.8 million which includes physical
contingencies 1/ equivalent to 6% of the baseline cost, and price contingen-
cies 2/ equivalent to 24% of the baseline cost plus physical contingencies.
Baseline costs have been estimated at appraisal prices 3/. The estimated
foreign exchange component is US$10.9 million or about 20% of total project
costs. Cost estimates are summarized overleaf, and the phasing of investments
is shown in Annex 5.
1/   Physical contingencies of 5% were added to the mechanization component;
7% to the extension, experimentation, and project administration and
study components; 10% to the cooperative support, rural electrification,
feeder road and education components; and 15% to the health and sanita-
tion component.
2/   Price contingencies were calculated in US$ terms as follows:  for civil
works, 10% in 1976, 9% per year in 1977-79 and 8% per year thereafter;
for equipment, 8% in 1976, 7.5% per year in 1977-79 and 7% per year
thereafter; for other materials and supplies, credit, salaries, etc.,
9% in 1976, 8% in 1977 and 7% per year thereafter.
3/   Late 1976 Cruzeiros converted to US$ at rate of US$1.00 = Cr$ 11.80.



- 23 -
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Total Project Costs
(US$ millions)
% of Total      %
Baseline    Foreign
Local       Foreign         Total           Costs    Exchange
Agricultural Development                               11.33          1.94         13.27
On-Farm Investment                                   8.29          1.03          9.32            22          11
Incremental Farm Working Capital                     3.04          0.91          3.95             9          23
Land Purchase Credit                                    0.65          0.00          0.65             1            0
Productive Support
Agricultural Services:                               4.93          0.86          5.79
Agricultural Extension and Demonstration          4.06          0.53          4.59            11          12
Field Experimentation                             0.21          0.02          0.23             1          10
Cooperative Support                               0.25          0.05          0.30             1          15
Mechanization Services                            0.41          0.26          0.67             2          38
Infrastructure:                                      8.48          3.98         12.46
Rural Electrification                             4.58          1.97          6.55            15          30
Feeder Roads                                      3.90          2.01          5.91            14          34
Social Infrastructure                                   4.76          1.03          5.79
Health and Sanitation                                2.05          0.48          2.53             6          19
Education and Community Training                     2.71          0.55          3.26             8          17
Project Administration and Studies                      3.79          0.42          4.21
Project Coordination Unit                            1.37          0.15          1.52             4          10
Evaluation Unit                                      0.47          0.05           .52             1          10
Studies for Preparation of Future Projects           1.95          0.22          2.17             5          10
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                   33,94           .23         42J1            100          20
Physical Contingencies                                  2.13          0.51          2.64             6          20
Price Contingencies                                     8.81          2.13         10.94            24 l/       20
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                    44.88         10.87         55.75           132          20
1/ Price Contingencies as percentage of baseline costs plus physical contingencies.



- 24 -
Financing
5.02      The financing of the project costs would be shared  as follows:
Farmers         Government         Bank       Total
US$mln   %      US$mln       %    US$mln   %   US$mln
(up to ....)
Agricultural Development
(and credit)               1.6    12         7.6      57      4.1    31      13.3
Land Purchase Credit            -     -        0.6      100        -     -       0.6
Productive Support              -     -       12.7       69     5.6    31       18.3
Social Infrastructure         0.5     9        3.5       60     1.8    31        5.8
Administration/Studies          -      -       2.9       69      1.3    31       4.2
Contingencies                   -     -        9.4       69     4.2    31       13.6
Total              2.1      4      36.7       66    17.0    30       55.8
5.03      The proposed Bank loan of US$17 million to the Federative Republic
of Brazil would finance 30% of total project costs, up to about 4% of project
costs being financed by participating farmers and the balance by the Federal
Government under its POLONORDESTE program. The loan would be for 15 years
including 3 years of grace. It would cover the project's full foreign
exchange costs of US$10.9 million equivalent, as well as US$6.1 million or
14% of the local costs. In a country like Brazil, which is making a vigorous
effort to mobilize domestic resources, it would be appropriate for the Bank to
give some assistance in financing the local currency expenditures on projects
which, as the proposed Ceara project, have very high priority and yet have a
relatively low foreign exchange content (in this case 20%). The situation
typically arises in agriculture and rural development projects in Brazil in
view of the high capability of the Brazilian economy in the production of the
inputs required for investments of this type. If the Bank is to be effective
in supporting a project of this kind, it seems reasonable for it to finance at
least 30% of the costs even though this entails financing some local currency
expenditures. During negotiations, assurances were received from the Govern-
ment that adequate funds would be made available for the effective and timely
execution of the project. The Government also agreed to operate and maintain
appropriately the facilities and services developed under the project and to
assure adequate funding for that purpose.



- 25 -
Procurement
5.04      Farm inputs would be procured by individual farmers through local
trade channels. The major items of equipment and materials required for the
rural electrification component (around US$2.2 million) would be grouped into
sizeable packages for bulk purchasing, and procured through international
competitive bidding. Manufacturers of equipment procured through such bidding,
whose bid contains components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of
the value of the bid, would be given a margin of preference of 15% or the
applicable import duties, whichever is lower. As Brazilian manufacturers of
the items are quite competitive, however, few if any foreign suppliers are
likely to participate and Brazilian firms are expected to win virtually all
contracts.  Other miscellaneous equipment and materials (poles, etc.) for the
electrification works would be procured through competitive bidding advertised
nationally. Equipment for road maintenance, which would be limited to several
pieces each of a small number of types of equipment, would be procured by the
state highway department also through competitive bidding advertised nation-
ally, taking into account local spare part availability and consistency with
currently available maintenance equipment. Tractors and farm implements for
the mechanization service would be procured similarly. The total procured in
this way over the project period would amount to about US$3.6 million. The
various other materials and equipment (including vehicles) required for the
extension, experimentation, health and sanitation, education and training and
project administration components are also locally produced and readily
available. Such items (amounting to a total of roughly US$1.1 million) would
be procured in accordance with local procurement and bidding procedures, which
are acceptable. Assurances were received from the Government during negotia-
tions that all necessary licenses or permits for items which need to be
imported would be granted in a timely manner.
5.05      Construction works (totalling US$4.8 million) for the feeder roads
would be divided into three packages (one per year). Contracts for these
packages and for the civil works required for the community training centers
and rural primary schools (an additional US$2.3 million) would be awarded to
prequalified bidders on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
and in accordance with satisfactory procedures. Brazil has a competitive
local construction industry capable of carrying out the project works. Since
the individual construction works are relatively small, foreign contractors
are not expected to be interested, though they would not be excluded from
bidding. All of the other construction works included in the project (for
health posts, water supply and latrine installation and the like, and total-
ling some US$1.9 million) would be of very minor size and varied design and
would be geographically dispersed. Consequently, these would be carried out
through a combination of self-help, force account and local bidding.
Disbursements
5.06      The proposed loan, which would finance 30% of total project costs,
would be disbursed against all project expenditures except land purchase
credit. Bank disbursements would, therefore, be equivalent to 31% of expendi-
tures for each component other than land purchase. Disbursements would be
made to the Central Bank of Brazil, the fiscal agent for the POLONORDESTE



- 26 -
program, against withdrawal applications covering statements of expenditures
initiated by the various implementing agencies under the project and certified
by the Project Unit in CEPA-CE. Supporting documentation for credit, salaries,
administrative expenses and minor construction under force account would not
be submitted to the Bank but would be retained by the Project Unit and made
available for inspection by the Bank during the course of project supervision
missions.  Standard documentation covering civil works, vehicles and equipment
and technical assistance would be submitted to the Bank. Details of the
documents required were reviewed during negotiations. Disbursements are
expected to occur over about five years. The estimated disbursement schedule
is given in Annex 6.
5.07      To help assure a prompt start of the project, various activities
such as the recruitment and training of staff for the project unit and exten-
sion service, the engineering design of feeder roads and hydrological surveys
to locate water supply sources, the initiation of on-farm investments and
provision of credit will have begun during the first half of 1976. For this
reason, retroactive financing of up to US$500,000 equivalent is proposed to
help cover eligible expenditures after March 31, 1977, but before the loan is
signed.
Accounts and Auditing
5.08      Each of the participating agencies would maintain accounts of its
project expenditures, which would be audited annually by Government auditors
(Inspetoria Geral das Financas, IGF) according to standard Government practice
for POLONORDESTE projects. Both Banco do Brasil and BNB are audited by the
Central Bank's auditing unit (Divisao de Auditoria da Contadoria Geral) and
BNB is also auditied by satisfactory independent auditors. The state
POLONORDESTE technical unit would maintain accounts of its own project expen-
ditures as well as statements of expenditures by each participating agency.
Copies of the audited statements of project accounts of the various parti-
cipating agencies and of the audited statements of the participating banks and
of their lending under the project would be provided to the Bank through the
state POLONORDESTE technical unit, within six months of the end of their
fiscal year. During negotiations, assurances were obtained to that effect.
VI.   ORGANIZATION, MANAGEIENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Overall Project Administration
6.01      The various investments and actions included in the project would
be executed by existing agencies (EMATER-CE, the participating banks, EPACE,
CODAGRO, the State Secretariats of Public Works, Health and Education, COELCE,
etc.) as described in paragraphs 4.07-4.29. To help assure the continued
full collaboration of each agency in this and eventually other POLONORDESTE
projects in Ceara and to provide overall policy guidance and general control,
the state government had created a special 'Nanagement Council (Conselho
Diretor) composed of highi level representatives of the principal agencies
involved (see Annex 4).



- 27
6.02      To provide day-to-day coordination of the different project activi-
ties, to integrate the annual project operating plans of the participating
agencies and to monitor and evaluate project progress, the management council
depends on specially appointed teams located in CEPA-CE, the state's agricul-
tural planning commission. The teams' work is generally supervised by the
manager (General Coordinator) of CEPA-CE, who reports to the management
council through the State Secretary of Planning. However, as the respon-
sibilities of the General Coordinator of CEPA-CE include other agricultural
planning activities in the state, a full-time technical coordinator for
the state's POLONORDESTE program has been appointed to direct and supervise
day-to-day activities. The technical coordinator heads a unit which includes:
(i) specifically for the Ibiapaba project (and separately for each of the
other POLONORDESTE sub-regional projects in the state), a project manager who
would have a team of 3 assistants, working respectively with agricultural
components (extension, experimentation, etc.), production support components
(marketing, credit, etc.) and social infrastructure components (education and
health), and a field project coordinator living in the project area; and (ii)
a very small "in-house" support unit or pool of technical advisors in special-
ized areas such as marketing, storage, mechanization, rural electrification,
feeder roads and other areas as necessary, to act as liaisons with the various
specialized executing agencies in the conceptualization and coordination of
all the POLONORDESTE projects in the state, and a small general financial
control staff also to service all of the projects. In addition, a separate
monitoring and evaluation unit, again to work with all POLONORDESTE projects
in the state is being established in CEPA-CE, but it will answer directly to
the General Coordinator of CEPA-CE. This general scheme is outlined in Chart
3 of Annex 4. Although the POLONORDESTE staff is located in the state
agricultural planning commission it will not be involved in the other agri-
cultural planning functions of CEPA-CE. The main positions in the pool of
support specialists and all of the positions in the Ibiapaba project team have
already been filled. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the State
would adequately support the various state agencies participating in the
project and, more specifically, would take all steps necessary to support and
maintain the state POLONORDESTE technical unit as described above.
6.03      The state hopes within the next several years to have prepared and
begun execution of projects in several of its POLONORDESTE priority areas. It
would be very difficult (e.g., to find staff) and also inefficient to create
large separate coordination units for each project. While actual execution of
the various project interventions should remain the function of existing
agencies and those agencies should become increasingly prominent in the
planning both of long term project objectives and yearly operating plans, a
strong overall project coordination is nonetheless nescessary to assure
consistency and appropriate timing of each project's activities. Furthermore,
although the relevant administrative headquarters (and, hence, much of the
decision-making) of most of the participating agencies are in Fortaleza, the
project area is some 300 km away, thereby necessitating project coordination
in the field as well as at the state level.
6.04      Since the overall project covers a wide number of related activities,
and the timing and scope of some will undoubtedly require adjustment as expe-
rience is gained, a certain amount of flexibility in project execution will



- 28 -
need to be maintained. For this reason, and to help assure continued timely
budgetary support, each participating agency would prepare jointly with the
Project Manager and his team an annual plan detailing the activities and ex-
pected expenditures under the project for next year. The yearly planning
period will correspond to the April 1 - March 31 fiscal year for POLONORDESTE.
The integrated package of annual plans, as reviewed and approved by the
state POLONORDESTE MIanagement Council (Conselho Diretor) is submitted to
the regional and federal POLONORDESTE commissions as the basis for the yearly
budget allocations. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the annual
plans -- which provide the critical operational detail needed to implement,
and as necessary adjust, the initially defined longer term project actions --
would be submitted to the Bank by November 30 each year for review and comment.
Operating Agreements
6.05      Consistent with a commonly used system in Brazil, the state would
enter into convenios or written agreements with certain of the executing agen-
cies to specify their respective responsibilities under the project and help
assure timely project completion. Such convenios are normally utilized in
POLONORDESTE projects: (i) when the executing entity concerned is not
directly part of or responsible to the Ministry of Agriculture or the State
Government, the principal channels for POLONORDESTE funding other than credit;
(ii) when the executing agency is largely autonomous; or (iii) when special
responsibilities (e.g., counterpart funding, adoption of new procedures) need
to be spelled out. In the proposed project, convenios will be a particularly
useful tool in assuring adequate participation of and coordination among the
numerous entities participating in the health and education components (both
of which also require special counter-part actions by the local municipalities),
and will also be used for the feeder road and mechanization components. Draft
convenios for these components have been reviewed by Bank staff and are satis-
factory. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the state that
it would enter into and maintain during the project execution period all such
agreements as are necessary to assure active cooperation of the various agen-
cies participating in the health, education, feeder road and mechanization
components. Receipt by the Bank of the respective signed agreements would be
a condition of disbursement for each of these components.
Implementation Schedule
6.06      The phasing of project activities is summarized in Annex 4.  Activi-
ties under the extension, experimentation, on-farm development, land purchase,
rural electrification, health and sanitation, and education and training
components will be executed over the entire five year project period. Con-
struction of feeder roads will be concentrated in the first three-and-a-half
years and of the community learning centers over the first two years. The
purchase of machinery for mechanization services and the execution of the
cooperative support component would also be during the first half of the
five-year project period.
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
6.07      Based on the targets outlined in the respective yearly operating
plans, each executing agency will prepare quarterly progress reports. The



project manager will compile these reports and submit them to the regional
POLONORDESTE commission for review. These reports would also be provided to
the Bank. In addition to these periodic reporting arrangements, handled by
the state POLONORDESTE technical unit, CEPA-CE will maintain a special
monitoring and evaluation unit which will focus particularly on evaluating
the impact of various project components in the project area and the perfor-
mance of the participating agencies, and on helping identify modifications
which might need to be introduced in the project. The monitoring group, which
would be staffed with several full-time professionals with social and economic
research experience and a small administrative support staff, would work
closely with the project management team, although it would not have direct
project administration or coordination responsibilities. The monitoring and
evaluating unit would be assisted by consultants as necessary in work design,
data-processing, analysis and interpretation. The monitoring and evaluation
effort takes on additional importance in view of: (i) the state's intention
to use experiences from the Ibiapaba project in helping guide formulation
and execution of POLONORDESTE projects in other parts of Ceara; and (ii) the
desirability of being able to identify quickly (and adjust the project to
take account of or offset) any unexpected side effects of the project, as the
project will stimulate significant changes in the project area economy.
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Incremental Production
7.01      The incremental production by project participants at full develop-
ment of the project (excluding the incremental coffee production induced by
the parallel IBC program), or by about year 13, would amount to over US$ 14
million equivalent per year, compared to pre-project production estimated at
some US$3.4 million (also excluding coffee). In terms of value, approximately
20% of the increased production is accounted for by beans; about 14% by
manioc; about 12% each by sugarcane, passion fruit and peanuts; about 10%
each by vegetables and citrus; and the remainder by avocado, corn and annato.
The overall production increases (some 45% generated in the humid zone and 55%
in the carrasco zone) reflect gradually improved yields and a phasing into
production over some 8 years of a substantial amount of new land.
7.02      The estimated yield increases (see Annex 7) vary considerably
by crop. Initial improvements in production techniques would be based on
simple recommendations largely reflecting the practices already adopted by
better farmers in the project area. The recommended "technical packages"
(including use of improved seeds, better timing of planting and better plant
spacing, appropriate application of organic and inorganic fertilizer and
of variously required pesticides and fungicides, etc.) would be disseminated
through an expanded and improved extension service and also an extensive
system of demonstration plots. The packages would be improved gradually
with results from the project experimentation program, and, over the longer
run, reinforced by the adaptive research program already begun by EPACE at
its new research station in the project area. In most cases -- and especially



- 30 -
for several crops such as manioc, avocado and citrus -- adoption of relatively
simple improvements in management practices and application of improved inputs
(more readily available with increased credit penetration and more widely
recognized as a result of technical assistance and demonstration) should result
in significantly improved yields.
7.03      Both the yield improvements and the increase in the area cultivated
are closely linked as well to certain key off-farm investments. The develop-
ment of an improved feeder road network, for example, is expected to have
much the sarme impact as would the construction of such roads in a settlement
project. Production increases near several recently constructed roads in the
project area have already demonstrated the rapid rate at which the area's
farmers are prepared to respond to the important incentive of easier access
to inputs and especially to better markets. This incentive is being further
strengthened by the recent construction of a produce trans-shipment market in
the project area, and planned improvements in local storage and processing
capacity (see para 7.05). The planned provision of certain mechanization
services should also help overcome the physical limitations to increased
cultivation.
Markets and Prices
7.04      The proposed project would involve the participation of a large
proportion of the farmers in the project area, and, as a result, the overall
project area production of some crops (particularly fruits, vegetables and
peanuts) would increase several-fold. However, with the exception of peanuts,
which so far have been produced on only a small-scale in the state, incre-
mental project output would represent for most of the crops concerned well
under 10% of existing state-wide production and a much smaller percentage of
nation-wide production. In the case of peanuts, production would be mainly
for oil processing, and the state already produces cotton seed and castor oil.
It is expected that most of the project's incremental production would serve
consumption centers outside the project area in the state of Ceara and in the
neighboring states of Piaui and Maranhao. Several major urban areas (includ-
ing Fortaleza, Belem, Terezina, Sao Luis and Sobral) are among the terminal
markets. Only annato would be exported directly from Brazil by wholesalers
buying in the project area. However, the project production of peanuts (to be
processed for oil) and sugar would also, at the margin, affect the balance of
payments through an increase in Brazil's exportable vegetable oil and sugar
and a reduction in petroleum imports (much of the sugar may be converted to
alcohol and used as an additive to gasoline).
7.05      The marketing process in the project area (see Annex 7) has tradi-
tionally depended heavily on an intricate network of middlemen, farmer-
merchants, truckers and municipal "open markets". The relatively high assembly
and transport costs of the system have been reflected in considerable margins
between farmgate and wholesale prices (the latter 25-100% higher than the
former). Sugar and manioc are traditionally processed locally in numerous
small and very simple on-farm mills scattered throughout the area.  The prxnci-
pal changes foreseen over the next several years in the marketing patterns and
facilities in the project area include: an increased use of the recently com-
pleted transshipment market at Tiangua for the sorting and assembly of fruits



- 31 -
and vegetables for shipment to population centers for fresh consumption or to
(mainly) Fortaleza for processing by one of the several food processing firms
currently with excess capacity but already beginning to buy produce from
Ibiapaba; processing of a large part of incremental sugarcane production in
a new private mill for alcohol production already approved by the Brazilian
Sugar and Alcohol Institute (IAA) for construction (with BNB financing now
being arranged by the private interests concerned) by 1979/80 in Ibiapina in
the project area; the shipping of peanuts from the project area for use in
oil processing facilities in Ceara and other states; and the use by project
area farmers of a new 3,000-ton storage facility to be built in the area by
CIBRAZEM (the Government's storage company) in 1977 for seasonal storage of
bean and peanut production.
7.06      Since the incremental project production represents a relatively
small part of the total supply of the broad (state- and region-wide) markets
to be served, the additional production is not expected to have a negative
effect on prices. The project improvements to feeder roads, together with
parallel improvements in marketing facilities and immediate markets (e.g.,
assembly and sorting services at the transshipment market, storage at the
CIBRAZEM warehouse, sugar processing eventually at the new alcohol plant
at Ibiapina) and hence reductions in marketing costs should help protect
the farmer from unforeseen decreases in farmgate prices and in some cases
could result in increased farmgate prices. However, the projected market
prices assumed (see details in Annex 7) in the analyses of representative
farm models were conservatively based largely on average farmgate prices over
the 1974-76 period which, with one main exception (peanuts), were consistent
with Bank world-wide commodity price projections. In the case of peanuts,
it was projected that recently high local prices would decline to prices con-
sistent with the Bank's projections for that product.
Producer Income and Employment
7.07      The estimated 5,800 participating farmers would derive substantial
income benefits from the project investments in on-farm development and in
improved agricultural services and infrastructure support. These benefits
would include increased family employment, improved subsistence and increased
cash revenue from marketed production. Taking into account the proposed
development pattern, the project would generate increased agricultural employ-
ment opportunities equivalent to some 6,020 worker-years annually. The pro-
ducer income and employment benefits would be complemented by significant non-
quantifiable social benefits to the rural population as a whole arising from
the project-initiated improvements in health, education and training services
in the project area.
7.08      Financial rates of return to the farmer ranging from 22% to over 50%
have been calculated (see Annex 8 for details) on the basis of 8 illustrative
farm models representative of production patterns on different sized operations
in the two principal ecological zones of the project area. For one of the 8
models (a sharecropping operation), alternative models were prepared to allow a
comparison between the sharecropper's situation buying land and not buying lard.



- 32 -
The analyses considered as costs the on-farm investments (for land clearing,
initial soil preparation, purchase of small equipment, etc.), the expected
incremental operating costs of the farm, and, in the cases in which previous
sharecroppers would buy land, the cost of the land purchase. Benefits
included all incremental production. In the case of the sharecropper
purchasing land in the carrasco or dry zone, where Government-financed
land purchases would have to exceed the regulated minimum of 30 ha and the
sharecropper is unlikely to be able to use for some years nearly that amount,
benefits included a roughly estimated rent income for a small portion of the
land which it is assumed the new owner-operator will rent out or have share-
croppers farm. Prices for inputs, hired and family labor and production sold
were assumed to be prevailing local market price averages (with the exception
of peanuts and fertilizer for which local prices are expected to decline).
Testing the viability of the models as to price and cost sensitivity under
various assumptions gave the following results:
Carrasco Zone                       Humid/Sub-Humid Zone
producing variously beans, corn
producing mainly beans, manioc,    vegetables, sugarcane, coffee and
peanuts and annato                            fruits
Sharecropper
Sharecropper  Owner-Operators with   Not                Owner-Operators with
Financial Rate    Buying       up to   10-    25-    Buying  Buying  up to   10-    25-
of Return         30 ha       10 ha  25 ha  200 ha   Land    5 ha   10 ha  25 ha  200 ha
Best Estimate       22           23    28       38      >50       47     >50    >50    >50
With Costs
Up 10% and
Production
Down 10%          11           10      9      16       48       34     >50    >50      41
7.09      Table 11 in Annex 8 summarizes the producer benefits and Tables
2 through 10 provide detail of the calculations by model. Because coffee
production will be particularly important for some of the farmers in the humid
zone, coffee production activities were included in two of the representative
farm models (though the related costs and production benefits of the separately
financed IBC coffee expansion program were then excluded from the calculation
of total project costs and the overall economic rate of return on the project).
Prior to the project, the average annual family income (including assumed family
labor inco.me) from agricultural activities on the prospective participant farms
was about US$425 (ranging from a weighted average of about US$110 in the carrasco
zone to US$1,015 in the humid zone). Of the some 5,800 expected participants,
less than 10% are currently estimated to have incomes above the relative
poverty level in Brazil (around US$1,600 per family or US$300 per capita).
Within about nine years of participating in the project, the families are ex-
pected to have increased their incomes to a weighted average of about US$3,860
(ranging from a weighted average of about US$1,255 in the carrasco zone to about



- 33 -
US$8,760 in the humid zone). 1/ These income increases, although they appear
very high, are in part due to the fact that some of the crops to be produced
(especially fruits and vegetables) provide unusually good returns and have very
good market prospects. The estimated increases in cash income could even be
understated to the extent that conservative estimates have been assumed for
farm-gate prices (para 7.06), and the real debt service burden to the farmer
would be deflated since credit would not be indexed to offset inflation (para
4.13). Also, particularly the participants with smaller operations are
likely to have some additional income by working as laborers on other farms.
On the other hand, in cases where incomes are expected to reach quite attrac-
tive levels more quickly (namely, farmers in the humid zone who expand produc-
tion of "project crops" and coffee), the proposed limitation of Bank loan
disbursements against agricultural credit only to sub-loans up to an equiv-
alent of about US$6,000 outstanding per farmer (see para 4.14) would help
limit the extent to which the proposed Bank loan would be providing subsidized
credit; once a farmer's operations reach a size requiring credit in excess of
about US$6,000, the Government would have to finance the credit with its own
resources. Overall, the relatively high financial rates of return to partici-
pating farmers reflect the importance of improved production inputs and
practices (rather than high on-farm investments) and of critical off-farm
investments (especially feeder roads and marketing facilities) in generating
the production increases.
7.10      It should be noted, of course, that the cases analysed are only
representative models to help approximate the impact of the project on indi-
vidual farmers and to help estimate project costs. The individual situations
of farmers in the project area vary widely in practice, among both owner-
operators and sharecroppers. Particular care must be taken in making general-
ized assumptions regarding the situation of sharecroppers, since numerous
different arrangements in sharing costs and benefits exist. For example,
although only one model is shown for the sharecropper from the carrasco zone
(that model assuming land purchase), many of the expected sharecropper partic-
ipants will not buy land or necessarily be responsible for providing all of
the investments or production inputs required. As a result, the total project
cost estimate for land purchase credit provides for land purchase by only a
portion of the sharecroppers and very small-scale owner-operators.
Economic Analysis
7.11      Various aspects of the project, particularly social investments (see
para 7.14), would have significant benefits which are not readily quantifiable;
for those parts of the project, an economic rate of return was not calculated.
However, for the agricultural components, the economic rate of return is esti-
mated at 21%. The details of the cost and benefit streams are given in Annex 9.
1/   Excluding coffee activities, the overall weighted average incomes
would be about US$365 (US$845 in the humid zone) pre-project, increasing
at full development to about US$2,050 (US$3,550 in the humid zone).



- 34 -
The benefit stream includes all of the incremental project crop production
of the project participants. The cost stream includes all on-farm project
investments and incremental operating expenditures as well as, for certain
other project investments and continued operating costs, that estimated
proportion of the costs linked to the quantified agricultural benefit stream.
This adjustment reflects the fact that some project investments and costs
would contribute to important but difficult to quantify benefits (increases in
non-project production of livestock, coffee or other crops generated as a
result of improved overall farm management, increases in production of "non-
participating" farmers through demonstration effects, improved social welfare
and nutrition, etc.) in the project area or in projects in other areas.
Therefore, the costs incorporated in the cost stream for the economic analysis
of the Ibiapaba project were those roughly estimated to be linked with the
quantified benefits, and included 90% of extension costs, 70% of field experi-
mentation, feeder road construction and maintenance equipment, initial equip-
ment for mechanization services, cooperative support, and project administra-
tion costs; 50% of project monitoring and evaluation costs; and 20% of the
soil conservation study costs. The economic rate of return of the rural
electrification component (see para 7.13) was calculated separately.
7.12      In general, it was assumed that market prices for inputs, labor
(including family labor) and production closely reflected the efficiency or
accounting price, although foreign exchange costs and benefits were adjusted
upward by 25%. The effect of the efficiency pricing of foreign exchange
was, however, marginal (using market prices the rate of return is 19%), since,
for the agricultural aspects of the project, the foreign exchange component
of the cost streams is relatively small and not widely different from the
foreign exchange component of the benefit stream. The economic rate of return
on the agricultural components would decrease to 16% with a 10% decrease in
production or a 10% increase in all on-farm and off-farm costs; to about 11%
with a combined 10% increase in costs and 10% decrease in benefits; and to
about 14% if 100% of all off-farm costs (excluding investments in social
services) were charged to the quantified benefit stream even though that
stream does not capture all of the likely, but very difficult to quantify,
benefits of the project investments. The combined economic rate of return for
the agricultural and rural electrification components (the calculation incor-
porating some 72% of total project costs since costs of social components and
of parts of other components with non-quantified benefits were excluded) is
about 19%.
7.13      The economic justification of the rural electrification component,
for which benefits separable from those purely agricultural can be quite
readily identified, rests primarily in the net savings to be gained in the
conversion from use of diesel powered motors to the use of electrically
powered motors in such activities as sugar and manioc milling and small scale
irrigation. The economic benefit is accentuated by the fact that Brazil is a
heavy importer of fuel, but has relatively abundant hydro-electricity re-
sources. A second principal type of benefit to the some 5,000 expected new
customers would be that associated with additional domestic consumption (for
lighting, ironing, etc.), its value measured (as a minimum) at the retail
value of the electricity used for this purpose. Discounting the cost and



- 35 -
identifiable benefit streams at efficiency prices (foreign exchange at 25%
above the official rate), the internal economic rate of return would be about
17%, dropping only to 13% with an increase in the costs of the investment and
the purchased electricity by 20%. These estimates are probably understated
since, for example, conservative assumptions on the number of customers per
kilometer of line were used; the retail price of electricity probably under-
states the real value to households; possible tax receipts (imposto unico) on
consumption of over 30 kWh/month were not quantified in the benefit stream;
and the costs of equipment were not reduced by their tax components because of
the difficulties in making a meaningful estimate.
7.14      The benefits of the social infrastructure components which would
accrue to the area's some 150,000 rural population are very difficult to
quantify. However, it can be assumed that the training activities will play a
significant part not only in helping achieve the project production targets
but also in improving the income prospects and social welfare of the area's
population. With respect to the improved health and sanitation services, it
is apparent that they too will not only contribute to social welfare but will
also be highly complementary to the directly productive investments of the
project. Better health would increase labor availability and productivity,
improve learning ability and avoid treatment costs. In addition, improve-
ments in the health services are perceived by rural communities as priority
needs and thus afford opportunities to organize the community through parti-
cipation in their development. This in turn is likely to facilitate accept-
ance of other components of the rural development package. In addition,
in both the training and health components, emphasis on community partici-
pation and low-cost design (project investments, including contingencies,
averaging about US$170 per potential benefitting family for education and
training and about US$130 per benefitting family for health and sanitation)
should help allow replicability in other areas.
Fiscal Impact
7.15      The costs of the project's agricultural investments and services
over the five-year implementation period (including contingencies) would
average roughly US$4,500 per direct beneficiary family. This, however,
overstates the cost to the extent that the agricultural activities would
generate important demonstration and employment benefits to area residents
outside the core agricultural target group of 5,800 families. The sum of all
other project investments (mainly physical and social infrastructure) will
benefit the area's rural population as a whole, at an average per family cost
of some US$1,200. The bulk of the project beneficiaries have incomes below
the relative poverty level in Brazil (which was roughly US$300 per capita in
1976). Of the estimated US$37 million total in "off-farm" project costs
(i.e., those other than on-farm investment, incremental farm working capital
and land purchase), it is expected that around US$12 million (about one-third)
will be recovered through a combination of direct financial contributions by
beneficiaries (particularly in the health and sanitation component) during the
execution period, connection charges for electrification services and various
direct and indirect user charges and taxes. The extent to which on-farm
project costs will be recovered in real terms is, however, very difficult to
estimate because of the current inflationary environment in Brazil and the



- 36 -
Government's policy to provide unindexed agricultural credit.  Assuming a
gradually declining though continuing moderate inflation, real recovery of
on-farm project costs could well be less than half. On the other hand, either
a more rapid decline in inflation or a continuation of the gradual reduction
in the size of agricultural credit subsidies (a process in which initial,
though still marginal, steps were recently taken by the Government) would
result in higher real cost recovery. Although the increased production of the
beneficiaries of the project would probably enable them to bear the the burden
of positive real interest rates for credit received, the Government has so far
chosen, particularly in view of the relatively low incomes of the target
beneficiaries for programs such as POLONORDESTE, to maintain a considerable
subsidy element in the agricultural credit component.
7.16      Following the disbursement period, the project investments would
give rise to additional recurrent costs to the Government on the order of
US$2.06 million per annum. These expenses would be incurred principally for
agricultural extension and experimentation, but would also include some
residual project administration costs as well as the continued operating costs
of the improved health system and the training and formal education facilities.
The additional recurrent expenditures are expected, however, to be largely
offset by additional revenues of roughly US$1.86 million annually generated as
a result of the ICM and FUNRURAL taxes which would apply to incremental produc-
tion from direct participants in the agricultural components of the project.
The costs of continuing other project-related services (electricity, mechaniza-
tion, etc.) would be recovered by direct user charges.
Ecological Impact
7.17      As a result of the project, the area under cultivation in Serra da
Ibiapaba by project participants (around 60% of project area farmers) would
increase considerably, though about 28% of new lands placed into production
would be planted in permanent or tree crops. Land management would, in
general, be improved as a result of the intensified technical assistance and
encouragement of cultivation systems providing for erosion control. This
improvement would be further reinforced by the improved soil conservation
techniques which should gradually emerge from the soil conservation studies
included in the project. The village water supply and other aspects of the
health component should make a considerable contribution to improved public
health and sanitation in the project area.
Project Risks
7.18      The project's success will depend on the timely implementation of a
wide variety of investments and activities in various sectors by numerous
agencies. The risk of not achieving adequate coordination and active parti-
cipation should, however, be lessened by the arrangements already made by
the state to involve directly high level officials of the principal partici-
pating agencies in the state's POLONORDESTE management council and to estab-
lish a special project administration unit. Another type of risk lies in the
fact that the experience of the participating agencies (e.g., extension ser-
vice, banks) in carrying out large programs directed specifically and inten-
sively at small-scale farmers are relatively recent. Hence, it is possible



- 37 -
that, for example, the steps proposed to achieve greater extension and credit
coverage will prove to be inadequate or not fully appropriate. The prepara-
tion and review of detailed annual work plans with each participating agency
and the carrying out of project monitoring and evaluation should help resolve
problems which might arise in this regard. The economic return of the project
is relatively sensitive to changes in production costs and produce prices,
though it is believed that adequately conservative estimates have been made to
minimize the probability of substantially lower than expected returns. Overall,
the potential of the project to benefit some 30,000 lower income people with
its directly productive components and up to 150,000 with improved health or
education services, and to strengthen the project execution capacity of insti-
tutions which serve the rural poor make the project risks well worth taking.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Federal
Government that:
(a) project credit would be lent through Banco do Brasil and BNB
under POLONORDESTE terms and conditions and the Government
would advise the Bank promptly of any changes in those terms
(para 4.13);
(b) it would review annually the effectiveness of the project
credit promotion, processing and delivery activities,
provide the Bank with its findings by November 30 each year
for an exchange of views and subsequently carry out such
actions as are agreed (para 4.15);
(c) it would provide the Bank, for agreement, the details of
the medium term cooperative assistance program to be pro-
posed after completion of the special cooperative study
(para 4.17);
(d) consultants for assisting in the international procurement for
the electrification component, the design, contracting and
supervision of road works, project administration and
evaluation, and the organization and supervision of execution
of special soil and water studies would be contracted on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (paras 4.21,
4.22, 4.30 and 4.31);
(e) project feeder roads would be constructed according to
agreed design specifications (para 4.23);
(f) insofar as additional land or rights-of-way for project
works prove necessary, it will assure timely provision thereof
(para 4.23);



- 38 -
(g) by December 31, 1977 it would provide to the Bank, for
comment, the report on the village water supply survey and
feasibility study and the draft training manual for village-
level sanitation workers (para 4.26);
(h) the village water supply works would be carried out only in
communities satisfying specified selection criteria
(para 4.26);
(i) by December 31, 1977, it would provide the Bank, for comment,
the detailed plans for the home economics and vocational training
courses, and, for approval, the site plan for the 50 new primary
schools (para 4.29);
(j) prior to construction of the respective project community
learning centers, qualified center directors would be con-
tracted, and, prior to completion of construction of each
center, the agricultural technicians who would be on the
staff of the center would be hired and trained (para 4.29);
(k) by December 31, 1977 it would provide the Bank, for comment,
the detailed terms of reference and work programs for the soil
and water resource and soil conservation studies (para 4.31);
(1) it would provide adequate funding to assure timely and
effective execution of the project and adequate operation and
maintenance of the facilities and services developed under the
project (para 5.03);
(m)  it would provide, in a timely manner, any required import
permits or licenses (para 5.05);
(n) it would provide the Bank with appropriate periodic audit
statements (para 5.08);
(o) by November 30 each year, it would provide the Bank for
review and comment the project work program for the
following year (para 6.04); and
(p) it would provide the Bank quarterly project progress
reports (para 6.07).
8.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the state of Ceara
that:
(a) it would maintain and develop agricultural research activities
at the Tiangua station adequate to the project needs (para 4.09);
(b) it would cause CODAGRO to develop mechanization services
appropriate to the needs of the participating small farmers
and to establish satisfactory user charges (para 4.18);



- 39 -
(c)  prior to the installation of project rural electrification
works, it would secure COELCE's agreement to apply to project
works, as appropriate, the results of the ELETROBRAS study to
reduce rural electrification costs (para 4.21);
(d)  prior to the construction of project feeder roads, it would
enter into agreements with the respective municipalities
defining maintenance responsibilities (para 4.23);
(e)  prior to construction of the project primary schools, it would
enter into agreements with the respective municipalities assuring
priority placement of project-upgraded teachers, appropriate
salaries for upgraded teachers, and minimum standards for new
teachers hired (para 4.29);
(f)  it will adequately maintain the project administration unit
and support the other state agencies participating in the
project (para 6.02); and
(g)  it will enter into and maintain all such special agreements
as are necessary to assure full and active cooperation of
the various agencies participating in the health, education
and feeder road components (para 6.05).
8.03      A condition of disbursement for the overall education and training
component would be the provision to the Bank of satisfactory evidence of the
acquisition of sites for the community learning centers and a condition of
disbursement for rural primary schools would be the provision to the Bank
of satisfactory evidence of the acquisition of the respective sites (para
4.29).  A condition of disbursement for the health, education, feeder road and
mechanization components would be the provision to the Bank of the agreements
between the state and the agencies participating in the respective component
(para 6.05).
8.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project would
be suitable for the Bank loan of US$17 million equivalent with a term of 15
years, including a 3 year grace period.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
PROJECT AREA SUMMARY DATA
1.        This annex supplements the information given on the project area in
Chapter 3 of the report. It includes additional statistical background on
physical and climatic features, demographic aspects, employment and agricul-
ture. Additional statistical information on social and economic infrastruc-
ture and services is given in the respective annexes dealing with those
subjects (Annexes 2-3 and 11-16).
I.   PHYSICAL AND CLIMATIC FEATURES
A.   Physical Characteristics
2.        The Serra da Ibiapaba is a plateau of about 4,785 km2  in area of
which a strip 10 to 20 km wide forms a distinct ecological unit called the
Humid Zone. West of this zone lies the second major ecological area of the
region termed the Scrubland (Carrasco) Zone. The topography of both areas is
largely flat to rolling and the altitude varies between 500 and 800 meters.
B.   Climate and Rainfall
3.        The average temperature is 26 C in the lower areas and 22 C in the
higher ones; relative humidity is 70% to 75%. Rainfall in the project area
is relatively high, reaching a maximum of 1,900 mm/year in the southern part
of the humid zone while a minimum rainfall of 1,100 to 1,300 mm/year occurs
towards the eastern and western boundaries of the project area. The months
of heaviest rain are March and April and 88% of the annual rainfall occurs in
the five month period, January to May.
4.        A special analysis was made of rainfall data gathered over a period
of 56 years at three of the meteorological stations existing in the Project
Area. The stations included the Viscosa do Ceara, Ibiapina and Guaraciaba do
Norte stations (representing the northern, central and southern parts of the
project area, respectively). A calculation of the minimal probable precipita-
tion average showed that in 75 out of 100 years the annual average rainfall
was equal to or higher than 1,045 mm in Viscosa do Ceara (annual average 1,318
mm), 1,212 mm in Ibiapina (annual average 1,524 mm) and 722 mm in Guaraciaba
do Norte (annual average 1,242 mm). The analysis showed that the inter-yearly
rainfall variation is relatively low, that rainfall is relatively homogenous
and occurs with regular yearly punctuality. The low rainfall variation was
also confirmed by the yearly rainfall variation coefficients which were found
to be as follows: Viscosa do Ceara, 32.5%; Ibiapina, 35.0%; Guaraciaba do
Norte, 45.7%. More details are given in the following table.



NORTEafST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Precipation and Evapotranspiration
Station                     Month                            J      F       M      A       M       J       i      A       S       0      N       D       Year
Viscosa do Ceara          Precipitation (P)
average                        140      254    335   283       152    53    17        6       3      8       15      52      1.318
quantil (0.75%)                 68      147    233   199        58    13      0       0       0      0        0       0      1,045
Evapotranspiration (ETp)         139      109      99    90       93    99   116    134    144    154         148    147       1,472
P - ETp                           +1    +145   +236  +193         +59  -46   -99   -128   -141   -146    -133    -95            -154
Ibiapina                  Precipitation (P)
aiverage                       156      266    371   348       188    61    25       12       7     __       23      58      1.524
quantil (0.75%)                 72      152    226   227        96    22      3       0       0      a        0       3      1,212
Evapotranspiration (ETp)         113       89      81    72       76    80    94    109    117    126         120    129       1,206
P - ETp                          +43    +177   +290  +276    +112   -19   -69    -97   -110   -117            -97   -71        +318
Cuaraciaba                Precipitation (P)
average                        113      201    316   305       156    56    21        8      2      5        18      41      1.242
quantil (0.75%)                 13       99    167   169        65      3     0       0      0      0         0       0        722
Evapotranspiration (ETp)          171     134    122   111       115   121   143    165   177    190          182    181       1,812
P- ETp                            -58     +67   +194  +-194      +41   -65  -122   -157 ! -175   -185        -164   -140       - 570
Sources:  1,-  Precipitation:  SUDENE DRN - Dados pluviometricos mensais "en Natura."
2.   Evapotranspiration:   IARGREAVES, C.H.  "Potential evapotranspiration and irrigation requirements for Northeast Brazil."
"i-



ANNEX 1
Page 3
C.   Soils
4.        The humid zone, accounting for 20% of the project area, has the
best potential for agriculture. About half of this area is composed of Red
Yellow Dystrophic Latosol soils which are deep, porous, friable soils with
good internal drainage. Their main limitations are low natural fertility,
high acidity and, due to their porosity, low water retention capability. The
other half of the humid zone consists of Red Yellow Equivalent Eutrophic
Podzolic soils which are sandy, deep, moderately well drained, lightly acid
or neutral in reaction, with medium to high fertility.
5.        The scrubland zone accounts for about 70% of the project area and
can be classified as presenting restrictions to agricultural development. The
predominant soil types of this zone are the Dystrophic Quarzite Soils. They
are deep, sandy textured, freely draining, with little water or nutrient
retention capability. As a result they have low fertility. The remaining
area (10% of the total) is covered by the Lowland (Sertao) Zone and is situated
at the foot of the escarpment to the east of the humid zone. In this area
no agricultural development under the project is comtemplated. The existing
pattern of extensive cattle ranching is expected to continue.
II. DEMOGRAPHIC DATA
Table A: Population, Density, Growth Rates
Population (1970)
Country                                                             % Growth Annually
Total    Urban           Rural        Density       (1960/70)
(000)  (000)   %      (000)   %       Hab/km2    Urban   Rural
Vicosa do Ceara    33.9    5.3   15       28.6   85         26.3       2.3      2.4
Tiangua             26.2    7.9   30       18.3   70        30.6       3.7      1.8
Ubajara             17.7    3.6   20       14.1   80        46.0       0.7      0.1
Ibiapina            14.9    2.1   14       12.8   86       44.6        1.5      1.0
Sao Benedito        41.1    6.9   17      34.2   83        71.8        0.4      1.4
Carnaubal            9.6    2.9   30       6.7   70        25.9        5.0      3.0
Guaraciaba N.       32.1    5.1   16      27.0   84        32.5        4.5      0.8
IBIAPABA         175.5  33.8   19    141.7   81         36.6        2.2      1.3
Source: Fundacao IBGE



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Table B:  Age Structure (1970)
0  -  6          7 - 14        15 -69            > 70 1/
(000)     %      (000)    %    (000)    %    (000)    %
Vicosa do Ceara      8.6      25       7.4    22    16.9    50        1.0     3
Tiangua              6.4      24       6.0    23    13.1    50        0.7     3
Ubajara              4.2      24       4.2    24      8.9    50       0.4     2
Ibiapina             3.6      24       3.5    24      7.4    49      0.4      3
San Benedito        10.1      25       9.2    22    20.8    51        1.0     2
Carnaubal            2.5      26       2.2    23      4.7    49      0.2      2
Guaraciaba N.        8.0      25       7.4    23    15.9    50        0.8     2
IBIAPABA         43.4      25     39.9    23    87.8    50        4.4      2
Source: Fundacao IBGE
1/ Including persons of unknown age.
III.  EMPLOYMENT
Economically Active Population (1970)
Ec. Active       % of       Sectorial Distrib. (%)
(000)          Total      Prim.      Sec.     Ter.
Vicosa do Ceara         9.8            29         92          2        6
Tiangua                 6.9            26         79          6       15
Ubajara                 4.2            24         85          5       10
Ibiapina                4.6            31         88          5        7
Sao Benedito          11.3             27         71         18       11
Carnaubal               2.3            24         85          5       10
Guaraciaba N.           9.0            28  -      83          7       10
IBIAPABA           48.1             27         82          8      10
Source: Fundacao IBGE
IV. LAND USE
Table A: Land Capability Classes
Class 1/                      Acreage (ha)                   Distribution (%)
3s                           66,162                            13.8
3t                           18,804                             4.0
4s                          288,328                            60.3
4t                           55,458                            11.5
4st                          31,784                             6.6
5st                          18,064                             3.8
TOTAL                         478,600                           100.0
Source: SUDENE/DRN
l/ According to Benema - Camargo adjustments to classification of
U.S. Bureau of Land Reclamation.



* .NEBX 1
Page 5
Table B: Land Use (1972) 1/
ha             %
Total geographic area                      478,600          131
Area in Farms                               365,000         100
Actually used                            202,000           55
Crops                                   106,000          29
Livestock                                77,000          21
Forest                                   19,000           5
Unused                                   163,000           45
Unsuitable for agric.                    87,000          24
Forest reserve                            5,000           1
Suitable for agric.                      71,000          20
Source: INCRA, Recadastramento 1972.
1/  This data does not coincide exactly with that given in para 3.05, which
is based on adjustments by CEPA-CE.
Table C: Land Distribution (1972)
Farm Size              Farms          Total Farm Area          Farm Area Used
(ha)               No    %         1,000 ha     %          1,000 ha    %
less than 1           270    3           0.2        -             0.2      -
1-2                   846    8           1.1        -             1.0      -
2-5                 2,143   22           6.9        2             5.4       3
5-10                1,889   19          13.4        4             9.8       5
10-25               2,319   23          36.9       11            24.6     13
25-50               1,219   12          41.9       12            25.5     13
50-100                721    7          49.7       14            28.3      15
100-200               331    3          45.6       13            24.6      13
200-500               149    1          45.5       13            24.6     13
500-1,000              52    1          34.5       10            18.4     10
1,000-2,000            20   (1)         26.9        8            14.0       7
Over 2,000              9   ( )         45.8       13            16.6       8
Total 1/      9,968  100          348.4      100          193.0    100
Source: INCRA
1/  This data does not exactly coincide with that given in para 3.05, which
is based on adjustments by CEPA-CE.
Table D: Land Tenure (1970)
Farms            Acreage            Average Size
No    %         1,000 ha   %                ha
Owner-operated        9,178   75.5        262.2    71.8            28.6
Tenant-operated         159    1.4           2.3     0.6           14.4
Sharecropper          1,886   i.5.5        63.2    17.3            33.5
Squatters               927    7.6          37.3    10.3           40.2
Total             12,150  100.0        364.9   100.0            30.0
Source: Fundacao IBGE



ANNEX 1
Page 6
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
Table A: Cropping Pattern (1971)
Acreage                    %
(ha)
Manioc                         21,532                    33.8
Sugar Cane                    12,595                     19.8
Sorghum                        7,258                     11.5
Beans                          6,808                     10.8
Coffee                         3,942                      6.2
Cashew                         3,100                      4.9
Tobacco                        3,033                      4.8
Papaya                          2,243                     3.5
Avocado                        1,102                      1.7
Banana                         1,065                      1.7
Others 1/                      1,031                      1.3
Total                      63,709                    100.0
Source: DEE-CE
1/  Including rice, oranges, peanuts, tomatoes, cotton and potatoes.
Table B: Livestock Population 1/
Type                                             N of Head
Cattle                                             27,900
Horses                                             15,000
Goats                                              15,600
Sheep                                             10,200
Pigs                                               20,500
Hens                                              199,300
1/ Average 1970, 1971, 1972 according to three different sources
(FIBGE, DEE-CE, INCRA).



ANNEX 1
Page 7
Table C: Agricultural Production (1971)
Production                    Distribution
1000 tons   1000 Cr$               %       %
Crop2s                              -        152,463               100     88.1
Manioc                         437.2       56,833                37.3
Sugarcane                      619.3       40,874                26.8
Sorghum                          8.5        6,531                 4.3
Beans                            4.0        7,992                 5.2
Coffee                           2.3       10,622                 7.0
Cashew                          13.5        1,892                 1.2
Tobacco                          2.3        5,171                 3.4
Papaya                           2.4        1,865                 1.2
Avocado                          4.4        2,425                 1.6
Banana                          40.9       13,510                 8.9
Others                           n.a        4,748                 3.1
Livestock Products                  -         14,504               100       8.4
Beef                             0.7        6,723                46.3
Pork                             0.9        5,630                38.8
Other meats                      0.1          819                 5.7
Milk (1000 lt)                   1.1        1,332                 9.2
Forest Products                     -          6,080               100       3.5
Timber (1000 m3)               825.0        5,813                95.6
Other                          603.0          267                 4.4
TOTAL                          -        173,047                      100.0
Source: DEE-CE



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Table D: Farms,Target Group and
Beneficiaries of the Agricultural
Component by Ecological Zone and
Tenure Conditions
11           2/     ~~~~Expected    3
Total Farms -      Target Group -    Beneficiaries -
No         %
Humid/Subhumid Zone        2,791               2,771        2,010        35
Non-owner operators        682                 682          340         6
Owners 0-10 ha          1,014                1,014          810        14
10-25 ha            548                  548          440         8
25-200 ha           527                  527          420         7
> 200 ha            20                 -            -
Carrasco                  5,489                5,230        3,780        65
Non-owner operators    1,342                 1,342          670        11
Owners 0-10 ha          1,488                1,488        1,190        21
10-25 ha            949                  949          760        13
25-200 ha         1,451               1,451         1,160        20
> 200 ha           259                 -            -
Sertao                    1,023                  -            -           0
Non-owner operators        250                 -            -           -
Owners 0-10 ha             328                 -            -           -
10-25 ha            186                  -            -           -
25-200 ha           215                  -            -           -
> 200 ha            44                  -            -           -
Project area               9,303               8,001        5,790       100
Non-owner operators        2,274               2,024        1,010        17
Owners 0-10 ha             2,830               2,502        2,000        35
10-25 ha            1,683                1,497        1,200        21
25-200 ha           2,193                1,978        1,580        27
> 200 ha              323                 -            -           -
Source: INCRA-CEPA/CE
1/ Based on adjustments by CEPA/CE to INCRA cadrastral data.
2/ Farms located in the humid/subhumid and Carrasco zones.
3/ Number of beneficiaries corresponds to 50% of the non-owner operated
farms and 80% of the owner operated farms of the target group.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
I. EXISTING SITUATION
Historical Background
1.        Technical assistance and rural extension activities in Brazil have
in the past been fragmented, with responsibilities spread among several insti-
tutions, some of which have provided commodity services in only selected
geographic areas. The most important of these institutions until mid-1974 was
the Brazilian Association of Credit and Rural Technical Assistance (ABCAR),
which was primarily responsible for disseminating agricultural technology to
farmers. ABCAR operated through some 20 separate state associations (ACARs),
all of which functioned as non-profit civil corporations, technically and
administratively independent. Five training centers (in Ceara, Pernambuco,
Minas Gerais, Espirito Santo and Santa Catarina) were part of the ABCAR
network, providing basic and advanced training for technical and auxiliary
personnel in the rural extension services. The ABCAR system, however, proved
unsatisfactory becuase of several major problems, namely:
(a) The ability to transfer technology to farmers was impaired by
the weak financial and institutional structure of the extension
system;
(b) Research provided few results that were relevant to the needs
of large segments of the farming sector, especially the small
farmers in the Northeast;
(c) Extension activities were generally limited only to those farmers
who were actually receiving credit, the main objectives being
to assess the creditworthiness of the client and to ensure
that he undertook the technical recommendations necessary to
make his enterprise a success;
(d) Coordination among institutions providing technical assistance
in agriculture remained at a low level, which resulted in an
increased unit cost of providing such assistance, as well as
a waste of scarce trained manpower available for extension
activity because of duplication of effort;
(e)  Although ABCAR was supported by public funds, it did not always
adequately interact with other Government insitutions. Most
technical assistance agencies lacked long-term planning and
objectives, but in the case of ABCAR, the situation was further
complicated when different sponsoring organizations pressured
ABCAR into pursuing sometimes inconsistent objectives; and



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(f) Overall planning was hampered because of the instability and
short-term nature of the funding provided by the various agencies.
2.        The Government recognized the need to improve matters, partic-
ularly in regard to better and more assured financing, and in mid-1974
created the Brazilian Corporation for Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension (EMBRATER) to replace ABCAR.  EMBRATER, an administratively
autonomous entity linked to the Ministry of Agriculture has primary
responsibility for formulating and implementing policies pertaining to
technical assistance and rural extension, and for promoting, stimulating
and coordinating technical assistance programs. The staff of the former
ABCAR system (about 4,700 technicians and 3,600 administrative personnel)
was absorbed by EMBRATER and its state affiliates, which were also converted
into "Empresas" or state companies (EMATERs). These state technical assist-
ance and rural extension companies are operationally autonomous but are still
linked to EMBRATER, since the latter participates in the share capital and
in the selection of board members, acts as the channel for all federal funding
for extension, participates in the planning of extension work, and assigns
headquarters (EMBRATER) staff to the state affiliates for consultation and
training purposes.
Extension in Ceara
3.        Extension work in the state is the responsibility of EMATER-CE.
For administrative purposes the state is divided into ten regions, one of
which is the project area of Ibiapaba. In 1976 total extension staff avail-
able for all ten regions numbered 485, of which 230 were university graduates,
170 were high school graduates (with diplomas), and the remaining 85 were
administrative support staff.
4.        Currently the entire Ceara state extension service reaches very few
people, the ratio of extensionists to farmers being in the order of 1:1,500
(1:1,000 in the project area). Moreover the limited staff available mainly
service larger farmers receiving credit made available by the private and
state banking system. One of the prime reasons why there is emphasis on the
larger farmer is that they are the recipients of most of the credit, and
EMATER-CE receives an annual supervision fee from the banks equivalent to 2%
of the value of the credit. Hence the extension agents are in effect mainly
credit supervisers.  The smaller farmers, who for various reasons (see Annex
3) do not participate in the formal credit system, do not receive very much
technical assistance. A further problem is that there is little specialization
of function within the extension service, so, being short staffed, with the
emphasis on credit supervision, and due to a lack of back-up facilities and
research data, the extension staff have had little factual knowledge to pass
on to the farmer (both big and small).
Extensionin the Prolect Area
5.        The Regional Extension Office for Ibiapaba is situated at Ubajara.
The office coordinates the extension activities in the project area through
seven local extension offices situated one in every municipality (Tiangua,



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Ubajara, Vicosa do Ceara, Ibiapina, Sao Benedito, Guaraciaba do Norte and
Carnaubal). Prior to initiation of the project, there were four high level
technicians (university graduates), three medium level technicians (high
school graduates) and seven administrative assistants. In addition, the
IBC (Brazilian Coffee Institute) maintains in the project area six high
level technicians and three medium level technicians advising solely on
coffee. BNB (Bank of the Northeast), which has a branch in Sao Benedito,
also has a specialized agricultural credit technician working directly
with the farmers in the Ibiapaba area.
II. PROPOSALS FOR EXTENSION UNDER THE PROJECT
General Approach
6.        Under the project the extension services would be substantially
increased in size (from a staff of 14 to a staff of 107) and, more importantly,
innovations would be introduced in the structure of the service and the tech-
niques used that could have far reaching implications for the state as a
whole. The main innovations will be the specialization of function within
the service, the provision of subject matter specialists to back up general
extension staff, the introduction of the "contact farmer" and "contact family"
approach to extension work, and the wide scale use of farm demonstration
plots. There will also be much more emphasis on pre-service and in-service
training for extension staff than has been customary in the past.
7.        Instead of each field agent being a generalist concerned largely
with credit supervision, and serving mainly the larger farmers in the area,
staff will be divided into four semi-specialized disciplines, namely, general
agricultural advisory work, credit matters, assistance to cooperatives, and
social service (home economics) activities. The revised structure is out-
lined in Chart 1 of this Annex. The transfer of agricultural knowledge will
be the responsibility of field extension agents, utilizing a system of
"contact farmers" to work princially with groups of farmers rather than with
individuals. These agents will be advised by subject matter specialists
attached to the Regional Office in Ubajara. The planning and supervision
of agricultural credit will be done by special credit agents, who will work
directly with individual farmers in the project area. The cooperative agents
will work mainly with existing and new coperatives, while the social assistance
agents will provide advice on home economics, family health and nutrition,
also through "contact families".
8.        Receptive farmers of recognized ability will be chosen by the field
extension agents in every municipality as "contact farmers" and will serve as
foci for the extension effort. In order to help the Field Extension Agents
(see para. 10) to select the most suitable "contact farmers" and the Social
Extension Agents (para. 13) to select "contact families," selection procedures
(including, among other things, observation of informal leadership patterns,
location, etc.) will be developed with the guidance of the Regional Extension



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Office (para. 9) and studied and discussed during training periods (paras.
15-16). Small demonstration plots will be sited in the contact farmers'
fields, which will also serve as meeting places for small groups of farmers
living near by. Improved agricultural practices (technical packages), which
will concentrate initially on the diffusion of existing knowledge, will be
demonstrated in these plots by the agents with the active participation of
the farmers. All cash production costs of the demonstration plots (seeds
and other inputs) will be borne by the extension service. The farmer's labor
contribution would be remunerated with the production of the plot. The
technical packages will encourage the gradual introduction of simple and
inexpensive changes which should increase crop yields and farmers' net incomes.
The changes will be introduced over a number of years. Every "contact farmer"
will be the contact for some 20-25 farmers, depending on the density of the
rural population. These small groups of farmers may eventually be linked in
informal farmer associations, and may eventually develop into formal and
bigger associations or cooperatives as they graduate from being subsistence
farmers to commercial producers. If successful, this entire approach might be
extended throughout the state.
Regional and Area Extension Offices
9.        The Regional Extension Office and the seven Local (municipio or
county) Extension Offices will remain, but special emphasis will be placed
on improved coordination. The Regional Extension Officer, who will be
assisted by a Regional Extension Coordinator, will be responsible for
extension activities undertaken by EMATER-CE within the region. He will
also be responsible for coordinating extension activities provided by other
agencies (such as IBC) in the region, and for integrating research activites
with extension work. He will also coordinate and supervise the work of the
subject matter specialists, attached to his Office but working in the Local
Offices. These specialized technicians, who will be agronomists of high
level, will train and advise the local extension agents in their various
specialities. A part of these specialists have already been recruited for
the project, and the remainder will be recruited from among the best agents
of EMATER-CE and/or from the Federal University of Ceara. At the municipal
(county) level, each Local Extension Office is headed by a Local Extension
Officer and has a team of Field Extension, Credit, Cooperative and Social
Extension Agents, each responsible for particular extension activities in part
of the county. These local agents will be technically advised by the subject
matter specialists who will visit the local extension office and the field at
least once every fortnight.
The Field Extension Agent
10.       The field extension agent will be an agronomist of intermediate
level (agricultural technical school graduate). He will work directly with
"contact farmers" whom he will visit on a fixed schedule, i.e. on a specific
day every second week. Farmers wishing to consult with him will be familiar
with the "contacts" and will seek the agent at their farms. The area exten-
sion agent will be able to deal with 8 - 10 contact farmers during the



ANNEX 2
Page 5
first years of development, and, through them, with eventually up to about
200 farmers, depending on distances between farms. Every other week the
field extension agents will spend one full day at the local extension
office, or at another appointed meeting place. This working day would be
divided between reporting to superiors, consulting with subject matter
specialists on particular problems, and receiving specific instructions
related to the work during the next fortnight. During those weeks when
field extension agents do not meet together, they would either be visited
by one of the subject matter specialists or be available for farmers
wishing to consult with them at appointed meeting places.
The Credit Agent
11.       A prime objective of the project being to provide credit to the
small farmer (see Annex 3), and methods will be introduced to reduce the
administrative burden on the banks and simplify borrowing procedures. The
credit agent will be a charge of farm management advisory work and planning
and supervising on-farm investments and agricultural credit. He will be
an agronomist of intermediate level (agricultural technical school graduate)
with special training in credit planning and supervision. Group loans (i.e.
to cooperatives) will be provided whenever possible to reduce the adminis-
trative burden on the credit agent as well as on the lending organization.
This method should also reduce risk. The credit agent will deal directly with
the farmers of his area (i.e., not through contact farmers) and will have a
fixed visiting schedule, visiting a certain region on a regular day so that
farmers wishing to receive credit could seek him out there. The credit agent
will help plan and supervise credit for up to 300 families per year during the
first years of development.
The Cooperative Agent
12.       The cooperative agent will be an agronomist of high level
(university graduate) with special training in cooperative management
and supervision. He will deal with cooperatives in various fields, such
as produce marketing and input supply. He will work closely with the banks
as well as with entities dealing with marketing and the provision of inputs.
Whenever necessary this agent will assist a cooperative to organize its
various activities, such as accountancy, administration, elaboration of
work programs, etc. Each agent will probably deal with one or two coopera-
tives. Due to the present weak situation of the cooperatives in the project
area, the cooperative agent will collaborate with the special program for
studying and helping define the long-term development path for the coopera-
tives in the area.
The Social Assistance Agent
13.       The Social Assistance Agent will be an extensionist specialized
in home economies and social work, and will deal with the coordination of
health and nutrition, education and family gardening activities. This agent



ANNEX 2
Page 6
will work directly with carefully chosen "contact families" in an area, and
will also have a fixed work schedule similar to that of the area extension
agent. This agent should be able to deal with about 400-500 families during
the first years of development, assisting them in forming village health
committees and providing health and nutritional education (see Annex 15),
training (see Annex 16), community activities and youth organization.
Staffing Requirements
14.       The full staffing requirements, at the sixth year after inception
of the physical development of the project, will be 16 high level special-
ists, 71 medium level technicians and 20 administrative assistants. Taking
into account the pre-project personnel available, the incremental needs will
be 12 high level specialists, 68 medium level technicians and 13 administrative
assistants (Table 1). This staff will deal directly with about 5,800 farm
families and will be recruited gradually.
Training of Extension Personnel
15.       The training of the extension service personnel, which will be
planned, implemented, supervised and evaluated by EMATER-CE, will include
pre-service training adapted to the project needs and continuous on-the-job
upgrading and training by the subject matter specialists and others. New
extension personnel for high level positions will be recruited among
graduates from local agricultural colleges or universities. The medium
level agricultural technicians will be graduates from local agricultural
high schools. The social assistance agents will be high school graduates
with special training in home economics and related fields.
16.       The pre-service training of the extension agents will be divided
into three parts. The first will be a 3-week general orientation course,
the second a general field orientation course, and the third a technical
training course. The initial orientation course will familiarize trainees
with programs and institutions involved in rural
development (POLONORDESTE, EMBRATER, EMBRAPA, etc.), rural development
strategies, supporting services, and rural extension methods and communi-
cation methodology. This course will be followed by six weeks in the field
for the agents to get acquainted with the rural milieu and local problems.
During this period, tight follow-up, guidance and assistance will be provided
by senior extension agents. Thus, at the end of this stage, the trainee
should be able to prepare a program providing a diagnosis of the situation,
definition of priorities, strategy of action, activity chronogram, and proposed
methodology of extension in his specific working area. These programs will
then be studied and analysed by the group as a whole. The field course will
be followed by special technical training courses geared to the problems the
agents may encounter in the field and will not be too theoretical in nature.
These courses, which will be of about five weeks duration, will be tailored to
the special needs of the extension workers. For instance, field extension



ANNEX 2
Page 7
agents will concentrate on production systems and agrotechnical packages
adapted to the crops grown in the area; credit agents will concentrate on
economics, rural administration, financial projections, and credit planning
and supervision; cooperative agents will concentrate on cooperative adminis-
tration, accountancy and long- and short-term work programs.
17.       During the agricultural growing season, extension agents will
also receive once every fortnight special training on the crops being
grown in the area and the current problems. This training will be given
by the subject matter specialists. They will also participate, after
the harvest season, in work evaluation sessions and in short refresher
courses whenever necessary.
Costs
18.       The total costs for the existing extension program, as well as the
expansion of the program over the 5-year project period (1977-81), are esti-
mated at about Cr$ 65.5 million (US$5.6 million), broken down as follows:
Item                                             Cr$       US$         %
1.   Personnel costs (salaries, etc.)                39.3        3.3        60
2.   Equipment, materials and installations           5.7        0.5         9
3.   Operating costs
(fuel and office supplies, etc.)              12.4       1.1        19
4.   Demonstration plots                              1.3        0.1         2
5.   Training                                         6.8        0.6        10
65.5       5.7       100
19.  Assuming that only capital costs, incremental operating costs, and the
costs of incremental staff can be considered for Bank financing, the "project
costs" would be Cr$ 54.2 million (US$4.6 million). Tables 3, 4, 5 and 6
provide further details.



ANNEX 2
Chart 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
CHART No. 1: PROPOSED AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION SERVICE DELIVERY SYSTEM
REIONA^L EXTENSIO OFFr-' 
l SUBJECT l
MATTER
SPECIALISTS
FIED EXT.                            COOPERATIVE             SOCIAL
CREDIT AGENTS        ORGANIZATION           ASStSTANCE
, AGENTS        |               1|   | AGENTS                   AGENTS
FA  FAR  FARMERS   COOPEWRATIVES           FAMILIES
Worki Bank-16903



PJNNX 2
Table 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
w^s  ~RUA" DEVELOPMENLT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 1:   Yearly Extension Coverage
Development Year                            I      II       III       IV       V
1.  Incremental number of farmers.         500     1,160   2,310   1,820    -
2.  Total number of farmers.               500     1,660   3,970   5,790   5,790
3. Farmers attended by:
- One field extension agent   100          150      200     200      200
- One credit agent              150        200      250     300      300
- One social assistance agent 150          250      350     450      450



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 2: Total Yearly Extension Personnel Requirements
Development Year                         Present Situation                       I                            II                              III                           IV                          V
Tecech. Level    Admin.          ech. Level  Adm.           Tech. Level   Adm.   -   Tech.  Level  Admin.              Tech. Level   Admn.           Tech. Level    Admin.
Function_                          High    Medium  Assistants  High Medium  Assistants  HighMed ium  Assistants   High  Medium  Assistant  High  Medium  Assistant  High Medium  Assistant
Regional Extension Officer           I          -                     1    -           _          1                            1        -          _         1      -           _          1
Regional Extension Coordinator   1                       _          1      -           _          1       _          _         1        _          _         1      -           _          1
Subject Matter Specialists           1          -         -          2      1           -          3       1          -         4         1         -         4      1           -          4       1
Local Extension Officers             -          -         -           7     -           -          7       -          -         7                              7 -  7            -          7
Field Extension Agents               1          3         -          -      5           -          -        15        -          -       33         -         -      42          -          -       33
Credit Agents                        -          -         -          -      4           -          -        10        -         -        23         -         -      30          -          -       25        -
Cooperative Organization Agents  -              -         -           2     -           -          3        -         _         3        -          -         3      -           -          3
Social Assistance Agents             -          -         -          -      4           -          -       10         -         -        22         -         -      26          -          -       18        -
Administrative Assistants            -          -         7          -      -           15         -        -         15        -        -          20        -      -           22         -       -         20
Total                             4         3          7          13    14           15         15      36         15        16       79         20        16    99           22        16       77        20
to t



ANNEX 2
NORTHEAST BRAZIL                               Table 3
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 3: Extension Service Costs
(in Cr$ '000)
Annual
Development Year                                Recurrent
I       II        III        IV       V       Total       Custs 8/
ITEM
1. Personnel
Salaries and
social charges.2/   3,295   5,094    8,228       9,618    8,157  34,391        7,320
Per-diem costs        216      331       583       626       531   2,287         476
Special fund  /       246      380      617        717       608   2,568         546
Sub-total         3,757   5,805    9,428    10,960    9,296  39,246         8,342
2. Operating costs
Transportation4/      340      866    1,972      2,122    2,122   7,422        2,122
Other costs -         796      871    1,066      1,144    1,143   5,020        1,143
Sub-total         1,136   1,737    3,038       3,266    3,265  12,442       3,265
3. Equipment
Vehicles              495   1,265    1,100       1,100    i,l00   5,060        1,100
Office Equipment      230      -          81         10      -        321         13
Supplies              176       39       107        21       -        343         15
Sub-total           901   1,304    1,288       1,131    1,100   5,724       1,028
4. Extension personnel
training b/           2,324   1,807    1,112          837      769   6,849         769
5.  Demonstration set-up7/  60        165      340        360       360   1,285        360
Total costs           8,178  10,818   15,206    16,553   14,791  65,546    13,864
1/ See unit costs in Appendix 1
2/ Social charges equivalent to32% of base salaries.
3/ To be utilized whenever help for special projects development, to extension service
personnel will be found necessary.
4/ Includes maintenance as well as other costs such as insurance costs.
5/ Includes buildings maintenance, travel and other operating costs.
6/ Details are given in Table 5, first year costs include also some Cr$1,264,000 pre-
project costs.
7/ Unit cost calculated at Cr$1,500 per demonstration plot per year.
8/ Average yearly costs from year six and onwards.



ANNEX 2
Table 4
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 4: Extension Service Total and Project Costs
(in Cr$ '000)
Annual 2/
Development Year                              Year                                 Recurrent
I       II        III        IV       V        Total        Costs
ITEMf                  1.  Total Costs
Personnel              3,757   5,805    9,428    10,960    9,296  39,246           8,342
Operating costs        1,136   1,737    3,033       3,266    3,265  12,442         3,265
Equipment                901   1,304    1,288       1,131    1,100   5,724         1,028
Training               2,324   1,807    1,112         837       769   6,809           769
Demonstration set-up      60      165       340       360       360   1,285          360
Total costs       8,178  10,818   15,206    16,553   14,791  65,546          13,864
2.  Project Costs-/
Personnel              2,510   4,558    8,181       9,713    8,049  33,011         7,095
Operating costs           13      656    2,048      2,291    2,290   7,298         2,290
Equipment                901   1,304    1,288       1,131    1,100   5,724         1,028
Tiraining              2,324   1,807    1,112         837       769   6,849          769
Demonstration set-up      60      165      340        360       360   1,285          360
Total project costs  5,808   8,490   12,969    14,332   12,568  54,167           11,542
1/ Project costs include only incremental costs generated by project implementation.
2/ For sixth year and onwards.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 5: Extension Personnel Traifijng Costs
(Cr$ )
Development year and  Pre-Project                       I                      II                    III                         IV                    V            Total Costs
training costs       |
No. of           2    No. of                 No. of                 No. of                     No. of                No. of
Stage or course        Trainees   Costs-/   Trainees    Costs    Trainees    Costs    Trainees    Costs                Trainees    Costs   Traineess   Costs    Cr $ 000'
1.  Pre-service trainin .I_
Pre-service stage I       35      147,000        32       134,400      58        243,600      28        117,600          10         42,000    10          42,000    726.6
Field stage               35       14,700        32        13,440      58         24,360      28        111,760          10          4,200    10           4,200       72.7
Pre-service stage II    35        147,000        32       134,400      58        243,600      28        117,600          10         42,000    10          42,000    726.6
Salaries3/                35       697,450       32       501,410       58       824,320      28        403,290          10        271,440    1O         271,440  2,965.3
Social Charges            35      258,060        32       185,520      58        305,000      28        149,220          10        100,430    10         100,430  1,098.7
Sub-total           -      1,264,210       -         969,170      -       1,640,880      -         799,470          -         460,070    -          460,070  5,593.9
2.  Tn-service  training                                    4          4,0          7.
Short Courses             -          -           14        42,000      25         70          48        144,000          58        174,000    47         141,000     576.0
Refresher  Courses       -                       7        49,000      13         91,000      24        168,000          29        203,000    24         168,000      679.0
Sub-total           -          -            -         91,000      -         166,000      -         312,000          -         377,000    -          309,000  1,255.0
Total                -     1,264,210        -      1,060,170      -       1,806,880      -       1,111,470                    837,070    -          769,070  6,848.9
1l  Pre-service training is provided before the agricultural year and to some 30% more than needed
personnel in order to allow for inadecacy, leaves, drop-out , etc.
2/ Average unit cost of pre-service stages was calculated at Cr$4,200, of field stage at Cr$420;
of short course at Cr$3,000 and of in-service stages at Cr$7,O00.
3/ Salaries for the 15 weeks pea-service training were calculated at regular extension staff salaries and                                                                                  m
according to trainees technical level.                                                                                                                                                 M



ANNEX 2
Table 6
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 6:   Extension Service Unit Costs
1.      Yearly Salaries                                        Cr$
Regional Extension Officer                       143,000
Regional Extension Coordinator                   143,000
Subject Matter Specialist                        143,000
Local Extension Officer                          104,000
Field Extension Agent                             52,000
Credit Agent                                      52,000
Cooperative Organization Agent                   104,000
Social Assistant Agent                            39,000
Administrative Assistant                          13,000
2.      Other Main Unit Costs
Vehicle                                           55,000
Calculating Machine                                7,000
Slide Projector                                    5,400
Typewriter                                         5,000
Car Insurance (yearly rate)                        4,300
Monthly Transp. Allocation                         3,150
Desk and Chair                                     3,000
Book Case                                          1,800
Motor Oil (liter)                                     30
Gas (liter)                                            5



ANNEX 3
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
CREDIT
I.   GENERAL BACKGROUND
Rural Credit in Northeast Brazil
1.        Institutional, or commercial banking, credit to farmers in Northeast
Brazil is channelled principally through federal (over 95%) and state-owned
banks. Banco do Brasil (BB) has traditionally been the most important,
accounting for some 80% of agricultural loans disbursed, followed by Banco
do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB) at around 12%, with the National Cooperative Credit
Bank (BNCC) and state banks accounting for most of the remainder. 1/ About 80%
of the funding for rural credit in the Northeast is derived from Central Bank
refinancing or on-lending facilities in several special lines of credit. The
remainder of funding is from banks' internal resources (usually with special
compensation from the Government to cover interest rate subsidies), though
the bulk of such internal funding is from BB. Apart from institutional rural
credit, there are important non-institutional suppliers of short-term credit
such as marketing intermediaries and landlords. While there is little data
to indicate the scale of such lending, the implicit interest rates are normally
higher than those of banks, and the credit recipients are normally smaller
scale farmers.
Credit Lines and Terms
2.        In 1972 the Government began a program named PROTERRA (Program for
the Redistribution of Land and Stimulation of Agro-Industrial Development in
the Northeast and North of Brazil) through which it intended to stimulate
agricultural development in general with a massive infusion of heavily sub-
sidized credit to finance investment, use of modern inputs and land transfers.
The low nominal interest rates, together with an inflationary environment,
eventually contributed however to a predominant use of PROTERRA funding for
the purchase of land and the building-up of investment in livestock herds
which provided attractive forms of asset holding. The program was not
1/   For a detailed analysis of agricultural lending in Northeast Brazil, the
reader is referred to "Rural Development Issues and Options in Northeast
Brazil," June 23, 1975, Report No. 665a-BR. Also, BB and BNB are previous
Bank borrowers for grain storage (Loan 857-BR of September 27, 1972 and
Appraisal Report No. PA-135a of August 2, 1972) and industrial credit
(Loan 656-BR of February 16, 1970 and Appraisal Report No. DB-52a of
December 19, 1969), respectively.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
accompanied by significant efforts to improve the access by small farmers to
institutional credit or to break the traditional bias of the banking system
toward making the more lucrative large-scale loans; hence, the bulk of PROTERRA
funding was absorbed by larger scale farm operations and agro-industries.
3.        In late 1974, the Government created a new program, POLONORDESTE,
intended specifically to increase the incomes and standard of living of small-
scale farmers and the rural poor in the Northeast through, inter alia, inte-
grated rural development projects.  In 1975 the Government defined special
credit arrangements to be applied in new POLONORDESTE rural development
projects through BB, BNB and BNCC. The POLONORDESTE credit program differed
from PROTERRA mainly in that particular emphasis was given to reaching small
farmers, renters or sharecroppers requiring loans of less than 50 times the
maximum reference value (MVR, a reference value which is adjusted periodically
to offset inflation and is now Cr$ 877.70 or about US$60, which is roughly
equivalent to the minimum monthly wage). All POLONORDESTE loans must be
coupled with technical assistance from an expanded extension service. Property
collateral is required only on loans above 50 MVR (about US$3,000). as loans
under that amount can be made on the personal guarantee of the borrower. The
terms and conditions on POLONORDESTE credit (see para 5) for the most part
were defined to be the same as, or very similar to, those offered under
PROTERRA.
4.        In late 1976 and early 1977 the Government made several additional
modifications in the terms and conditions to be applied in its special rural
credit programs in Northeast Brazil. These changes amount to:
(a) an elimination throughout Brazil of the 40% subsidy previously
granted by the Government on the price of credit-financed
purchases of fertilizer;
(b) an elimination of previous interest-free credits to finance
certain other "modern" inputs such as insecticides or
pesticides;
(c) the establishment of one interest rate (7%) for most working
capital credit (credit for fertilizer purchase, which carries
no interest charge, is the exception) under the POLONORDESTE
program, compared to the 13-15% charged (depending on loan size)
elsewhere in Brazil and the range of rates (0-15%) previously
charged under the POLONORDESTE line;
(d) the establishment of a differentiated interest rate scale for
POLONORDESTE investment credits, with the previous lower
interest rates continuing to apply only to smaller loans;
and
(e) the lengthening of the maximum repayment (from 12 to 20 years)
and grace (from 2 to 6 years) periods for land purchase credits.
5.        The resulting framework of credit terms and conditions under
POLONORDESTE and relevant to the proposed Ceara project, is as follows:



ANNEX 3
Pagz 3
POLONORDESTE Credit Terms (1977)
Repayment Period         Interest Rate
Grace        to Final
Type of Credit                  Loan Size      Maturity         Period      Beneficiary
I. Supervised Seasonal              Any        Depending on production  7% unindexed **
Credit(for production                       cycle of crop produced
inputs and subsistence
costs)
II.Supervised Investment        Up to 200 MVR*                            7% unindexed
Credit                       200-2000 MVR                            10% unindexed
over 2000 MVR                           12% unindexed
a) for "fixed investment"                   up to 12 yrs. up to 6 yrs.  depending on
(land clearing, fences,                                               loan size
establishment of perma-                                                (see above)
nent crops, small scale
irrigation, etc.)
b) for "semi-fixed" invest-                 up to 8 yrs.  up to 4 yrs.  depending on
ments (work animals,                                                  loan size
light equipment, etc.)                                                 (see above)
III.Land Purchase Credit        up to 100%    up to 20 yrs. up to 6 yrs.  12% unindexed
of price of
land up to
6 times
size of INCRA
module **
*"Maximum Reference Value", a periodically adjusted reference value equivalent
in June 1977 to Cr$877.70, or about US$60.
**A module is that amount of land defined by INCRA(the National Institute for
Colonization and Land Reform) to be necessary to generate a farm income of four
times the annual minimum wage. The size of the module varies from about 3 to
120 hectares depending on the region and type of potential production.
***With the exception of credit to finance fertilizer purchase, which is non-interest
bearing.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
6.        For POLONORDESTE projects, the Central Bank will normally open
credit lines with the participating banks making funds available for appli-
cation in the selected priority project areas. Under these circumstances,
the participating banks are required to repay the Central Bank in line with
repayment dates of the subloans made, but retaining 5% remuneration. When
lending is channelled through cooperatives, the cooperative would receive 2%,
leaving the participating banks with 3%.
7.        While recent revisions in agricultural credit terms and conditions
in Brazil represented overall a positive move to reduce interest rate sub-
sidies, the POLONORDESTE terms and conditions still result (given the infla-
tionary environment) in substantially negative real interest rates. Although
the justification for the Government's policy to subsidize interest rates
is debatable (particularly since many small farmers who have had to resort to
informal financial channels seem to have been able to operate with positive
interest rates, either explicit or implicit), there may be a case for sub-
sidization of the agricultural sector to help stimulate the opening of new
land to production, or to offset the effects of pricing policies for some
products and the bias in favor of industry implicit in various government
policies and subsidies. Agricultural interest rate subsidies may not, however,
be the most efficient means to subsidize the sector. There are, nevertheless,
positive aspects in the recent Government decisions on credit policy. The
subsidies have been reduced marginally, particularly for larger borrowers,
thereby reducing the potential income-concentrating effect of agricultural
credit; the earmarking of funds and the establishment of priority in the
POLONORDESTE program for serving smaller scale farmers at least help assure
that they are more likely to share in the subsidy than previously; and
technical assistance and other development activities particularly for small
farmers are being strengthened considerably in parallel so that the likelihood
of misallocation of resources is reduced and a greater participation by
small farmers in institutional credit is generated.
II. RURAL CREDIT IN PROJECT AREA
Banking System
8.        There are currently three bank branch offices located in the project
area: (i) a branch of BB in Ubajara which has operations in 6 of the 7 proj-
ect area municipalities; (ii) a branch of BNB in Sao Benedito, which services
all 7 municipalities in the project area as well as several outside the area;
and (iii) a branch of the Banco do Estado do Ceara, BEC, in Vicosa do Ceara
which services 6 of the project area municipalities. In addition, branches
of BB in Ipu and Ipueiras (both outside the project area) do business in parts
of the project area, and both BB and BEC are considering opening in the medium-
term future new branches in Tiangua in the project area. Overall, at least
one bank is operating in each of the project area municipalities, although
distances, and the fact that only several cooperatives exist, still contribute
to the difficulty of using institutional credit for many farmers.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Agricultural Credit Portfolio
9.        In 1975, the most recent year for which complete statistics were
available at the time of appraisal, the three banks made a total of 1,477
agricultural loans amounting to Cr$ 23.98 million (about US$2.95 million) to
a roughly estimated 1,000 farmers in the project area. This compared to about
363 loans for a total equivalent to about US$240,000 in 1970. Of the loans
disbursed in 1975, BB accounted for 64%, BNB for 30% and BEC the remaining
6%. The total outstanding agricultural credit portfolio at the end of 1975
in the project area was Cr$ 42.3 million or about US$5.2 million (BB 69%; BNB
23%; and BEC 8%). During the last few years, BNB's agricultural lending has
increased slightly more rapidly than that of BB and BEC. Arrears, as a per-
centage of the portfolio outstanding, were at the end of 1975 about 3.8% for
BNB, 1.0% for BB and 0.2% for BEC. Though relatively higher than that of
the other banks, the percentage of the BNB agricultural portfolio in arrears
in Ibiapaba in 1975 had actually improved considerably from a level of around
10% in 1974.
10.       Prior to appraisal of the proposed project, a survey was carried out
by CEPA-CE on the nature of agricultural lending in the project area in 1975,
covering nearly 100% of the loans made by BNB and BEC and a random sample of
around a third of the loans made by BB. It was found that: (a) on average,
loans of under 50 MVR (at that time around US$2,500) accounted for around 90%
of the number of loans and about 50% of the value of loans, indicating that
the concentration of lending amounts in relatively few operations is not
excessively pronounced in Ibiapaba; (b) though varying somewhat by bank,
around half of the number of loans and a third of the amount lent were directed
toward farmers owning less than 25 hectares or to sharecroppers and renters,
though these groups combined represent some three-quarters of the farm families
in the project area; (c) around 34% of the loans were made only with the
guarantee of the borrower's signature, 22% with co-signers, 14% with liens on
crops or cattle, 29% with mortgages and 1% with a combination of these or
other guarantees--the relatively high number of non-secured loans reflecting
the relatively large number of credits of under 50 MVR; (d) on average, 42% of
the value of credit disbursed in 1975 was for working capital or seasonal
production purposes, 55% for investments and 3% combined; (e) the estimated
area of crops financed in 1975 was about 3,500 hectares (coffee and sugarcane
absorbing nearly 80% of the funds directed toward crops), as some 39% of
total credit was directed toward crops, 22% toward livestock and 39% toward
other farm investments. In general, credit coverage in the area is still
quite low both in terms of area and number (10%) of farmers financed (par-
ticularly small and landless farmers).



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Obstacles to Expended Coverage
11.       Prior to the recent initiatives in the POLONORDESTE credit and rural
development programs, the principal factors limiting expanded coverage of the
credit system in Ibiapaba were, as in most of the rest of the Northeast,
several and interrelated. On the one hand, there was a lack of effective
demand for credit which was, in turn, a consequence of a relatively weak tech-
nical support from agricultural research and extension services, difficult
collateral requirements for obtaining loans, complicated and time consuming
loan application procedures, 1/ and long distances of many farmers from the
nearest bank branches. In addition, the banks have, both because of costs
and perceived risk, traditionally favored working with relatively larger farm
operations. As no special funds were earmarked for the smaller farm opera-
tions, and there were no effective programs or mechanisms to help reduce risks
or warrant simplification of lending procedures, banks had relatively little
incentive to aggressively seek expanded business with small farm operations.
12.       Under the POLONORDESTE program, several steps have been taken which
should help expand credit coverage. First, the integrated project approach
(together with complementary national research and extension programs) gives
special emphasis to development of improved technical packages particularly
for small-scale farmers, more intensive agricultural extension to that group
and the reduction of physical infrastructure bottlenecks to increased produc-
tion. Second, a variety of steps have been taken, within the credit system
itself, to improve coverage of small farmers: (i) participating banks have
been instructed by the Government to give priority, in onlending POLONORDESTE
funds, to small scale and landless farmers; (ii) the application procedures
for loans of under 50 MVR have been simplified and the Government has instruc-
ted banks to make such loans with only the signature guarantee of the borrower,
which reduces the banks' processing costs for small loans and the time required
by the farmer 2/; (iii) Government funding, independent of the size of indivi-
dual loans, has been made available to the extension service to provide assis-
tance to small farmers in preparing credit applications; and (iv) BB recently
instructed its agencies in the Northeast to initiate periodic satellite bank-
ing activities for small loans in municipalities without permanent bank
branches, giving priority for such activities in POLONORDESTE project areas.
1/   A case study survey carried out by the state extension agency, EMATER,
prior to Bank appraisal of Ibiapaba project, showed that: (a) for land
owners, "first time" loans required an average of 43 days for full
processing--from confirmation of assets and registration of the land
farmed through bank approval, contract signing and arrangements for
disbursement--and repeater loans an average of 24 days; and (b) even for
seasonal credits to non-land owners which do not require collateral,
the processing time was an average of 36 days for "first time" loans
and 33 days for repeaters.
2/   A sample survey of initial POLONORDESTE credit operations in the project
area in 1976 showed that loan processing time had been cut by more than
half.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT COMPONENT
General Description and Objective
13.       The proposed credit component aims at an expansion of the use of
the formal credit system in the project area as a means to help, in particular,
small scale farmers increase their agricultural production and income through
the adoption of improved farming techniques, the diversification of production
and the expansion of areas cultivated. The component will include: (i) in-
cremental seasonal production credit including credit to help cover the
implicit costs of additional family labor; (ii) investment credits mainly for
land clearing, the establishment of permanent crops and small equipment and
tools; and (iii) land purchase credit for farmers currently not owning land or
owning very small land units. It is estimated (see Annex 1) that credit will
be received by about 5,800 farmers (including about 1,000 sharecroppers or
renters), or 65% of the farmers in the area. About 450 of the currently land-
less or very small-scale owner-operators are expected to receive land purchase
credit. The credit terms would be those described in paragraph 5. The pro-
posed Bank loan would help finance credit disbursements for categories (i) and
(ii) above. The Project credit would be channelled to farmers or cooperatives
only through local branches of BB and BNB (which account for over 90% of agri-
cultural credit in the project area), as only the federal banks are authorized
by the Government to be financial intermediaries in the POLONORDESTE Program.
14.       Notwithstanding the fact that the purpose of agricultural credit is
to allow increases in investment and output and that there is normally a
strong presumption against financing consumption, it should be noted that in
the case of small farms a major input in the production process is the labor
of the farmer and his family, and financing this input necessarily implies
financing the farmer's consumption to carry him from one harvest to the next.
Most institutional credit available in Brazil has in the past been tied to the
purchase of "modern" inputs. Thus, the input mix used by large farmers allows
them to have access to credit, while the input mix used by small farmers
virtually precludes their utilizing institutional credit. Since the avail-
ability of credit, in and of itself, can make a significant contribution
toward improving the economic well-being of small farmers, financing implicit
family labor costs of the small farmers in the context of rural development
projects would reduce the small farmers' dependency on intermediaries, giving
them access to better market prices for inputs and their products. Such
credit, by allowing the introduction of relatively simple improvements in
cultivation practices (rather than emphasizing use of major additional inputs),
can help stimulate significant increases in production.
Credit Actions and Procedures under Project
15.       The participating banks will carry out credit operations with
POLONORDESTE funds only if the farmer receives technical assistance from
EMATER-CE, the state extension agency, without charge to the farmer or bank.
Such technical assistance, to come from the EMATER-CE,must take the form of:
(i) helping prepare a simplified farm plan; and (ii) giving technical guidance
or orientation to the farmer.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
16.       The overall procedure for the development and processing of indi-
vidual loans would begin with the farmer's request to the extensionist or
banker for financial assistance. The bank then makes an initial review of the
potential client's financial status, taking into account an updated survey of
the farmer's assets ("ficha cadastral"). Assuming no special problems are
found regarding the general financial status of the potential client, the
banker authorizes EMATER-CE to go ahead with its assistance to the farmer in
the preparation of a simple farm plan. If, at that stage, the extensionist
finds that a technically viable farm plan cannot be developed, he advises
the bank of his analysis and conclusion. Otherwise, the proposed plan and
credit request is provided to the bank, which in turn may not introduce
changes to the farm plan without the extensionist's agreement, but may reject
the loan application if it finds some diversion from existing norms regarding
banking practices. Once the loan is approved by the bank, the bank advises
the local extensionist in order that periodic visits to the farm by the exten-
sinist may be planned and carried out. At least once a year the extensionist
must report to the financial agent on the progress of the project financed
and the technical assistance rendered.
17.       Use of the Government's voluntary PROAGRO crop/credit insurance
would be encouraged among all credit recipients to reduce borrowers' risks
associated with crop failure or droughts. Sub-borrowers who elect to use
PROAGRO would pay a standard annual 1% on average loan volumes.
18.       The project extension activities (see Annex 2) would focus partic-
ularly on reaching farmers with up to 25 hectares of land and farmers not
owning land (sharecroppers or renters). However, farmers with up to 200
hectares would also participate in the project since, particularly in the
carrasco, or western, part of the project area where soils and rainfall con-
ditions are relatively unfavorable, current incomes on farms of this size
are also quite low. Landless farmers, who would receive mainly seasonal
production credits, would require the approval (a "carta de anuencia") though
not the guarantee of their landlord. Landless farmers could also receive
investment credits if the "carta de anuencia" specifies the time over which
the sharecroppers will have rights to use the land concerned. Alternatively,
the landowner could take direct responsibility for investment credit require-
ments arising through sharecropping agreements. Although the Government has
instructed the participating banks to give priority to small farmers when
lending POLONORDESTE funds, loans of a relatively large size (up to 15,000
MVR or about US$900,000) could theoretically still be made under the program
and would benefit higher income farmers who already have access to formal
credit. To help assure, therefore, that the additional credit funds made
available as part of the proposed Bank loan reach as large a number of
beneficiaries as possible and that the focus on the lower income farmers is
achieved, Bank disbursements for the credit component would be limited to sub-
loans in which the total outstanding seasonal and investment credits for the
farmer do not exceed 100 MVR (or about US$6,000).
19.       Land purchase credits (which, though included as part of project
costs, would not be subject to disbursements from the proposed Bank loan)



ANNEX 3
Page 9
would be extended under the revised POLONORDESTE terms and conditions (see
para 5). The recently extended grace and repayment periods, the limitations
in the size of tract financed, and the fact that up to 100% of the purchase
price can be covered by the loan, should help enable an expanding number of
rural families to take advantage of land purchase credit and, hence, benefit
to a greater extent from production increases foreseen under the project.
The land purchase credit would be available through cooperatives (which might
purchase larger blocks of land and resell smaller blocks, without profit, to
sharecroppers or to present owners of very small scale plots) or directly to
individuals selected from participants in the extension and other credit com-
ponents of the project. Current INCRA regulations generally require that, for
the municipalities in this project area, official land purchase credit can be
used only for the purchase of plots over 30 ha in size (this to avoid a pro-
liferation of every small farms). As the minimum is based more on the income
potential of the poorer (carrasco area) soils than on the better humid zone
land, exceptions can be made (i.e., financing of smaller plots) in cases where
fruit or vegetable production is planned. Nevertheless, even though it will
be possible for a small farmer to get official financing for the purchase of,
say, a 5 ha plot in the humid zone, the state (via the extension and cooper-
ative support components) intends to work especially in helping cooperatives
handle in packages the smaller plot transactions. Experience in other states
in the Northeast (e.g., Sergipe) has, in fact, been that cooperative land
purchase and sub-division efforts have provided a very useful vehicle in
helping stimulate an overall strengthening of the cooperatives.
20.       Overall, the procedures and initiatives established by the Govern-
ment for expanding credit coverage under POLONORDESTE projects have only
recently taken effect and will have to be monitored closely. It is possible
that other mechanisms (differentiated interest spreads to banks to help cover
higher unit costs for smaller loans; further modifications to loan application
procedures or to the role of the extensionist; new bank branches; establish-
ment of compulsory credit insurance or of a guarantee fund for bad debts,
etc.) may have to be developed to help ensure that, in fact, substantial
increases in the number of small farmers served are achieved. The effective-
ness of the credit promotion, processing and delivery activities would be
subject to systematic annual reviews by the Government which would provide
its findings and recommendations for any necessary modifications to the Bank
for discussion.
Estimates and Assumptions on Size of Credit Component
21.       The available information on existing agricultural credit operations
in the project area (see para 9) unfortunately provides only a rough baseline
for determining the incremental credit requirements for the project. The
value of new loans made in 1975 was Cr$ 23.98 million or roughly the equiva-
lent of US$2.95 million. Assuming an increase of roughly 30% (in terms of
US$ equivalent) in lending in 1976, a rate which would be roughly consistent
with rates of increase-in the project area for the last several years, total
lending in 1976 would be roughly US$3.8 million. However, to reach an esti-
mate of the existing level of project area credit operations relevant to the



ANNEX 3
Page 10
project activities (i.e., only credit for farmers with less than 200 ha and
for other than coffee or cattle production), adjustments need to be made in
that figure.
22.       Utilizing the results of the survey of 1975 operations, it was
assumed that about 15% of the 1976 credit went to farmers with over 200 ha,
that of the remaining credit roughly 50% could be classified as non-project
credit (i.e. credit for coffee or livestock production and a representative
proportion of the category of "other investments" not readily assigned to
particular crops). This would leave a 1976 baseline of roughly US$1.6 million
of which (having subtracted livestock and part of the other investment credits
and assuming the 1975 pattern continued in 1976) about half would represent
seasonal production credit and half investment credit. Of the investment
credits, it can probably be assumed (given an average repayment term of 8
years including three years of grace and the fact that significant amounts
of agricultural investment credit had really not been extended except in
the past few years) that only a very small amount of outstanding investment
credit funds would be repaid, and hence available for reapplication on project
investments, during the project period. Furthermore, those funds had been
drawn from a variety of previous credit programs and it would be virtually
impossible to determine which might, in fact, be available for reapplication
under POLONORDESTE.  Repayments of investment loans made during the project
period were, however, considered in calculating net project-generated invest-
ment credit requirements during the project's life. With respect to the
baseline figure for seasonal credit (about US$0.8 equivalent or Cr$ 9.4 million
in November 1976 prices), it should also be noted that, without the benefit
of what would be a costly and time consuming survey of the details of actual
1976 lending, the figure is at best only a reasonable proxy. Since, on an
average, the seasonal credits are repaid within a year and should be available
for reapplication, and since (partly as a result of the Government's overall
restrictions on the expansion of agricultural credit in 1977) the likely
increase in project area working capital credit to small farmers is expected
to be only marginal in 1977. Bank disbursements against incremental seasonal
production credit would begin only in the 1978 POLONORDESTE fiscal year and
would be made then only against working capital credit over and above the amount
extended in 1977. In each following year, disbursements for working capital
credit would also be made only against credit in excess of the amount extended
during the previous year.
23.       Detailed estimates and assumptions about rates and phasing of
farmer participation and calculation of total seasonal and investment credit
requirements are provided in Tables 1 and 2.
24.       Insofar as land purchase credit is concerned, it is assumed that
the principal target recipients would be, first, share-croppers and, second,
farmers currently owning up to 10 ha. The former total about 2,000 (almost
700 in the humid/sub-humid zone and over 1,300 in the carrasco zone) and the
latter about 2,500 (about 1,000 in the humid/sub-humid zone and 1,500 in the
carrasco). Relatively less land is available in the humid/sub-humid zone than
in the carrasco, but the size of plot necessary to enable a reasonable farm



ANNEX 3
Page 11
income (given local standards) is also considerably smaller, probably around
5 ha in the humid/sub-humid zone compared to around 30 ha in much of the
carrasco zone. Ranges of income on different sized units are demonstrated in
the representative farm rnodels in Annex 8, two of which (I-A and V) include
land purchases. A comparison of models I and I-A demonstrate the potential
improvements in income arising from the purchase of land by a sharecropper.
Taking into account both the possible availability of land, and the fact that
modest targets would also be dictated by the need to assure careful selection
of recipients and adequate technical assistance, it is assumed that only
around 10% of the farmers currently classified as sharecroppers or owners of
up to 10 ha would purchase land. This would be about 450 farmers and would
involve purchases of around 850 ha of land in the humid/sub-humid zone
(averaging Cr$ 4,000, or about US$340, per ha) and 8,500 ha in the carrasco
(averaging about Cr$ 500, or US$45, per ha). Sizes of individual plots will,
of course, vary. It is assumed that the land purchase credit requirements
would be phased over the project period roughly in accordance with the rate of
increase in coverage by project extension services and, based on the above-
mentioned assumptions, would total Cr$ 7.65 million (US$648,300).



ANNEX 3
Table 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 1: Credit Requirements During Years 1 - 5
Year      Year       Year      Year       Year
1         2          3         4          5_
Number of Participating Farmers              500      1,660     3,970      5,790      5,790
(Incremental)              (500)   (1,160)   (2,310)   (1,820)   (        )
---------------(Cr$ '000)-_______________
Total Seasonal Production
Costs of Project Participants 1!         3,021    12,146    32,559    57,022    73,373
(of which above the pre-project level)  (738)   (4,199)  (13,847)  (29,911)  (46,650)
Seasonal Production Credit
Requirements of Project
Participants z4/                         2,346      9,861    26,412    46,311    57,956
Total Investment Costs
of Project Participants 3/               5,607    16,244    33,757    36,359    18,016
Total Investment Credit
Requirements of Project
Participants 4/                          4,625    13,363    27,768    29,845    14,627
1/  Including both purchased inputs and family labor of project participants (the amounts
reflecting the phased composite of participation) for crops other than coffee.
2/  Assuming that 100% of purchased inputs (including hired labor) is financed by credit
and that the equivalent of family labor costs is financed at a declining scale of 80%
in first year of the farmer's participation in the project, 60% in the second, 40% in
the third, 20% in the fourth and 0% thereafter. This rate of financing was reduced
slightly in several of the representative models for the carrasco zone in initial years
so that expected production would exceed the amount of credit by at least 25%.
3/  Including all on-farm investments of project participants (the amounts reflecting the
phased composite of participation) other than those directly related to coffee
production.
4/  Assuming that 80% of the investments is financed by credit, with the exception of
investments carried out in the initial years of several of the lowest income models
in the carrasco zone, for which 100% financing is assumed.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 2: Proiect Credit Component (Or$ '000 of November 1976)-/
Year
Before
Project        1         2                   4         5         6         7         a         9         10
I. Seasonal Production Credit
(a) Total Required by Project Participants  /                2,346    9,861    26,412    46,311    57,956    61,810    63,274    63,998    65,032    66,362
(b) Total Required by Mon-Participant Target
Farmers iV                                 9,440 i/     7,552     3,776      -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
(c) Total Required by Target FarPrs                         9,898    13,637    26,412    46,311    57,956    61,810    63,274    63,998    65,032    66,362
(d) Incremental Seasonal Credit 2                              458    3,739    12,775    19,899    11,645     3,854     1,464       724    1,034      1,330
II. Investment Credit
(a) Total Required by Project Participants 2/                4,625    13,363    27,768    29,845    14,627    8,819     4,088     2,142       -         -
(b) Cumulative Investment Credit Outstanding 2/              4,625    17,988    45,756    75,601    90,228    99,047   101,667    98,754    86,718    69,088
(c) Incremental Investment Credit                            4,625    13,363    27,768    29,845    14,627    8,819     2,620    (2,913)  (12,036)  (17,630)
III.Total Project Credit (I(d) + 11(c))                          5,083    17,102    40,543    49,744    26,272      -         -         _         _         _
IV. Total Project Credit (Cumlative)                             5,083    22,185    62,728   112,472   138,744      -
I/ Excluding credit related to coffee production.
i/ Assuming that seasonal credit is repaid, on average, within a year.
3/ Target group farmers participating in or benefitting from improved extension services and production practices (credit estimates derived from phased composite
of participating farms of different models).
_/ Derived from assumption that, of the estimated 900 target group farmers previously receiving credit,about 20% would be included among the first year participants,
40% in the second year, and the remainder in year thereafter. Those not 'participating" until year two or three, however, would continue to receive uatil then
approximately the same level of credit as previously.
H Rough estimate of 1976 seasonal credit to target farmers (see paragraph 21, Annex 4).
2/ Net of repagments of principal, assuming (to help simplify this calculation) repayments according to phased composite of repayment schemes developed for individual
farm models ti.e., farmer receiving equivalent of one investment loan for all project investment credit requirements over the first five years of participation,
that loan being disbursed over up to 5 years and repaid over years 7-12). In reality, a wide variety of repayment schedules wnuld be adopted for investment sub-
loans, some undoubtedly involving partial repayments as early as the fourth or fifth year. These would, however, probably be very small in comparison to the
total outstanding.
5 9.



,AT TrY h'
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION,
MONITORING AND EVALUATION AND SPECIAL STUDIES
I.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Executing Agencies
1.        The various project components will be executed principally by some
20 existing federal, state and private agencies and 7 municipal governments.
A list of the entities and their main roles in the project is given in Chart 1,
overleaf.
Implementation Schedule
2.        A summary of the consolidated schedule of principal project activi-
ties is given in Chart 2.
Overall Coordination
3.        With Decree No. 11.563 of November 17, 1975, the State Government of
Ceara created a special Management Council (Conselho Diretor) to provide over-
all guidance and coordination for the integrated projects which might be
implemented with funding from the Federal Government's POLONORDESTE program.
The State Secretary of Planning, whose agreement is necessary for all state
government budget allocations, was appointed head of the council, which also
includes the State Secretaries of Agriculture, Health, Education and Public
Works; the State Director of the Federal MIinistry of Agriculture; the Regional
(State) Director of SUDENE (the Northeast Development Superintendency); and
representatives of Banco do Brasil, Banco do Nordeste do Brasil and Banco
Nacional de Credito Cooperativo. The council normally meets monthly to review
progress of POLONORDESTE activities and/or resolve policy issues, and is
responsible for the yearly approval of the proposed operating plans for the
POLONORDESTE activities of the various participating agencies in the state of
Ceara.
4.        Day-to-day management and supervision of all POLONORDESTE projects
in Ceara, including the Ibiapaba project, will be one of the responsibilities
of the General Coordinator (Chief Executive) of the State Agricultural Planning
Commission, CEPA-CE, who will report to the Conselho Diretor, through the
Secretary of Planning. He will be assisted by a full-time Technical Coordinator



CFERT I  PRINCIPALREprIrCAGlNlIPS                                   ANI.EX -
_   CODAGRO  (Companhia Cearense de Desenvolvimento Agropecuario, the Ceara C-opany for
O G                        >   Agricultural Development linked to the State Secretariat of Agriculrure)  - purcase,
t   maintenance and operation of farm machinery; supply of farm inputs.
_0 _E38b  (Banco do Brasil, the Bank of Brazil) and
Z-   4 |   E BNB (Banco do Nordeste do Brasil, the Bank of the Northeast) - channelling of invest-
z c                3  j   c;  ment, working capital and land purchase credit.
8 i  S  .o EPACE (Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Ceara, the Ceara Agricultural Research
t  Company linked to the State Secretariat of Agriculture) - coordination and execu-
0  ition of field experimentation.
EMATEE-CE(Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural do Ceara, the Ceara Techni-
X  cal Assistance and Rural Extension Company linked to the State Secretariat of Agri-
culture) - execution of extension and agricultural demonstration;
sOws
4 Id                    ~~~~~Consorcio Rodoviario Estadual do Ceara (the Ceara State Road Consortiun, aConstrur-
.  rtion company linked to the State Secretariat of Works and Public Services) - design
V  and construction of feeder toads.
(a o                tz    sx  DAER (Departamento Autonomo de Estradas de Rodagem, the Road Department linked to,
.0                               State Secretariat of Works and Public Services) - provision of mechanized maintenance
, .C                Q      Z  services.
_X  Municipalities - provision of labor-intensive maintenance services.
E.
0 0                   m      c  COELCE (Companhia de Eletricidade do Ceara, the state-owned Ceara Electricity Company)
- installation of electrification works.
>~~~~~~~~
s!                   t.   54.'CERPI (Co-cerativa da Eletrificacao  Rural do Planalto da Ibiapaba, the Rural Electri-
c .-           i              4  fication Cooperative of the Ibiapaba Plateau) - ownership and maintenance of low
c@. . i             ,      u  tension facilities.
0.04
-<o  _         
r c                      ~~~~~~State Secretariat of Health -supervision and coordination of health component
a. c                              execution.
c                                FSESP (Fundacao Servico Especial de Saude Publica, a Government Foundation for
oz ,~Special Public Health Services) - procurement, distribution and installation of
5 s                               pit latrine slabs.
c; c                     ~~~~~SUCAM (Superintendencia de Campanhas Medicas, the Government's Superintendency
004s                              of Medical Campaigns) - execution of endemic disease control progra.
   FUNRUEAL (Fundo de Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural, the Government's Assistance
4 o                   m      M   Fund for Rural Workers) - funding of health service operating costs.
EMATER-CE (Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural do Ceara, the Ceara
Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company linked to the State Secretariat
_   of Agriculture) - promotion and assistance in establishing community health
Z                   -       C   committees; collaboration in local health programs.
oc   CAGECE (Companhia de Agua e Escoto do Cears,  the state's Water Supply and
>     f~ Sanitation Company) - preparation of feasibility studies for rural water supply
Hq                  z:         Z   works; supervision of construction of water systems; provision of overall
-7                  -          8 maintenance.
SOEC (Superintendencia de Obras do Estado do Ceara, the Superintendency of Works
in the State's Secretariat of Works and Public Services) - construction of
rural water supply works and of health posts and centers.
Z                               1mnicipalities - provision of land and/or buildings for water supply and health
0.4                             post systems.
r0                  -~
'0                  '0          State Secretariat of Education and Culture - supervision and coordination of odura-
ntion component; construction of community learning centers and primary schzols.
H                   U       c           MEB (Movimento de Educacao de Base, the privately funded Basic Education Movement) -
o,                          c  provision of women's and artisan courses.
0l  O     X  PIPMO (Programs Intensive de Preparacao de Mao-de-Obra, the Ministry of Labor's
o                   54          Intensive Program for the Labor Force Preparation) - provision of vocational courses.
X   EMATER-CE (Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural do Ceara, the Ceara Tech-
o  nical Assistance and Rural Extension Company linked to the State Secretariat of
-o Agriculture) - collaboration in provision of home economics courses.
43 MOBRAL (Movimento Brasileiro de Alfabetizacao, the Brazilian Literacy Movement) -
provision of adult education courses and collaboration in primary rural education
program.
Municipalities - operation of rural primary classrooms.
aSSUDEC (Superintendencia do Desenvolvimmnto do Estado do Ceara, the Costa Development
_ _ u4   Superintendency linked to the Secretariat of Planning) - execution of soil and water
,Z  resource  development and soif conservation studies.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
CHART 2: CONSOLIDATED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
C O M P O N E N T   /                              YEAR  1          YEAR  2           YEAR 3           YEAR 4            YEAR 5
Agricultural Development:
Provision of Investment Credit                   I//////          /!////  ///       //////////// I////////I!/I/i/ ///////////////,i
Provision of Working Capital Credit              Il/I//I/I//I   l     / l/lI
Land Purchase:                                       1/l/ll////1llll1lllllll   llllllll1l/lll//l
Extension and Demonstration:
Expansion and Training of Staff                  //I////////  /////////i///  ////I
Provision of Extension Services to Farmers       /// // / I/I/I//I///I ////////I.'////I //////////////  //////
Experimentation:
Completion of Work Plans                         //////
Field Trials                                           Il//I/I  //////////////
Cooperative Support:
Study                                              i//Il//
Financial and Technical Assistance                  t / / / /  I/I//I//I//I!  I/
Mechanization Service Equipment Purchase:                 /////       //I////I//I  //////
'Rural Electrification Installatinn:                  /////i/I ////////!//i//    I/I/I/I/i/HI//                       I !//////i////
Feeder Roads:
Design Work
Construction Works                                      /////l////////////   j///////////////////
Purchase of Maintenance Equipment                //I/I/II/I l/I
|Health and Sanitation Service Expansion:             I///////// I/1/I//I//I/I! 1////////////////////////,/'/i// ///////////////i/
Education and Community Training:
Construction of Community Learning Centers                  // 1//I     I//  //
Construction of Primary Schools                            // /                                                           ////////
Baseline Survey                                       /        /
'graining Courses                                                 1/l//////////////////l   ///////0
Special Soil, Water and Conservation Studies:              /       1                 /     ///   /                    /
1/ For institutional responsibilities, see Chart 1.



ANNEX 4
page /
who would be responsible for supervising the work of: (a) project management
units--composed of a full-time project manager, several advisors and a field
representative--for each POLONORDESTE project in Ceara; and (b) a support
unit, or pool of staff to provide specialized technical assistance and finan--
cial control for all of the project management units. The General Coordinator
of CEPA will also be assisted by a separate monitoring and evaluation unit
(see paras 11-13 below). The general project coordination arrangements are
shown in Chart 3, overleaf.
5.        The Technical Coordinator would be responsible for:  (a) supervising
the work of the project management units and support unit; (b) advising the
General Coordinator of CEPA-CE on matters of interest such as program progress,
changes in project plans, agreements with participating agencies, contracting
consultants, etc.; (c) reviewing annual work plans prepared by project manage-
ment units and the respective participating agencies; (d) helping assure con-
sistency and transfer of experience among the various POLONORDESTE projects in
the state; (e) promoting the active cooperation of the various participating
agencies; and (f) based on reports prepared by the Project Managers and par-
ticipating agencies, reporting at least quarterly through the General Coordi-
nator to the Conselho Diretor, on the details of project progress and problems.
6.        The Support Unit would be composed of a small "in house" pool of
specialists available to act as technical liaisons between the project coor-
dination unit and the specialized executing agencies (for roads, electrifica-
tion, etc.) and assist in the preparation or supervision of those aspects oL
the various POLONORDESTE projects which individually would not require a
full-time specialist. It would include about 5 professional staff able to
advise on matters such as feeder roads, electrification, storage, marketing,
or project financial control. The financial control staff would be in charge
of assuring the maintenance of adequate accounting and auditing records of
project expenditure.
7.        The Prolect Manager would be responsible full-time for:  (a) the
overall supervision of activities under the project; (b) arranging for and
coordinating the preparation of annual work plans--targets, budgets, methods-
with each participating agency; (c) keeping in close contact with participa-
ting agencies and reviewing project progress; (d) preparing consolidated
quarterly progress reports, based on reports submitted to him by the parti-
cipating agencies, for the Conselho Diretor and the relevant Regional and
Federal POLONORDESTE officials; and (e) assuring that project experiences are
adequately reflected in periodically revised project plans. The Project
Manager for Ibiapaba (who would be located in Fortaleza) would be assisted in
these tasks by three full-time professional staff (one advisor for agricul-
tural production components, one for support and infrastructure components and
one for social components), and administrative support staff. As most of the
project's executing agencies have their state headquarters in Fortaleza, the
project management team would also have to work out of Fortaleza.



CHART 3
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
C!A2A RURAL DEVEL OPMENT PROJECT-IB APABA
PROJECT ORGANIZATitO4 AND COORDIrNATION
EXECUTING AGENCIES                         |CEARA STATE POLONORDESTL MANAGFMFNT COUNCIL ("CONSELHO DIRETOR")
-COMPOSED OF TOP-LEVEL REPRESENTATIVES OF MAJOR
STATE                                    PARTICIPATING AGENCIES
COORDINATOR                             -HEADED BY STATE SECRETARY OF PLANNING
FOR EACH
AGENCY'S
POLONORDESTE
ACTIVITIES                                    ___                           ___
MONITORING                         CEPA-CE                         STAFF FOR
AND                        ---             -OTHER
EVAI-UATION         TECHNICAL COORDINATOR                   CEPA-CE
EVUATFOR ALL POLONORDESTE                                          FUNCTIONS
UNIT               ~~~~~PROJECTS IN CEARA
POOL OF TECHNICAL ADVISORS IN                                PROJECT         PROJECT             PROJECT
SPECIALIZED AREAS SUCI-H AS                                  MANAGER         MANAGER             MANAGER
MARKETING, MECHANIZATION, STOR-                              F-OR            FOR                 FOR
AGE, RUJRAL ELECTRIFICATION,                                 IL1APADA        P'OLONORDESTE       POLONORDESTE
FEEDER ROADS, ETC., TO BE                                    PROJLCT         PROJECr 11          PROJECT "X"
UTILIZED IN COORDINATION OF
ANY ONE OF 0IRE STALE'S
POLONORDESTE PROJE ',S, AND
A SMALL FINANCIAL CON IROL
STALL iO SERVICE ALL OF IHESE                                                             -
PROJECTS.                       -ASSISTANT FOR AGRICULTURAL
PRODUCTION COMPONENTS
--ASSISTANT FOR SUPPORT AND
INFRASTRUCTUJRE COMPONFN1S
-ASSISTANT FOR SOCIAL
COMPONENTS
FORTAI. EZA                        >
IBIAPABA PROJECT AREA
LOCAL BRANCHES OF         - n3  mmmE  - -    -    m -  1- 1 -n      mm  COODINTO
EXECUTING AGENCIES
|L IOCAL STAFF
RESPONSIBLE
FOR EACH AGENCY'S
POLONORDESTE
ACTIVITIES                                                                                                       WoWid Bank- i6939



ANNEX 4
Page 6
8.        A field representative, however, would work out of Ubajara in
the project area and would be responsible for: (a) maintaining close contact
with and coordination between the field staff of the various participating
agencies; (b) identifying, resolving and/or communicating to the Project
Manager for further action day-to-day execution problems as they arise; and
(c) especially, assuring that plans for project activities take into account
actual field experiences.
9.        A special provision for technical assistance would be made in the
project for the contracting by CEPA-CE of up to about 19 man-months equivalent
of specialized consultancy services to assist the technical coordinator, the
Project Manager or the participating agencies in such matters as definition of
technical packages, special training courses, revisions in project scope or
execution arrangements, etc. Specific requirements would be identified as the
project progresses.
Estimated Costs
10.       The costs of overall project coordination and administration would
include: the salaries and relevant social security charges for the Technical
Coordinator and the Support Unit (who will eventually serve all 3 POLONORDESTE
projects); the salaries and relevant social security charges for the Ibiapaba
project manager and management team and field staff, office workers and
motorists; per diem for travel expenses; vehicle operating and maintenance
costs and office materials and supplies; one vehicle; miscellaneous office
equipment; and consulting services. The detailed cost assumptions are given
in Tables 1 and 2 of this Annex. The total cost for project coordination
is estimated at Cr$17.9 million, or US$1.5 million equivalent.
1I. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
11.       As noted in paragraph 4 and Chart 3 in this Annex, the project would
also provide for a monitoring and evaluation unit in CEPA-CE, separated from
project execution responsibilities. It would be composed of two full-time
professionals, with experience in social and economic research, and a minimum
support staff.
12.       While the participating agencies and the project manager (see para
7) would be responsible for the normal preparation of periodic reports describ-
ing physical progress toward achieving project targets, the evaluation unit
would focus on: (a) periodic socio-economic studies to review the impact of
the project on the target population and community at large--utilizing, for
example, the base line farm survey taken before project appraisal and the
baseline education survey to be taken as part of the education and training
component as two points of departure for follow-up surveys--and to spot
unexpected side-effects of the project on such things as access to land,
functioning of the labor market, community stability, etc.; (b) independent
evaluations of the performance of participating agencies in achieving project
objectives; and (c) reviewing the appropriateness of the approach and orga-
nizational arrangements of the project. The evaluation unit would report
to the General Coordinator of CEPA-CE.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
13.       Estimated costs for the monitoring and evaluation of the Ibiapaba
project are detailed in Tables 1 and 2 to this Annex and include salaries and
relevant social security charges, per diem for travel, materials and supplies,
other operating costs (including computer rental) and the equivalent of
roughly 35 man-months of specialized consultancy services to assist evaluation
design, data processing and analysis. It is expected that much of this techni-
cal assistance would be oriented concurrently toward providing further train-
ing for the ealuation unit staff. Also, should it prove feasible as experience
is gained, part of the expected consultancy services might be substituted by
full-time staff. The estimated total cost of monitoring is Cr$6.2 million, or
US$0.5 million equivalent.
III. SPECIAL STUDIES
Background
14.       Since administrative, technical and financial constraints preclude
the simultaneous initiation of project preparation and execution in each of
the POLONORDESTE priority areas in Ceara (see Map No. 12315), the state and
federal authorities concerned are adopting a phased approach. The Serra da
Ibiapaba project is the first POLONORDESTE project to be executed in the state,
and preparation is relatively advanced for projects in the Serra da Baturite
(a highland area, similar to Ibiapaba, in the North-central portion of the
state) and in the lower Jaguaribe river valley (an area in the eastern part
of the state in which a combined development of irrigated and rainfed agri-
culture is being planned with the technical assistance of BNB, DNOCS and the
Israeli Government). 1/ These project areas were selected mainly because
of their agricultural potential and their rural employment generation poten-
tial. The Government has requested the Bank to consider financing in the
future, as possible follow-ups to the Ibiapaba project, these or other
POLONORDESTE projects in the state of Ceara.
15.       In addition, the Government has requested that the Bank help finance,
as part of the proposed Serra da Ibiapaba project, several basic studies upon
which subsequent projects might be built in other priority areas in the state.
The objective would be to strengthen the planning capacity of institutions
working in the state, a process begun with the preparation of the Ibiapaba,
Baturite and lower Jaguaribe projects, and to help assure an orderly and
manageable phasing of sound rural development project proposals for the next
several years. The studies, to be carried out over a three-four year period,
are intended mainly to compile information on physical (soil and water)
potential for agricultural development and would help provide the basis for
the formulation of detailed production development proposals. The studies
would include: (i) semi-detailed soil surveys in parts of several semi-arid
areas--probably including Sertao de Quixeramobim/ledio Jaguaribe, Sertaneja
1/ Project preparation work was also recently initiated for two large and
ecologically difficult semi-arid areas called Sertao de Quixeramobim/Medio
Jaguaribe and Sertaneja dos Inhamuns e de Salgado (see paras 16 and 17).



ANNEX 4
Page 8
dos Inhamuns e de Salgado and Sertoes Cearenses; (ii) a water resource survey
in Sertaneja dos Inhamuns e de Salgado; and (iii) soil conservation studies
focussing on all priority areas in the state.
The Study Areas
16.      2Sertao de Quixeramobim/IIedio Jaguaribe.  This area includes some
27,400 km in 14 municipalities (counties) in the central-eastern part of the
state. In 1970 the rural population was about 370,000 and the total popula-
tion 460,000. The state hopes eventually to define a rural development
project to benefit directly some 27,500 of the area's farm families and
indirectly an additional 36,500 families. The area corresponds to the semi-
arid or sertao region around the middle reaches of the Jaguaribe River. For
the most part, rainfall is irregular and averages only 600-800 mm/year, most
of which is concentrated in a 4-month period. Except for some alluvial soils
along the rivers, most of the soils have moderate to serious fertility and
erosion problems. Currently, agricultural and livestock activities are
carried out at very low levels of productivity, due partly to serious soil and
water constraints, unequal distribution of land and poor technical support
services. An estimated 63% of the value production in the agricultural sector
is derived from crops and about 37% from livestock. Almost 80% of the value
of crops produced is accounted for by cotton (37%), beans (21%) and corn
(31%). Extensive beef production, the main livestock activity, is based on a
cattle population of about 300,000 head (1972).
17.       Sertaneja dos Inhamuns e de Salgado.  This area represents th2 upper-
middle section of the Jaguaribe River Valley. It covers some 22,200 km to
the South of Quixeramobim/Medio Jaguaribe, and includes 18 municipalities with a
total population (1970) of about 420,000 of which about 305,000 are rural.
Rainfall is about 600-800 mm/yr., the lower end of that range applying to
most of the western part of the area where the rains are concentrated in only
three months of the year. Very large parts of the area have soils with severe
limitations on agricultural development. Vast parts of the area are flatlands
covered with native scrub growth (caatinga) and agriculture centers almost
entirely on livestock production and the growing of the cotton, beans and
corn. Most of the cropping is concentrated in the eastern part of the area.
Overall, livestock products contribute 35% of the value of agricultural
production and crops 65%. Cotton represents about 53% of the value of crop
production, beans 20% and corn another 10%. The cattle population in 1972 was
some 200,000 head.
18.       Sertoes Cearenses.  This area covers some 25,600 km  of 15 munici-
palities in the semi-arid center of the state, to the west of the Jaguaribe
basin and the east of the Serra da Ibiapaba area. The total population (1970)
is about 431,000 of which 296,000 are rural. Rainfall patterns, the problems
of poor soils and technical support services and very uneven distribution of



ATkiEX 4
Page 9
land ownership are similar to those in the sertao sections of the Jaguaribe
basin. Cotton (32%), beans (30%) and corn (21%) represent the bulk of the
value of crops produced although beef cattle provide the most important single
source of farm income.
19.       The sertao areas to be focussed upon (paras 16-18) in the special
studies cover over half the area of Ceara and 35-40% of its rural propulation,
have serious soil and climate restrictions to agricultural growth, and are
roughly similar to the area covered in the Rio Grande do Norte rural develop-
ment project (see Loan 1195-BR and Appraisal Report No. 921-BR of November 11,
1975). The proposed water and soil resource studies would, together with the
technical experience gained in the Rio Grande do Norte project and the insti-
tutional development begun with the Serra da Ibiapaba project, help form the
basis for future rural development activities in the sertao areas of Ceara.
Scope of Proposed Studies
20.       Semi-Detailed Soil Studies.  The proposed studies, which could cover
parts of Quixeramobim/9Medio Jaguaribe, Sertaneja dos Inhamuns e de Salgado and
Sertoes Cearenses, would use as a starting point the results of the general
exploratory survey already completed by the former Soils Research Unit (now
part of EMBRAPA, the Brazilian Agricultural Research Company) of the Ministry
of Agriculture and the SUDENE Department of Natural Resources as well as
the aerial photographs (scale of 1:100,000) also prepared by SUDENE. The
studies would cover each year (for a total of 3 years) 90,000 ha to be selec-
ted based on potential for intensified agriculture or irrigation. In general,
the studies would include:
(i) the identification, classification and mapping of soils
in the selected areas (to a scale of 1:25,000);
(ii) a review of the physical structure and chemical composition of
those soils;
(iii) an evaluation of soil fertility and fertilization requirements.
The studies would generate soil maps (including soil series and phases); land
classification maps for irrigation (consistent with United States Bureau of
Reclamation standards); and land capability maps (consistent with United
States Department of Agriculture criteria). The soil studies would follow
guidelines established by the National Soil Survey and Conservation Service
of EMBRAPA.
21.       Water Resource and Use Survey.  The general objective of the water
resource survey is to collect and analyse, over a period of about a year,
existing information on water resources in the Sertaneja dos Inhamuns e de
Salgado area and to identify water use development possibilities for improving
livestock operations or small scale irrigation. The study would include:



ANNEX 4
Page 10
(i) the collection of existing data on precipitation, vegetation,
geology, surface and underground water resources and the quality
of the water, current water consumption, etc.; collection and
organization of existing maps on these topics; and organization
of a reference bibliography on available water, soil, vegetation
and climate data;
(ii) collection and analysis of data on existing irrigation projects
and other water uses;
(iii) execution of limited groundwater surveys to complement existing
information as necessary;
(iv) development of consolidated revised maps of principal drainage
basins and water resources in the region; and
(v) based on water, soil and climate data collected, the identifica-
tion and analysis of potential improvements in management of
water resources for agricultural and rural development and the
preparation of a long-term water resource development program.
The alternatives studied would probably include the possible development of
new storage reservoirs and/or means to better utilize existing reservoirs in
highest potential areas for irrigation.
22.       Soil Conservation Studies.  With the exception of some recent work
directed specifically toward improving soil conservation in coffee producing
areas of the state, relatively little has been done to develop and promote
the adoption of soil conservation measures. The exploratory soil survey
already available for the state (see para 7) identifies the fact that the
majority of the soils in the state urgently require measures to reduce soil
erosion. The proposed study would, therefore, in conjunction with planned
water resources and soil surveys, focus on the development of various soil
conservation practices consistent with the more intensive agriculture as
contemplated under the various POLONORDESTE projects in the state. The soil
conservation studies would begin in the Serra da Ibiapaba area where the
Soils and Geology Division of the National Resources Department of SUDEC
(Development Superintendency of Ceara) is already executing semi-detailed
soil studies under a special agreement with SUDENE. The work in Ibiapaba
would, for example, help assure that adequate and timely measures are taken
to prevent erosion and assure proper management of the substantial new land
areas to be cleared and put into production as part of the proposed rural
development project. It is intended as well that, partly to help define the
priority and appropriate use of mechanization services provided under the
project, the study results would be routinely reviewed with the project
management unit and extension and research companies and incorporated into
technical recommendations promoted by extensionists to individual farmers
and developed, hopefully, with region-wide soil conservation and land use
planning in mind.



ANINEX 4
Page 11
Organization and Execution of the Studies
23.       All of the studies would be executed through the Natural Resources
Department of SUDEC, whichi is administratively linked to the State Secretariat
of Planning. The Natural Resources Department of SUDEC receives technical
assistance from, and defines much of its program in conjunction with, the
Natural Resources Department of SUDENE (the Northeast Development Superinten-
dency). Its work is also linked with the activities of EPACE, the state's
agricultural research company, and the national research company, EMIBRAPA. A
management agreement (convenio) would be established between the state govern-
ment and SUDEC, channelling POLONORDESTE funding to cover the costs of the
staff required, specialized consultancy and other contracted services, mater-
ials, minor installations and equipment. The size of the proposed studies was
set partly to take into account the estimated rate at which SUDEC could expand
its activities efficiently, and at the same time take advantage of the exper-
ience SUDEC has in this area. SUDEC's capacity, however, still requires
considerable strengthening, and SUDEC will require some specialized assistance
in helping define the detailed work programs, organize work teams and supervise
study execution. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that SUDEC
would contract consultancy services satisfactory to the Bank for this purpose.
The water resources survey would be carried out over about a one year period,
the soil surveys over a three year period, and the soil conservation studies
over a four year period. During the first six months, work would be concen-
trated on the completion of detailed work programs, the staffing of the study
teams, and the initiation of secondary data collection. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that the detailed work plans for the studies would be
provided to the Bank for approval by December 31, 1977.
Estimated Costs
24.       The total costs of the studies would be about Cr$ 25.6 million
(roughly US$2.2 million) over a four year period (see Table 3). This would
be equivalent to some 36 man-years of consultancy services, though it is
likely that, with a relatively small amount of well-selected consultancy
services, the bulk of the studies can be efficiently carried out by SUDEC with
some additional staff to be contracted for the study period, thereby taking
advantage of relevant experience and an existing infrastructure of support
services.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL                                ANNEX 4
Table 1
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Cost Estimates for Project Administration and Evaluation Units 1/
(Cr$ 000 of November 1976)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Total
Project Administration
Personnel 2/              3,003    3,003    3,003        3,003      3,003      15,015
Per-Diem for Travel         112       126       126        126        126         616
Equipment                   123       -         -          -          -           123
Vehicle Operation            76        76        76         76         76         380
& Maintenance
Mileage 3/                   38        38        38         38         38         190
Office Supplies              50        70        70         70         70         330
Misc.Expenses &              20        20        20(        20         20         100
Rents
Consultancy Servs.          177       236       236        236        236        1121
Total(without con-        3,599    3,569    3,569        3,569      3,569      17,875
tingencies)
(US$ 000 equiv.)           305       302       303        302       303       1,515
Monitoring and Evaluation
Personnel2/                 755       755       755        755        755       3,775
Per-Diem for Travel          14        42        42         42         42         182
Misc. Travel Expenses        10        15        15         15         15          70
Office Iemipment             24        -         -          -          -           24
Office Supplies              10        14        14         14         14          66
Consultancy Services        177       295       295        295        295       1,357
Data Processing and          40       160       160        160        160         680
Analysis
Total(without con-        1,030    1,281    1,281        1,281      1,281      6,154
tingencies)
(US$'000 equiv.)            87       108       109       108        109         521
1/ Underlying assumptions detailed in Table 2 of this Annex.
2/ Including average of 32% over base salary to cover social security charges.
3/ When staff member uses own vehicle for work.



ANNEX 4
Table 2
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CRARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Project Administration and Evaluation - Cost Assumptions
Number                 Unit Cost(Cr$)
. Project Administration
Personnel
Technical Coordinator                      1                      234,000/yr.
Project Manager                            1                      208,000/yr.
Assistants to Project Manager              3                      182,000/yr.
Technical Pool Specialists                 5                     208,000/yr.
Field Manager                              1                      143,000/yr.
Office Staff and Drivers                   4                       26,000/yr.
Social Charges:32% of salaries
Per Diem                                        160-180/yr.            310-390/day
Equipment 1/                                    1 land-rover            89,000
2 calculators            7,000
2 type-writers          5,000
1 projector & screen   7,700
1 camera                2,500
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance               gas,oil,parts,tires,
insurance, lubrication,
etc.                   76,000/yr
Mileage                                         1500 Km/mo              2.10/Km
Office Supplies                                                         70,000/yr.
Consultancy Services                            19 man-months          59,000/mo.
II. Project Evaluation
Personnel
Evaluation Specialists                     2                      182,000/yr.
Office Staff                               2                       26,000/yr.
Temporary staff                            2 equiv.                78,000/yr.
Social Charges:32% of salaries
Per Diem                                        20-60/yr.              310-390/day
Misc. Travel Exnensps                                                    15,000/yr.
Equipment 1/                            2 calculators            7,000
2 typewriters           5,000
Office Supplies                                 -                      14,000/yr.
Consultancy J-rvices                            23 man-months          59,000/mo.
Data Processing and Analysis
Computer Time                                 60 hours over 5 years. 4,000/hr.
Programming Assistance                        approx. 12 man-months 36,000/mo.
1/ A variety of equipment already available through POLONORDESTE financing of
pre-project costs in 1976.



ANNEX 4
Table 3
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 3: Cost Estimates and Phasing of Special Studies
(Cr$ '000 of November 1976)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4     Year 5      Total
Soil Surveysi/            3,040       4,050      4,050       1,010         -        12,150
Water Resource Survey
(Inhamuns/Salgado)      2,200      1,500         -           -           -         3,700
Soil Conservation
Studies                 1,600       2,400      2,400       2,400       1,000       9,800
TotaLZ/ (without
contingencies)         6,840       7,950      6,450       3,410      1,000       25,650
Total1/ (US$ '000)       580         674        546         289          85       2,174
1/ Based on the assumption that semi-detailed surveys would be carried out for a
total of 270,000 ha and the cost (including personnel, materials, equipment and
specially contracted services) would average about Cr$ 45/ha.
2/ Includes, pro-rated among the studies, the equivalent of about US$ 100,000 for
expert consultancy services (roughly 1-2/3 man-years equivalent) for assisting
SUDEC in the definition of detailed work programs and teams and in supervising
study work.



NORTHEAST BR&ZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Summary Project Costs and Phasing (US$000)
Baseline              Foreign
Year I   -/ Year 2         Year 3      Year 4       Year 5               Total               Coats                Exchange Fe
Agricultural Development
On-Farm Investment                           475.2          1,376.6      2,860.7    3,081.2    1,526.8               9,320.5                  22.1                 11.0
Incremental Farm Working Capital              62.6            293.2        817.7    1,361.6    1,418.6               3,953.4                   9.4                 23.0
Land Purchase Credit                                 76.3            148.3        190.7        148.3        84.7               648.3                  1.5                  0.0
Productive Support
Agricultural Extension and Demonstration  492.2               719.5       1,099.1    1,214.5    1,065.1               4,590.4                 10.9                  11.6
Field Experimentation                          28.7            36.8          45.0        61.2        61,2               232.9                  0.6                  10.0
Cooperative Support                            80.0           110.0        110.0         -           -                  300.0                  0.7                  15.0
Mechanization Services                        224.4           264.1         181.0        -           -                  669.5                   1.6                 38.4
Rural Electrification                      1,637.0          1,958.0       1,104.0    1,127.0        719.0             6,545.0                 15.5                  30.0
Feeder Roads                               1,420.0          2,670.0       1,710.0       110.0        -                5,910.0                 14.0                  34.0
Social Infrastructure
Health and Sanitation                         273.7  .        409.4         577.4       690.0       580.5             2.531.0                  6.0                  19.0
Education and Community Training              960.8           887.6         456.1       478.6       476.8             3,259.9                  7.7                  16.9
Project Administration and Studies
Project Coordination Unit                     305.0           302.0         303.0       302.0       303.0             1,515.0                   3.6                 10.0
Evaluiation Unit                               87.0           108.0         109.0       108.0       109.0               521.0                   1.2                 10.0
Studies                                       580.0           674.0        546.0        289.0        85.0             2,174.0                  5.2                  10.0
BASE COST 2/                                      6,702.9         9.957.S    1C.109.7    8,97i.1    6,429.7                42,170.9                 100.0                 19.5
Physical Contingencies 3/                          566,5            766.0        580.7       413.3        320.3            2,646.8                   6.3                 19.5
Price Contingencies                 -/ 563.3                     1,740.3      2,651.0    3,104.1    2,878.4               10,937.1                  24.4                 19.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                7,832.7         12,463.8    13,341.4   12,488.5    9,628.4               55,754.8                 132.2                  19.5
1/ Year 1 of tlfe project, for purposesof these cost estim-ites, corresponds to the fuill 1977 fiscal year of POLONORDESTE
(April 1, 1977 through March 31, 1978), with each subsequent project year corres0onding to the respective
POLONORDESTE fiscal year.
2/ In prices at the time of appraisal (November 1976) converted to US$ at the rate of Cr$ll.8=U1S$l.0
3/ Physical contingencies equivalent to 5% for the mechanization component; 7% for the extenision, experimentati on,
project administration and studies components; 10% for the cooperative support, rural electrification,
feeder road and education components; and 15% for the health and sanitation component.
4/ Price contingencies calculated as follows: for civil works, 10% in 1976, 9% per year in 1977-1979 and 8% per year
thereafter; for equipment, 8% in 1976, 7.5% per year in 1977-1979 and 7% per year thereafter; for other materials
and supplies, credit, salaries, etc., 97 in 1976, 8% in 1977 ars 7% per year thereafter.
5/ Price contingencies as a percentage of base cost pllus physical contingencies.



ANNEX 6
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$millions)
Quarter  Disbursed During  Cumulative Amount   Balance
Bank Fiscal Year  Ending         Quarter             Disbursed        of Loan
1978               Sept.30        0.0                  0.0             17.0
Dec. 31        0.6                  0.6             16.4
March 31       0.8                  1.4             15.6
June 30        U.8                 2.2              14.8
1979               Sept. 30       0.8                  3.0             14.0
Dec. 31        0.9                  3.9             13.1
March 31       0.9                  4.8             12.2
June 30        1.0                  5.8             11.2
1980               Sept. 30       1.1                  6.9             10.1
Dec. 31        1.2                  8.1              8.9
March 31       1.2                  9.3              7.7
June 30        1.0                 10.3              6.7
1981               Sept. 30       1.0                 11.3              5.7
Dec. 31        0.9                 12.2              4.8
March 31       0.9                 13.1              3.9
June 30        0.8                 13.9              3.1
1982               Sept. 30       0.8                 14.7              2.3
Dec. 31        0.7                 15.4              1.6
March 31       0.7                 16.1              0.9
June 30        0.6                 16.7              0.3
1983               Sept. 30       0.3                 17.0              0.0



ANNEX 7
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT, PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY,
PRODUCTION ESTIMATES, MARKETS AND PRICES
I.   AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Current Agricultural Conditions
1.        Agriculture is by far the most important economic activity in the
Ibiapaba region. As detailed in Annex 1, ecological conditions differ widely
within the area. The most favorable agricultural conditions exist in the
humid zone (up to 1,900 mm of rainfall per annum), less favorable conditions
exist in the carrasco or scrubland zone (1,100-1,300 mm of rainfall per
annum), while quite unfavorable conditions exist in the sertao or arid zone
(usually less than 1,000 mm of rainfall per annum). It is hardly surprising
therefore that a wide range of crops are grown within the area as a whole and
that crop yields vary widely, depending on ecological conditions, levels of
management, and individual soil types. In the humid zone the most widely
grown are subsistence crops such as manioc, maize and beans, together with
largely cash crops such as sugarcane, coffee, bananas, vegetables, citrus,
avocado and mangoes. The most important of these cash crops is currently
sugarcane, but coffee is assuming increasing importance, as are vegetables
since market prospects improved with the introduction of a better basic road
system. In the scrubland zone manioc and beans are widely grown, but sorghum
in some cases is taking the place of maize. There is little emphasis in the
scrubland zone on crops such as sugarcane, bananas and vegetables, although
these may in fact be grown in scattered pockets where water is available. In
the arid zone the emphasis is almost exclusively on extensive cattle ranching,
but again small quantities of subsistence crops may be grown where water is
available.
2.        Generally speaking, agricultural practices are of a traditional
nature and, where the farms are small, production is primarily oriented toward
subsistence needs. Modern inputs such as fertilizers and pesticides have
not, traditionally, been used on any scale. Agricultural practices are fairly
primitive. Nor, for reasons that are elaborated on in Annexes 2 and 3, has
the small farmer had much access to formal credit channels or to technical
assistance. As a consequence, and due to the prevailing land ownership and
sharecropping system, the general level of agricultural productivity is low
(see Table 1 for estimated yields without the project).
3.        Farming systems vary greatly within the area.  Where the farms are
larger the practice is to utilize sharecroppers (growing both subsistence and
cash crops) rather than employ paid labor. Consequently, there are no clearly



AiA.A /
Page 2
defined cropping rotations. Instead, sharecroppers tend to practice a form
of shifting cultivation whereby the land is cropped for three to four years
consecutively before being left fallow for ten or more years. Where the farms
are smaller, which usually coincides with better soils, cropping patterns are
more intensive and there tends to be less fallow or partially used land. Over-
all, both because of the prevailing land tenure system and poor road access,
substantial areas are at any one point in time under-utilized. Another con-
tributing factor is that yields (and, hence, revenues) are low due to poor
cropping practices. This overall pattern is, however, changing. Market
prospects are improving, modern inputs are becoming easier to obtain, and
there is more emphasis on increased cash cropping. The introduction of coffee
and the increasing cultivation of vegetables are cases in point.
Proposed Agricultural Development Strategy
4.        The serra area as a whole, but particularly the humid zone, has
much more agricultural potential than the arid sertao which surrounds most of
the project area. There is evidence that the area is beginning to "take off"
in economic terms, primarily because of the building of the new access road
and the better marketing opportunities that this presents. The agricultural
development strategy employed under the project will therefore be to hasten
the natural development process by improving the support services available to
the farmers, thus enabling them both to improve yields of the traditional
subsistence crops and to increase the production of the (potentially) very
profitable cash crops such as vegetables, fruit, sugarcane and coffee in the
humid zone and peanuts in the scrubland zone. Agricultural practices are
currently not very sophisticated, but it is believed that a considerable
amount of agricultural expertise already exists, which, if supplemented by
experience in other parts of the state, and stimulated by improved support
services and infrastructure, should result in substantially increased produc-
tion. It is precisely because the area has this latent development potential
that it has been chosen as the focal point for the project.
II. PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY
General
5.        As already mentioned, a wide variety of crops are grown within the
project area and a considerable amount of agricultural expertise is already
available, although it is not at present practiced universally. The available
information is detailed below. All the crops mentioned are quite widely grown
in the project area, the exception being peanuts, which is grown but on a
limited scale. Initial trials suggest grounds for optimism with regard to
peanuts, but it should be emphasized that, of all the the recommended crops,
peanuts at present represent the biggest uncertainty. Crop yield estimates
mentioned represent a composite result of local knowledge (particularly from
EMATER staff) and appraisal mission findings. Cultural and management prac-
tices do not involve major departures from existing custom. Fertilizer



ANNEX 7
Page 3
recommendations should be looked at as preliminary averages based on the best
available (though incomplete) data on soil fertility levels, and on rudimen-
tary "technical packages" developed by the extension services. During project
implementation, recommendations will be improved and adapted on the basis of
further soil fertility analysis and the results of the project's experimental
program. Yield assumptions are for the most part conservative and are
generally thought to be attainable by the time the project is fully implanted.
Yield increases are phased over time, the details being provided in Table 1.
Yearly input coefficients by crop are summarized in Table 2 and estimated
input and output prices are given in Table 3. A tentative land use per farm
type is given in Appendix 1.
6.        Beans can be grown on the lighter soils of the humid zone, and more
generally throughout the scrubland zone where the soils in any case are mostly
very sandy. Soils with a pH of about 6.5 are to be preferred. The local
variety (Mulatinho) is already widely produced and will continue to be grown.
Planting should take place at the beginning of the rainy season, and the crop
can be grown either as a pure stand or interplanted with other crops such as
manioc or maize. When grown in a pure stand, the rows should be 40 cm apart
with a spacing interval of about 20 cm within the row. The first weeding
should be done when the plants reach about 20 cm in height, the second weeding
about two weeks later. The recommended fertilizer usage would in general be
about 60 kg urea, 40 kg of triple-superphosphate and 65 kg of potassium
fertilizer per ha in the humid zone; and 75 kg of urea, 50 kg of triple-
superphosphate, and 80 kg of potassium fertilizer in the scrubland zone.
Harvesting would normally begin some 100 to 120 days after planting. Present
yields in the humid and scrubland zones are approximately 450 kg per ha and
300 kg per ha, respectively. It is believed that these yields can be increased
to 700 kg per ha and 500 kg per ha, respectively, with the introduction of
recommended practices. These are fairly modest increases, and, where condi-
tions are more favorable (i.e., in the humid zone), substantially higher yields
are probably attainable.
7.        Manioc can be grown on a very wide range of soil types.  The crop
is very responsive to good management and good growing conditions, but it is
also capable of yielding satisfactorily where the soils are poorer and sa.ndier
as in the scrubland zone. It also tolerates more acid conditions and can be
grown where the pH is as low as 5.0. The recommended varieties are the local
strains of Joao Grande and Crateus, together with higher yielding varieties,
which are presently being grown in the neighboring state of Pernambuco. such
as Manipeba Branca, Jaloba and Tutano. The crop can be planted more or less
any time during the rainy season, although preferably in the beginning of the
rainy season. It is best planted on ridges 100 cm apart and 20 cm high, with
the plants spaced 50 cm apart along the ridge. Cuttings 15/20 cm in length
are the preferred planting material. Two or three weedings are required
during the growling season. The generally recommended fertilizer practice is
about 60 kg of urea, 115 kg of triple-superphosphate and 40 kg of potassium
fertilizer per ha. Harvesting normally takes place 12 to 18 months after
planting, the length of time depending on exactly when during the previous
rainy season the crop was actually planted. Current yields average about
4 tons per ha, but it is believed, since the crop is very responsive to



ANNEX 7
Page 4
improved nutrition (particularly nitrogen and phosphates), that yields of 14
tons per ha are attainable. Again, substantially higher yields than this can
be obtained on the better soils under good management.
8.        Maize can be grown on almost any soil type, except heavy clays with
impeded drainage. Best results are, however, obtained in the humid zone on
medium-textured, deep, well-drained soils with a pH of from 6 to 7.5. The
recommended varieties are the local strains of Acteca and Maia, but it should
also be possible to introduce selected hybrids from other parts of the North-
east. The crop should be planted in February/March in rows 90 cm apart with
a spacing interval of 25 cm along the ridges. Two weedings are generally
needed, the first one about two weeks after planting and the second two weeks
later. The generally recommended fertilizer practice is about 60 kg of urea,
45 kg of triple-superphosphates and 70 kg of potassium fertilizer per ha.
Harvesting would normally begin at the end of the dry season, i.e., about the
end of June. Present yields are very low, generally about 700 kg per ha, but
it is believed that yields of 2 tons per ha are attainable.
9.        Sugarcane can be grown on a wide range of soil types, but it is best
grown in the humid zone on deep, well-drained soils having a pH of between 5.5
and 6.5. The recommended varieties are IANE-4421 and CO-419. The crop is best
planted after the onset of the first rains in rows 80/100 cm apart with a
spacing interval of 40/80 cm along the row. Generally two to three weedings
are required in the first year. The recommended fertilizer rate is approxi-
mately 120 kg of urea, 80 kg of triple-superphosphate and 140 kg of potassium
fertilizer per ha. Up to 5 ratoon crops can be grown. Current yields average
about 32 tons per ha, but it is predicted that this average can be increased
to approximately 45 tons per ha relatively easily.
10.       Peanuts prefer sandier soils that are well drained and have a pH in
excess of 7.0. They are thought to be particularly well suited to the scrub-
land zone. The recommended varieties are Tatui and Tatu. Planting should be
done at the very beginning of the rainy season, in rows 60 cm apart with a
spacing interval of 20 cm along the row. Generally two weedings are required,
the first about two weeks after planting and the second some two weeks later.
The recommended fertilizer practice is about 80 kg of urea, 50 kg of triple-
superphosphate and 85 kg of potassium fertilizer per ha. Local varieties
require about 120 days to mature. Current yields are estimated at about
500 kg per ha, but it estimated that this could be increased to approximately
1.2 tons per ha.
11.       Oranges can be grown on sandy-clay, well-drained soils where the pH
is between 6 and 7 in the humid zone. Local varieties would continue to be
grown using a spacing of 7 x 7 m. The recommended fertilizer application would
be approximately 120 kg of urea, 225 kg of superphosphate and 80 kg of potas-
sium chloride per ha. Production would begin during the fourth year after
planting, while average yields are expected to reach 20 tons per ha by full
development.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
12.       Vegetables are best grown on level, well-drained medium textured
soils, preferably where irrigation facilities can be provided. The following
local varieties are recommended. For tomatoes--Santa Cruz; for carrots--
Nantes and Kuroda; for beets--Precose Wonder; for green pepper--Avelar, Ikeda
and Cascadura; for cabbage--Japanese hybrids; and for garlic and chuchu (a
squash)--local varieties. Most vegetables may be grown throughout the year,
but preferably during the dry season, especially in the humid zone. Fertil-
izer rates would vary depending on the type of vegetables grown but would
average about 180 kg of urea, 120 kg of triple-superphosphate and 195 kg of
potassium fertilizer per ha. Yields in the project area are presently esti-
mated to average 20 tons per ha, but it is expected that these yields could
increase to about 30 tons per ha at full development.
13.       Avocado may be grown on the heavier, deeper and better drained soils
in the humid zone. Local varieties, which originated in the West Indies, are
recommended, together with imported varieties of Guatemalan origin, such as
Polloch and Prince. Planting should be done from January to March, the recom-
mended spacing being 8 x 8 m. Fertilizer rates should be about 75 kg of urea,
160 kg superphosphate and 75 kg of potassium fertilizer per ha. Production
may be expected to begin during the fourth year after planting. Current yields
are estimated to be 5 tons per ha, but it is believed that average yields of
16 tons per ha are attainable at full development.
14.       Passion Fruit prefers the deeper, better drained soils with a pH of
around 5.5 in the humid zone. The local variety (with a yellow fruit), which
is widely grown in Ceara because of its disease resistance qualities, is
strongly recommended. Propagation should be by seed or cuttings planted
during the rainy season. The recommended spacing would be 4 x 4 m or 4 x 5 m
with the plants being grown on trellises about 2 m high. The recommended
fertilizer application would be about 200 kg of urea, 900 kg of triple-
superphosphate and 300 kg of potassium fertilizer per ha. Production is
expected to begin about the second year after planting with the plants being
dug up and replaced every six years. Current yields are estimated at about
10 tons per ha, but it is believed that these could be increased to approxi-
mately 14 tons per ha after full development.
15.       Annato may be grown in the well-drained, medium-textured soils of
the scrubland zone. The crop (used to produce a food coloring or dye) is
already grown, but not on a large scale, in the project area. Relatively
little is known about the most suitable varieties but they would probably
be local strains. The crop is best grown in pure stand in rows 4.5 m apart
with a spacing interval of 4.5 m between plants. The recommended fertilizer
practice is currently about 60 kg of urea, 40 kg of triple-superphosphate and
65 kg of potassium fertilizer per ha. Harvesting of the fruits begins 18
months after planting and yields of about 800 kg per ha per year can be
expected.



AN1NEX 7
Page 6
III. PRODUCTION ESTIMATES
16.       Based on a farm sample survey in the project area, the estimated
pre-project crop production on beneficiary farms in 1976 was equivalent to
about Cr$ 51.1 million (US$4.3 million) 1/ of which 37% was accounted for
by sugarcane, 20% by coffee, 20% by various vegetables, 10% by beans, 7% by
cassava (manioc) and the remaining 6% by citrus, avocado and peanuts.
17.       The crop production development under the project has been projected
based on eight illustrative farm models (see Appendix 1 and Table 4), reflect-
ing different size, tenure status and ecological conditions of beneficiary
farms. Excluding coffee, the incremental output would be equivalent to
Cr$ 168.3 million (US$14.3 million) bringing the total production at full
development to about Cr$ 209 million (US$17.7 million). The increase would
result from an expansion of about 200% over about 8-9 years in cropped areas
by the participating farmers and an average improvement of yields of about
50% over the respective pre-project levels. The area to be cropped by the
project participants (excluding coffee) is estimated to increase by about
40,000 ha (from 19,000 ha at present to some 59,000 at full development)
of which approximately 15% (6,000 ha) would be in the humid/sub-humid zone
and 85% (34,000 ha) in the carrasco. The expected average yield improvement
would correspond to an increase in output value per ha from about Cr$ 2,100
(US$180) to Cr$ 3,450 (US$290), not taking into account coffee developments.
A summary of expected changes in yields, areas cropped and production by
crop is given in Table 5.
18.       The total annual production at full development of the project is
estimated as follows:
Incremental Production
Value
Tons           Cr$ Million        %
Beans                   6,275               34.0          20
Corn                    1,470                1.8           1
Manioc                135,515               24.4          15
Peanuts                10,185               20.2          12
Sugarcane             185,220               19.4          12
Vegetables             10,300               17.6          10
Passion Fruit          11,830               19.5          12
Citrus                 18,900               17.0          10
Avocado                 4,620                3.8           2
Annato                  2,650               10.6           6
Total                                168.3          100
1/   All production value figures in this chapter are based on average farm-
gate prices between 1974 and 1976 expressed in constant terms of 1976.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
19.       As indicated, most of the additional output is expected to be in
beans, manioc, peanuts, sugarcane, passion fruit, vegetables and citrus. This
actual production pattern might of course change, if unexpected changes in
relative output prices or technical breakthroughs occur over the project imple-
mentation period.
20.       In addition to the production increase as a result of the project,
it is expected that the coffee program implemented simultaneously by IBC in
the project area would increase the area planted in coffee by project partic-
ipants by some 5,700 ha (from about 4,000 ha at present to about 9,700 ha)
and coffee yields from 0.3 tons/ha presently to about 1.8 tons/ha. As a
result, coffee production by project participants is projected to increase
from 1,200 tons at present to about 17,500 tons, equivalent to an increment
of Cr$ 124.2 million (US$26.7 million).
21.       The output projections for the project include only expected produc-
tion increases on farms directly benefiting from the project's agricultural
component. Effects on production through spill-over or demonstration from the
agricultural component as well as from the feeder road component on other farms
have not been quantified and are therefore excluded from estimated incremental
project production.
IV. MARKETS
22.       The significance of the incremental project output in terms of exist-
ing supply is indicated below:
Incremental Project Output as % of
Current            Current
Local Production Ceara Production
Beans                    190                      4
Corn                      16                      2
Mlanioc                   31                       7
Peanuts                    *                      *
Sugarcane                 29                      5
Vegetables               250 (approx.)          n.a.
Citrus                  450 (approx.)           n.a.
*Current production negligible so comparison meaningless.
While the additional production is insignificant in the national context, the
project would substantially increase the regional supply, especially of
peanuts and annato and to a lesser extent manioc, sugarcane and vegetables.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
23.       Given the estimated supply/demand situation at the producer, local,
state and national levels, it is expected that only a small portion of the
incremental output, probably not exceeding 5%, would be absorbed by on-farm
and local consumption, while the bulk would serve to meet demands in Ceara
and the neighboring states of Piaui and Maranhao. 1/ Most of the peanut and
a part of the vegetable and sugar (and/or derived alcohol) output would
depend on national markets. Only annato (6% of total additional output) is
expected to be directly exported. However, the project's peanut and sugar
production would marginally influence national export trade through an in-
crease in vegetable oil exports and in exportable sugar and/or reduction of
oil imports (the alcohol is used as an additive to gasoline).
24.       Some of the incremental sugarcane and fruit and vegetable production
would be absorbed by the capacity of the existing processing industry. Pres-
ently, sugarcane is processed into cachaca (an alcoholic beverage) in some
135 small traditional on-farm mills and into rapadura (blocks of semi-refined
sugar) in some 800-900 small mills. The efficiency of these mills is low and
the capacity limited. Although some improvement would be expected as a result
of the electrification provided by the project, the market for much of the
proposed increase in sugarcane production would depend upon the planned expan-
sion of large-scale milling capacity in the project area. Construction of a
new mill to be located in Ibiapina has been approved by the Brazilian Sugar
and Alcohol Institute (IAA) and financing is now being arranged with Banco do
Nordeste do Brasil (BNB). The new mill (Companhia Agroindustrial da Serra da
Ibiapaba, controlled by a private Brazilian concern, "Grupo Granjeiro") would
have a daily cane intake capacity of about 2,000 tons and is expected to be-
come operational in 1979/80. At full development the plant is expected to
produce alcohol at a rate of 120,000 liters a day. It would have an annual
cane intake of 300,000 tons and an output of 18 million liters of alcohol.
This new mill, together with the planned further expansion of an existing
mill, which produces rapadura in the Barbalha area, are expected to absorb
the incremental cane production without difficulty. With respect to fruit
and vegetables, it is expected that most will be marketed fresh (a good share
through the new transshipment produce market in Tiangua in the project area)
and the remainder would be absorbed by the existing fruit/vegetable processing
firms, specifically Citia and Cajubras, which are located within 40 km of
Fortaleza. Another fruit and vegetable plant is being planned in the project
area by a coffee processing industry group. Both existing plants produce
juices and marmalade from cashew, mango, passion fruit, guava and citrus, and
tomato paste. Cajubrus has a daily capacity of about 600 tons and Citia, 100
tons (see Table 6). In 1976, they purchased 26,000 tons and 5,000 tons of
fruits and vegetables, respectively. This intake is sufficient to run the
1/   The more important consumption centers being Fortaleza (pop., 1.2 million;
distance, 320 km); Belem (pop., 0.6 million; distance, 1,200 km); Sao
Luis (pop., 0.3 million; distance, 720 km); Terezina and Sobral (comb.
pop., 0.4 million; distance, 200 km).



ANNEX 7
Page 9
factories for approximately two months only and the implicit underutilization
reflects mainly supply shortages. Citia buys directly from farmers in Ibiapaba
and sells most of its products in the Rio market. Cajubras buys through agents
in Ceara, Pernambuco, Paraiba, Para and Rio Grande do Norte and sells its
products in both the national and international market. Its exports in 1975
totaled US$2.0 million and in 1976, US$3.5 million, mainly to Europe and the
United States.
25.       Peanuts produced under the project would be almost exclusively for
oil production. Oil processing facilities (mainly for cotton seed or castor)
exist in the state and might absorb some of the peanut output. It is expected,
however, that until the oil processing capacity in the state is expanded, most
of the incremental peanut production would be processed in industries located
in the states of Bahia (in the Northeast), Minas Gerais and Sao Paulo. With
respect to manioc, most is expected to continue to be processed into flour at
the some 1,000 small, traditional on-farm processing mills scattered throughout
the project area.
26.       Although there are a number of federal and state agencies 1/ to
facilitate agricultural marketing, the marketing system in the project area
depends almost exclusively on an intricate network of middlemen, including
farmer-merchants, suppliers to truckers, truckers, central market buyers, etc.,
each usually specialized in certain crops and following different purchase
practices. There are a total of over 400 such middlemen operating in the area,
of which about half are truckers (see Table 7). Farmers who sell only small
volumes or those who have their own transportation frequently sell directly
in one of the several local markets to retailers, wholesalers or truckers,
but usually the truckers buy at the farmgate. Prices are generally determined
by the trucker who often has a near monopoly on transportation and has greater
knowledge of prices and the supply/demand situation. The farmer-distributor
buys from other smaller farmers to complement his own production and complete
his carload. The trucker-supplier assembles produce for the trucker who takes
it to the main consumption centers. There are usually three to five suppliers
per trucker. The terminal market buyer does not generally have contact with
1/   -  Servicio de Informacao de Mercado (SIMI), a dependency of SUDENE for
providing marketing information.
- Comissao de Financiamento da Producao (CFP), a federal institution
to implement a minimum price policy for certain products jointly
with the Banco do Brasil and CIBRAZEM.
- Instituto de Azucar e do Alcool (IAA) for implementing sugar and
alcohol production policies.
- Companhia Brasileira de Armazenamento (CIBRAZEM) for providing
storage of agricultural products.
- Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos, COBAL, for providing wholesale
marketing facilities (large produce markets in the major metropolitan
areas and transshipment markets in main production areas).



ANNEX 7
Page 10
the farmer as he buys from the preceding intermediaries and resells to other
wholesalers or retailers. Another type of local intermediary, the maloqueiro,
is a smaller scale middleman living in the area who deals with any type of
product by transporting it on rented vehicles or animal-drawn carts. Another
type, camboiieiros, own trucks and are located outside the Serra da Ibiapaba
in the sertao towns, where they collect manure to bring to the Serra de
Ibiapaba farmers. On their way back, they buy and carry farm products, pri-
marily brown sugar (rapadura) and coffee.
27.       This marketing system is in general quite effective but its cost
efficiency is low. The resulting high marketing costs are reflected in con-
siderable margins between farmgate and wholesale prices 1/ and are due mainly
to high assembly cost, low volume transaction and a lack of direct access by
most farmers to the local or regional markets. The basic factors responsible
have been the precarious feeder road system in the project area and the
absence of a central assembly market in the area capable of handling effi-
ciently larger quantities of produce. The marketing system might not have
been able to handle the additional production of the project effectively but
the expansion of the rural feeder road system provided for under the project
and the recent establishment of an assembly/transshipment market 2/ in the
center of the project area are expected to increase the system's capacity and
its efficiency by lowering transportation cost and improving competition so
that reduced marketing cost would produce additional production incentives
for the farmers in the form of higher farmgate prices. It is also expected
that the provision of some grain storage facilities by CIBRAZEM would help
to reduce the impact on the farmer of annual grain price fluctuations and to
implement the Government's minimum price policies in the area. The assistance
given to cooperatives might eventually also lead to an adoption of low cost
cooperative marketing, especially of vegetables.
V.   PRICES
28.       Product prices at the farmgate level for 1974, 1975 and 1976 are
given in Table 3. Price differentials between the farmgate and retail levels
1/   Prices in the local markets are between 25% and 100%  higher than those
paid at farmgate.
2/   Centrais de Abastecimento (CEASA) recently constructing a mercado expedidor
(assembly/transshipment market) in Tiangua at an investment cost of about
Cr$ 2.7 million. It would provide facilities for truck parking; handling,
sorting and weighing of produce; and marketing service agencies, includ-
ing banks and a CEASA-SIM market information center.



ANNEX 7
Page II
are high and reflect the low efficiency of the marketing system, high transpor-
tation cost, high losses in the marketing process and various fiscal charges. 1/
For vegetables, the farmers receive at the farmgate about 30-40% of the retail
price in the local fresh market. The price at the processing industry for com-
parable vegetables is about one-third less than in the fresh market. For
fruits, the farmer receives at the farmgate 20-30% of the retail price and,
for staples (beans and manioc), 50-70%. Price fluctuations over the year are
substantial, ranging from 100% for staple crops such as beans and manioc to an
average of 350% for vegetables and up to 100% for fruits (for selected exam-
ples, see Table 8).
29.       Prices are relatively free from Government regulations.  Before
February 1977, sugarcane producers received a direct Government subsidy of
Cr$ 46 per ton of cane delivered to the factory, but this subsidy has been
abolished. The only other scheme applicable to the output of the project is
Government's minimum price program for beans, corn, peanuts and manioc. How-
ever, it has had no direct impact on the price level in the project area for
lack of CIBRAZEM storage facilities and because prevailing farmgate prices
have generally been higher than the support price level (for examples, see
Table 9).
30.       Since most of the additional production will be channelled to the
regional, extra-regional and, to some extent, to the international market, it
is expected that the incremental supply would not have negative effects on
the level of farmgate prices. This assumption is supported by the excellent
road connection between the project area and the potential markets, the new
assembly/transshipment market in the project area and the expected improvement
in the efficiency in marketing through the feeder road construction provided
under the project.
1/   Imposto Sobre Transporte Rodoviario (ISTR):  5% over costs of freight.
FUNRURAL: 2.5 over value of all farm products sold.
ICM: Up to 15% of value of marketed production.



Annex  7
Appendix 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
PROPOSED LAND USE AT FULL DEVELOPMENT STAGE
M tONTHi                            I         t                                                                  F 
AR\EA       MARCFi   APRIL      MAY      JUNE      JULY  | AUGUST    SEPT.      OCT.      4OV.     D8ECJ.              FEB.AN
1. HUMID ZONE
1. FARM TYPE I
0.8 HA.                              BEANS
0.8 Ha                     CORN
T0.4                                                              VEGETABLES
2. FARM TYPE II
0.6 HA                                BEANS
0.6 HaCON0/7m7
0.3 Ha                                                           VEGETABLES
0.5 PA                                                PASSION FRUIT
1.0 HA                                                  SUGAR CANE
3. FARM TYPE III
VO0 Hu                                BEANS
0.4 Ha                                                           VEGETABLES
1.0Ha                                                 PASSION FRUIT
3_5_Ha                                                 SUGAR CANE
4. FARM TYPE IV
13.5 H.                                                 SUGARCANE
2.5 Ha                                                  ORANGES
1.0 Ha                                                  AVOCADO
II. SCRUBLAND ZONE
S. FARM TYPE V
BEANS
PEANUTS
2.0 Ha                                                  MANIO
1.0 Ha                                                  ANNATO
6. FARM TYPE VI
0.5 Ha                                BEANS                                    7
0.5 =a PEANUTS
1.0 Ha                                                  MANIOC
t.0 Ha                                                  ANNATO
7. FARM TYPE VII
3.0 Haw                              BEANS
3.0HaPEANUT3
2.0 Ha                                                  MANiOC
10 Ha                                                   ANNATO
8. FARM TYPE VIII
6.0 Hd                                                  MANIOC
l2 Fb  {                                 ~~~~~~~~~ANNATO



ANNEX 7
Table 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 1: Agriculture -Estimated Yearly Yields
(tons/ha)
Zones and          Without
Crops  Project                     ~~~~Production Years
Crops              Project
1.  Humid Zone                   1         2          3          4           5          6
Beans              .45     .45         .55        .60        .65        .70         .70
Corn               .70      .70      1.20        1.60       1.80       2.00       2.00
Vegetables      20.00   20.00       25.00       27.00      29.00      30.00      30.00
Sugarcane       32.00   32.00       34.00      38.00       42.00      45.00      45.00
Passion Fruit  10.001/  6.001/   12.00         14.00       14.00       14.00       -
Oranges         10.001/  8.0021   10.00        12.00       14.00       17.00    20.00
Avocado          5.001/  5.002/    7.50         10.00      12.00       14.00    16.00
Coffee             .30-/   .30-/       .40        .70       1.10        1.50      1.80
2. Scrubland (Carrasco)
Beans              .30      .35        .40        .45        .50         .50        .50
Manioc           4.00    6.00         8.00      10.00      12.00       14.00    14.00
Peanuts            .50      .80        .90       1.00       1.10        1.20      1.20
Annato             -        .40        .60        .70        .80          .80       .80
1/ Average of all current plantations.
2/ Average yields during first year of production of new plantations.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 2: Yearly Input Coefficients
Per Ha of Crop 1/
HIUMID  ZONE                                  a                                                SCRUBLAND (CARRASCO) ZONE
INPUT              UNIT                                                                                                     Passion
Biians         Corn    Vegetables  Sugarcane   C0ffee          Oranges       Avocado       Frutt       Beans         Peanuts       Manioc        Annato
Labour             Mandays          35           30           330           53          27           61            54          98           25            35             46            26
Seeds              Kg               35           20             5           _-                       -             -           -            35            70               4
Insecticides &    L or Kg            3            3           220            3        3.25           11            12          20            3             5              3            4
Fungicides
Mineral Oil        L                 -            -            -             -           6           10            _      7         _       _                                          -
Urea               Kg               60           60         180           120          130          120            75         200           75            80             60           60
T.S.P.             Kg               40           45         120             80         220          220           160         900           50            50            115            4o
K. Fert.           Kg               65           70          195           140           50          80             75       ,300           80            85             4|0           65
Manure             Tons             -            -            30            -        12.50             2          1.7          15           _       ,        _                          I
Dolomite           Kg              250          250         500             -          -            250           250          _           250           250       i      -          500
vlheel Tractors    Hours             3            3            5             U            5          -                                       3              3              3            U
Draft Animals      Days              1            1            3             4          -             5             5           5            1              1              5            1   |
Packing Mat.       Units             -           -            70            -           10          140           100         100           -             _               -            10
1/ Does not include inputs used for setting up the plantations and which were taken into consideration as investments.
2/  Cubic meters of cuttings.                                                                                                                                                                       sz



ANNEX 7
Table 3
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 3: Output and Input Farm Gate Prices
Cr$/Ton
1974       1975        1976            Average-a'   Projected2J
Prices      Financial
Outputs                   Market Prices in Current Cruzeiros   (1974-76)   Prices
In Constant 1976 Terms
Beans                     2,330       3,205       7,667           5,420        5,420
Corn                         700        833       1,267           1,235        1,235
Peanuts                   1,740       2,240       2,440           2,880        1,985
Manioc                        68        146         217             180          180
Sugarcane                     47         76         121             105          105
Coffee                    3,410       4,380      10,730           7,625        8,340
Passion Fruit                585        760       2,852           1,650        1,650
Urucu                      n.a.       3,000       4,000           4,000        4,000
Citrus                     n.a.         657         900             900          900
Avocado                      680      1,080       1,280             825          825
Tomato                    1,050       1,000       1,050           1,435        1,435
Green Pepper              1,300       1,300       1,280           1,800        1,800
Cabbage                   1,267       1,067       1,267           1,665        1,665
Carrots                   1,533       1,600       1,667           2,200        2,200
Chuchu                      500         500         475             700          700
Garlic                     n.a.       1,400       1,700           1,810        1,810
Beets                     1,423       1,103       1,400           1,800        1,800
Inputs I/
Potassium Chloride          -           -         1,600             -            960
Superphosphate              -           -         1,500             -            900
Urea                        -           -         3,000             -          1,800
Formicides (Mirex)          -           -        16,000             -         16,000
Mineral Oil                  -          -         5,000             -          5,000
Insecticide Compound        -           -        60,000             -         60,000
Fungicide Compound          -           -        30,000             -         30,000
Dolomite                    -           -           330             -            330
Tomato Seeds                -           -       600,000             -        600,000
Pepper Seeds                -           -       600,000             -        600,000
Carrot Seeds                -           -       250,000             -        250,000
Bean Seeds                   -           -        5,000             -          5,000
Peanut Seeds                -           -         6,000             -          6,000
Corn Seeds                  -           -         1,500             -          1,500
1/  iNot included in the list are: Unskilled farm labor at Cr$18.00 per day, animal trac-
tion at Cr$25.00/day, wheel tractors to be Cr$98.00/hour and chain tractors to be
Cr$305.00/hour.
2/ Average price calculations took into consideration an average inflation rate of- 32%
for the period mid 1974-mid 1975 and a 37% rate for the period mid 1975-mid 1976.
3/ Projected financial prices reflect, in some cases, adjustments where relatively high
recent local prices are expected to decline and/or where the Bank's latest price pro-
jections for world-wide prices varied significantly from the average local 1974/76
prices.



ANNEX 7
Table 4
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 4: Area Development by Farm Type
(ha)
Farm Type                            Pre-                      Year                    Number of
Crop            project    I       II     III    IV        V       Dev. Years
Humid Zone:
Type I            Beans              0.2     0.3    0.5    0.8    0.8    0.8
(currently        Corn               0.2     0.4    0.6    0.8    0.8    0.8
sharecropper)    Vegetables          0.2      0.2    0.3    0.4    0.4    0.4
Total             0.6      0.9    1.4    2.0    2.0    2.0             3
Incr. Area           0.3      0.5    0.6       -      -
Type II (owner-  Beans               0.2      0.2    0.4    0.6    0.6    0.6
operator of       Corn                -        -     0.3    0.6    0.6    0.6
up to 10 ha)      Vegetables         0.2       -     0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3
Sugarcane         1.0      1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
Passion Fruit      -       0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5
Total             1.4      1.7    2.4    3.0    3.0    3.0             3
Incr. Area           0.3      0.7    0.6       -      -
Type III(owner-  Beans               0.8     0.3    0.9    1.0    1.0    1.0
operator of       Vegetables         0.2     0.1    0.3    0.4    0.4    0.4
10 - 25 ha)       Sugarcane          3.0      3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5
Passion Fruit      -       1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
Coffee            1.5      1.5    2.0    3.1    3.1    3.1
Total             5.5      6.4    7.6    9.0    9.0    9.0             3
Incr. Area           0.9      1.2    1.4       -      -
Type IV (owner-  Sugarcane           8.0    13.5   13.5   13.5   13.5   13.5
operator of       Coffee             8.0      8.0   11.0   14.0   17.0   20.0
25 - 200 ha)      Oranges            0.5     0.5    1.0    1.5    2.0    2.5
Avocado           1.0      1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
Total            17.5    23.0   26.5   30.0   33.5   37.0              5
Incr. Area           5.5      3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5



ANNEX 7
Table 4
Page 2
Year
Farm Type                            Pre-                                              Number of
Crop            project    I        II    III    IV      V        Dev. Year
Carrasco Zone:
Tvpe V *          Beans             0.4      0.5    0.7    1.0    1.2   1.5
(currently        Manioc            1.5      1.5    1.7    2.0    2.0   2.0
sharecropper)    Peanuts              -      0.5    0.7    1.0    1.3   1.5
Annato             -        -      0.5    1.0    1.0   1.0
Total             1.9      2.5    3.6    5.0    5.5   6.0              5
Incr. Area           0.6      1.1    1.4    0.5    0.5
Type VI(owner-   Beans               0.1     0.1    0.2    0.3    0.4   0.5
operator          Manioc             0.5     0.5    0.6    0.7    0.8   1.0
of up to 10 ha)  Peanuts              -        -      -      0.2    0.4   0.5
Annato             -       0.2    0.5    1.0    1.0   1.0
Total             0.6      0.8    1.3    2.2    2.6   3.0              5
Incr. Area           0.2      0.5    0.9    0.4    0.4
Type VII          Beans              0.9      1.0    1.5    2.0    2.5   3.0
(owner-           Manioc            0.6      1.0    1.2    1.4    1.7   2.0
operator          Peanuts            0.1     1.0    1.5    2.0    2.5   3.0
of 10 - 25 ha)   Annato               -        -     0.5    1.0    1.0   1.0
Total             1.6      3.0    4.7    6.4    7.7   9.0              5
Incr. Area           1.4      1.7    1.7    1.3    1.3
Type VIII         Beans              1.0     2.0    3.0    4.0    6.0   8.0
(owner-           Manioc             2.5     3.0    4.0    5.0    5.0   6.0
operator          Peanuts             -      1.5    3.0    4.0    4.0   4.0
of 25 - 200 ha)  Annato               -      0.5    0.5    1.0    1.0   1.0
Total             3.5      7.0   10.5   14.0   16.0  19.0              5
Incr. Area           3.5      3.5    3.4    2.0    3.0
* In this case, assuming sharecropper would buy land.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 5: Summary of Yields, Area Planted, and Output
Zones and         Area under
Crops             cultivation (ha)                    Yields (ton/ha)                 Production (tons)
Without    With                                          No. of -
Project    Project      Increm.    Present    Target   Years    Present   Target   Increm.
1.  Humid and
Sub-humid
Beans            582       1,198       616        0.45        0.70      5        262        838        576
Maize             68          758      692        0.70        2.00       5        48      1,516      1,468
Sugarcane     5,490        8,020    2,530        32.00      45.002/    5   175,680   360,900   185,220
Vegetables       318          555      237       20.00-/    30.00-       5     6,360    16,650    10,290
Passion Fruit    -            845      845         -         14.00       3        -      11,830    11,830
Coffee        4,020        9,764    5,744         0.30        1.80      6       1,206   17,575    16,369
Oranges          210       1,050       840       10.00       20.00       6      2,100   21,000    18,900
Avocado          420          420       -         5.00       16.00       6      2,100    6,720       4,620
Sub-total 11,108       22,610   11,502          -          -         -         -          -         -
2.  Scrubland
Beans ,/      2,150      12,690    10,540         0.30        0.50      4         645    6,345      5,700
Manioc-       9,312      22,020    12,708         4.00       14.00       5     18,624  154,140   135,516
Peanuts          76       8,520      8,444        0.50        1.20       5         38   10,224    10,186
Annato            -       3,310      3,310         -          0.80       4        -       2,648      2,648
Sub-total 11,538       46,540    35,002          -          -         -         -         -          -
Total     22,646       69,150    46,504          -          -         -                                          
1 m
1/ Target yields will be attained in field crops after 4-6 years and in fruit tree crops 3-6 years after    m M
the first production is received.                                                                                  s
2/ Weighted average yields taking into consideration present and future vegetable production.
3/ Due to the long vegetative cycle of manioc, areas under production are estimated at 50% of areas
under cultivation.



ANNEX 7
Table 6
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 6: Existing Plant Processing Capacity for Two Major Industries in Ceara
PRODUCTS                                CAJUBRAS Factory           CITIA Factory
(Kg/day)                 (Kg/day)
Tomato                                     150,000 1/                   5,000
Maracuja (Passion Fruit)                    60,000                     12,000
Guava                                      100,000                      5,000
'Jaca"                                                                20,000
Mango                                       30,000                     29,800
Cashew (fruit)                            200,000                     25,000
Cashew (nut)                                20,000                       -
Pineapple                                   30,000                     3,000
Banana                                      30,000                     5,000
Papaya                                       5,000                     2,000
Soursop                                     5,000                        -
"Tamarindo"                                 2,000
"Genipapo"                                  2,000                       -
Citrus                                       -                         1,000
Sweet potato                                 -                         2,000
"Ab6bora"                                    -                         2,000
"Buriti"                                     _                         3,000
Source: Data obtained from each company.
1/ Increased to 450,000 in 1976.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 7: Estimated Number and Kind of Marketing Middlemen Operating in Project Area
Central
Farmer       Trucker                             Market
Municipalities          Trucker    Merchant      Middleman       "Maloqueiro"      Wholesaler      Total
Vicosa do Ceara            3           5             8               7                 2            25
Tiangua                   20          12            40              20                 5            97
Ubajara                   10          10            40              10                 5            75
Ibiapina                   5           2            30              10                 2            49
Sao Benedito              35           8            80              25                 4           152
Guaraciaba do Norte        2           4             6               5                 1            18
Carnaubal                  1           3             3               4                 -            11
TOTAL                     76          44           207              81                19           427
Source: CEPA-IBRD Mission Survey, June 1976.
(XJI



ANNEX 7
Table 8
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 8: Farmgate Price Fluctuations for
Major Agricultural Products in the Area
Unit              1975                1976
Low      High        Low        High
Staple Crops
Beans
Corda                  60kg          85.0    170.0          -
Mulatinho              60kg         140.0    290.0           -
Manioc flour              50kg          42.0      98.0       99.0       144.0
Fruits
Orange                   100             7.0      27.0          -          -
Avocado                  100             3.6      46.6       15.3        190.0
Maracuja(Passion Fruit) 100              2.8      25.0       10.9         54.3
Vegetables
Tomato                    20kg          10.2      58.6       24.2         52.4
Carrots                   15kg          15.5      28.1       19.8        40.7
Beets                      15kg         15.0      22.5       18.7         65.7
Cabbage                   15kg           5.1      23.0       12.0         34.8
Peppers                  100             5.0      23.8       14.5         19.2
Garlic                    10kg          13.0      16.0       16.3         17.8
Chuchu                   100             3.1      12.5        3.0        30.0



ANNEX 7
Table 9
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 9: Minimum Prices for 1975/76 and 1976/77 Harvests
1975/76                         1976/77
PRODUCTS              Unit       Price (Cr$)          Unit       Price (Cr$)
Beans
1.  "Branco"           (60 kg)       93.00             (60 kg)      142.20 to 148.20
2.  "Preto"              -           94.80                          135.00
3.  "Macassar"           -           51.60                           72.60 to  75.60
Manioc
1.  Roots              (ton)        105.00             (ton)        170.00
2.  Flour              (50 kg)       24.00             (50 kg)       56.00
Shelled peanuts        (25 kg)       35.00 to 37.50   (25 kg)        48.00 to  51.00
Source:  Precos Minimos Norte e Nordeste - Safras 75/76 e 76/77.  Ministry of
Agriculture, Commission for Financing of Production (CFP).



ANNEX 8
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Producer Income and Employment
I.   PRODUCER INCOME
Illustrative Farm Types
1.        The target farming families of the Ibiapaba rural development
project were identified as farmers operating less than 200 ha. It should be
noted that, given the current production practices and (particularly in the
carasco zone) restricting ecological factors, operations of up to this size
can still be considered low income (see para 3). The target families were
divided first according to tenure situation and farm size into four groups as
follows: (a) Group I: the sharecroppers who do not currently own land (17%
of the expected participants); (b) Group II: owner-operators with up to 10 ha
(35% of the participants); (c) Group III: owner-operators with between 10 and
25 ha (21% of the participants); and (d) Group IV: owner-operators with
between 25 and 200 ha (27% of the participants). For each of these general
groups two basic representative farm models were prepared, one for the humid
and sub-humid zone and the other for the scrubland (carrasco) zone. A summary
of the phasing of development of the various farm types is given in detail in
Table 1.
2.        Although farm types will vary considerably within each group (es-
pecially because of the range of crops produced and the large number of
possible cropping patterns) the pre-project characteristics assumed for the
representative farm types are:
(i) Farm Type I: 340 farms cultivated by sharecroppers of the
humid zone, with an average cultivated area currently of
about 0.6 ha per family, growing beans, corn and vegetables
and having an average yearly gross production value (after
providing part of the crop to the landowner) of about
Cr$ 5,000;
(ii) Farm Type II: 810 owner-operated farms of up to 10 ha in
the humid zone, with an average currently of about 1.4 ha
under cultivation, growing beans, vegetables and sugarcane
and having an average yearly gross production value of about
Cr$ 10,500;
(iii) Farm Type III: 440 owner-operated farms of 10-25 ha in the
humid zone, with an average of about 5.5 ha under cultiva-
tion, growing beans, vegetables, sugarcane and coffee and
having an average yearly gross production value of about
Cr$ 22,000;



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(iv) Farm Type IV: 420 owner-operated farms of 25-200 ha in
the humid and sub-humid zone, with an average of 17.5 ha
under cultivation, growing sugarcane, coffee, orange and
avocadoes and having an average yearly gross production
value of about Cr$ 54,000;
(v) Farm Type V: 670 farms cultivated by sharecroppers in the
scrubland zone, with an average of about 1.9 ha of beans
and manioc and having an average gross production value
(after providing part of the crop to the landowner) of about
Cr$ 1,200;
(vi) Farm Type VI: 1,190 owner-operated farms of up to 10 ha in
the scrubland zone, with an average of about 0.6 ha under
cultivation of beans and manioc and having an average yearly
gross production value of about Cr$ 500;
(vii) Farm Type VII: 760 owner-operated farms of 10-25 ha in the
scrubland zone, with an average of about 1.6 ha under cul-
tivation of beans, manioc and peanuts and having an average
yearly gross production value of about Cr$ 2,000; and
(viii) Farm Type VIII: 1,160 owner-operated farms of 25-200 ha in
the scrubland zone, with an average of about 3.5 ha under
cultivation of beans and manioc and having an average gross
production value of about Cr$ 3,400.
3.        As outlined in detail in Annex 7, the productivity of agriculture
in the project area will be increased by the introduction of new technology
and improved management practices. These will, among others, consist of the
application of production inputs not presently applied such as selected seeds
and adequate seeding rates, fertilizers, manure, farm machinery and plant
protection materials and methods. Furthermore, the area under cultivation in
each farm type will be expanded (as summarized in Table 1). It is expected
that at full development (taking into consideration the phasing of yield
improvements and of increases in area under cultivation, but not taking into
account potential off-farm income of, particularly, smaller farmers who might
work as laborers periodically for other farmers), the main yearly operating
data (in rounded figures) on the various farm types would improve as follows:



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Area under    Gross Produc-    Operating /1    Family Labor          Net Produc-
Farm type  production    tion   Value            Costs           Value            tion Value
(ha)            (Cr$)             (Cr$)           (Cr$)               (Cr$)
Pre-  Full      Pre-   Full       Pre-    Full      Pre-   Full       Pre-    Full
Proj. Dev.      Proj.  Dev.       Proj.   Dev.      Proj.  Dev.       Proj.   Dev.
I      0.6   2.0    4,990   17,000   1,320    3,900   3,060   3,150           610   9,950
II      1.4   3.0   10,450   35,750   1,760    6,000   3,790   4,300    4,900  25,450
III /2   5.5   9.0   21,970  102,900   5,100   17,550   7,380   8,100    9,490  77,250
IV /2  17.5  37.0   53,890  414,550  33,980   77,500   9,570  10,750   10,340 326,300
V /3   1.9   6.0    1,150   15,850        580    6,100      700   3,700      -130   6,050
VI      0.6   3.0        520    8,250      180    3,000      220   1,850        120   3,400
VII       1.6   9.0    2,000   23,500       410    9,450      730   5,350        860   8,700
VIII       3.5  19.0    3,430   49,500   1,030   21,500   1,350   8,900    1,050  19,100
/1   Excluding family labor value.
/2   Including coffee.
/3   This model reflects improvements to sharecropper buying land.
Financial Analyses
4.        Rate of return and cash flow analyses were carried for each Farm
Type. The year-by-year details of the operations for each type of farm are
given in Table 2-10. It should be remembered, of course, that the eight
illustrative farm models will have a considerable number of variations.
For example, there are especially numerous variations in the way particular
sharecropping arrangements are set up in practice. Also, some of the share-
croppers in both the humid and carrasco zones will buy land; others will
participate in the project without changes in the sharing arrangements; and
still others will participate profitably only if the sharing arrangements are
modified. To help show one case of the financial implications of a sharecrop-
per buying or not buying land, an alternative to the model for Farm Type I
(sharecropper, humid zone, Table 2) was developed and is presented in Table 3
(sharecropper in humid zone buying 5 ha). Also, because the financial results
of project participation for a sharecroper in the carrasco were especially
sensitive to the sharing arrangement assumed, only one representative model
(sharecropper buying 30 ha, Table 7) is presented.
5.       The various models are based on the production coefficient, yield,
farming system, and price assumptions outlined in Annex 7. Owing especially
to the nature of the target group, who are now mainly subsistence farmers for
whom return on labor plays an important part in decision-making (and who, with-
out the project, would be counting on income earned by working on other farms),
the financial opportunity cost of family labor was deducted from the farm sur-
plus before calculation of the rate of return. On-farm consumption was in-
cluded as a benefit. It was also assumed that, during the first three years



ANNEX 8
Page 4
of participation, the farmers would go on producing some crops under tradi-
tional methods along with the crops under improved methods. This traditional
production would phase out completely during 3 years. Furthermore, it was
assumed that the "without" project situation is, in fact, dynamic. Hence the
"without" situation assumes, during the first 6 years, annual production
increases from 1% in the carrasco (scrubland) zone to about 2-3% in the humid
zone. As the focus of the project is largely on crop production, coffee
production (especially important in the humid zone) was taken into account in
showing the overall position of the farmer for two of the representative
models, even though it is being developed by a separately financed Government
program.
6.       In general, it was assumed that each farmer would receive seasonal
credit to cover 100% of purchased inputs (including hired labor) on a con-
tinuing basis as well as a proportion of subsistence (implied family labor)
costs on a declining scale of 80% (year 1), 60% (year 2), 40% (year 3), 20%
(year 4), and 0% thereafter. In several cases (in the carrasco zone) this
general guideline was reduced further to ensure that the conservatively
estimated expected production exceeded the seasonal loan by at least 25%.
Investment credit was assumed, in general, to cover 80% of on-farm investment
costs during the first five years, except in several of the carrasco zone
models where 100% financing (which is allowed under POLONORDESTE regulations
for smaller-scale investment credits) was assumed to help offset possible cash
flow problems during the first two years. Also, to simplify calculations, it
was assumed that all of the investment credit required during the first five
years of a farmer's participation would be disbursed under one subloan with
repayment being made during years 7-12 (the maximum term allowable under
POLONORDESTE). Obviously, more than one investment subloan could be made to a
farmer, and terms would vary with the situation. It was also assumed, again
to simplify presentation, that all on-farm investment requirements after year
5 could be financed with internally generated funds. Overall, it should be
noted that the debt service requirements in the cash flow analysis are in
constant prices and therefore overstate the debt service in real terms because
the credit is not indexed to offset inflation.
7.       Except for the case of the carrasco sharecropper buying land, only
crop sales were considered in the income stream, even though virtually all of
the participating farmers would be likely to have other supplemental income
(working on or sharecropping other farms, livestock product sales, etc.).
Hence, cash inflow estimates are probably underestimated in most cases. For
the carrasco sharecropper model (Table 7), an assumed rent income was added to
reflect the fact that if the farmer needs to buy a minimum of 30 ha of land to
get official land purchase credit he would be unable to use it all himself and
would problably allow other sharecroppers or renters to use at least a small
part of it.
8.       The results of the rate of return and sensitivity analyses are given
in Table 11.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
II. EMPLOYMENT
9.       It is expected that as a result of the proposed development, the
amounts of required labor will also undergo a significant change. At full
development, the overall yearly labor requirements of the project farms are
estimated at about 2,295 thousand mandays compared with the 790 thousand
mandays required before the project, or an increase equivalent to about 6,020
worker-years. From the total incremental labor requirements, it is estimated
that some 75% will be covered by family labor and the remainder by hired
labor. Problematic labor shortages are not expected because of the family
labor ability to "stretch" itself during peak demand periods and to the new
local practice of establishing the school calendar so as to free children in
rural areas to help in the fields during peak seasons. This young labor force
was not taken into consideration in the calculations of family labor availab-
ility. Also, should shortages occur due to other developments in the region
and/or state, it is highly likely that the project area could count on attract-
ing temporary labor from the nearby sertao areas, where underemployment
exists. The details of the family labor requirements and availability in the
various types at the full development stage are as follows:
Family Labor Requirements /1        Availability /2
(Mandays per Year)
Farm Type   Without Project          With Project              With or Without Project
Hired    Family    Total
I             170          10        175        185                 530
II             210           5        240        245                 960
III             410           70       450        520                 910
IV             520         865        600      1,465                 865
V              40          -         210        210                 530
VI              10          -         105        105                 960
VII              40          -         295        295                 910
VIII              75          145       495        640                 865
/1   Although overall labor requirements are in most cases lower than family
labor availability, hired labor is used in a part of the farm types due
to peak requirements during a part of the year.
/2   Family labor availability was calculated according to number of weighted
adult workers per family (women providing 0.5 worker-day equivalent,
youths 13-18 providing 0.7 worker-day equivalent).



ANNEX 8
Table 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 1: Phasing of Development
Development Year
Zones and                 Without
Farm Types                Project    I         II        III        IV       V        Total
Humid and Sub-humid                  A.  Number of Units
Type I (sharecropper)       340        30       70       140        100        -         340
Type II (up to 10 ha)       810        70      160       320        260        -        810
Type III (10-25 ha)         440        40       90       180        130        -        440
Type IV (25-200 ha)         420        30       90       160        140       -         420
Sub-total              2,010       170     410       800        630        -       2,010
Scrubland (Carrasco)
Type V (sharecropper)       670        60      130       270        210       -         670
Type VI (up to 10 ha)   1,190         100      240       470        380       -       1,190
Type VII (10-25 ha)         760        70      150       300        240       -         760
Type VIII (25-200 ha)   1,160         100      230       470        360       -       1,160
Sub-total              3,780       330      750    1,510      1,190        -       3,780
Total                  5,790       500   1,160    2,310       1,820        -       5,790
Humid and Sub-humid                   B.  Area Under Production 1/
(ha)
Type I (sharecropper)      0.6         0.9      1.4       2.0        2.0      2.0       -
Type II (up to 10 ha)    1.4           1.7      2.4       3.0        3.0       3.0      -
Type III (10-25 ha)        5.5         6.4      7.6       9.0        9.0 2/   9.0       -
Type IV (25-200 ha)       17.5        23.0    26.5       30.0       33.5     37.0 3/   -
Scrubland9(Carrasco)
Type V (sharecropper)4i  1.9           2.5      3.6       5.0       5.5       6.0       -
Type VI (up to 10 ha)    0.6           0.8      1.3       2.2       2.6       3.0       -
Type VII (10-25 ha)        1.6         3.0      4.7       6.4        7.7      9.0       -
Type VIII (25-200 ha)    3.5           7.0    10.5      14.0       16.0      19.0       -
1/  Including coffee in Target Groups III and IV of the humid and sub-humid zones.
2/  Including 3.0 ha of coffee.
3/ Including 20.0 ha of coffee.
4/  In this case, model designed for sharecropper buying 30 ha module of
land.



table                                                                                    mANNEX S
Northeast .  a.B, I                                                                             ble 2
Coat-a RuraL Development Peuleot - EblavalsaEe
F-rn Tt. It Shbeecon-eof. IRsiOIb.t-ttad Zone
NtLasnotal Psoejetion 1Cn$)
A. FANM REDEL Ft  NCOAL                        P.
lofll fFLDS Li   Yans  fprsiact  I               II              li               IV                                                                                 A V   V  '  V  I Y
L. Costs
tnoesrmnnrt Costs
Lend De-elop-et-                                        2,075          1,085             1,183            -                -               -                -               -                 -
EstablLshmnnt of  emen
coops
Laud f-rcha-e
tpInsleaments                           -              1,020           2,500              -              -                _                _                               _                 _
So:b-tonal                            -3,075                         3,515             I11m3           -                -                _                -              -                 _
loeroti no Evens
Ip-2                                   1,323            1,782          2,717             3,912            3,912           3,912            3,912            3,912           3,911          3,912         3,912
Family Labsr                           3,058           1,593           2,421             3,139           3,139            3,139            3,139            3,139           3,139          3,L39         3,139
Sot-total                            4,381           3,375           5,138            7,051            7,051            7,051            7,051            7,051          7,051           7,051         7,051
Total                                4,381           6,450           8,723             8,234           7,051.           7,051            7,051            7,051          7,051           7,051        7,051
2. Crots Prod-oi-n Valu-
Value of prod_ctipn codet
pro-e-                                               4,353           7,793           11,373           12,785           13,640           16,772           16,973         16,973          14,973       16,973
Vio- -                              4,905              604             402               201           -                -                -                -              -               -
TotaL                                4,985           4,957           8,195            11,570          12,785           13,640           16,772           16,973         16,973          16,973        16,973
3. Net Prod-ction Value
With Proleot   (2-1)                   -             - 1,493            -528             3,336            5,734           6,589            9,721            9,922           9,922          9,992         9,922
4.   Net pfoduotLon VaLue Wth-
out Pro C e                           1 604            604            650               703              749              804             852              852             352             852          852
5. Net OLoo fron orolort
ouvXfenta'11     5/           -             -2,097          - 1.L78             2,633            4,985            5,785           8,869            9,070           9,070          9,070         9,070
Fi-   i.l  R.I     f  al                   -- --- ---  --- ---  --- ---  --- --- --  --- ---  --- ---  ----5----  --- ---  --- ---  --- ---  --- --  --- ---  --- --- ---  --- ---  --- ---  --- --_---   --0--
B.  FARM CASH FLOW
p:   Solos                               4,319            4,291          7,529            10,908           12,119           12,974          16,106           16.307          16,307          16,307       16,307
Seaso.na  -redit                      -             3,056           4,170             5,168           4,540            3,912            3,912            3,912          3,912           3,912        3,912
In--streno credit                     -             2,460           2,868               946                    -                        -                -              -               -             -
Land luh-LS ocredi-                          -              -                -                -                -               -                -                -                      -            -
T-tal                              4,319            9,807          14,567           17,022           16,659           16,886           20,018          20,219          20,219          20,279       20,219
Gv-t:  lnn,smnv  Costs-                                    3,075          3,595             1,183            -                -               -                -               -               -
l7nrot-ig Cools                    1,323            1,782           2,717            3,912            3,912            3,912            3,912           3,912           3,912           3,9l2        3,512
Debt S-ooil: Seasonal                 -             3,163          4,316             5,349            4,699            4,049            4,049           4,049           4,049           4,049        4,049
Investeent            -                172            373               439              439             439              439            o,a12           1,339          i.Zo          1,193
7notl                              1,323            8,192          10,991            10,893           9,050            8,400            8,400            9,373          9,300           9,227         9,L54
CAS7 BALANCE 8Y YEAi E5D7                 2,996            1,615          3,576             6,139            7,609            8,486          11,618           10,846          10,919          10,992       11,065
C.  Co.-otion-  of Ne. Fore  Inco e
Ca-h Intone                               2,996            1,615          3,576             6,139            7,609            8,486          11,619           10,846          10,919          10,992       11,065
Vat1- of dovestic consupption   7/          666              666             666               666             666              666              66               6646           666             666           666
Total                                3,662            2,291           4,242             6,815           8,275            9,452           12,284           11,512         11,585          11,658        11,731
LI CaLroLamnf as foLLpvs:  Cr0 000 len sealL ispteaeees, ErS 1,520 foe -srting and packiag shed; Cr2 1,500 far eater purp or  storage faclttiles
22 Inputs -inLudo:  Fernii--ers, seeda, cheneica , hired lab-r, fae    -hi-ery, draft  simals, raokiEg nanerEals, etc.
3J Value of traditolnal  crops that silt be groor, dsria8 the three first Yeara of the prolect.
47 Nee prod-uolj- value -  Gross P-od-ttio- Vetoc lena Tenta  Coats.
57 Not i-oodi,,g family Lab-or ibonne.
4/ IncLuding flaily lab-or ioo-n
7/ Based su average Eamily sije found En pre-psejent field .trsey sad a.e.a.. arnsampslon patteens.



abl.e                                                                                 ANNEX g
Oe   RuraL DRrrl,Useet Proiect -  blapahae
Ftee  T.oe LA: Sher-ereerse Buying LandR. H-aid/lSb-hooid Race
Fiart.a I Pr-le-tior (Cr0)
A  FARM MODEL FINANCIAL                         Pre-
goocapScan                  Years           Projeos         I              11 I                                             V IL VI                                     :1171             13           X
l. Costs
loorstsoror Costa
Lord Deorlop..nt.                                     2,075          1,085           1,183
E-tblisth-er  of  ratt
Land P-rchase                           _           20,000              -               -             -                 -             -                 -            -                -           -
Implert- s -                            -             1,000         2,500              -
Sub-total                             -           23,075          3.585           1,183             -                -              -                -             -
operOrisg Curti
I.pues 2/                             1,323           1,782         2,717           3,912           3,912            3,912          3,912            3,912         3,912            3,192       3,192
Fouily Labor                          3,058           1,593         2,421           3,139           3,139            3,139          3,139            3,139         3,139            3,139       3,139
Sub-otal                           4,381          3,375          5,138           7,051           7,051            7,051          7,051            7,051         7,051            7,051       7,051
Total                               4,381         26,450          8,723           8,234           7,051            7,051          7,051            7,051         7,051            7,051       7,051
2. 6ross Production Valor
Valce of producctioo order
project                                -            6,530        11,690          17,059          19,178           20,460         25,158           25,459         25,459           25,459    25,459
Ooloe o5,traditsoral pruodc-
silo  t-                            4,985            604            402             201             -                -              -                -             -                 -          -
CToal                               4,985          7,134         12,092          17,260          19,178           20,460         25,158           25,459        25,459           25,459      25,459
3, Net Prodortion Value
'Oath Prorect -/(2-1)                   -           -19,316         3,369           9,026          12,127           13,409         18,107           18,408        18,408           18,408      18,408
.,  Ncc Prodoctiur Valor WitA-
Oct rrotecc                          604             604            630             703             749              8V4            852              852           852              852         852
5. N-e fll  frro-root
inveytt5              3/              -          -19,920          2,719           8,323          11,378           12,605         17,255           17,556        17,556           17,556      17,556
Ciraroial RoteofoRetroroAPR~~~~~
B.  FARM CASH FLDW
n:   Roles                               4,319           6,468        11,426          16,594          18,512           19,794         24,492           24,793        24,793           24,793      24,793
.easorni Iredit                       -            3,056          4,170           5,168           4,540            3,912          3,912            3,912         3,912            3,912       3,012
Irvesrrrt .-redie                                  2,460          2,868             946             -.                                               -             -                -           -
Land Pfrth-ae  -redit                 -           20,000             -               -              -                -
Total                              4,319          31,934         18,464          22,708          23,052           23,706         24,492           28,705        28,705           28,705      29,705
Out:  I-vvsorrnt Ce-ts                      -            23,075          3,585           1,183             -                -
Operatina Ctrts                    1,323           1,782          2,717           3,912           3.912            3,912          3,912            3,912         3,912            3,912       3,912
Dtbt SIrji-e, Oras--a1                -            3,163          4,316           5,349           4,699            4,049          4,049            4,049         4,049            4,049       4,049
I- -e rtii/            -            2,572          2,773           2,839           2,839            2,839          2,839            5,070         4,826            4,582       4,338
Total,                              1,323         30,592         13,391          13,233          11,450           10,800         10,800           13,031        12,707           12,543      1,299
CASH nALANCE 00BY YER EBrD-               2,996           1,392          5,073           9,425          11,602          12,906         13.692            15,674        15.918           16,162     16,406
C, Cucroslrion of Not Carr, Inrale,
Cash Iur-or                               2,996           1,392          5,073           9,425          11,602           12,906         13,692           15,674        15,918           16,162      16.43c
Voice of dt.estic conoorprioP  0/           666             666            666             666             466              666            666              666           666              66c         666
Coral                                 3,662           2,058          5,739          10,091          12,268           13,572         14,358           16,340       16,584            16,828     17,072
21 CIlclated as folluo    Cr3 500 fer snaIl implereets, Cr0 1,300 fur aurtirg red paukieg shrd; Cr0 1,500 or etrr pomP -rto g  f-lli-,
2/ Inputs  lude:  Frriliars  seeds, ehesirals, hired laher, farm roehicery, draft animals, pafl_dt riatrr.als, errt,
3/ Valo touf tiondvaluto o ropssha wrdil he geosrr Idsersg thei three firest pears of tAn projeor.
4/ N,0  -rd-irlo  valo  = CrorPrdcto  plrlesOsa  Crs
5! Not inlouding family labor i-,uOue,
5/ I-luodiug fanily labor inc:se.
Z/ Inulodig -erviue of land p-rchase leap.
_/ Based or everege family siz  ftund ic pre-prrjeet field aurvey  nd average r-r-mptioe patterns.



Ca     4                                                                                ANNEX A
lorh.east ro.-  1                                                                              aTble 4
Fars Type 11  Opee-eteoeted etih tp to 10 he.  ortidfSsb-hseid zone
FLn.a..ia1 -rJ-eitns (Cr8)
A  FARM MODEL FlNANCIAL                        Pre-
;htcopaXdluiRN              Yeats          Frojeo-           I               1                                V                 V             VI               Vii           VLIX
1. Coats
tartstscent Costt
Latd D-f-o-oett                          -              5 779          1,879           1,183              -                             5,585               -             -                 _           _
Estab l i shmear  of reoarmert                          4 ,977            _                _              _                             4997 4477
orops
sod Purcohase                                             ---------                                                                                                                                     -
1!plements -                 -             1,000           2,500              -               -
S4-total                               -            11,756          4,379            1,183             -                 -           10,562                             -                 -
Opersrir Cota-
1,762           1,625          4,937           6,001            6,001            6,081          4,255             6,001         6,001             6,001       6,071
Faoily Lbor                            3,787            2,025          3,501           4,327           4,327             4,327          4,327             4,237         4,237            4,237       4,237
SLm-total                             ,549           3,650          8,438           10,328          10,328            12,328          8,582            10,328        10,328           10,328       13,329
Tota1                                5,549          15,406          12,817          11,512          10,328            L0,328         19,144            10,328        10,328           10,328      10,328
7   Grot FProdcotnr Vl1-e
:   o~eoafrcd_cFion  9nder              _            8,832         20,563           27,846          30,271            31,615         28,850           34,099          35,749          3.,749      35,749
ralre o -!toadsti-ral  -roduc-
tart                                O13,454         4,904         3,2170           1,635
Torol                               10,454          13,736         23,833           29,481          30,071            31,615         28,850           34,099         35,749           35,749      34,749
3   Net Foodo-t-oi  Valse
WLh PFr - iet   (291)                      -           -1,670         11,016          17,969           19,743           21,287         9,706             23,771        25,421           25,421       25,421
-    Net F-d-ro .tlo  VClte With-
rot orpleos                          4,904           4,904          5,214           5,366            5,466            5,577           5.687            5,687         5,687             5,667       5,687
5. Net 11cr fropro eritoc
52roFBe  -             ,, -5/                       -6,574          5,802           12,603          14,277           15,710           4,019           18,084        19,734            19,734      19,734
-   -    -   --   --  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   5D'i-                ---                 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
F carnRal tate of Rensrn
3    AR6M CASH FLOCW
It-   Salts                                9,074           12,356         22,453          28,101           28,691           30,235         27,470            32,719        34,369            34,369      34,369
eserc.al credil                        -             3,245           7,035           7,732           6,866             6,001          4,255             6,001         6,971            6,031       7,3C1
Oct-0 root oredi                      -             9,405           3,503             946                                       -              -                -                             -
Lard Purchase-  cedi                   -                -              -
Total                                9,074           25,006         32,991          36,779          35,557            36,236         31,725           38,720         40,370           40,375      43037.G
19,>  Irroae too    Coa ts                    -            11,756          4,379            1,183             -                -            10,562              -             -
peracrog Coats                      1,762            1,625          4,937           6,11   6,001                      6,001           4,255            6,201         6,031            9,371       6,001
Debt So-ri-e  Seas-oal                 -              3,339          7,281           8,003            7,106            6,211          4,404             6,211         6,211            6,211       6,211
rreetmeect              -                658            904             970              970              970            970            3,117          2,95            2,793       2,731
Corel                               1,762           17,388         17,501          16,157           14,077           13,182         23,191            15,329        15 168           15,005      14,843
4.959 8A1L9514 99E C-AR EHD                 7,312            7,601         15,490          20 622          21 484            23,054         11,534           23 33          21, 203          25,365      25,527
C- ComO,esltSronf Net Farm loncoe
Cash I-croe                                 7,312            7,608         15,490          20,622          21,480            23,054         11,534           23,391        25,203            25,365      25,527
ValE  of do-estlo  -c-nuptijc  7/           1,380            1,380          1,380           1,380           4 380              1,380         1,380            1,380         1,380             1s380       1,380
Total                                   8,692           8,988          16,870         22,032          22,860             24,434        12,916           24,771        26,583            26,745      26,907
IC CaloslarrA  as  -lc    Cr1 530 fe  -1l  lPle.eocs, Cr1 1,502 f    -   , car s      and  -IFrstg  hSed; Cr1 1,500  -r aster '       r  '-g    -llIe
2/ fre,sc Ic-1lde   FeetCeers, seds,  h-i-loa    Aired labor, farm o-ahire, drat aoat   Fa-o, kirOaell,er
oN tot  -rod--t-or     - =al G  Stoat PTrod-tei- Vae s  Coral Cross.
,/ N. r -loCCg tafl-i         labrr lem is-,
6/ Itcludig faRoil  lro or irte.
7/ Based ro aroesge faaly esie  rfoud id L ee-proje.t field  srvey -     d ad erage - g cos--psie. pat.ters.



Northeast nrao,-                                                                             Table 5
Loans Rural Deveopoment Pro rot - Ebiaraba
Fans T... ill:  Otu-r-operarod 'iah 10-25 ha. bonid/Sob-hs id Zone
Fi-oasial Prolontio  (Cr$)
A. FARM MODEL FINANCLAL                            Pr-
8ATZ orL asalldno            Years              project       I              11               1-C IV                             V             Vl               VIL           LLl
1.  Coost
Loves isesi Coos t
Land DeoIoP-es o                            -          0Z3,586          3 716          4,414            -                 -             15,289
Esatbl-sh-eot of persaon--
-rops                                    -          15,935            1,404          1,685           -                  -             11,723
Land P-rohas                                -         -                 -              --
Imple s --                                             1,000            2,500                           -                               -
Sob-tor-l                                -          40,521            7,620          6,099           -                  -             27,012           -             -                 -          _
op-ctig Costs
Inputs -                                   5,100       5,333           13,439         16,259          17,572              17,572        14,192          17,572        17,572            17,572    L7,572
FCoily Labor                               7,384       5,747            6,901          7,929           8,113               4.113         8,113           8,113         8,113             8,1L3      8,113
Sub-total                               12,484      11,08D          20,340          24,188          25,685             25,685         22,305         25,685        25,685             25,685    25,685
CotaL                                   12,484      51,601          27,960          30,287          25,605              25,685        49,317         25,685         25,685            25,605    25,685
2.  Gr000  Prod Vott1s Caine
Vaine si prod-ntion under
project                                  -          24,383            45,791        64,040          74,973              85,474        84,590         98,110        102,911           102,911   102,911
Vaine o3/-raditoo.al prodno-
tion -                                  21,970       9,486             6,320         3,160
Trso                                    21,970      33,869            52,111        67,200          74,973              85,474        84,590         98,110        102,911           102,911   102,911
3. Net Prodnotion VaIle
With  reot A/(2-1)                          -        -17,732            24,151        36,913          49,288              59,789        35,273          72,425        77,226            77,22t    77,226
4.  Net Prod-cion VClou With-
not Prosenl                              9.486       9,486            10,279        10,736           m,n899             11.230        11,424         11,424         11,424            11,424    01,424
5.   eo dire iron orofifc
oves mgros           51                  -         -27,218            13,872        26,177          38,389              48,559        23,849         61,001        65,802             65,802    65,802
Financial     Rate     of     Return            --------------------------------------------------------------- >50y      ---------  --------  -------- --------  ---------  --------  --------  --------
B.  FARM CASH FLGW
In:   Sales                                   20,590      32,489            50,731        69,820          73,593              84,094        83,210          96,730       101,531           101,531   101,531
Sen.soal iredtt                           -          9,931           17,580         19,431          19,195              17,572        14,492         17,572        17,572             17,572    17,572
I.,-,o.t oridit                                     32,417            6,096         4,879            -                  -             -               -             -                 -          -
Landyooh-erdii                                      -                 -              -               -                 -              -               -             -                 -          -
Toitl                                  20,590       74,837           74,407         90,131          92,788             101,666        97,402        114,302       119,103            119,103   119,193
nnoestmoot mo-s                           -         40,521            7,620          6,099           -                 -              27,012          -             -                 -          -
op-rat-sg Costs                          5,100       5,333           13,439         16,259          17,572              17,572        14,192          17,572       17,572             17,572    17,572
Debt Se-nsor  Seasonal                    -         10,279            18,195        20,111          19,867              18,187        14,689          18,187       18,187             18,187    18,187
L-nvetment                -           2,269            2,696         3,037            3,037              3,037          3,037           9,763        9,257             8,751      8,245
T-al                                   5,100       58,402           41,950        45,506           40,476             38,796         58,930          45,522       45,016            44,510    44,004
CASH bALANCE BY YEAR EFD-                     15,490       16,435           32,459        44,624           52,312             62,870        38,472           68,780       74,087            74,593    75,099
C.  Co- noitlon of Net Pans I-oos
Cash 1one.                                    15,490       16,435           32,459        44,624          52,312              62,870        38,472          68,780       74,087             74,593    75,099
Vabe of doneosco -on-soption  7/               1,380        1,380            1,380          1,380           1,380              1,380          1,380           1,380        1,380              1,380     1,380
nToal                                     16,870      17,815            33,839       46,006           53,692             66,250         39,852          70,160       75,467             75,973    76,479
11 Calcnlated no follovs:  Cr0 505 icr snail lmpleseets. Cr9 1,500 for sor-ing and panking shed, Cr9 1,500 for nater pump or siorago facilities.
2     u I0-  Inlode:  Fertili-ers. sneds, chenitals, hired labor, fCon  -anhi-ery. draft asdcals,  -anking sarer'alo  e.
3/ VCIne of traditicnal cross that  ill bhr gros  d-ring the thres firsc years of thb  projoit.
4; Nor produorins nolue - Grsss Prodn-ri-o Calue loss Tonal Costs.
5/ MN. ionloding fasilY lab-or i-oew.
6/ Inolodiog fgmily labor i-ooe.
7/ Basod o- average ftNily sioe f.oud it  prc-project field -sroey asd aneosge osnuption pottses.



TabLe 6                                                                                 ANLNEX 6
Crara Rural DrocLontent DPo-, t-bio. Da
Fatr TYpe IV: Cwner-operated ocith 25-200 ha., Haid/Snb-hnnid zone
Financial Pro-iecti- (Cr25
A  FARgL  MCDEL Fl'ANCIAL                          Pr-
kALEYOi terilUbN   vears  Project  I            11              1:               Ii(1                                                              if         IX            X
I. Co-to
LTnd D-oel,pn-tt                                       8 62,539       16,798           16,798           l6,798            16,795        37,071           -             -
EstabLiojoert or per.orarec
-roDs     5 41,559        121374           12,095          (1,55              11,755        17,359             721         -             -           -
Land ''i-ch-r                               -             -              -                 --                                               - 
(opt rrcrto-                                -         1,000            2,500                       -                        -              -
S, b--lcat                                -       125,098           30,672           28,893          27,853             27,853        54,430             721         -             -
Dperai-g C.",s
np: ts to                                  33,983      20,706         38,498           45,833          56,978             67,767        74,631           76,084        77,537        77,537      77,537
F  til, Labor                               9,567       6,480          8,928            9,360           9,672             10,476        93,627           13,692        10,764        10,764      10,764
S,b-too1-                               43,550      27,186         47,426            53,193          66,950             76,243        85,251          86,776         88,3D1        88,301      88,301
-1,L                                    43,550    152,284          78,098            81,086          94,803            (4,096        139,681          87,497        88,301        88,301      98,301
2. Groot Pradootlon talce
talor 03 cr.d,-co oo ndtr
poojose                                   -         42,525         74,883           117,577         168,074            031,099       298,208         341,186       378,008        423,572    414,578
alo- o -craditlo-l p-odnc-
0100 -                                   53,886    10,336            6,990            3,445          -                  -
rotal                                    53,886    52,861          81,873           116,722         168,174            233,199       298,208         341,186       378,008        402,572    414,578
3. Niet Prodortli- Saint
1ith Proect- (2-1)                         -        -99,433           3,775           29,926          73,371            129,193       158,527           (53,689       289,707      314,271    326,277
.Sc: (rod-ti-o VColo  With-
04t -coseco                              10,336    10,336          12,313            13,698          13,993             15,840        15,503           85,503         15,503       15,503      15,503
5   *rt-t   rm2o t51
otoct sortencS ro    _/                   -       -109,769         -8,538           16,228           59,378           114,063       143,024           238,186       274,204       298,768   310,774
F-a-L-nco etr,-7  - >50%                                                                                                               -
..FA'fM CASH. FLOW
.r_   Soles                                    53,391    52,356          81,378           113,517         167,679           232,704        297,713          340,691       377,513        402,377   414,083
Sesso.al credir                             -       25,890         38,498           45,833          56,978             65,767        74,631            76,084        77,537        77,537    77,537
(0000 ooootrcrdit                                 100,078          24,538           23,114          22,282             22,282        -               -
a-d ?-r-lao -redit
Total                                   53,391      178,324       144,414          182,464         246,939            320,753       577,344          416,775        455,050       479,614   491,620
r-n--ccrt Coos                             -       125,098        30,672            28,893          27,133             27,853        54,430               721          -             -         -
Cpornoing Coost                         33,983      20,706        38,498            43,833          56,978             65,767        74,631            76,084        77,537        77,537    77,537
Dt:-  S-,i-c: Seso,-l                       -       26,796        45,397            31,312          61,036             68,069        77,243            78,747        87,121        80,251    80,251
nvestnent                  -         7,005         8,723            10,341          11,991             13,a61        13,461           43,267         41,024        38,781    36,538
octal                                    33,983    179,602        123,283           136,375         157,768           L75,150       219,765           198,819       198,812       136,569  1(4,329
CA1E SAoI,NCE SY YEA3 ED6                      19,408      -1,289        21,131           46,095           89,1(1           145,603        (52,579          217,936      2(6,238        083,0"5   297,294
C.  Cosooi-o  f o     -et Famn1ccome
Cgoh (scone                                    19,408      -1,289        21,131           46,095           89,171           145,603        132,529          217,956       256,238       283,045   297,294
,     of domestic coropoim  -                     495        493            495             495               4(5               495            495             495           495            493        495
Totao                                    19,903         -794         21,626          46,590           89,666            146,098       153,074         218,451        256,733       (93,540   297,789
' C--l-ter  ss Coll  as:  Cr0 SC 50    r snaIl imlreoss, CrS 1i500 fot sort:ng and oackin8 ghr.  Cr9 1,573 (or watcr poo-  ot sorage tao(lico
2' bost Inus  Var   (trollizcrs, sreda, chemicals, hired Labor, f[ot oachinery, d-f1  nonelo ,   -accino  ncter(alt  etoo
3' VIo  of tradillonal stops sot wilt bc goes d-ting she  three first years of i-e prrcj.
' Net orodocr100 val   - Gross Pro- oc ol              - Valuc oess Total Cost
3' Ooo bc1:8 irg fanll  lehot Intone.
Too r!dlog fceily labcor incoer.
os average f-oily aiec fCond it pre-project field sot--y cod e-snage con---pi-on patters.



Table 7                                                                              ANNEX 8
Northeast B-at'                                                                          Table 7
tear, Natal leorlormere Prairot - Ihiarata
Fiesattal Projection (Cr89
A  PANE MODEL FINANCIAL                           _
e FAPM hCC   7ThANCIAPLroJect                                                 T CL  I  IV        V            VI               V       LI   V>II               IN
i. Costs
Cores tarot Costs
trod D-rrlopo-t                           _        2,115           2,807            3,062            423                423          -                _              -
FE-bIloh ..erI of Prroa--t
cps                                    -           -               463              463            -                  -
L..d Purchase                            -        15,I00             -                -              _                  _ 
Implemenrs --~                         1 000           1,000
S0.0-totol                             '        48,115          4,270           3,525             423                 423
Ororatioc Coert
lnptlts 2/                        soC      2,435           3,551           4,979           5,557              6,096        6,096            6,096          6,296            S,096          6,096
Fazily labor                             702       1,782          2,398           3,199           3,474               3,730       3,730            3,730           3,730            3,730          3,730
Sb-t.ol                              1,282      4,217           5,949           8,178           9,031              9,826        9,826            9,826          9,026            9,826          9,826
Toral                                1,282     22,332          10,219          11,703           9,456             10,249        9,826            9,826          9,826            9,826          9,826
2.  Grot  Prod-ction Valur
Valor of productiio cnder
pro-jec                                -        3,363           5,850           9,360          12,006             14,460       15,255           15,656         15,838           15,038         15,838
V.alu or/traditio..l prodc-
rico  -                             1,55          -                               --                                    
trot IrcDtP  7/                          -        1,730           1,730           1,730           1,730              1,730        1,730            1,730          1,730            1,730          1,730
ota                                1,155       5,093           7,580          11,090          13,736             16,192       16,985           12,308        17,360           17,568          17,560
37  Not rod- tio  Valor
*3ith Proiect-/(2-1)                     -      -17,239          -2,639             613           4,282              S,941        7159             7,562          7,742            7,71,          7,74?
4.  Nec Production Valor With-
out Prolrot                          -127        -127            -116            -105             -93                -8l         -69               -69           -69               -69           -69
I Nor 01cc trot cr0o jct
'rootvedecos~ T 5        5/-                  -17,112          -2,523            -508          4,375               6,022       7,228            7,631          7,811            7,0811         7,811
,I_nancia1 Rare o.f R-,.                     --- -----------------------------                                   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----
PFAE CASH FLOW
505      4,443           6,930          10,440          13,0B6             15,540       16,335           16,739         16,911           16,910         16,916
Orasoor.  credit                       -        2,690           z,680           6,259           6,252              6,090       0,290            0,o            0,490            o,&yr          u,,V
Investmentctred-                       -        3,115           3,416           2,824             338                33          -
L-cd Porohas.rur-di,                           15,000             -               -
Totar                                 505      25,248          15,026          19,519          19,676             21,97a       22,431           20,b34         _u,1.s           ,,0111
Oct   T           C-rt trt costs              -      18,115           4,270           3,529             423                423          -
OPorociuS CoSC-                       580       2,435           3,551           4,979           5,957              6,056        6 ,096          0,290          t,9o9            c,3 09009t
Drob  Sr-oi-c  Irosocal                -        2,7b4           4,844           6,478           6,a71              0,309        e3,,ry           .,Jug          6,309            c,,30y         1,3X
Crorrt,orcr 8/           -       2,018           2,297           2,495           2,478              2,502        2,502            4,998           ,752             u,.0          ,.
To-al                                 580      25,352          14,922          17,437          14,929             156334       1,Q907           1',43C3        17,157           10,911         Iti,6-
CA10 8AL4tNCE 07  YERIff tN0~1               75        _104             104           2,082           4,747              6,644        7,924            5,431          5,857            6,11)3         o-3>
C   Co. socsirc   of Net Farr Itctee
Cath ICcome                                 -75        -104             104           2,0B2           4,747              6,6a4        7,994                ,..31      5,857            6,143          6,349
Valor of do-roiccnou-.prti_  2 /            650         650             650             650             650                69o          610              650            650              oSO            650
Total                                   575         546             754           2,732           5,397              7,294        d,574            6,081         6,507              ,753         a,999
1/ C1lculaird as Fell s    Cr5 5OO frr sall implements, Cr9 1,100 f8r sorting ard packing shd.
2/ Ipotr includr:  Fertili-ers,  seeds, chemicals, hired labor, farm  -mehi-ery, draft 1amals  packing  aterial,,
3/ Valce of tradititt 1c oropa rhat will be 9ro-  dsriag the there- firt yenta  of the prject.
4/ Net prodaction rasle - Cross Froductiro Vals Ira, Trtal Coats.
5/ Not inclrdig fmily lfrc    , i.conr.
y/ Including Panicp labor tbncw
7/ Eqotoal-no of frod-ots 'er t share of shar-cropped producton  o 6 hr.
8/ ICcloding se-rice of lsed p-rch-ae loon
9/ Baced On a-age fily core fared in p-e-project fiald money end a-erage conaa-ptirn patter.



YUKs 8
NOM7HRAST BRAZIL                                                                            A     R
CRASA RURAL DRVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIPAA                                                                Table 8
arm- Tvpe VI Osnar-emaragad gith us ao 10 ha. Caree- Zae
Finanicial Fro1ectiacs (Cr0)
A. FARM MODEL FINANC7AL                        Pre-
igSaamiinf2                 snare           project          I          II            III           IV          V           VI            VII            VIII           Tx            x
L.        Costs
InetetCost.
Land D-onlopn... I                                 1,428        1,550         2,639          339          339
Ooiabliolmnrn  of  emnt
crops                                -             185          278           463          -            -
taad Poocbnsr                           -            -                          _             _                                                                     
[pIrperots -                           -           1,000        1,000           -            -            -
Soib-tonal                           -           2,613        2,828        3,102           339          339          -            _              _              -            _
operating Coat,
Irpota 2/                              187           728        1,203         2,271        2,713        3,020       3,020         3,020         3,020           3,020        3,020
FPmily Laboo                           216           553          821         1,370        1,622        1,850       1,850         1,850          1,850          1,850        1,850
Sob-tonal                            403         1,281        2,024        3,641         4,335        4,870       4,870        4,870          4,870          4,870         4,870
Total                                403         3,894        4,852         6,743        4,674        5,209       4,870         4,870         4,870          4,870         4,870
2.  Grss Prod-oiLon Vla-
V.alc  of prod-ion order
p-;-ect                              -           1,050        2,195        4,359         5,967        7,13D       7,684        7,974          8,141          8,233         8,233
Valor oi/tradi4losal p.. Io- -
fin -                                523           120           s8           40           -            -           -             -             -              -             -
Total                                523         1,t70        2,275        4,399         5,967        7,130       7,684        7,974          8,141          8,233         8,233
3. Nat Ptodotlion -sVae
0114h Project - 12-1)                   -         -2,724       -2,577        -2,344         1,293       1,921       2,814         3,104          3,271          3,363        3,363
4   Nct Prodoti-on Valor With-
ont Profant                          120           120          125          132           136          141         147          147            147            147           147
5  Net flow Iron -   rot
=T0VRRneE1T ~  5 i/                    -         -2,844       -2,702        -2,476         1,157        1,780      2,667         2,957          3,124          3,216         3,216
Finan-ial Rate of Rtaro                                                                                      23
B   FARM CASH FLDW
In    SoLes                                 _            492       1,597         3,721         5,289        6,452      7,006         7,296          7,463          7,0555        7,555
See.o.al oredit                       _           936        1,696         2,819         3,037       3,020       3,020         3,020          3,020          3,020        3,020
I-vs--l  orrdit                       -          2,613       2,828         2,482           271         271         -             -              -              -             -
Land P-roha-e -redit                  _             -            -           _                           _         _             _              _
Intol                                 -         4,041        6,121         9,022         8,597       9,743      10,026        10,516         10,483        10,575        10,575
O-t  IEnveano  t ContS                                 2,613       2,828         3,102           339          339                       -             -             -
Operating Coses                      187          728        1,253         2,271        2,713        3,020       3,020         3,020          3,020         3,020         3,020
Dabt Sri-s:  s-a-onal                 -           969        1,755         2,91B        3,145        3,26S       3,126         3,126         3,126          3,126         3,126
Invest=ent t                        183         381           555           574         593         593         1,904          1,805         1,706         1,607
TCai                                187        4,493        6,167         8,846         6,769       7,078       6,739        8,050          7,951          7,852         7,753
CASh BALANCE BY YEAR END'/                -IB7         -452         - 46           176        1828        2,665       3,287        2,266          2,532          2,723         2,822
C   C. arasitlas of Yan Fae Income
Cash IncoFe                               -187         -452         - 46           176        1,828        2,665       3,287        2,266          2,532          2,723         2,822
Valor of dAor5ic .o.....ptlo n7            678          678          678           678           678         678         678           678           678            678           678
Total                                  491          226          632          854         1,506        3,343      3,965         2,944          3,210          3,401        3,500
1/ Calcolased at follws:  Cr0 500 fer small isplee.es., Cr0 1,500 for ear-ig sad p.okiag ahed.
2/ p-n In niode,   -ertilisars, sead.,  hbamisale, hired labar, frem machinrry, dr-ft sniasla, parking raterlal, eta.
3/ Valae of tradi -noel oropa char rill be gron-  doting the three firet Ys ara of nh. praJ-e.
4/ Net producsion  alr - Gra.e Pr-dactior VPaue lIss To-l Caste.
5/ Nos including faily labor l-,nema
6/ Incloding family labor in-opF
V  E.sead as sarage femily aie  faand in pr--pr-ej-t field soroay end aoaraga aanos,piln pattera.



Table 9
NORTHEAST baZbL
CEARA  RIRAL DEVELOPENT PROJECT - IB7A7ARA
Farsr. Cre 8'10:Osaar-ooCs&ted snobh 10-25 D-sa Cerraoco Zone
Fioapoial Pro-rottei (CoO)
A. FARM1 MODEL FISIICIAC                     Ore
Years        proJect         1            TI                        IV           V           VI           VII            VIII           LX            X
1. Costs
Iooos teeOPt ro.s to
La-d D-elop-rof                      _          2,538        3,315        3,315         1,100       1,100         -             -
tnotbltatooot of potonpoet
cropos-                                                      463           463           -           -
Lad Prcha                                          -            -
lopleerrts -                         -           1,000       1,000           -             -
SLI-tora                           -           3,538       4,778         3,778        1,100        1,100
Oorralloo Costs
Inp 1/cs "i 405                           3,117       4,904         6,692        8,073        9,453      9,453         9,453          9,453          9.453        9,453
FaiIly Labor                         734         1,908       2,848         3,778        4,558        5,337       5,337        5,337          5,337          5.337        5,337
Sob-total                        1,139         5,325       7,752        10,470        12,631      14,790      14,790       14,790         14,790         14,790       14,790
TorsO                            1,139         8,563      12,530        14,248       13,731       15,890     14,790        14,790         14,790         14,790       14,790
2, Gross ItodottieD Value
ec   -d-i-   d                                   3915        7,503        11,797        15,090      19,888      21,252       22,108         23,309         23,526       23,526
Valr 'f -sdit eoDl pr-duc-
tior -                           1,995           856         570           285
T3-a1                            1,995         4,771       8,073        12,082        15,907      19,888      21,252       22,108         23,309         23,526       23,526
3.  Sec pood-rt-os Valor
a,c rholot 4(2-1)                     -         _3,792      -4,437        -2,166         2,176       3,998       6,462        7,318          8,519          8,736        8,736
-cr Frod-ticn Value  0i0h-
oof Pro Ot           '             356           836         876           894          916          934        957           957            957           957           957
-         -4,648       -5,333       -3,060         1,260       3,064       5,505        6,361          7,562          7,779        7,779
-,oa,coal Rateoof Retore                --     ----   -   - ~   ~ ~               ~  ~               281X
1.  7A4f 1CASH F7100
o    Salca                            1.345         4,121       7,423        11,432        15,257      19,238      20,602       21,458         22,659         227,76       22,876
-oasonOl credit                    -           3,817       6,458         8,203        8,985        9,453      9,453         9,453          9,453         9,453         9,453
l-otraf-ac-rrdft                   -           3,538       3,822         3,022          800          080         -            -              -
La-2 Porchoar cr-d,o
Total                            1,345        11,47t      17,703        22,657        25,122      29,571      30,055       30,911         32,112        32,329        32,329
O ,t   loorctoco c Coats                 -           3,538        4,778        3.778         1,100       t,100                       -             -             -
ocrdatioc Corat                   403          3,117       4,904         6,692        8,073        9,453      9,453         9,453          9,453         9,453         9,453
Dot, S-to    Se-s-al              -           3,951        6,684        8,490         9,299       9,784       9,784        9,784          9,784          9,784        9,784
Ooooscnont          -             248          515          727           788          850        850         2,732         2,590          2,448        2,306
Total                             405         10,854      16,881        19,687       19,260       21,187     20,087        21,969         21,827        21,685        21,543
CAS. BALAN- BY YEAR ESD-l                940            622         822         2,970        5,862        3,384      9,968         8,942         10,285        1044         10,788
4  -0  OaLn-  00    004   11-           04
C. t,oNoOsftfoo oflBe7roFarmcla,om
Caoh Itcolo                              940            622         822         2,970        5,862        8,384      9,968         8,942        10,285         10,644        10,786
Polar= of dp=sticcoosarptlon7/           650            650         650           650           650         653         650          650            650           650           650
Total                              1,590          1,272        1,472        3,620         6,512       9,034     10,618         9,592         10,935        111,94        11,436
1/ Calo-t-sr   as followa:  Cr8 500 for s-mIl lopl-errto, Cr0 1,500 for sortIng and poekiog shed.
2/ opot_ inc lodo:  re   -ltro   ods, ch-isol, his-rd labor, foam  -orfo-y, draft aodaml, packing amef , co
3, V.tuo of r-dtionl crops 'h.t -ill b. gEr     dairlsdh  Oli, frot h- eErs o --f ho pra-ct.
41 Nrt prod-ic.oc -ol-e = Gross Pro-dction Volo- loss TVofl Casts.
5/ Noc inc lding fomily lob-r t,,ot=s.
6/  -oclodlog falLy Itboe  incom
7/ Boed on I  eorage falily oila  foond L. pre-proser- field s-rey and ...roge cosnrption psrt-ras.



Table  10                                                                                 N
Nor-theast - Beau,                                                                             bl
Fsem Tore VIM:  Oenap-oerted with 25-200 ha. Carr.esu.  Zone
A. FARM MODEL FINANCIAL                            Na
ets     Project         IT                                7IV                               '2             41               71             411I
Land D-velPoen                                        7 ,799          2,961            4,838            3.384            4,220-
tnoltnr   f prr.er                             463               -463                              -                 -
It-d Tufuah- 
Top loeroto I'                -        ~~~~~~~1,501      1,500             Soo               -                 -
l-ttl(01)                          -         9,262            4,461           5,801            3,384             4,230                
Inputs                       ~~~~~~~1,031  1,944           10,063          12,323           17,503            21,103         21,483           21,403           21.403            21,403         21,403
Family  abor                            t,350        4,563            6,642            7,920           0,352             8,874           0,874            8,874           0,874             0,874          0,874
lob-tota    (C2)                      2,301       11,507           17,303          23,239           25,943            30,357         30,337           30,327           30.317            30,357        30,337
Total                                 2,301       20,769           21,966          29,742           29,370            34,507         30,337           30,357           30,357            30,357         30.357
2.  GrssFr..t.        tfas
false of prodt-ttl   atder                 -        10,210           17,093           76,300          34,312            43,137          46,261          497406           49,166            49,520         49,570
Value o1,tadltl...I p-odt-              3,426        1,545              096              360                        -               -                -                -                -                      -
Total   (Il)                          3,420       11,761           18,201          76,640           34,300            43,132         40,264          48,266            49,160            49,520        49.578
3.   at P-od-oti   rains
RLfProEtr- 4(2-15                          -        -9,510           -3,375           -2,304           5,331             9,343          15,757         17,909            10,011            19,171         19,171
out=   = -rlo    MIT7                 1,045        2,043           1,089            1,113            1,149             1,104~         1,770           1,220             1,270             1,720          1,720
5.  Net flow fr-  oroleut
-.3EffEffr3- T3-4T                    -10.553           -4,464           -3,507           3,002             7,381          14,607          16,609            17,301            17,951        17,9511
B. FARM CASH FLOW
In:   sales                                 2,003       10,630           17,900           20,023          33,797            42,309          45,841         47,643            48,545            40,945         48,905
N    -sa   rditI                  -           9,009          14,040           10,487           15,262            21,403         21,487          21,403            21,403            21,403        21,407
osoesoroos oredot            ~    ~-    7,410            3,569            4,041            2,707             7,304              -              -                                     
Total                                2,003        27,057           50,300          40,131           39,727            07,376         67,124          09,176            70,020            72,388         72,300
00 OtseotCost                        -          9,282            4,401            3,001           3,304             4.2sf-                              -                                  -              -
Operatlog Ceses            ~~1,331        8,944          10,005           15,319           57,593           21,483          21,485          11,485            21,4053           21,483        21,403
Debt  eso-u-  leS--sI                              9,324           15,360           10,134          19,027            22,235          22,235          22,235           22,235            22,235         22,235
leveatesace     -            55~~-9          769            1,032           1,283             1,520           1,520          4,885             4,632             4,379          4,126
Total                                1,031        00,749           31,482          41,347           42,107            40,400          45,238         48,633            48,230            48,097         07.8844
CASH  WAIASCE BY YEARgk                    1,777          1,001            4,924            7,824          13.520            17,950          01,080         10,523            2L,678            22,201         22.544
C.  Coseosile. of Not Fe.  Ine-
Cash It-e-                                  1,772         1,058            4,924            7,800          13,537            17,978          21,886         20,523            21,678            22,281        22,244
Valu. of d-ti.sl   -osasptel                  622            623             623              623              623               623            623             623               623               823          623
Total                                  2,239          1,051            5.547           8,427           14,522            18,031          22,509         21,148            2 2,5301          22,914        23,167
2/Calealiad as fallow.:  Co  100 far small tepl-.en, Cr0 1,500 for  -olog sod psokiog shed; Cr1 1,503 fur  ater pun-                   rStrg    Oult
/ Cpots teelsuta  Yantto,ssds,  hbnas   ined lahor, Oon  -ahttey, draft atal,palking  ater.lal, ste,
3/yam    of t-adtio.-l erops  shoe will be gree  duriog the thra  firse fact  of she proeo.
4/Nat predaeiona-a..- Gras. Predasios value less Total Costs.
~/Non Isclodisg tally leber isss.
6/  sedlgfasily labor ic.~.
Nose-d e-  ov-rge  Gily sla  fees Os pro-pr-Jast field autsY and on ...ra.. .o.. -tio_ pattnorne



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 11 : Summary Results of Financial Rate of
Return and Sensitivity Analyses of Farm Models
Farm Type                                                     Financial Rate of Return
50%           25%         25%                    10% Increase
Increase      Increase    Increase   Decreasel/  in All Costs
Best      in Invest.    in Oper.       in All        in        and 10% Decrease
Estimate      Cost          Costs        Costs      Benefits    in Benefits
Humid Zone:
sharecropper (buying land)                47         32             40           33          28              34
sharecropper (not buying land)        >  50        > 50           > 50           44          33              48
owner with up to 10 ha                >  50        >50            > 50          > 50         42            > 50
owner with 10-25 ha                   >  50         >50           > 50          > 50         41            >50
owner with 25-200 ha                   >  50        >50           > 50          > 50         35              41
Carrasco Zone:
sharecropper (buying land)                22         14              12            9          16             11
owner with up to 10 ha                    23         16              11            8          16             10
owner with 10-25 ha                       28        21                8            7          17              9
owner with 25-200 ha                      38         28              15           13         24              16
1/ 25% on humid zone; 10% on carrasco zone.
(D
ODx



ANNEX 9
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Economic Analysis
Tntroduction
1.        The economic analysis for the proposed project was carried out in
several parts. First, an internal economic rate of return was calculated for
project components directly related to the incremental agricultural production
of project participants. The methodology and details of that analysis are
described in this annex. Second, an internal economic rate of return was
calculated separately for the proposed rural electrification component, whose
benefits (though related to the agricultural benefits) are separable in that
they lie principally with the savings resulting from the substitution of
electric motors for diesel powered engines used mainly for small scale sugar
and manioc milling and small scale irrigation. Third, an economic rate
of return was calculated for the combined agricultural and electrifica-
tion components, the results described in this annex.
2e        For the economic analysis of the agricultural components, the benefit
stream ,was calculated to include the incremental crop production (other than
coffee) by project participants. The benefit stream reflects both the phased
entrance to project participation of the different types of representative
producers and the phased increases of areas planted and yields received by
participating farmers (see Annexes 7 and 8 for details of representative
farm types and expected yields). The cost stream included three main com-
ponents: (i) the on-farm investments by participating farmers in land-
clearing, planting of permanent crops, equipment and tool procurement, develop-
ment of on-farm storage, etc.; (ii) the incremental working capital (both
purchased inputs and family labor) required to achieve the production increases;
and (iii) a portion, as described in paragraph 4 in detail, of the extension
and demonstration service, field experimentation, cooperative support, initial
mechanization service equipment stock, feeder road, project administration and
evaluation and soil conservation study costs.
Sources of Information
3.        A major source of information on the existing situation (production
systems, costs and revenues) of project area farmers of different types was
a sample field survey carried out in late 1975 in the project area by CEPA-CE.
The survey covered over 300 farmers. This data was complemented by information
from the 1970 Agricultural and Population censuses carried out by IBGE (the
Brazilian Geographical and Statistical Institute) and the 1972 cadastral survey
carried out by INCRA (the National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian
Reform). Estimates for potential yield improvements, on-farm investment and



ANNEX 9
Page 2
production costs (which are detailed in the individual farm models in Annex 8)
were based on consultations with the state research and extension companies
and on field observation. Coffee production activities were included in
several of the representative farm models because the coffee expansion program
will play an important part in some project participant farms.
4.        Cost estimates for off-farm investments and services (feeder roads,
extension, experimentation, etc.) are detailed in the respective annexes on
those subjects. In the case of extension services, 90% of estimated
costs (baseline plus physical contingencies) were charged to the cost stream
since at least 10% (a very conservative estimate) of the costs could be linked
to other benefits which are not quantifiable (e.g., indirect support of non-
project production such as coffee or livestock through improved overall
farm management, demonstration effect on non-participating farmers, impact of
social extension work). In the case of the experimentation, feeder road
construction and road maintenance equipment, cooperative support, the initial
equipment stock for mechanization services and overall project administration,
70% of the costs were charged to the cost stream. Again, only a conservatively
estimated share of the costs were charged to non-quantified benefits. For
example, expected project production would come from just over 60% of the
area's farm operators. Clearly, the benefits of feeder road construction, as
well as of other components, will extend far beyond the incremental "project"
production facilitated among participants and would also include other import-
ant non-quantified production benefits (coffee, livestock, production generated
among farmers not counted as participants, etc.) as well as social benefits.
In the case of monitoring, 50%, and in the case of soil conservation studies,
20%, of the estimated costs were charged to the quantified production benefits
of the Ibiapaba project.
5.        For the most part, the prices used in the economic analysis reflected
the average local market prices over the last 3 years (see Annex 7). Although
there appears to be a relatively tight labor market in the project area during
periods of peak agricultural labor requirement and higher wages may at times
be required, it was assumed that applying a weighted average of the market wage
to both family labor and hired labor would adequately reflect the overall
yearly average. Only in the cases of farm-gate peanut and of fertilizer
prices were reductions from recent local prices required to assure consistency
with the Bank's world-wide price projections. As making a reasonable estimate
of the tax component of the cost stream would be very difficult in light of
the complexity of the cost stream and tax system, market prices of inputs or
investment items have not yet been reduced to take into account taxes therein
and, on the production side, farm-gate prices (not including taxes levied on
marketed produce) were used.
6.        A "shadow" or "efficiency price" for the foreign exchange rate was,
however, used in the economic analysis. The "efficiency" rate was calculated
to be that exchange rate which, if all trade-distorting tariffs, subsidies,
advance import deposits, export taxes, and quantitative restrictions were



iA2NEX 9
Page 3
removed, would reestablish "equilibrium" in balance of payments taking account
of planned capital inflows.  The methodology used takes expl-cit account of
Brazil's ability to affect the world price of a number of important export
commodities and allows for varying estimates of the extent of unplanned
deficits in the balance of payments.  The data used for these calculations are
for 1975, except that estimates of the most restrictive measures affecting
imports in 1976 have been applied to the 1975 data.  On this basis, the
appropriate shadow exchange rate for Brazil is in the range of 23 to 28
percent above the official exchange rate as of mid-1976. For lack of more
precise measures, a figure of 25 percent is being used. The stiff restrictive
import measures which became effective in 1976 (including prior cruzeiro
deposits, bearing no interest or monetary correctton and equal to 100 percent
of the f.o.b. value of many imports, as well as increased quantitative
restrictions) coupled with a significant unplanned current account deficit,
only in part attributable to temporary climatic factors affecting agricultural
production, have had the effect of raising the shadow exchange rate to more
than 20 percent above the official rate.  Some degree of import control is
likely to be retained over the medium term. For the longer Lerm Government
has embarked on a major import substitution drive involving important basic and
intermediate inputs for industry as well as wheat, and exports may well
require additional stimulation in the future.
7.        Insofar as the Ibiapaba project is coeicerned, the foreign exchange
costs (mainly indirect) for the various components "as estimated inr Annex 5)
were adjusted to reflect the "shadow" exchange ratee  Table 1 sets forth the
detailed cost and benefit streams assumed.  In the case of benefits, the ex-
pected value of production of sugarcane, peanuts (vegetable oil) and annato
was adjusted to reflect the fact that Brazil is a net exporter of those
products.
Results of Economic Analysis
8.        The internal economic rate of retur--n Kassum,ing a 17 year discount
period, which is equivalent to the period witi_hinr, whicch a twel.ve-year agricul-
tural investment sub-loan made during the fifth year oF tni project would be
repaid) for the agricultural components was estimated to be 21% using efficiency
prices.  At market prices the rate dropped only marginally to 19%.  The rate of
the combined agricultural and electrification components would be about 19%
using efficiency prices (15% using market prices-
9.        The results of the sensitiV-ity analysis on the agriLcultural com-
ponent are given in Table 2, The rate sf retur-  is relat iv.'al1y sens-itive to
decreases in incremental production or i-ncres as in c.os t.s   On. must take into
account. however, the fact that very conservati-ve assumptnons were made in
assigning thle costs of "off-farm`' investmente-22  and' services to the cost stream.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
-Table 1:  Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis of Agricultural Components
(in efficiency prices converted to US$'000)
Costs
On-Farm                                                           Off-Farm
Investment     Incremental            Extension                                       Nechanization           Project   Soil                           Incremental
'rorking      Sub-       and              Field          Cooperative   Service        Feeder  Adminis.  Conservation  Sub-              Production
Year                   Capital       Total    Demonstration   Experimentation  Support        Ecuipment       Roads   and Eval. Study          Total   Total   Benefits   1/
1         488.3           66.2        554.5      487.7            22.0          63.9           180.7         1,186.3  282.0      29.7        2,252.3  2,806.8     166.3
2      1,414.5           376.3      1,790.8      712.9            28.3          87.9           212.7         2,230.7  291.7      44.6        3,608.8  5,399.6     851.7
3      2,939.4         1,241.0      4,180.4    1,089.1            34.5          87.9           145.9        1,428.6              44.6        3,122.3  7,302.7   2,573.2
4       3,165.9        2,680.6      5,846.5    1,203.5            47.0           0.0             0.0            91.9             44.6        1,678.7  7,525.2   5,275.4
5       1,568.8        4,18o.7      5,749.5    1,o55.3                                                           0.0             18.6        1,412.6  7,162.1   8,oi5.6
6       1,260.6        5,034.4      6,295.0      969.2                                                                             0.0       1,307.9  7,602.9  10,015.7
7      1,286.7         5,561.7      6,848.4                                                                                                           8,156.3  11,653.7
8      1,714.9         5,788.3      7,503.2                                                                                                           8,811.1  12,836.7
9      1,218.5         5,853.6      7,072.1                                                                                                           8,380.0  13,743.0
10           8.8        5,974.7      5,983.5                                                                                                     +    7,291.4  14,606.6
11         296.8        5,970.8      6,267.6                                                                             0.0                  1,016.2  7,283.8  14,989.1
12         774.1        5,941.5      6,715.6                                                                                                           7,731.8  15,126.3
13      1,456.1         5,889.2      7,345.3                                                                                                           8,361.5  15,125.3
14      1,190.9         5,913.8      7,104.7                                                                                                           8,120.9  15,291.1
15           0.0        5,993.8      5,993.8                                                                                                           7,010.0  15,552.2
16         296.8        5,970.8      6,267.6                                                                                                           7,283.8  15,510.4
17         774.1        5,941.5      6,715.6        '                                                                                                  7,731.8  15,433.1
1/ Based on phased composite of representative farm models.
a | 



ANNEX 9
Table 2
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
Table 2: Summary Results of
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Internal
Economic
Rate of
Return (%)
Best Estimates
Agricultural Components                                      21
Rural Electrification Component                              17
Combined                                                    19
Agricultural Component Sensitivity Analysis
Best Estimate                                               21
Change in Benefits of:
+ 10%                                                     26
- 10%                                                     16
- 20%                                                     10
Change in On-Farm Costs of:
+ 10%                                                      18
+ 20%                                                      14
Change in Off-Farm Costs of:
+ 10%                                                     19
+ 20%               -                                     18
14
Chaange in A'l Costs of:
+ 10%                                                     16
+ 20%                                                     12
Change in:
all costs, + 10%; benefits, - 10%                         11
all costs, + 10%; benefits, - 20%                          5



ANNIEX 10
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IBIAPABA
FISCAL IMPACT
I.   RECOVERY OF PROJECT COSTS
1.        During the 5-year project period, project costs are expected to be
about US$55.8 million (including price and physical contingencies). Of this
amount roughly US$18 million (again including contingencies) would be for on-
farm development and incremental farm working capital or an average of just
over US$3,000 per direct beneficiary farmer. Adding the sum of US$8 million
of expected costs for other agricultural support services (extension, experi-
mentation, cooperative support and mechanization services) mainly directed
toward the same group, the cost per family of the total agricultural component
would be on the order of US$4,500. The project administration, social and
physical infrastructure costs (amounting to a total of almost US$30 million)
are far more difficult to assign to particular families. Though some 5,000
families are expected to benefit from new electricity connections, the elec-
trification benefits will also accrue to non-farm families and to all families
using health posts, education or other public facilities, and the rural roads
could easily be considered to benefit most of the rural population of some
25,000 families, as would improved health and education services. The sum of
these non-agricultural expenditures would average roughly US$1,200 per rural
family in the project area.
2.        The effectiveness of cost recovery arrangements varies by component
and, because of the importance of credit (for agriculture, land purchase and
electricity connections) in recovering the costs, any estimate of real recov-
ery depends very much on the assumptions made regarding the rate of inflation
over the next several years in Brazil and the effect of this inflation in
deflating the real value of repayments of unindexed credit. First, as far
as the on-farm agricultural investment and incremental working capital costs
are concerned (roughly US$18 million including contingencies), farmers are
likely to finance at least 10-15% with their own resources at the outset. Of
the remainder, which would be financed by credit, if one were to assume a
gradually declining though continuing moderate inflation, credit repayments
would recover as little as one-third and probably less than half of the real
value of credit originally extended. Overall, therefore, real recovery of
the on-farm project costs will probably be less than 60% and possibly as low
as 40%.
3.        Insofar as direct or indirect recovery of the some US$37 million
in off-farm project costs is concerned, one could consider cost recovery to
include: the estimated community contribution to investments in the health
and sanitation component; road user charges (taxes on petroleum use, license
fees, etc.); as a minimum, the tax income which would be derived from the
marketed incremental production during the five-year project period (later
tax income is considered in paragraph 15 below in offsetting incremental



ANNEX 10
Page 2
recurrent costs); and a deflated real value of the electricity connection
loan repayments. On such assumptions, about one-third (roughly US$12 million)
of the off-farm five-year project costs would be recovered by the Government.
Among the cost recovery mechanisms for off-farm project investments and
services, direct and indirect road user charges will probably allow full
recovery of the road component costs. The extent of real recovery of electri-
fication investment costs will, however, depend on the impact of future infla-
tion in deflating the real value of connection loan, but the mechanism of
connection charges is already in place and electricity tariffs are sufficiently
high to assure the continued viability of the power company and electrification
cooperative. Other off-farm project costs (e.g., experimentation and extension
services, project administration, studies, health and social infrastructure),
which in this project will benefit mainly very low income groups, are typically
not directly recovered by the Government.
4.        The probable overall recovery of the total project cost is therefore
estimated to be on the order of 35-40%, leaving a net fiscal burden to the
Government of some US$33-36 equivalent. It should be noted, however, that
this estimate is highly sensitive to the assumptions one makes regarding
inflationary tendencies. In any case, the net burden does not appear exces-
sive in view of Brazil's overall fiscal capacity.
II. INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
Not Directly Recovered from Beneficiaries
5.        Agricultural Extension.  At full development, the continuing agri-
cultural extension and demonstration services would cost approximately
US$978,000 annually in the project area. It is assumed that, for purposes of
this analysis, the Government's policy of not charging the small farmer for
such services will be continued. The recurrent cost estimate for extension is,
however, probably on the high side, as it should be possible with the project
experience to continue to improve the cost effectiveness of the service.
6.        Agricultural Research.  The maintenance and continued operation of
the some 10 experimentation fields whose start-up would be financed by the
proposed Bank loan would amount to approximately US$61,000 per year after the
five year project period. It should be noted that this does not include the
operating cost of the new EPACE research station at Tiangua which, though not
part of the project, will also contribute to production increases.
7.        Education and Training.  It is assumed that the level of non-formal
training continued after the five year project period would be slightly less
annually than during the peak project year (when about US$133,000 equivalent
in training costs would be incurred). Thus, it is assumed that annual recur-
rent non-formal training costs would approximate US$100,000. Recurrent costs
for the formal primary education at project-financed schools would be about
US$376,000 annually.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
8.        Health.  At full development, the annual costs of operating the
62 new miniposts would be about US$197,000 equivalent, the referral services
at the 7 health centers about US$35,000, the incremented hospital services
about US$43,000, the endemic disease control programs about US$78,000 and the
regional health administration set up about US$46,000. These costs total
about US$399,000 equivalent. However, it is expected that up to 60% of the
recurrent minipost costs will be recovered from beneficiaries so that the
incremental fiscal burden generated by the health component would be more
on the order of US$281,000 annually.
9.        Project Administration and Evaluation.  It is expected that the
special project administration and evaluation set-up could be gradually phased
out. Even if it were not, at least 30% of the costs of the administration
unit and half of the costs of the monitoring and evaluation unit would be
directly associated with other or subsequent POLONORDESTE projects. On this
basis it can be assumed that the recurrent costs generated by the Ibiapaba
project would be at most on the order of US$212,000 annually for project
administration and US$55,000 for monitoring and evaluation, or a total of
about US$267,000.
10.       Total.  The total quantifiable recurrent costs generated by the
project, for which direct recovery from beneficiaries would not be made,
amount to US$2,063,000, of which about 50% would be related to agricultural
extension and experimentation services, 13% to project administration and 37%
to social services (health, education and training).
Directly Recovered from Beneficiaries
ll.       Water Supply.  It is expected that the operation and maintenance of
the 62 new or improved village water supply systems included in the project
will cost annually some US$124,000 equivalent, of which 89% would be at the
local or community level and 11% at the regional (CAGECE) level. The costs
of operation and maintenance should be fully recovered through beneficiary
payments through the community health committees.
12.       Feeder Road Maintenance.  The cost of maintaining the 370 km of
feeder roads improved or constructed under the project will be on the order
of US$11,000 equivalent annually (US$300/km/yr). W4hile it is virtually
impossible to match specific tax receipts with subsequent expenditures these
road maintenance expenditures should be fully covered by the local share of
the various road user (principally the tax on fuel and lubricants) charges
in effect.
13.       Mechanization and Electrification Services.  The costs of continued
operation of these activities would be fully covered by direct user charges.
14.       Credit,  At present, given the rate of inflation in Brazil, the
interest rate structure adopted for agricultural and land purchase credit to
small farmers involves a substantial Government subsidy. It is virtually
impossible to estimate, however, what the recurrent costs of this subsidy



ANNEX 10
Page 4
will be after the project is completed, partly because the inflation rate is
likely to decline from the rather high level of 1975-1976. Also, the Govern-
ment recently took some initial steps in adjusting interest rates marginally
upward, and the possible extent of future adjustments is difficult to predict.
If one were to assume rather pessimistically that Brazilian inflation would
not drop below 15-20% by the end of the project period and that no further
increases would be made in interest rates, a continued credit portfolio (as a
result of this project and closely linked follow-up projects in the project
area) on the order of US$4 million for seasonal purposes, US$7 million for
investments and US$0.6 million for land purchase would involve a subsidy cost
of as much as US$2.0 million annually. However, this is a highly speculative
estimate which in any case is probably an upper limit. Equally, as changed
conditions could result in no interest rate subsidy, it is impossible to
attribute to the project a recurrent cost in this area.
Main Tax Revenues
15.       Given the current tax system in Brazil, the main tax revenues likely
to be generated by the production increases associated with the project are:
(i) the ICM (the state's Imposto sobre Operacoes Relativas a Circulacao de
Mercadorias), which is applied at a rate of 15% on the price of marketed pro-
duction, some products being exempt and products shipped out of the state
having a rate of 11%; and (ii) the FUNRURAL (the Government's Fundo de
Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural) charge of 2.5% on marketed production, a
tax used to fund social assistance programs for rural workers.
16.       Utilizing the incremental production and price estimates given in
Annex 7, and assuming that 90% of the annato production, 50% of the peanut
production and up to 33% of the vegetables and fruits will be shipped out of
the state, the estimated ICM revenue at full development would amount to about
US$1.52 million annually. The FUNRURAL revenue would amount to about US$0.36
million resulting in a combined revenue of US$1.86 million. This compares to
the total quantifiable recurrent costs of about US$2.06 million (see para 10)
resulting directly from the project.



BRAZ IL
STATE OF CEARA
PRIORITY AREAS FOR POLONORDESTE
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
-6~ 
-OD' 1-W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--
-                                                                               "3'                  T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.,,A , ,M,,6 5
-c  K ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ A
T. A---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.o~lAo
31-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5'19309e






II                                                                                               BR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AZIL
ST'A'TE OF CEARA
~~~rO00b0  0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SERRA  DA  1BIAPABA
5s~~ssCs, ~~RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA
Too,,.,  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~'C~~~~oo'oo~R.,r
'00                                                                             C-1   0                                        V- -1,qh-y (N.t-dPo00- - 
-  51E055A                 -~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~G-IRd~/jprd"g"-
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 
0                                    or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ..ci~ B
2055,, ~  ~      ~       B-
5  maarroo           r~~~~~~~~~~~~13BeELoE0&                           C-
Cnde t'o s  ob  o 
D,,oe- Are  Boj-s    PIaor  d -y
D ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ESN
--                                                                                     'd"  re Rd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA~14'
41'30'                       A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-A                                              Bo,od Nro: 0  ro
e15            -                                              '--o                  C  005          O'A'hotVod,orSoho



