LOAN NUMBER 1488 BR
Project Agreement
(Ceard Rural Development Project)
between
STATE OF CEARA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       /7    i   -i /7       , 1977, between
STATE OF CEARA (hereinafter called the State) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen
million dollars ($17,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the State
agree to undertake certain obligations toward the Bank as herein-
after set forth;
WHEREAS the State warrants and represents that it is autho-
rized to undertake the obligations in this Agreement contained
under the laws of the State; and
WHEREAS the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
Section 2. The State covenants and warrants that the Project
is of paramount importance to rural development plans of the State
and that it shall fully support the Project by cooperating with
the Borrower in the execution of the Project and by providing,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources on its part required for the carrying out of the Project
and for the operation and maintenance of the facilities and
services included in the Project.


﻿- 2 -
Section 3. The State specifically undertakes to:
(a) cause Empresa de Pesquisa AgroRecuaria do Cearf to
develop and carry out such research at the Tiangua research
station as shall be required for purposes of the Project;     0
(b) cause Companhia Cearense de Desenvolvimento Agro-
pecuario to provide small farmers in the Project Area with mecha-
nization services appropriate to their needs, and to charge users
of such services such charges as shall be required to cover the
operating and maintenance costs of the equipment used and the
investment cost of such equipment over a reasonable period of
time; such investment cost to be revalued at least once every
twelve months in accordance with a price index and a method
satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) cause Companhia de Eletricidade do Cearg to apply such
low cost design standards in carrying out Part D of the Project as
shall be recommended in the study being carried out by Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. (ELETROBRAS) in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement between the Bank
and ELETROBRAS dated August 27, 1976;
(d) obtain, before starting construction of the roads
included in Part E of the Project, a commitment from the munici-
palities where such roads will be located to maintain them
adequately;
(e) obtain, before starting construction of the primary
schools included in Part G.1 of the Project, a commitment from
the municipalities where such schools will be located to (i) give
preference, in the employment of rural primary school teachers
on a full-time basis, to those who have successfully completed
the training or upgrading under Part G.3 of the Project, and pay
such teachers salaries appropriate to the level of their qualifi-
cations according to the teacher salary scale of the State, and
(ii) ensure that at least 75% of the rural primary school teachers
employed in the future by such municipalities meet at least the
minimum qualification requirements for primary school teachers
applicable in the State;


﻿-3-
(f) enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, with such agencies as shall be appropriate to carry out
Parts B, E, F and G of the Project; and
(g) operate and maintain the Technical Unit with such
responsibilities, authority and staff as shall be required for the
carrying out of the Project.
Section 4. (a) The State shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
(b) The State shall promptly inform the Bank of any condi-
tion which interferes, or threatens to interfere with, the pro-
gress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by the State of its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 5. The State shall not take, cause or permit to be
taken, any action which would prevent or interfere with the
execution of the Project or with the performance of the Borrower's
obligations under the Loan Agreement.
Section 6. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 7. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of the State thereunder shall terminate when the Loan Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms and the Bank shall
notify the State thereof.
Section 8. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,


﻿-4-
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or per-
mitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the State:
Secretaria de Planejamento
e Coordenagao
Rua dos Tabajaras 80
60.000 Fortaleza, Ceard
Brazil
Cable address:
Secretaria de Planejamento
e Coordenafo
Fortaleza
Cearg, Brazil
Section 9. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the State may be taken or executed by the
Secretario de Planejamento e Coordenaqfo or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 10. The State shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the State, take
any action or execute any documents required or permitted to be
taken or executed by the State pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 11. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 5 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
STATE OF CEARA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this     Y.   day of 'eAw&, 19721.
FOR SECRETARY


