Report No. 918a-MOR
Kingdom of Morocco: Appraisal of
the Bay of Agadir Tourism Project
FILE COPY
January 21, 1976
Tourism Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without Workl Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Dirham (DH)
US$1.00 = Dg 3.80
US$.26  =:DH 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm)          =         0.04 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                =         3.28 feet (ft)       2
1 square meter (m2) :               10.76 square feet (ft )
1 kilometer (km)           =         0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)             =         2.47 actes
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEOM          Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements d'Outre Mer
CIH E     =    Crédit Immobilier et Hôtelier
DUHE      =    Dé'lgation a l'Urbanisme, l'Habitat et l'Environnement
MUHTE     =    Ministère de l'Urbanisme, de l'Habitat, du Tourisme et de
1'Environnement
ONE       =    Office National de l'Electricité
ONEP      =    Office National de l'Eau Potable
ONMT      =    Office National Marocain du Tourisme
PTT       =    Ministère des Postes, Téléphone et Télégraphe
RAPC      =    Régie d'Acconnage du Port de Casablanca
SOMET     =    Sociéte Maroc-Etudes
SONABA    =    Société Nationale d'Amdnagement de la Baie d'Agadir
STB       =    Secteur Touristique et Balnéaire
TP        =    Ministère des Travaux Publics et des Communications
UAT       =    Unite d'Amé'nagement Touristique
FISCAL YEAR
January l to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY ............                                 -ii
I.   INTRODUCTION .................................. 1
II.  THE TOURISM SECTOR      . . .....            ..... 
III. THE PROJECT.......                                 . 4
A. Project Background.                               4
B.   Physical Planning and
Environmental Aspects le.......le...    5
C.   Project Description.                           7
D.   Implementation      . .. ............   10
E.   Cost Estimates  ...........    13
F.   Financing and Lending
Arrangements.          0.. ........-§-§. 14
G.   Procurement          ......              .    15
H. Disbursement   .              .16
IV.   JUSTIFICATION ...........    ....................... 16
A.   Superstructure Development .............  ... 16
B.   The Market       ................................ 18
C.   Financial Aspects ......    ................... 20
D.   Economic Justification .................  ... 22
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......... 24
ANNEXES
I.   Statistical Appendix to the Sector
II.   Project Description and Cost Estimates
III.   Unité d'Aménagement Touristique (UAT)
IV.   Regional Infrastructure
V.   Société Nationale d'Aménagement de la Baie d'Agadir (SONABA)
VI.   Market Justification
VII.   Accommodation Facilities - Financial Analysis
VIII.   Economic Justification of the UAT Investment
CHARTS
1.   Schedule of Implementation, Expenditure and Disbursement
2.   Initial Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 11657R
IBRD 11658
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. Bauer, Benbrahim, Brizzi, Christie, and Carrère and Fougère (consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        This report appraises a project to provide infrastructure and
common facilities for a new tourism development in Agadir on the Atlantic
coast of Morocco. The infrastructure would consist of streets, water supply
and sewerage systems, electric power and telecommunications. The common
facilities would include shopping and recreational centers. These works
would support the development of 7,000 hotel beds and 2,600 housing units
that would be built by private investors between 1979 and 1987. The project
would also include three components outside the immediate resort area: the
construction of the Ait Melloul bypass, the upgrading of tourism road CT 7002
and the replacement of the pumps for unloading fish in Agadir harbor. These
measures would enhance Agadir's tourism assets and alleviate some of the
city's problems caused by its rapid growth followin2 the 1960 eerthquake.
ii.       Morocco's multifaceted attractions have supported a rapid growth of
the tourism sector. Foreign visitors who numbered 469,000 in 1968 attained
the 1,052,000 mark in 1974. Growth of visitor traffic would have been even
faster but for the shortage of improved land which constrained hotel construc-
tion in Agadir and Marrakesh, the top-ranking areas of Morocco for investors
and tourists alike.
iii.      The UNDP-financed studies by consultants which served as a basis for
appraisal are well-conceived. They recommend an original concept for develop-
ment of the project area, which would mix 7,000 tourist beds with 2,600 housing
units. This approach would balance the need for expansion of tourism activities
with that of alleviating Agadir's acute shortage of housing. The incremental
investment in infrastructure required for the housing component is justified as
providing an additional benefit from the tourism project at a marginal cost.
Further, the co-existence within the same urban context of foreign tourists and
local residents would avoid the creation of a tourist ghetto, generate greater
"?animation" in the resort, and give Agadir's residents access to entertainment
and sports facilities while providing them with opportunities for socially valuable
interchange with tourists.
iv.       The project is estimated to cost about US$44 million, including
contingencies. The proposed loan of US$21 million would cover the foreign
exchange component of the project. The balance of the funds required to
finance the project and any cost overruns would be provided by the Government.
v.        Major civil works and equipment would be awarded under international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. A contract for tele-
communications equipment, however, for an estimated US$600,000 (or 1.47. of
the project cost) would be negotiated directly to ensure compatibility with
similar equipment in operation in Agadir. In evaluating international bids
for equipment contracts, domestic manufacturers of equipment and furniture
would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the CIF price of competing
imports or the prevailing level of customs duties, whichever is lower.



- ii -
vi.       The tourism works would be implemented by a Government-controlled
development corporation, the Société Nationale d'Aménagement de la Baie
d'Agadir (SONABA), in close cooperation with specialized Government agencies.
At the operational stage, SONABA would lease or sell the land and the common
resort facilities and turn over the income-producing infrastructure to the
specialized agencies. Charges and leases would be adequate to ensure a
satisfactory financial return on the overall investment. The regional com-
ponents would be implemented by the Ministry of Public Works.
vii.      Since 1970 there has been a threefold increase in Agadir's accom-
modation capacity and a fivefold increase in bednights. Room occupancies
currently average 95%. Numerous investors have expressed interest in building
hotel and housing units in the project area. SONABA would earn a 9.2% discounted
financial rate of return on its operations. The economic rate of return is
estimated at 17.4%. When fully operational in 1989, the project will employ
about 4,400 workers in hotels and other tourism facilities.  Indirect employment
generated in construction, handicrafts, agriculture and other services is
likely to account for 7,200 additional jobs. Net annual foreign exchange earnings are
estimated to amount to about US$37 million in 1989. The project would yield
a small net budgetary surplus to the Government of US$0.5 million in 1981
rising to US$5.9 million in 1989.
viii.     The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$21 million equivalent
to the Government for a term of 20 years including a grace period of 5 years.



MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1971 the Moroccan Government requested Bank assistance to finance
infrastructure for the development of tourism in either Tangiers or Agadir.
Following consultation between the Moroccan authorities and the Bank, it was
decided to concentrate efforts on the Agadir area, where a lack of improved
land for hotels was constraining the development of tourism.
1.02      In July 1973, with the assistance of a UNDP grant for which the
Bank was executing agency, the Government retained consultants to identify
suitable areas for the first phase of tourism development around the Bay of
Agadir and to carry out the necessary feasibility studies. 1/  The project
proposal emerging from these studies was submitted to the Bank for consider-
ation in the spring of 1975.  The pr9ject was appraised in June 1975 by a
mission consisting of Messrs. Bauer9 Benbrahim, Brizzi and Christie, assisted
by Messrs. Carrere and Fougère (consultants).
1,03      The Bank has financed hotel construction in Morocco since 1970
through two lines of credit to Crédit Immobilier et H&telier (CIH). 2/  This
would be the first Bank loarn for tourism infrastructure in Morocco.
II. THE TOURISM SECTOR
2.01      Situated within easy reach by car from European tourist-generating
countries, Morocco's outstanding tourism resources include the attractive
beaches along its extensive Mediterranean and Atlantic coasts; the archi-
tectural treasures in its Imperial cities of Fez, Rabat, Meknes and Marrakesh;
and the exotic atmosphere of its pre-Saharan oases, within view of the snow-
capped Atlas range. Notwithstanding the Moroccan Government's efforts in
recent years, this multifaceted tourism potential is still largely untapped.
2.02      The country's hotel capacity doubled from 20,500 beds in 1968 to
41,000 beds in 1974. About two-thirds of this additional capacity was built
by private investors, most of them Moroccan. The remainder was built by the
Government either directly or through public agencies such as the National
Railway Company, Royal Air Maroc and subsidiaries of Government-owned banks.
Hotel financing is provided by CIH, a Government-controlled lending institution
which extends loans with a maximum maturity of 20 years, including a 5-year
grace period.
1/ The consultants were the French firm Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les
Equipements d'Outre Mer (BCEOM) and their Moroccan associate, Société
Maroc-Etudes (SOMET).
2/ Loans 704-MOR and 848-MOR.



-2-
2.03      Morocco's accommodations are concentrated in the Imperial cities
and Casablanca (43%), the Mediterranean coast (35%) and Agadir (12%)
(Annex 1, Table 1). They are generally of a high standard, with luxury
establishments accounting for more than 40% of the total. Foreigners manage
and operate about 30% of Moroccan hotels.
2.04      Occupancies vary greatly according to hotel locations.  In major
cities like Casablanca and Rabat, where visitors are predominantly business-
motivated, annual bed occupancies average around 60%. Even higher levels are
attained in Agadir and Marrakesh, the country's southernmost tourism resorts.
Bed occupancies in Tangiers on the other hand follow the general seasonal
pattern of other exclusively beach-based Mediterranean tourism centers, i.e.,
averaging 30%-35% over the course of the year.
2.05      The 1973-77 Five-Year Plan calls for the construction of 55,000
beds, primarily in three- or four-star hotels, which are favored by broad,
middle-income segments of the international tourism market. Despite a recent
overhaul of the incentives system (para. 2.11), this target is unlikely to be
met. Between 1968 and 1972, 4,000 beds per year were added, but over the last
three years, additional beds averaged only 2,500 per year. The slower growth
of hotel capacity is attributable in part to a lack of investor confidence
following the 1970-72 political unrest, in part to the increased opportunities
for alternative investments offered by Moroccanization policies and in part to
the shortage of improved land for hotel construction in Agadir and Marrakesh,
the top-ranking areas of Morocco for investors and tourists alike.
2.06      Outpacing the growth of accommodation capacity, the number of foreign
visitors to Morocco (excluding cruise visitors) increased from 469,000 to
1,226,000 between 1968 and 1973, an annual rate of 21%. A 14% decline to
1,052,000 in 1974 reflected the impact of the energy crisis and economic
difficulties in Western European countries (Annex I, Table 2). Growth has
resumed in 1975; in the first quarter of this year, foreign visitor arrivals
were 25% greater than in the corresponding quarter of 1974.
2.07      In 1974 Western European countries accounted for one-half of visitor
arrivals in Morocco, with France (20%), the U.K. (10%) and Germany (8%) pre-
dominating. In the same year, U.S. and Canadian arrivals rose to 19% of the
total visitor market from a 14% share in 1968 (Annex I, Table 2).  About two-
thirds of total visitors arrive in Morocco by car. However, due to new air
policies which encourage charter flights, the proportion of arrivals by air
is increasing (Annex I, Table 3).
2.08      With its varied tourism potential Morocco attracts a heterogeneous
clientele: this includes culturally-oriented visitors drawn to the Imperial
cities, climate-seekers attracted to the dry invigorating air of Agadir and
Marrakesh and beach-motivated tourists flocking to the country's Mediter-
ranean and Atlantic shores. In keeping with the diversity of its motivations,
tourist traffic to Morocco tends to be m.ore evenly distributed over the year
than does traffic to other Mediterranean countries. Summer arrivals in Morocco
in 1973 accounted for only 40% of the yearly total as compared for instance,
to 50% in Spain and 54% in Yugoslavia (Annex I, Table 4).



- 3 -
2.09      A 1972 survey estimated the average daily expenditures of all
tourists to be about DH 65 (US$ 17.1), and that of tourists staying
in hotels at DH 88 (US$23,2).   of total tourist expenditures,  36%
were absorbed by accommodations, 12% by entertainment, 7% by local trans-
portation and the remaining 45% by purchases of sundries. Gross foreign
exchange receipts from tourists more than doubled from 1968 to 1974 reaching
DH 1,025 million (about US$270 million), or 21% of the country's total foreign
exchange earnings from the export of goods and services. Until phosphate
prices were raised in 1973, tourism was Morocco's major export (Annex I, Table 5).
Net foreign exchange revenues from tourism are estimated at about 80% of gross
receipts. About 16,000 Moroccans are directly employed in the hotel industry;
one-half of these work in five- and four-star hotels. Jobs indirectly attri-
butable to the tourist sector are estimated at 60,000 in handicrafts and
20,000 in agriculture, the construction industry, transport and other services.
2.10      The tourism directorate of the Ministère de l'Urbanisme, de l'Habitat,
du Tourisme et de l'Environnement (MITHTE) administerq the tourism investipsnt incentives
system, the training of hotel personnel,'general promotion and the construction
of infrastructure.
2.11      The 1973 Investment Code provides the following incentives for hotel
investors:
(a)  ten-year income tax exemptions;  other forms of fiscal relief;
(b)  interest-free advances of 15% of the investment (land cost
excluded) repayable over five years following a five-year grace
period;
(c)  interest rebates on CIH loans, effectively reducing CIH statutory
rate, at present 8.5%, to 4.5%.
Under this incentives system, the financing plan for a typical Moroccan hotel
is 30% equity, 55% CIH loan and 15% Government advance. In addition the
Investment Code guarantees to foreign investors repatriation of dividends,
profits and proceeds from liquidation.
2.12      The Bank has expressed concern on several occasions that the liberality
of incentives may lead to overinvestment in hotels. Incentives are granted to
investors in hotel projects which are judged technically by MUHTE and financially
by CIH. The latter also calculates an ERR on all hotel investments; however,
because of the methodology employed and the limitations of data, these calculations
are not fully reliable. The recent mission which appraised the proposed third
loan to CIH conducted a special field survey aimed at establishing the methodological
and information bases for improved economic appraisal techniques. Adoption of
these techniques would be a condition of the proposed loan to CIH as would the
Government's undertaking to improve the collection and analysis of tourism
statistics. It is expected that these measures may lead to a rationalization
of Morocco's hotel incentives system and reduce the risk of benefits being
granted to marginally economic hotel projects.
2.13      MUHTE's Professional Training Division is in charge of organizing
and supervising hotel training. Training for upper- and middle-echelon
personnel is basically adequate. High-level training is given at the Tangiers



- 4 -
Institute. Taken together the five middle-level schools located in Tangiers,
Rabat, Fez, Marrakesh and Agadir graduate about 200 middle-echelon cadres.
On the other hand, the obsolete training facilities at Ben Guerir, which have
a maximum annual output of 500, are inadequate to meet the increased need
for training of lower-level hotel personnel. This situation should improve
with the implementation of the third Education Project, which, in addition to
the construction of a new middle-level school in El Jadida with an annual
output of 55, would include the construction of four new training centers in
Beni Mellal, Nador, Ouarzazate and Casablanca with a total annual output of
520 lower-level hotel personnel.
2.14      MUHTE has entrusted tourism promotion to the Office National Marocain
du Tourisme (ONMT) whose budget allocation for this purpose was increased
from DH 5.2 million în 1968 to DH 9.9 million in 1974. 1/  ONMT's campaigns
are complemented by the publicity of Royal Air Maroc and individual hotels.
Although the increase in funds devoted to tourism promotion has not kept pace
with the rise *n tourism receipts (the promotion budget of ONMT represented
less than 0.9% of receipts from tourism in 1974 as compared to 1.2% in 1968),
Morocco may be considered well-promoted for tourism, particularly on the
European market.
2.15      MUHTE's budget for tourism  infrastructure 2/ was traditionally er-trusted
to the Ministere des Travaux Publics et des Communications TTh). This arrange-
ment permitted MUHTE to tap TP's qualified technical staff;  however, it proved
administratively cumbersome and limited MUHTE's control over the use of its own
funds.  In 1967 MUHTE undertook to implement tourism infrastructure through
Government-controlled tourism infrastructure development corporations (sociétés
d'aménagement) to be created ad hoc for individual projects. This decision was
well-advised; such corporations enjoying the flexible regulations of business
law are well-suited for the implementation of tourism schemes which often include
a complexity of works and commercial activities.  Yet the first of these corpo-
rations, the Société Nationale d'Aménagement de la Baie de Tanger, has i±ot
achieved its objectives. Because of insufficient funding and staffing, it has
left works uncompleted at Tangiers and investors are not being attracted to the
area. When studies for Agadir began, the Government created a second socie;te
d'aménagement, the Société Nationale d'Aménagement de la Baie d'Agadir (SONABA).
With adequate financing assured and key personnel already appointed, SONABA
has good prospects for success.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Background
3.01      The project would be located in Agadir, administrative and economic
capital of southern Morocco. Situated on the Atlantic coast, a three-hour
1/ ONMT also supervises Morocco's tourism offices abroad and is in charge of
building Government hotels.
2/ The 1973-77 Plan budgeted DH 77 million for tourism infrastructure.



- 5 -
flight from Paris, Agadir is one of the winter beach resorts closest to
Europe. The climate from Novembe to June is mild and dry; temperatures
range from 190C - 220C, and there are only three to five days of rain
monthly. An unusually wide sandy beach dominated to the north by a ruined
fortress on a barren hill stretches several miles along the Bay. Within a
two-hour drive from Agadir are picturesque mountain villages, pre-Saharan
oases with battlemented mud castles and the fertile valley of the Souss
River guarded by the walled city of Taroudant.
3.02     Agadir is accessible by four main roads (Map 1):  coastal road
RP 8 connects the city to Casablanca, the recently completed RP 40 crosses
the Atlas Mountains to the northeast towards Marrakesh; RP 30 leads south
and RP 32 runs east through the Souss Valley. 1/ The international airport
located in the middle of the Agadir urban area has a 2,910-m long runway
fully equipped for night landing that can take most types of aircraft.
The existing airport will become an obstacle to the physical growth of
Agadir and the Moroccan authorities are planning to relocate it by 1985 to a
site 20 km east in the Souss Valley.
3.03     When planning the reconstruction of Agadir after the catastrophic
earthquake of 1960, the authoriti.s decided to base the economic development
of the region on agriculture, fishing and tourism.  The Government development
plans were successful. The implementation of irrigation and agro-industrial
projects lias boosted agricultural production in the Souss Valley. Today
Agadir is known as one of the most important world centers for sardine fishing
and processing.  Tourism, which hardly existed before the earthquake, has
boomed; by 1974, 4,000 hotel beds had been built in Agadir, 3,500 of which were
on the Secteur Touristique et BalnéaireQSTB). a beach area between thp harbor and
the Oued Lahouar; in the same year visitor arrivals had attained the 120,000 mark.
3.04     The project area, known as the Unité d'Aménagement Touristique (UAT),
is adjacent to the STB. It covers 260 ha of undeveloped hilly land straddling
the southern limits of Agadir's municipal boundary and facing an open expanse
of seashore. Lying close to the town and its infrastructure, the UAT is well-
defined by man-made and natural boundaries. To the north, the Oued Lahouar
divides the UAT from the STB, where golden dunes covered by eucalyptus trees
provide an impressive landmark. To the south an unspoiled forest of over
1,000 ha is maintained by the Ministry of Forests as a natural preserve; to
the east the principal road RP 32 links the UAT with the town and the neigh-
boring villages.
B. Physical Planning and Environmental Aspects
3.05     The original plans for the reconstruction of Agadir no longer meet
the needs of the rapidly growing population. Whereas those plans were designed
for a population of 50,000,Agadir's present population is estimated at 70,000
and that of Greater Agadir, which includes Agadir,and several towns in the
southeast, at more than 180,000. To cope with the area's population explosion,
the local authorities have begun preparing comprehensive urban development
studies. These studies would recommend solutions for the diminishing supply of
urban land for housing which has resulted in the springing up of squatter
1/ Construction of RP 40 was financed under the First Highway Project
(Loan 642-MOR and Credit 176-MOR). Upgrading of RP 30 south of Agadir
is being carried out under the Second Highway Project (Loan 955-MOR).



- 6 -
settlements and in the uncoordinated growth of villages around the town.
The studies would also provide e coherent framework for ongoing projects
such as the harbor extension,creation of ore-processing plants, the relocation
of the airport and the tourism development of the UAT. The project would in-
clude funds to complete the preparation of these urgently required studies
(para. 3,29).
3.06    Industrial and harbor activities create serious environmental problems.
Under the current method of unloading fish the harbor is polluted with debris
which is swept to nearby beaches by tides and currents. This problem would
be solved under the project by a new unloading method (para. 3.26). Fishmeal
plants generate foul odors which the wind carries from time to time to various
parts of the city including the hotel sites. The Government has agreed to
identify suitable measures to abate air polluton and to enforce appropriate
regulations.
3.07    The proposed extension of the harbor would create new sea currents
which could eventually erode Agadir's beaches, This problem is being investi-
gated by the TP on a scale model of the Bay and the harbor. The Government's
undertaking to inform the Bank, at the time of expanding the harbor, of the
measures to be taken to protect the beach and to implement them as a part of
the harbor works, will be set forth in a supplemental letter.
3.08    Recent construction in the STB has tended toward increasingly taller
buildings which jeopardize the visual balance of the beachfront as a whole.
To remedy this situation, the preappraisal mission proposed the services of
an architect-planner hired by the Bank Tourism Projects Department to revise
the STB's land-use plan and building regulations (schéma d'améenagement). The
consultant's work has been completed to the satisfaction of the Bank and the
local authorities. A condition of loan effectiveness is the enactment of the
STB's revised schéma d'aménagement.
3.09    The UAT is designed to accommodate 7,000 tourist beds. The layout of
the project area is such that, with only small incremental costs, the necessary
infrastructure works can be extended to service 2,600 housing units which are
also to be built within the site. Of the 7,000 tourist beds, 5,300 would be
chiefly in three-star hotels and 1,700 in housekeeping apartments, a combination
which would make Agadir attractive to broad segments of the international tourism
market.
3.10    The planning concept proposed for the UAT would be a drastic departure
from the development of the STB which to date has proceeded in a ribbon-fashion
along the beach and has been characterized by segregation of hotels from other
types of activities. Hotels and housing in the UAT would be mixed and share
common facilities for shopping and entertainment. Hotels would be smaller
than those of the STB and would be clustered around common green spaces and
outdoor sports facilities.
3.11    The UAT and the STB would be linked by two roads to be built across
the Oued Lahouar and by an urban park on the south bank of the river. With
its sports and entertainment facilities, the park would also be a gathering
place for tourists. The location of the UAT would allow its development as
an independent and self-contained entity; at the same time it would provide



- 7 -
the Agadir metropolitan area with additional infrastructure and facilities.
SONABA and MUHTE are jointly refining the details of the UAT schéema d'amenagement.
A condition of loan effectiveness is the enactment of the UAT's schéma d'aménage-
ment with provisions satisfactory to the Bank. The Government agreed to consult
with the Bank on any subsequent modification thereto,
3.12      At present 92% of the UAT land is already in the public sector,
either national or local, the remaining 8% being in private hands. Of the
latter, only a small portion of a single private lot would be built upon; the
rest would be used as parkland or buffer zones, Legislation to declare the
UAT land of public interest is being prepared which will authorize the
necessary changes in previously designated land uses, the expropriation of
private lands and the transfer of public lands to SONABA. A condition of loan
effectiveness is that SONABA obtain interim authorization from the present
landowners to start with the early stages of implementing the project in
advance of the completion of all formalities for the transfer of land owner-
ship.
C.  Project Description
3.13      The project would consist of infrastructure and common facilities
for the UAT, a regional infrastructure component and studies.
(a) UAT Infrastructure
3.14      The UAT infrastructure would include streets, street lighting, power,
sewerage, water supply and telecommunications works. The proposed infrastructure
would be an extension of Agadir's existing infrastructure system.
3.15      The street component would include UAT's primary and secondary
streets, the connection of the UAT with RP 32 and two bridges across the
Oued Lahouar into the STB (para. 3.11). Pedestrian paths, street lights, park-
ing facilities, an esplanade for buses and taxis and a landscaped parking area
near the bridges would be other features of the street component.
3.16      The sewerage system for the UAT would be connected by a rising main
from a low point near the mouth of the Oued Lahouar with that of Agadir which
is run at present by the Municipality. The solution recommended by the con-
sultants is that of a combined system (i.e., with one main collecting both
domestic and rainwater). During final design a dual system will be studied.
The funds provided for this component would adequately finance either solution.
3.17      The UAT's water would come from the same system that supplies
Greater Agadir, which is run by the state-owned Office National de l'Eau
Potable (ONEP). Existing water resources, which have recently been expanded
by successful underground drilling in the Souss Valley and improvement of
ONEP's facilities, are sufficient to meet the region's growing needs up to
1982. Further exploration for underground water in the Souss Valley is
expected to provide ONEP with resources adequate until 1990. The proposed
dam on the Oued Issen east of Agadir would be an additional source of supply
in the longer run. The UAT water distribution system would connect with a
400-mm main which ONEP recently installed up to the UAT boundary and which
is large enough to meet UAT water requirements.



- 8 -
3.18      Agadir's electrical system is part of the national network which
is run by the state-owned Office National de l'Electricite (ONE). The power
component of the project would include a 2-km overhead supply line from
ONE's main transformer, a substation and underground distribution lines.
3.19      Telephone and telex services in Morocco are provided by the
Ministere des Postes, Télephone et Télégraphe (PTT). Agadirts 2,000-line
telephone exchange is being doubled to absorb the demand backlog and meet
expected requirements (excluding those of the UAT). The project would provide
for an additional 1,000 telephone lines designed specifically for the UAT,
and for the corresponding underground telephone and telex cable connections.
The telex exchange is not yet saturated and, accordingly, will not be extended
under the project.
3.20      The infrastructure component would also feature landscaping of the
major open spaces around the UAT near the hotel clusters and common facilities.
The RP 32 access, the south bank of the Oued Lahouar and beach parking would
be laid out as urban parks.
(b) UAT Common Facilities
3.21      The project would provide financing for a core of common facilities
for shopping,); entertainment and sports which would make the UAT attractive to
investors and visitors alike. One shopping area near the UAT entrance from
RP 32 and another near the hotel clusters would accommodate shops, offices,
a handicrafts center as well as entertainment facilities. The sports facil-
ities would be grouped in four landscaped areas near the hotels, a multi-
purpose recreation area and a beach center. Buildings would also be provided
for the storage of municipal maintenance and garbage collection equipment.
3.22      The UAT infrastructure and common facilities investments are reviewed
in greater detail in Annex III.
Regional Infrastructure
3.23      The regional infrastructure component would include the Ait Melloul
bypass, upgrading of the secondary road CT 7002 and replacement of the pumps
for unloading fish in Agadir harbor; its implementation would enhance the
area's tourism potential and foster the urban development of Greater Agadir.
(a) Ait Melloul Bypass
3.24      Located 13 km southeast of Agadir at the outer edge of the Greater
Agadir urban area, the town of Ait Melloul (pop. 8,500) is a major crossroads:
heavy traffic originating in the southeast converges there before being channeled
on RP 32 through the urban sprawl to Agadir's harbor (Map 1). The proposed
bypass would be 8.4 km long with a new bridge over the Souss River and would
complete a belt road around Agadir.
(b)  Upgrading the Secondary Road CT 7002
3.25      This road extends for 56 km and connects several villages in the
picturesque Imouzzer Valley (pop. about 20,000). One of the most attractive
sites in the region, the valley is already visited by several thousand tourists



-9
annually and regular bus trips there are scheduled by tour operators. Although
entirely asphalted, the road is unsafe because of falling rocks, sharp curves
and the absence of guardrails. The project would provide a lump sum for
localized improvements to increase road safety (toe walls, widening of danger-
ous bends) and for small tourist facilities (parking areas, lookouts) as well
as funds for studies for the road link between the Imouzzer Valley and highway
RP 40.
(c) Replacement of the Fish Pumps
3.26      As stated above (para. 3.06), the harbor is polluted by effluent
from the primitive water pumps used to unload fish for the fishmeal plants
of Agadir and Anza. The pumps discharge residual fish blood, heads and scales
which contaminate nearby beaches as they are swept out of the inner harbor by
the tides. The project provides for replacement of existing pumps by a pneumatic
unloading system which would limit pollution while increasing unloading capacity.
This system is also expected to reduce the fish odor to some extent.
3.27      The regional infrastructure component is reviewed in greater detail
in Annex IV.
Project Administration, Technical Assistance and Studies
3.28      The project also provides funds for project administration, pro-
fessional services, technical assistance and three studies. Funds earmarked
for project administration are relatively large since the Project Unit would
be in charge of drawing up the detailed land-use plans as well as of super-
vising the construction of the streets, street lighting, sewerage and common
facilities.
3.29      The technical assistance would enable the Agadir Délégation à
l'Urbanisme, l'Habitat et l'Environnement (DUHE) to complete its planning
studies (para. 3.05). The Government's undertaking to submit the terms of
reference and a work plan for these studies for Bank approval by June 1976
and to complete them by January 1978 will be set forth in a supplemental
letter.
3.30      The first study included in the project would seek ways to preserve
architectural and environmental values, while improving housing conditions,
in the Agadir region, particularly in the Imouzzer Valley (para. 3.25). it
is expected to provide preservation guidelines and regulations applicable to
other rural areas in Morocco, where traditional settlements are threatened by
the opening of roads and inappropriate use of modern construction materials.
The project funds would meet the cost of about four man-years of the necessary
expatriate expertise. The Government's undertaking to submit the terms of
reference of the study to the Bank for approval by July 1976 will be set
forth in a supplemental letter.
3.31      The second study would cover the technical, financial, economic and
organizational aspects of the Greater Agadir sewerage system. The Government's
undertaking to submit for Bank approval, terms of reference for this study by
July 1976, will be set forth in a supplemental letter. The Government agreed



- 10 -
to use its best efforts to dispose of Agadir's sewage in order to avoid sea
pollution. The objective of the third study would be to prepare a subsequent
tourism project in Morocco.
D.   Implementation
(a) UAT Execution
3.32      SONABA would have primary responsibility for implementing the works
for UAT.  It would own the land, conduct the detailed planning studies, super-
vise final engineering work and coordinate the implementation of all UAT com-
ponents. SONABA wQuld advertise requests for tenders, evaluate bids, enter
into contracts and supervise all work. SONABA would contract with ONEP, ONE
and PTT for the design and construction of UAT's water, electric power and
telecommunications components respectively. In implementing the sewerage
component, SONABA would work closely with the Municipality of Agadir which
runs the existing sewerage system and the Province of Agadir which is in
charge of the Greater Agadir Sewerage Study.
3.33      Until the UNDP study was completed (para. 1.02) SONABA operated
with a skeleton staff. It has subsequently established a Project Unit and
engaged a technical director and a chief urban planner. Should their positions
become vacant, SONABA has agreed to exchange views with the Bank on proposals
to fill them. Similarly, SONABA would inform the Bank of any proposal to
replace the General Manager. In addition, SONABA agreed to review the critical
path network for the execution of all works every six months in consultation
with the Bank.
3.34      Coordination between SONABA and other Government agencies would be
ensured by:
(i)  SONABA's Board of Directors which includes representatives of all
ministries involved in project implementation;
(ii)  an ad hoc  interministerial commission on the Bay of Agadir tourism
development chaired by the Minister of Tourism and including re-
presentatives of various ministries and agencies;
(iii)  a Comité Technique Local Consultatif chaired by the Governor of
Agadir and grouping SONABA's management and local representatives
of various agencies; and
(iv)  interagency agreements between SONABA on the one hand and ONEP,
ONE and PTT on the other, defining the agencies' respective
financial and technical responsibilities in the construction of
the water, electricity and telecommunications components. A
condition of loan effectiveness would be the signing of agreements,
satisfactory to the Bank, between SONABA and all the agencies
concerned.



- il -
(b) UAT Operations
3.35        SONABA would retain ownership of the unsold common facilities and
land. Its operational tasks would include-
(i) defining and applying policies for the lease and sale of hotel
and housing sites as well as for the lease or sale of its own
common facilities,
(ii) attracting investors;
(iii) cooperating with investors, their architects and the Municipality
in order to preserve the urban plan and the architectural concept
adopted for the UAT. During appraisal the Municipality gave SONABA
written assurances that it would grant building permits for the
UAT only after prior approval by SONABA's technical services;
(iv) operating common facilities until they are leased or sold; and
(v) co-sponsoring with prospective hotel operators a committee which
would be in charge of UAT's "animation." SONABA agreed to prepare
and discuss with the Bank within 4 years of loan signing a program
to stimulate social activities within the UAT and a schedule for
its implementation.
SONABA's personnel structure would be modified as required to ensure a smooth
transition from the implemention to the operational stage. SONABA's under-
taking to consult with the Bank on any changes in its organization is recorded
in the Agreed Minutes of Negotiation. The organization of SONABA is reviewed
in detail in Annex V.
3.36        Once implemented, the electricity, water and telecommunications
components would be transferred to ONE, ONEP and PTT respectively. These
agencies are well-equipped to operate and maintain such facilities. At
present a small portion of the UAT is situated outside Agadir's municipal
boundary. The Government has agreed to extend before January 1, 1980 (when
infrasturcture works are expected to be completed), Agadir's municipal juris-
diction to include the whole UAT. The Municipality will thus be in a position
to own, operate and maintain the streets, parking areas, bus esplanade, sewer-
age system and public parks in the UAT. It will also be made responsible
for handling solid waste disposal, street cleaning and fire fighting in the
UAT. Municipal services are well staffed and should perform these tasks
satisfactorily.
The Regional Components
3,37        The TP would be in charge of constructing the Ait Melloul bypass,
upgrading CT 7002 and undertaking the studies for the road linking Imouzzer to
RP 40. It would supervise the final engineering studies, advertise requests
for tenders, evaluate bids, enter into contracts and supervise implementation.
The TP has already carried out two earlier road projects with the Bank (Loan 642-MOR



- 12 -
and Loan 955-MOR). The Régie d'Acconnage. du Port de Casablanca (RAPC) which is
responsible within the TP for loading and unloading ships in Moroccan harbors,
including Agadir, will supervise the installation of the new fish pumps and
operate them.
3.38        The following table lists the various agencies involved in the
financing,.construction, ownership, maintenance and operation of the project
components:
Table No. 1
Responsibility          Ownership,
for Construction        Maintenance,
Project Component            Financing       or Implementation       Operation
1. UAT
Land                     SONABA
Roads, Parking,
Street Lighting,
Sewerage, Public                                                 Municipality
Parks                    SONABA               SONABA             of Agadir
Water Supply             SONABA             SONABA/ONEP          ONEP
Electricity              SONABA               SONABA/ONE         ONE
Telecommunications       SONABA               SONABA/PTT         PTT
UAT Common Facilities,                                                  1/
Private Parks            SONABA               SONABA             SONABA
2. Regional Components
Ait Melloul Bypass       TP                   TP                  TP
Upgrading CT 7002        TP                   TP                 TP
Fish Pumps               TP                   RAPC                RAPC
3. Technical Assistance and Studies
Agadir Urban Study       MUHTE                DUHE
Preservation of
rural sites              MUHTE                DUHE
Greater Agadir           Local                Local
Sewerage                 Authorities          Authorities
Second Tourism Project MUHTE                  MUHTE
I/ Until sold to private investors.



- 13 -
E.   Cost Estimates
3,39      The detailed cost estimates and the foreign exchange components of the
project are given in Annex II and are summarized in the table below:
Table No. 2
Project Cost by Category of Expenditure
Dirhams '000                   US$'000
Code      Component               Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
0.     UAT Land Acquisition         8,200      -         8,200    2,158      -         2,158
1.     UAT Infrastructure         25,673    25,672    51,345    6,756    6,755    13,512
a.   Civil works                1933i3    16,776    36,129    5,093    4,415        9,508
b.   Equipment                    3,252     7,955    11,207        856    2,093      2,949
c.   Professional services       3,068        941      4,009      807       247     1,055
2.     Common Facilities            8,874    10,382    19,256    2,335    2,732        5,066
a.   Civil works                 6,168      6,137    12,305    1,623    1,615       3,238
b.   Equipment                    2,056     3,978      6,034      541    1,047       1,587
c.   Professional services          650       267        917      171        70        241
3.     Regional Infrastructure    8,247       7,865    16,112    2,170    2,069        4,239
a,   Civil works                 7,204      6,596    13,800    1,896    1,736        3,632
b.   Equipment                       27       478        505         7      125        132
c.   Professional services       1,016        791      1,807      267       208        475
4.     Project Administration       4,492     1,877      6,369    1,182       494      1,676
5.     Technical Assistance
& Studies                 2,23       2,152     4,390       589       566     1,155
BASE LINE COST             57,724    47,948   105,672   15,190   12,616    27,806
Contingencies              2-9.757    31.836    61.593    7,830    8,378    16.208
Physical increases          3,867      4,354      8,221    1,017    1,146      2,163
Price increases            25,890    27,482    53,372    6,813    7,232    14,045
TOTAL PROJECT COST         87,481    792784  I67,265   23,020   20,994    44,014
(in rounded figures)      (87,030)  (80,000) (167,000) (23,000) (21,000)  (44,000)
Note:  DH-US$ do not exactly correspond in this table due to rounding.



- 14 -
3.40      The base line cost of Table No. 2 is derived from BCEOM-SOMET cost
estimates (adjusted to account for price changes since December 1974) as
revised by the appraisal mission, Unit prices were checked with those in
the latest tenders by the various agencies. An average increase of 10%
has been allowed to cover physical contingencies for civil works and equip-
ment. This amount is reasonable since most of the cost estimates are based
on advanced engineering data. Taking into account the recent evolution of
prices in Morocco and the likely impact of worldwide inflation on international
materials, labor and equipment costs, provision has been made for a 10.5% to
13.5% price increase per year for civil works and 10% to 12% for equipment,
resulting in a price contingency of 50.3% of the base line cost. The overall
contingency provision amounts to 58.3% of base line costs and brings the total
project cost, excluding interest during construction, to US$44 million.
3.41      Most building materials needed for project implementation are pro-
duced locally whereas most of the equipment would have to be imported. The
foreign exchange component of the total project is estimated at 48% or US$21
million. The local currency component, US$23 million, includes taxes equiva-
lent to about 22% of total project costs.
F.  Financing and Lending Arrangements
3.42      The proposed loan of US$21 million would cover the estimated foreign
exchange component of the project. The loan would include US$120,000 of retro-
active financing to cover the cost of the Project Unit's expatriate staff after
August 1, 1975, and the cost of the detailed planning and engineering studies
which are expected to be undertaken before loan signing.
3.43      The proposed loan would be made to the Moroccan Government.  The
portion of the funds needed for the UAT infrastructure, common facilities and
project administration would be on-lent to SONABA on the same terms as the
Bank loan. The remainder of the UAT financing would be provided by:
(i)  an increase in SONABA's equity to DH 20 million;
(ii)  a government loan of DH 34.6 million on the same terms and con-
ditions as the Bank loan; and
(iii)  a subordinated treasury advance of DH 30.0 million_bearing_6%
interest. The interest on the advance would be subordinate to
interest and principal payments by SONABA of its senior debt (Government
loan and proceeds of Bank loan). Reimbursement of the advance's
principal would begin only after reimbursement of all the senior
debt.
The Government's undertaking to pay in the equity and disburse the Treasury
advance before March 1978 will be set forth in a supplemental letter. Conditions
of loan effectiveness are the conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and SONABA, the increase of SONABA's authorized capital to
DH 20 million and t:he subscription  of DH 4,9 million.



- 15 -
3,44      The financing plan for the project is as follows:
Table No. 3
Govt.                   Proceeds
SONABA    Loan to    Treasury    of IBRD       Govt.
Equity    SONABA      Advance      Loans       Funds    Total
(US$ million)
UAT investment        5.3        9.1        7.9          17.0         -        39.3
Regional components
and studies           -          -          -            4.0        4.6       8.6
Total (including      5.3        9.1        7.9          21.0        4.6      47.9
interest during
construction a/)
(DH million)
UAT investment       20.0       34.6       30.0          64.6         -      149.2
Regional components
and studies           -          -          -           15.2       17.5      32.7
Total (including    20.0        34.6       30.0          79.8       17.5     181.9
interest during
construction a/)
a/ Not included in Table No. 2 above
G.   Procurement
3.45      Civil works contracts would be tendered under international competitive
bidding according to the Bank's guidelines. In order to permit smaller local
contractors to tender for work of a size within their capabilities and also to
attract foreign bidders, contracts for civil works would be tendered individually
and combined into bidding groups at the bidder's option. Equipment would be
procured after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines except for purchases not exceeding US$70,000 equivalent for which pro-
curement will be in accordance with normal local procedures for competitive
bidding, which are acceptable to the Bank, provided that such purchases do
not exceed an aggregate of US$500,000. A 15% preference margin, or the pre-
vailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufactur-
ers in the evaluation of bids for equipment. Telecommunication equipment
procured under the project would have to be compatible with that presently
-used in Agadir. It is therefore proposed that PTT negotiate the purchase with
manufacturers of this equipment. Prices so negotiated would be subject to
Bank approval. The amount involved would be US$600,000, or 1.4% of the total
cost of the project.



- 16 -
H.   Disbursement
3,46      The proposed loan of US$21 million would be disbursed to meet:
(i)  47% of total expenditures for civil works;
(ii) 100% of the foreign cost of imported goods or of the ex-
factory cost of locally produced goods procured through
international competitive bidding and 60% of other locally
procured items;
(iii)  34% of the total expenditures for professional services,
project administration and technical assistance,.
IV. JUSTIFICATION
A.   Superstructure Development
4.01      As stated above (para, 3.09) the project would provide improved
land for both hotel and housing developments, enabling a multipurpose use of
the UAT (the<'last undeveloped area conveniently located near Agadir). The
proposed "mixed" approach was suggested by the project sitets location in
the middle of the fast growing Greater Agadir area and by the fact that only
small incremental investment was involved in providing also the infrastructure
required by the housing component. This approach would balance the need for
expansion of tourism activities, one of the region's major sources of income,
with that of alleviating the acute shortage of housing, the town's most
crucially felt problem. It relies on the concept that tourism and urban
activities far from being antithetic can be mutually beneficial. Coexistence
of hotels and housing units in the UAT will avoid creation of a tourism ghetto,
generate a lively atmosphere and give Agadir's residents access to entertain-
ment and sports facilities while providing them with an opportunity for socially
valuable interchange with tourists.
4.02      The accommodation buildup  of hotels in the UAT and in the remainder
of Agadir (mainly STB) would be as follows:
Table No. 4
Hotel Capacity in the UAT and in Agadir as a Whole
(number of beds)
STB and Other
UAT            Sites in Town              Total Agadir
1975                              4,000                      4,000
1980          1,000               7,500                      8,500
1985          6,000               9,500                     15,500
1988          7,000              11,000                     18,000



- 17 -
Sponsored by local investors, the UAT's hotels would mostly be small, three-
star establishments catering to mass tourism. In a sense, they would complement
the hotels in the STB which are large, multistory establishments in deluxe
categories.
4.03      Investors r interest in Agadir is strong.  The Investment Division
of MUHTE has on file requests from local and foreign investors for the con-
struction of 26,000 hotel beds. These projects are in various stages of
preparation. Since the UAT project has become known in the financial com-
munity, SONABA has received numerous requests for hotel sites in the UAT
4.04      Until recently land in the STB was sold at subsidized prices.  The
Government has directed the Governor of Agadir - who is in charge of adminis-
tering the STB land - to ensure that henceforth STB land prices are allowed
to be determined by market forces, as will be the case at the UAT.
4.05      The sale and lease of UAT land would be regulated by a cahier des
charges (conditions of sale or leas3) which would reflect the main provisions
of UAT's schéma d'aménagement. Adoption by SONABA's Board of a cahier des
charges with provisions agreeable to the Bank is a condition of loan effective-
ness. Since- the main purpose of the cahier des charges is to ensure that the
environment in which they invest will not be downgraded, it is expected that
investors would readily accept its provisions.
4.06      Hotel investors in Agadir should be able to rely on adequate supply
of trained hotel personnel. At present the Agadir hotel school trains only
middle-level staff; its output is expected to be sufficient for the needs of
the proposed hotel development in Agadir. The current system of training
lower-level staff on the job has not proven satisfactory, however, and
inadequate service is among the visitors' chief complaints. With the expected
increase in capacity the need for trained personnel at the lower level will
become more acute and reach 200 per annum. This need will be partially ful-
filled by graduates of the proposed new schools (para. 2.13). To supplement
their output, the Moroccan Government has agreed to make more efficient
use of the existing facilities in Agadir and to train there some 100 lover-
level people per annum.
4.07      A promotion campaign would be launched to advertise investment
opportunities in the UAT to national and international investors. Part of
this campaign would consist of programs to assist investors in their negotiat-
ions with both local and national authorities (e.g., Municipality, MUHTE, CIH),
and to promote common activities (e.g., reservations, food supply) among small
hotel owners. SONABA agreed to prepare and discuss with the Bank within 2
years of loan signing, a timetable of steps to be taken to implement the
proposed promotion campaign.
4.08      Despite the UAT's attractiveness and SONABA's promotional efforts,
the risk remains that private hotel investment might not be forthcoming. To
guarantee completion of the project after the infrastructure investment has



- 18 -
been made, the Moroccan Government would undertake to build, if the private
sector does not, sufficient hotel beds to attain acceptable rates of return
on infrastructure outlays. It has been calculated that the construction of
4,200 beds (60% of the scheduled total) would secure an economic rate of
return of 13%, which is considered acceptable for Morocco. The Government
agreed to ensure that this minimum number of beds is in operation in 1988
provided the Government and the Bank agree that a potential market for these
beds exists. In the event of government involvement in hotel investment
and operation, these functions would be performed by designated specialized
agencies and not by SONABA.
4.09      The UAT housing program, designed primarily for the middle- and
upper-income segments of Agadir's population, would accommodate 13,000
people or about 7% of the Agadir urban area's present population. Some 30%
of the units would be built and owned directly by prospective dwellers,
whereas the remainder would be built by investors who would then rent them
either to residents or tourists. By increasing the supply of developed land,
the implementation of the UAT Project is expected to alleviate the overall
shortage of developed land for housing in the area. The housing component
involves no subsidies, direct or indirect, nor does it preempt water, elec-
tricity or sewerage capacity needed for lower income housing elsewhere in
the area. All in all, it represents an additional benefit from the project,
gained at a small incremental cost.
B.   The Market
4.10      International arrivals in Agadir soared from 46,000 in 1970 to
119,000 in 1974, an average annual rate of increase of 20%. This compares
with a 15% rate of growth in traffic to the country as a whole. In 1974
over 90% of visitors to Agadir came by plane (versus 36% for all of Morocco),
80% on inclusive tours marketed by operators. The growth in traffic was
accompanied by a rise in the average length of stay from three days in 1970
to 11 days in 1974.
4.11      In the initial stage of its development, Agadir was mainly an
elite destination for French winter tourists. Over the years, however, it
diversified its market geographically, also attracted less affluent visitors
and established itself as a year-round destination. The share of French
visitors decreased from 59% in 1970 to 41% in 1974, in favor of other Western
European visitors such as Germans and Swiss, who account presently for 14%
and 11% of the total market. With the rise in income in Morocco, domestic
tourism also expanded. Nationals mostly from Rabat and Casablanca arrive
for extended weekends during spring and summer and presently account for 20%
of total arrivals and 8% of bednights. Traffic to Agadir is evenly distributed
throughout the year with slight drops in January, June and October.
4.12      A field survey conducted by the mission shows that while there was
a threefold increase in hotel capacity since 1970 there was a fivefold increase
in bednights. As a result of growing pressure of demand on supply, bed and
room occupancy rates doubled, reaching 75% and 95% respectively, in the first
eight months of 1975.



- 19 -
Table No. 5
a/
Accommodation and Demand Buildup in Agadir
(1970-1975)
b/
1970      1971      1972       1973      1974       (1975)
Beds             740      1,540     2,242      2,684     2,806      (2,928)
Bednights    165,972   256,488   443,646   597,447   690,813   (531,779)
Bed occupar!cy    38%       46%       54%        66%       67%        (75%)
Room occupancy   47%        57%       68%        76%       84%        (95%)
a/ Data pertain to the major hotels.  The remaining capacity includes small
hotels (less than 40 beds) that enjoy even higher occupancies since they
cater more extensively to local clientele.
b/ First eight months.
The high yearly rates of utilization of hotel capacity point to sizeable
volumes of frustrated demand - foreign and domestic alike. Tht is confirmed
by the high rate of hotel refusals to book individual tourists1' or to satisfy
tour operators' requests for block space. 2/
4.13      With substantial expansion of accommodation capacity, hotel occu-
pancies in Agadir are expected to decline from the current congested levels
to more normal levels. A drop in room occupancy rates from 95% to 75%
(corresponding to a drop in bed occupancy from 75% to 60%) would still ensure
that Agadir's accommodations earn adequate financial returns (para. 4.20).
At these target occupancy levels, hotels to be built in Agadir under the
schedule detailed in paragraph 4.02 would require 3.9 million bednights
annually by 1988. Since realized demand is estimated to be one million bed-
nights in 1975, and current frustrated or turnaway demand is estimated to
amount to another 200,000 bednights (20% of realized), "new" demand to be
attracted to Agadir in the period considered would total 2.7 million bednights.
This implies an annual growth rate of about 9.5%, which appels reasonable
in the conteit of: (i) past development trends, i e., 14.57%' annual growth
rate for Morocco in the period 1968-1974, and 37%/47 for Agadir between 1970
and 1974; (ii) projections contained in a study of the Mediterranean tourism
market recently completed by consultants5i which predict annual growth rates
of foreign tourism to the Mediterranean region, to the Maghreb countries and
to Morocco of 5%, 13% and 10.5% respectively, over the next decade;  and (iii)
likely expansion of domestic visitor flows to Agadir, parallel with this
1/  During the peak months of the 1974/75 winter season and in August 1975,
numerous Agadir-bound tourists had to be diverted to Taroudant, 100 km
from Agadir.
2/  Tour operators who have tried without success to include Agadir in their
marketing programs include Touropa, American Express, Meditours and
Neckermann.
3/  Arrivals of foreign tourists.
4/  Bednights.
5/  Financed by 10 Bank-associated DFC's in Mediterranean countries,with
the Bank as executing agency.



- 20 -
destination's expected shift towards a broader category-mix of accommodations
and with rising personal incomes of Moroccan nationals. The market for the
UAT accommodation is reviewed in more detail in Annex VI.
4.14      The current population of the Agadir metropolitan area is estimated
at 180,000.  By 1984 it is expected to increase by 230,000 inhabitants, creat-
ing a need for 45,000 additional housing units (not counting those needed by fam-
ilies presently living in overcrowded and substandard dwellings). The
requirement of middle- and upper-income housing is estimated at 20% of overall
housing demand. The housing program supported by the project, which is directed
to satisfy less than one-third of this demand, should find a ready market,
especially since the UAT housing units would have particular appeal for
employees of the UAT hotels and common facilities.
C.   Financial Aspects
4.15      SONABA's financial policies would be:
(a)  to recover its investment costs, including those for the water/
sewerage and power utilities that would be transferred at no
cost to ONE and ONEP;
(b)  to earn a satisfactory rate of return on these investments;
(c)  to maintain adequate debt service coverage;  and
(d)  to establish prices which would ensure attainment of these
objectives and still be acceptable to investors; these prices
would include sale prices of improved land and properties,
ground and property rentals, and service charges for the use
of common facilities to be calculated on a per hotel room basis.
SONABA agreed on these financial objectives. This will lead to land prices
that are in line with prevailing market prices.
4.16      The achievement of these objectives appears feasible.  Pro forma
financial projections reflecting a set of market-based assumptionsi/ as to
1/ The main assumptions are: average sale price for land, DH 97 (US$25.5)
per square meter; annual ground rent, DH 800 (US$210) per room; property
leases, DH 15-20 (US$4-US$5) per square meter per month;  markup on pro-
perty sales 50%, annual service charge of DH 1,000 (US$263) per room. The
following table compares projected land prices on the UAT, calculated to
cover all investment costs and to earn a satisfactory return to SONABA
with existing prices in the city of Agadir (where land is developed and
sold by the local authorities and where Çovernment has kept land prices
low in order to foster the city's reconstruction) and elsewhere in the
metropolitan area (where land is developed by private investors).
Type of Construction       UAT        City of Agadir       Metropolitan Area
DH/m
Hotels                  70             13                      -
Low density            120          20-30                    40-100
Middle density         150          40-50                   100-200
High density           170             80                   100-300



- 21 -
timing of land and property sales and leases, level of land and property
prices and rentals, and of service charges show that SONABA would earn a
9.2% discounted financial rate of return on its operation and a rate of
return of 10% on net assets by the sixth year of operation. The pro-
jections also show that the debt service ratio would be 1.4 over the first
five years and would increase thereafter to 1.8 in current terms. Depending
on the ratio of land sales to land leases SONABA might accumulate excess cash.
It would have then to decide what use to make of these funds. SONABA has
already agreed to prepay the proceeds of the Bank loan to the extent that
in any one year the ratio of land sold in the UAT to the total land intended
for sale or rent exceeds the ratio of repayments by SONABA of the Bank loan
relent to it to the total amount of such loan. Such prepayments would be about
50% of the Bank loan to SONABA over the period 1983-89 if land were sold at
the pace assumed during appraisal. SONABA's financial situation is reviewed
in detail in Annex V.
4.17      SONABA agreed:
(a) to prepare a statement of its proposed financial policies accept-
able to the Bank, within a year of loan signing. The policy
statement would detail the financial objectives set forth in
paragraph 4.15 and include the methodology for calculation all
sale prices and rents and procedures for their implementation;
(b) to establish within a year of loan signing a system of commercial
accounts to be maintained by an accounting department suitably
staffed;
(c) to have the accounts audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(d) to submit audited financial accounts to the Bank within four
months after the close of each fiscal year; and
(e)  in order to safeguard its financial position, not to incur
until 1986 any debt without the Bank's prior approval, other
than that incurred to finance the present project.
4.18      ONE, ONEP and PTT would charge the UAT users their standard rates
for commercial and domestic consumers. Existing power and water rates in
Morocco are now being reviewed under covenants to the First Power Project
(Loan 936-MOR) and the Casablanca Water Supply Project (Loan 850-MOR). These
studies are expected to recommend a revised national tariff structure that
will ensure charges equal to the economic cost of the service provided. The
sewerage rates would be examined under the proposed study of the Greater
Agadir sewerage system (para, 3.31) in order to recommend tariffs that will
cover the full economic cost of service.
4.19      RAPC would operate the new fish pumps and would be expected to
charge users (fishmeal plants and boat owners) tariffs covering operating
and maintenance expenses as well as depreciation and financial charges.



- 22 -
Projected rates ensuring a 10% return on the total investment would be
DH 6,0 (US$1.6) per ton of unloaded fish as compared to present costs of
DH 5.3 (US$1.4) per ton,  This extra cost would not affect the competitive-
ness of Agadirts fishmeal plants since it would be compensated by savings
resulting from a reduction in fish wasted that would be made possible by
the adoption of the new unloading method. The Government's undertakin2 to
cause RAPC to discuss with the Bank the proposed tariff structure for the use
of the pumps is recorded in the Agreed Minutes of Negotiation.
4.20      Bed occupancy for individual hotels and housekeeping apartments
has been projected at 50% in the first year of operation rising to 60% in the
third year. Given the buildup of accommodation facilities from 1,000 beds
in the first year of project operation to 7,000 by the seventh year, the
composite occupancy curve would thus rise slowly from 50% in the first year
to 60% in the ninth year of operation. Average daily guest èxpenditures
have been projected at DH 63 (US$16.6) in hotels. These assumptions result
in a gross operating profit (30% of total sales) adequate to cover financial
charges.  The hotels would have an overall internal rate of return of 9.5%.
Housekeeping apartments would enjoy a GOP of 60% of sales and the rate of
return on acco=modation investment including apartments would equal 11.6%.
The financial analysis of hotels and apartments is detailed in Annex VII.
D.   Economic Justification
4.21      For the purpose of the economic analysis the project is split into
two components which are justified separately: the UAT-related works and
the Ait Melloul bypass. Since the work on CT 7002 and the replacement of
the fish pumps will chiefly benefit tourism, they are justified within the
UAT investment.
Economic Justification of the UAT Works
4.22      The gross benefits of the project to the economy would be the
expenditures of tourists attracted to the UAT's hotels and housekeeping
apartments. Average daily expenditure per visitor has been estimated at
DH 104.5 (US$27.50), broken down as follows:  food and accommodation 61%,
shopping 24%, sports and entertainment 10% and miscellaneous 5%. The only
benefits from the proposed housing program which have been included are
the yields from the sale of land. Benefits accruing to Royal Air Maroc
from the transport of UAT visitors have not been taken into account in
rates of return computations. Also excluded are the benefits resulting
from developing the UAT within a carefully planned framework ensuring the
balanced growth of tourism and urban activities and allowing the efficient
use of land and infrastructure. In view of Agadir's relatively even demand
over the year, large overhang of frustrated demand and favorable market
projects, most of the UAT's expenditure will be incremental. The non-
incremental expenditure has been estimated to be a quarter of the UAT's
total net benefits.



- 23 -
4.23      The capital costs associated with the project amount to DH 314.9
million (US$82.9 million) of which the UAT's infrastructure, CT 7002 and
the fish pumps represent 21%, the hotels, the housekeeping apartments and
common facilities 77% and the tourism facilities outside the UAT (e.g.,
taxis, shops) 2%. The use of UAT land has been valued at the revenues
foregone in agriculture. Operating expenses of hotels, apartments, and
common facilities have been estimated on the basis of the actual experience
of similar £acilities in Agadir.
4.24      With an estimated economic life of the project of 30 years, the
economic rate of return on the investment in the UAT tourism development
(i.e., all project investment apart from the Ait Melloul bypass) would be
17.4%. The sensitivity of the rate of return to changes in key variables
is shown in Table 6.
Table No. 6
Sensitivity Tests
Sensitivity Testing                                 Resultant Rate of Return
/0
Best estimate                                                  17.4
Investment cost  +20%                                         14.6
Benefits a/       +25%                                         21.1
+10%                                        18.9
-10%                                        15.8
Two-year delay in opening hotels                              13.4
5% shadow pricing of foreign exchange                         18.0
a/ Changes in benefits reflect variations in occupancy rates, average daily
expenditures and operating costs.
4.25      The proposed project is expected to increase net foreign exchange
receipts by about DH 8.7 million (US$42.3 million) per year in 1981 and
by DH 140 million (US$37 million) in 1989 and annually afterwards. Net
annual budgetary receipts from taxes levied on tourism activities in the
UAT would rise from DH 2.1 million (US$ 0.5 million) in 1981 to DH 22.4
million (US$5.9 million) in 1989. Taking into account the net budgetary
receipts and the net operating income of SONABA, the internal rate of
return to the Government on its investment in the UAT is 20.5%. Direct
employment in hotels and tourism facilities to be built in the UAT would
amount to 4,400 jobs. Indirect employment generated in construction,
handicrafts, agriculture and other services is likely to account for 7,200
additional jobs.



- 24 -
4,26      The following table indicates the distribution of benefits
directly generated by the UAT developmente
Table No. 7
Share of Investments   Share of Benefits (1989)
SONABA operations                           20                         9
Hotel and apartment operations              70                        37
Other tourism facilities a/                 10                        30
Total                                 100                         76
a/ Includes common facilities in resort area plus other facilities outside
such as handicrafts shops, taxis, buses, etc,
The remaining share of the benefits is associated with taxes.  The economic
rate of return on the overall project reflects comparatively low returns on
the infrastructure and hotel investments and high returns from other-than-
hotel operatihohs, requiring minimal investments, and taxes, The economic
justification of the UAT works is analyzed in detail in Annex VIII.
Economic Justification of the Ait Melloul. Bypass
4,27      Since the level of tourism-related traffic on the Ait Melloul
bypass would be quite small as compared with commercial and other traffic,
the bypass evaluation has been carried out on the basis of benefits accruing
to road users in terms of vehicle operating costs and time savings. Assuming
a 20-year economic life for the bypass, the internal rate of return on the
investment would be 27.7%. The sensitivity of the rate of return to vari-
ations in investment costs and benefits is given below:
Assumption                     Resulting Rate of Return
Investment cost    +15%                    23.0
Benefits           +25%                    32.4
-25%                   22.4
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations the Government agreed:
(a) to take suitable measures to abate air pollùition (para. 3.06),
to protect the beach (para. 3.07), and to reduce sea pollution
(para. 3.31);
(b)  to consult with the Bank on any subsequent modification of the
UAT's schéma d'am'énagement (para. 3.11);



- 25 -
(c) to carry out, on the basis of terms of reference to be agreed
with the Bank, studies for the planning of Agadir (para. 3.29),
for the preservation of rural sites (para. 3.30) and for the
Greater Agadir sewage system (para. 3.31);
(d) to extend before January 1, 1980, Agadir's municipal jurisdiction
to include the whole UAT (para. 3.36);
(e) to pay an additional equity and provide a treasury advance to
SONABA and to finance any cost overrun (para. 3.43);
(f)  to organize a training program using the existing hotel school
for an annual output of 100 lower-level personnel (para. 4.06);
(g)  to ensure that a minimum of 4,200 beds is in operation in 1988,
provided the Government and the Bank agree that a patential
market for these beds exists (para. 4.08).
5.02      During negotiations SONABA agreed:
(a) to consult with the Bank on any proposed changes in key personnel
(para. 3.33);
(b) to review the critical path network every six months in consul-
tation with the Bank (para. 3.33);
(c) to discuss with the Bank within two years of loan signing a time-
table for the investment promotion campaign (para. 4.07) and
within four years of loan signing a program to stimulate social
activities within the UAT (para. 3.35);
(d) to prepay the proceeds of the Bank loan to the extent that
in any one year the ratio of land sold in the UAT to the total
land intended for sale or rent exceeds the ratio of repayments
by SONABA of the Bank loan relent to it to the total amount of
such loan;
(e)  to prepare within one year of loan signing a statement of its
proposed financial policies acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.17),
consonant to its agreed financial objectives (para. 4.15);
(f)  to establish a system of commercial accounts to be maintained by
an accounting department adequately staffed and to submit
accounts audited annually by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank (para. 4.17);
(k)  not to incur before 1986 any additional debt without the Bank's
prior approval (para. 4.17).



- 26 -
5,03      Conditions of loan effectiveness are,
(a)  the enactment of the STB's schéma d'amenagement  (para. 3.08);
(b)  the enactment of the UAT's schéma d'amenagement with provisions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.11);
(c) that all steps have been taken to permit SONABA to begin carry-
ing out the project works on the UAT (para. 3.12);
(d) the signing of interagency agreements (para. 3.34);
(e) the conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and SONABA (para. 3.42);
(f) the increase of SONABA's authorized capital to DH 20 million
and the paying in of DH 4.9 million (para. 3.42);
(g) the adoption by SONABA's Board of a cahier des charges with
provisions agreeable to the Bank (para. 4.05).
5.04      Subject to the conditions of effectiveness described above, the
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$21 million to the Kingdom of
Morocco. An appropriate term for the loan is 20 years including 5 years'
grace.



ANNEX I
MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Statistical Appendix to the Sector
Index
Table 1      Accommodation Capacity 12-31-74
Table 2      Evolution of International Arrivals (1968-1974)
Table 3      Arrivals by Means of Entry (1968-1974)
Table 4      Seasonality of Arrivals (1972-1974)
Table 5      Main Commodity Exports (1968-1974)



MOROCCO
B3Y OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJACT
AÂcoiuodation Capacity 12-31-74
3-Star
5,-3!ar  %                   4-Star                h V^o tlon Villaes                                                  1-Star                          otal
No0.            S     B          o   N.o                                         Beds   No. ofa  d  .   or  of!edg   Io. of  No. of    o of Bds   ge
Province      Hotels   B*d5  in Province  Hotels   Beds  in Province  Hotels   Beds in Province  HotOle   Beds  in ProDin9c  Motels   Beds  in Provinoe  Hotà»    f    in Province
Agadir            3       838      16.4        6     1,716       33.6       l1    1,702        33.3      12        549      10.7       10        298        5,8      44      5,103       12.5
Ai Hoceima                                     3        546      29.3        1     1,200       64.3                                      4       120        6.4        8     1,866        4.6
Boni Mellal                                    1       105       28.3        1       162       43,7       2         48      12.9        1         56      15.1        5        371        0.9
Casablanca        3     1,192      22.1       il     1,573       29.1      15      1,460       27.0      12        823      15.2        6        353        6.6      47      5,1401      13.2
El Jadida                                      1         65      24.3                                     1         60      22.5        5        142       53.2        7       267        0.6
Fez               3     1,106      44.9        3        383      15.5        3  -   347        14.1       8        378      15.3        5        250       10,2      22      2,464        6.o
Kenitra                                        1        144      27.3        3       185       35.1       3        198      37.6                                       7       527        1.3
Khourigba                                                                                                                               2        107     100.0        2        107        0.3
Ksar Es Souk                                   2        255      74.8        1        53       15.5                                     1         33        9.7        4       341        0.8.
Marrakech         3     1,415       30.4       4        764      16.4       12     1,827       39.2        9       467      10.0        5        187        4.0       33     4,660       I1.4
Meknes            1       260      11.4        1         22       1.0        8     1,094       47.9        8       679       29.7       5        230       10.0       23     2,285        5.6
Nador                                          1        192     100.0                                                                                                  1       192        0.5
Ouarzazate                                     5        856      66.5        2       400       31.0       1         32        2.5                                      8     1,288        3.2
Oujda                                                                        2       157       59.0                                     3        109       41.0        5       266        o.6
Rabat             2       868       31.6       4        546      19.9        8       665       24.2       7        425      15.5         4       245        8.8       25     2,749        6.7
Safi                                           1        140      43.5        1        68       21.1       1         40      12.4        1         74       23.0        4       322        0.8
Tangier           5     1,602       22.6      10      2,628      37.1       il     1,445       20.4       9        794       11.2      10        606        8.6       45     7,075       17.4
Tar                                                                          1        80       53.3                                     2         70       46.7        3       150        0.4
Tetouan          -        -                    3        352       6.6       10     4,510       85.1        2       205        3.9        7       231        4.4       22     5,298       13.0
Total         20     7,281       17.9       59    10,287       25.4       90    15,355       37.6      75      4,698      11.5       71      3,111        7.6     315    40,732      100.0
Source:  Ministry o! Tourism                                                                                                                                                                       im
August 1975



fOROCCO
BAY OF ÂQADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Evolution of International Arrivals (1968-1974)
National:,ty        1968         1969         1970         1971         1972                     Number
French          119,131      148,986       173,795      188,173    ( 210,626    265,989         216,422  20.57
us                56,411       94,125     117,796      136,744       195,680    185,983         173,217  16.46
Spanioh           36,869       36,229      41,877        42,766       76,104    175,793          70,184   6.67
British           64,445       79,721       84,396       80,886      107,643    134,651         107,839  10.25
Algerian          28,396       46,151       60,232       66,613       91,510    105,373         147,956 14.06
German            34,724       38,551      55,405        70,703       75,144     90,440          82,157   7.80
Belgian          16,812        21,190       21,585       21,775       25,6o7     36,837          24,149   2.29
Dutch             16,143       23,227       25,449       24,481       29,100     36,173          33,360   3.17
Scandinavian      26,444       31,599       29,909       20,741       32,416     32,747          29,392   2.79
Canadian           9,306      15,198       17,083        20,712       28,848     31,251          26,539   2.52
Italian           14,141       17,597      18,554        17,916       25,o68     25,507          26,954   2.56
Swiss             10,911      15,431         9,792       12,690       19,484     24,533          21,256   2.02
Other             35,659       38,584       45,119       53,051       71,381     80,317          92,593   8.80
Total          469,492      606,589      700,992      757,256      987,611  1,225,594        1,052,018 1oeD.o
Cruisers        106,880        95,361     105,511        91,376      131,183    147,165          133,364
Grand Total    576,372      701,950      806,503      848,632    1,118,794  1,376,759        1,185,382
17 OfficiaI statistics include Moroccan visitors from abroad. These have been deleted froin this table.
Source: Ministry of Tourism
August 1975



MNEN I
Table 3
MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Arrivals by Means of Entry I968-1974)
(Percentages)
1968     1969     1970      1971     1972     1973      1974
Air                34.12    34.64    31.14    37.06    33.16    32.39    35.61
Sea                41.35    36.98    39.89    32.26    33.67    28.59    33.39
Land               24.53    28.38    28.97    30.68    33.17    39.02    31.00
Total           100.00   100.00   100.00   100.00   100l 00   100.00   100.00
Source: Ministry of Tourism
August 1975



ANNEX I
Table 4
MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Seasonality of Arrivals (1972-1974)
(Percentages)
1972               1973                1974
January                          4.87                4.65               4.38
February                         4.72                4.00               4.31
March                            7.59                5.52                6.23
April                            7.92                7.76                7.23
May                              6.78                7.03                6.20
June                             7.08                8.70                6.71
July                            13e94               15.87              14.66
August                          16.22               17.57              18.10
September                       10.49               11.99              10.19
October                          7.96                6.17                7.64
November                         6.10                4.42                5.87
December                         6.33                6.32               8.48
Total                        100.00              100.00             100.00
Source: Ministry of Tourism
August 1975



ANNEX I
Table 5
MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Main Commodity Exports (1968-1974)
(DH millions)
1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974
Phosphate            544     551      572     588     673      788   4,o75
Citrus fruit         420     389      357     389     429      494     388
Tomatoes             144     146      180     163     179      230     183
Legumes and pulses    94       94     132      89     138      181     158
Canned fish          130     124      127     148     134     190      244
Canned fruit
and vegetables       51      65       56      88     113      132     165
Vlive oil              7       91      16      21     111      101     147
Tourism              450      614     682     760     893   1,005   1,025
7ource: Office des Changes
August 1975



ANNEX 1I
Page 1
MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Project Description and Cost Estimates
The project consists of the following elements to be executed by the agencies
indicated:
1. SONABA
(a) provision of infrastructure facilities for the UAT area including:
(i) a street system within the UAT, an access road to RP 32 and
a bridge and a ford across the Oued Lahouar;
(ii) a water distribution system linked with ONEP's existing network;
(14J) a power distribution system linked with ONE's existing network
through a 2-km overhead line;
(iv) a sewerage network linked with Agadir's existing system;
(v) a telecommunications system including a 1,000-line extension
of Agadir's telephone exchange;
(vi) landscaping of the major open spaces (e.g., RP 32 access,
south bank of the Oued Lahouar and beach parking).
(b) provision of common facilities for the UAT incllidi-ngs
(i) two shopping areas consisting of shops, offices, restaurants,
bars, a cinema, an open-air theater, a hammam and a handicrafts
center;
(ii)  sports facilities consisting of tennis courts, swimming pools;
a multipurpose recreation area and a beach center.
(c)  provision of technical and financial advisers during the construction
period.
2. Ministry of Public Works
(a) construction of a bypass road about 8 km long to the east of Ait
Melloul, including a new bridge over the Souss River;
(b) localized improvements to CT 7002 between Agadir and Imouzzer Ida
ou Tanane and study of the road between Imouzzer Ida ou Tanane and
RP 40;
(c)  replacement of the fish pumps in Agadir harbor.



ANNEX II
Page 2
3.  Ministry of Urban Development, Housing, Tourism and Environment
(a) technical assistance for a study of the preservation of rural
sites in Immouzer Valley;
(b)  technical assistance for the completion of Agadir's physical
planning studies;
(c) technical assistance for the preparation of a Second Tourism Project.
4. Local Authorities
technical assistance for the study of the Greater Agadir sewerage system.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Statistical Appendix
1.  General Cost Estimates
Table 1     Breakdown of Project Cost by Components
Table 2     Breakdown of Project Cost by Components and by Years
Table 3     Contingencies Allowances
Table 4     Schedule of Expenditures by Project Components - Quarterly
2.  Detailed Cost Estimates
(a)  UAT Infrastructure
Table 6     Streets and Parking; Street Lighting
Table 7     Sewerage; Water Supply
Table 8     Power Supply; Telecommunications
Table 9     Landscaping
(b)  Common Facilities
Table 10    Shopping Centers
Table Il    Sports and Beach Facilities; Maintenance Facilities
(c) Regional Infrastructure
Table 12    Ait Melloul Bypass; Upgrading CT 7002
Table 13    Replacement of Fish Pumps
(d) Project Administration
Table 14
(e) Technical Assistance and Studies
Table 14



TABLE 1
MOROCCO : BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Breakdown of Project Cost by Components
(DH '000)
Foreign
Civil                   Physical       Price       Professional              Total Cost       _        Exchange Component
Code        Component                              Works    Eauipment    Increase.    Increase   Services                  DH '000    US$ '000          DH '000        US$ '000
1.    UAT Infrastructure                           36,129      11.207          4.918       28,878          4,009           85.141       22.404          42.793          11.260
1   Streets and parking                          18,494          -           1,849       10,870          1,155          32,368         8,518          15,630           4,113
2.  Street lighting                                 324       2,290            261        1,601            130            4,606        1,212           2,590             681
3   Sewerage                                      5,497         548            605        3,469            302           10,421        2,742           5,398           1,421
4   Water supply                                  2,236         117            235        1,525            471            4,584        1,206           2,275             598
5   Power supply                                  3,023       5,279            830        5,350         .1,660           16,142        4,248           8,404           2,211
6   Telecommunications                            1,003       2,705            556        2,430             -             6,694        1,761           4,925           1,296
7   Landscaping                                   5,552         268            582        3,633            291           10,326        2,717           3,571             940
2.    Common Facilities                            12,305       6.034          1.833       14.084            917           35.173        9.255          19.019           5.005
1   Shopping centers                              9,113       3,762          1,287        9,701            644          24,507         6,449          12,854           3,383
2   Sports & beach facilities                     2,766       1,636            440        3,386            220           8,448         2,223           4,690           1,234
3   Maintehance facilities                          426         636            106          997             53            2,218          583           1,475             388
3.    Regional Infrastructure                      13.800          505         1.470        7.476   1. 807                 25,058        6.594          12,232           3,218
1   Ait Melloul bypass                           10,160          -           1,016        5,306          1,188          17,670         4,650           8,210           2,160
2   Upgrading of CT 7002                          3,300          50            335        1,764            552           6,001         1,579           3,037             799
3   Replacement of fish pumps                       340         455            119          406             67            1,387          365             985             259
4.    Proiect Administration                           -            -             -         1.168          6.369            7,537        1.983           2,157             568
5.    Technical Assistance
and Studies                                  -            -             -           626          4.390            5.016        1.320           2,443             643
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          62,234       17.746           ,221       52,232        17,492          157,925        41,556          78,644         20,694                >
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q e
JS H
August 1975



TABLE 2
MOROCCO  BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Breakdown of Project Cost by Cosmonents and by Yeare
(DR '000)
YEAR I                     YEAR 2                     YEAR 3                      YEAR 4                     YEAR 5
Foreign                      Foreign                    Foreign                    Foreign                     Foreign                      Foreign
Total     Exchange           Total      Exchange         Total    Exchange          Total    Exchange           Total    Exchange          Total      Exchange
Code        Component                  Cost       Component         Cost       Component        Cost      Component         Cost     Component         Cost      Component         Cost       Component
1.    UAT Infirastructuft             85,141      42,793            1.831           534        13,481       6,588         31,473        15.774        25.871       13_311         12,485        6,586
1   Streets and parking             32,368       15,630             854           256         5,813       2,702         12,295         6,054         9,008        4,458         4,398         2,160
2   Street lighting                  4,606        2,590             103            31            508        265           1,464          842         1,572          902            959          550
3   Sewerage                        10,421        5,398             233            70         1,853         893          4,007         2,131         3,501        1,884            827          420
4   Water supply                     4,584        2,275              90            13           949         450           1,722          877         1,403          723            420          212
5   Power supply                    16,142        8,404             319            48         3,095       1,673          6,377         3,478         4,407        2,297          1,944          908
6   Telecommunications               6,694        4,925              -              -            550        351           1,581        1,014         2,327        1,795          2,236        1,765
7   Landscaping                     10,326        3,571             232           116           713         254          4,027         1,378         3,653        1,252          1,701          671
2.    Common Facilities               35.173      19,019               -             -            743         216          5.136         2,574        13,321        7.228        15,973         9.001
1   Shopping canters                24,507      12,854               -                          553         159          4,167         2,061         9,406        5,052        10,381         5,582
2   Sports & beach facilities        8,448       4,690               -             -            190          57             869          483         3,512        1,972         3,877         2,178
3  Maintenance facilities            2,218       1,475               -             _-                        -             100            30           403          204         1,715         1,241
3.    Regional Infrastructure        25L058       12,232            1.138           6007.907 2    .8Oh                    il1            5.528         6.863        3.203             -            -
1   Ait Melloul bypass             17,670        8,210              660           299         4,263       1,980          6,778         3,171         5,969        2,760
2   Upgrading of CT 7002             6,001        3,037             430           278         1,136         553          3,541         1,763           894          443
3   Replacement of ftsh pumps        1,387          985              48            30           508         361            831           594            -            -              -            -
4.    Project Administration           7,537        2,157           1,427           687         1,633         539           1.588          453         1,394          230          1,495          248
5.    Technical Assistance
and Studies                  5 016        2.443           1,572            799        2,344       1.201             725          331           375           112            -            -
TOTAL PROJECT COST            157,925       78,644           5,968          2,627        24,108      11,438         50.072       24.660        47.824        24 084        29.953        15.835
(US$1 '000)
1.    UAT Infrastructure             22404       11,260              481           140         3,549       1,733          8,282        4.151          6.807        3.501         3.285        1.73S
1   Streets and parking             8,518        4,113              225            67         1,530         711          3,236        1,593          2,370        1,173         1,157           56Y
-  2   Street lighting               1,212          681              27             8           134          70            385           221           414          237           252           145
3       Sewerage                    2,742        1,421               61            18           488         235          1,054           561           921          496           218           111
4   Water supply                     1,206          598              23             3           250         118            453           231           369          190            111           56
5   Power supply                    4,248        2,211               84            13           814         440          1,678           915         1,160          604           512           239
6   Telecommunications               1,761       1,296               -             -            145          92            416           267           612          472           588          465
7   Landscaping                     2,717           940              61            31           188          67          1,060           363           961          329           447           150
2.    Common Facilictes               9,255        5.005               _             -            195          57          1,352           677         3.505        1 902         4.203         2.369
1   Shopping centers                6,449        3,383               -             -            145          42          1,097           542         2,475        1,330         2,732         1,469
2   Sports & beach facilities        2,223        1,234              -             -             50          15            229           127           924          519         1,020           573
3  Maintenance facilities              583          388              -             -             -           -              26             8           106           53           451           327
3.    Regional Infrastructure         6,594        3.218              300           160         1.555         762          2, 933       1              1sh, l842
1   Ait Melloul bypass              4,650        2,160              174            79         1,122         521          1,783          834          1,571          726
2   Upgrading of CT 7002            1,579          799              113            73           299         146            932          464            235          116
3   Replacement of fish pumps          365         259               13             8           134          95            218          156             -            -              -        
4.    Proiect Administration           1v983          568             375           181           430         142            418           119           367           61            393           65            f g
5.    Technical Assistance
and  Studies                 1  320         643             414           210            617         316            191           87            98            30            -
TOTAL PROJECT COST             41,556        20,694          1,570            691        6,346-       3,010         13,176        6,488        12,583         633           7.881        4,163
Auguat 1975



TABLF 3
MOROCCO: BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Contingencies Allawances
(US$ '000)
Civil Works                      Equipment                 Professional Services                  Total Cost
Local   Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign   Total      Local    Foreign    Total         Local    Foreign      total
Total Project Cost
Excluding Contingencies (a)        8,612    7,766      16,378      1,404      3,264     4,668      3,016      1,585     4,602       13,032     12,616      25,648.
Percentage of Total                53'/,    47%        100%        30%        70%       100%       65%        35%        100%        51%         49%        100%
Contingencies
a)  Physical Increase
Percentage of (a)             10%      10%         10%        10%       11%         11%                                          8%          9%          8%
Amount                         872      783       1,655        146        362       508        -          -          -         1,017      1,146       2,163
b) Price Increase
Percentage of (a)             59%      58%         58%        59%       63%         62%       30%        22%         28%       52% -       55%         54%
Amount                      5,066    4,519        9,585        824      2,055     2,879        923        358      1,281       6,813      6,932      13,745
c) Total Cost
Percentage of (a)             69%      68%         68%        69%       74%         72%       30%        22%         28%       60%         64%         62%
Amount                      5,938    5,302       11,240        970     2,417      3,387        923        358      1,281       7,830      8,078      15,908
Percentage of Total           53%      47%        100%        29%       71%        100%        72%       28%        100%       49%         51%        100%
Total Cost Including
Contingeacies                     14,550   13,068      27,618      2,374      5,681     8,055      3,939      1,943      5,883      20,862      20,694     41,556
Percentage of Total                53%      47%        100%        29%        71%       100%        67%       33%        100%        50%         50%        100%
4/ Professional Services include Project Administration, Technical Assistance and Studies Components.
August 1975



TABLE 4
MOROCCO : AY 0F AGADIIR TOURISM PROJECT
Sched,ale .f Ex enditure. by Pro)ect Comaponeota -Q..rterlv
(US$ '000)
Code        rroje!otSeto                  Q 1j      2          Q      4QQ Q     9   6 Qf    7 i          Q~  9j  Q 10            Il   12    013    <114    <115    0 16    017    Q 18    019    Q20                    rTOT
1.    LAÂT 3.1,frastn,ctsre               100     127    127    127       400   750  1,050  1,349  1,682   2,000   2,300   2,300   2,100   1.800   1.550   1.357   1,100                    900       700      585    22,404
Total  YTear 1                 -              -      481                   -       -       -           -         -        -        -        -             -             -        -        -         -        -
Toctal  Nea  IlI               -                                                   3,549-                        --                         --                                            -        -         -
Total   Y ear HIi-                           -       -         -                                   -                 8.282        -                                    -        -        -         -        -
Total-Ye.r IV                 -       -       -       -        -      -       -                                  -        -        -        --             6,807        -        -        - 
T.t.]-Year V                  -        -      -       -        -      --                                                           ---      -                               -                   3  85        -
Total-(ceeltve                                       4.1        -     -            4 030                             1-2.312                              19.119                               22,404
2.  ~ù~   Facilities                                               -        45    50       50      50    200       280      370      502      650      800       950   1.105   1,103   1,100   1,000   1.000            9.255
Total-'Yearî                          -       -       -         -     -       -                                                    -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -        -
Total   Year Il-                              -       -                -       -     195                    -             -        -        --                          -        --                          -
Total -Year 111               -       -       -       -         -     -                                    -          1.352        -        -        -         -        -                 -         -        -
Total1   Year IV-                     -                                       -       -       -         -        -        -        -   -                   3,505                ---                          -
Total-Year V                  -                                                               -         -        -        -        - -                       -          -        --             4.203        -
Total1   (aoccaalative)               -           -        -       -      -          195-                             1,547                 -              5,052                 -        -    9,255         -
3.1   Ai MLloo  Byas36                             46      46      46      217   217    344    344    420          420      471.     472      396      395       390      390       -         -        -        -       4,650
Total   Y ear I               -        -      -      174       -       -       -   1,122      -         -        -        -        -        -        -         -                 -        -         -        -
Total-Year Il                                                                                                             -        ---                                                    -         -        -
Total   Y ear 1I                              --                      -       -                                       1,783        -        -                  -        -        -        -
Total -Year IV                -       -       -       -        -      -       -                                  -                 -            -          1,571                 -        --
Total   Y ear V                                                                                --- - - -                  -                 -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -
Total -(acc.-zlative>          -       -       -     174        -     -       -   1,296       -         -        -    3,079465
3.2   Upgrading of CT 7002                 23      30      30      30       50    50       99    100    233        233      233      233      135      100                 -                           -        -       1.579
Total -Year I                         -              113        -      -      -       -       -         -        -                            
Total-Year Il                                                                  -     299      -                  -                                                                                    
Total-YearII                   -                                -     -       -       -                                  732                -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -
Total-Year IV                 -                                -      -       -       --                                                    -        -       215                          -         -        -
Total-Year V                  -       --                        -     -       -        -      -                                    -                 -         -        -                 -         -        -
Total -(accusslative)         -               -      113       -      -       -      412      -         -             1,344                           -    î,7T                                     -        -
3.3   Replaceient of Fish PuIpsO           -       -       5        8       27    27       40      40      55       55       54       54       --                                             -                 -365
T.t.1-Yearî                   -               -       13        -      -      -        -                -                 -        -                  -        -        -        -         -        -        -
T.tal-Year II-                                -       -         -      -             134                    - -           -                          -         -        -        -         -        -        -
Total-Yearlî                  -                       -        -      -       -                     -                    218       -                 -         -        -        -        -         -        -
T.tal-Ye- IV                   -      -       -       -         -     -        -              -         -        -        -                           -        --                                   -        -
Total   Y ear V                                                             --- - -           -                           -        -        -         --                         --                          -
Total -(accoeolat ive)                        -       13       -      -       -      147      -         -                365       -                 -         -        --
4     Tota9l94                                       94     94       10    107      107     10      104      104      10 -     1-9                          92       92       98        98       98       98      1
4     TPret1   Yearto               93       94      94    374       10    10       10      10      10       10        0       10        91       92        92       92       98        9        98       98      1,8
Total  Year Il                 -~ -            -      -         -      -430                   -         --                         -        -         -        -                 --                          -
Tot.1  YearlI                  -                      -         -      -      -                    -                     418       -        -         -        -        -        -                           -
Tot.1-Yeart IV                                                         -       -      -        -        -                              -                      367                -                  -        -
Total  Yeari V                                -       -               --                                                                                                                         __193  - -      -
Total    ....css,uative)                             T    7 5   -     -       -      805      -        -1,223                      -        -        -     1,590        -                       1.983        -
5.    TecoclAsitne&
Itudies                          57      57    150    150       150   150    158    159         48       48        48       47       24       24        25       25       -        -         -        -       1.320
Tot.1-Ye.r 1                  -       -       -      414                      - -  -       -                 -       -         -        -        -        -        -         -        -
Tot.1-Ye.r II l                                                                      617               --                 -        -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -
Tot.1-YearlI                  -                       -        -      -       -                    -                     191       -        -        -         -        -        -                  -        -
Total  Y-      IorV            -       -       -      -         -     -       -       -       -         -        -        -                 --                 98       -        -                  -        -
Tot.1lY-Te    V                                                                                                                                                                                      
Total   (acconalative)        -       -       -      -41î4     -      -       -   1.031       -                       1,2322       -        -              1.320        -                  -        -        -
TOTAL PROJECT COlT                 309     354    452    455        996 1,351  1,848  2,151  2,742    3,140    3,580   3,714   3,396   3,211   3.007   2,969   2,301   2,098   2,798   1,684                     41,556
Tota1-Yearcl                  -       -       -   1,570         -     -       -       -       -         -        -        -        -        -                      -             -         -        -        -
Tot.1-Ye.r Il                                                                      6,346               --                 -        -        -        -         -        -        --                          -
Total -Ye.r III               -               -       -                               ---                             13.176       -                 -         -        -        -         -        -        -
Tot.1-Year IV                 -       -       -       -        -      -       -       -                 -                          -        --             12.583       -        --                          -
Total-Ye.r V                          -       -       -        -      -                                 -                                                                                       7 881       -
Total -(...ooulative)         -       -       - 1,570          -      -7,916                  -                      21,091                               33,675        -        -         - 4t           
Aug..t 1975                                                                                                                                                                                                           41



ANNEX II
Page 8
TABLE 5
MOROCCO : BAY OF AGADIR TOURISI PROJECT
Forecast of IBRD Disbursement
(US$ '000)
Disbursements
Implementation Quarter    Quarterly      %     Cumulative     _       Quarterly       %
First Year       Qi          -                                -         21,000      100.0
Q2          134       0.6        134        0.6        20,866      99.4
Q3          151       0.7        285        1.3        20,715      98.6
Q4          201       1.0        486        2.3        20,514      97.7
Second Year      Q5          205       1.0         691        3.3       20,309       96.7
Q6          464       2.2      1,155        5.5        19,845      74.5
Q7          638       3.1      1,793         8.6       19,207      91.5
Q8          880       4.2      2,673       12.8        18,327      87.3
Third Year       Q9        1,028       4.9       3,699       17.7       17,299       82.4
Q10       1,347       6.4      5,046        24.1       15,952      76.0
Qîl       1,547       7.4      6,595        31.5       14,405      68.6
Q12       1,764       8.4      8,359        39.9       12,641      60.2
Fourth .Year     Q13       1,831        8.7     10,190       48.6       10,810       51.5
Q14       1,704       8.1     11,894        56.7        9.106      43.4
Q15       1,612       7.7     13,506       64.4         7,494      35.7
Q16       1,516       7.2     15,022       71.6         5,978      28.5
Fifth Year       Q17       1,503        7.1     16,525       78.7        4,475       21.3
Q18       1,219       5.8    17,744         84.5        3,256      15.5
Q19       1,110       5.3     18,854        89.8        2,146      10.2
Q20         950       4.5    19,804         94.3        1,196       5.7
Sixth Year       Q21       1,196        5.7     21,000      100.0          -          -
TOTAL                     21,000     100.0
August 1975



TABLE 6
MOROCCO Z3AY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates   UAT Infrastructure
(DH'OOO)                                                                      Exchange Rate: US$1 - DlR 3.80
A.                                              TOTAL COST           FOREIGN EXCHANGE COMPONENT              YEAR I                YEAR 2                  YEAR 3                  YEAR 4               YEAR 5
Foreign                Foreign                Foreign                Foreign              Foreign
civil    Equip-               Civil    Equip-                 Total   Exchange       Total   Exchange        Total   Exchange       Total  Exchange    Total  Exchange
Works    ment      Total      Works    ment       Total       Cost    Component    Cost    Component    Coaen         t CDonent    Cost   Component   Cost   Compon.nt
1. Streets and tarking
1.1 Primary streets                      5717       -        5717       2858       -        2858        -           -          1715      857           2287       1143        1715    858             -
1.2 Secondary streets                    7386       -        7386       3694       -        3694        -           -           730      369           2954       1478        2216   1109           1478      73S
1.3 Parking areas                        3041       -        3041       1520       -        1520        -           -           304      153           1216        608         912    455            609      304
1 4 Pedestrian paths                      911       _         911        365       -         365        -           -             91      36            365        146         273    110            182       73
1.5 RP 32 access                          719       -         719        359       -         359        -           -           288      144            431        215          -      -
1.6 Oued Lahouar bridges                  720       -         720        324       -         324        -           -           288      130            432        194          _-                             -
Subtotal                         18494       -      18494        9120       -        9120        -           -          3424    1689           7685        3784        5116   2532          2269    1115
Physical increase                    1849       -        1849        911       -         911        -           -           342      169            768        378         512    253            227     111
Price increase                      10317       -       10317       5087       -        5087        -           -          1193      588           3842       1892        3380   1673          1902      934
Contingencies subtotal           12166       -      12166        5998       -       5998         -           -          1535      757          4610        2270        3892   1926          2129    1045
Soil *tudies                          -         -         268        -         -          80        134         40          134       40            -           -          -       -              -
Design & Supervision                  -         -        1440        -         -         432        720        216          720      216
Prof. Serv. subtotal               -         -        1708        -         -         512        854        256          854      256
TOTAL COST (DH'000)                 30660       -       32368      15118       -       15630        854        256         5813    2702          12295        6054        9008   4458          4398    2160
TOTAL COST (US$'000)                 8068       -        8518       3978       -        4113        225         67         1530      711           3236       1593        2370   1173          1157      569
2. Street Lighting
2.1 Underground cables                    142      1264      1406         56      759        815        -            -          281      163            562        325         422    245            141       82
2.2 Str-t lighting ecuipment              182      1026      1208         73      616        689        -                         -        -            362        207         484    275            362      207
Subtotal                           324      2290      2614        129    1375        1504        -           -           231      163           924         532         906    520           503      289
Physical increase                       32      229       261         13      137        150        -           -            28       16             92         53          91      52            50      29
Price increase                        187      1337      1524         75      799        874        -           -            95       55           448         257         575    330           406      232
Contingencies subtotal             219      1566      1785         88      936       1024        -           -           123       71           540         310         666    382           456      261
Design & Supervision                    -       -         207        -                    6 t2      103         31          104       31            -           -          -       -              _               e
TOTAL COST (DHI'000)                  543      3856      4606        217    2311        2590        103         31          508      265          1464         842        1572    902           959      550
TOTAL COST (US$'000)                  143      1315      1212         57      608        681         27          8          134       70           385         221         414    237           252      145
Auguet 1975



TAbLE 7
MOROCCO   BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates: UAT Infrastructure
(DH' 000)
Exchange Rate: US$ I = DH 3.80
A.                                              TOTAL COST          FOREIGN EXCHANGE COMPONENT             YEAR I               YEAR 2                   YLAR 3                 YEA  4                 YEAR 5
Foreign                Foreign                 Foreign                Foreign               Foreign
Civil   Equip-               Civil    Equip-               Total   Exchange       Total    Exchange      Total    Exchange       Total   Exchange    Total   Exchange
Works   ment      Total      Works    ment      Total      Cost    ComPonent    Cost       Component-   Coset      Component    Cost    Component   Coat    Component
3.   Sewerage
3.1  Primary network                      2954       60    3014        1478       49       1527         -         -          904        457         1205       612          905        458         -        -
3.2  Secondary network                    2099       41    2140        1050       33       1083         -         -          214        108          857       433          642        325        427      217
3.3  Pumping stations                      241      443     684         120      354        474         -        -            -          -           342       237          342        237         -        -
3.4  Rising mains                          203        4     207         101        3        104         -                     -          -           103        52          104         52
Subtotal                         5497     548    6045         2749     439       3188         -         -          1118        565         2507     1334          1993       1072       427      217
Physical increase                     550       55     605         275       44        319         -        -           112         57          251       133          199        107         43       22
Price increase                       3003      301    3304        1510      241       1751         -        -           389        201         1249       664         1309        705        357      181
Contingencies subtotal           3553     356    3909         1785      285      2070         -         -           501        258         1500       797         1508        812        400      203
Design & Supervision                   -        -      467          -        -         140       233        70          234         70           -         -                       -          -        -
TOTAL COST (DN'000)                  9050      904   10421        4534      724       5398        233       70         1853        893         4007      2131         3501       1884        827      420
TOTAL COST (USs'000o                 2382      238    2742        1193      191       1421         61       18          488        235         1054       561          921        496        218      111
4.   Water Supply
4.1  Primary network                      1341       70    1411          737      55        792         -         -           423        238          565      316           423        238         -        -
4.2  Secondary network                     895       47      942         492      37        529         -         -            94         53          376       211          283        159        189     106
Subtotal                         2236      117    2353        1229       92      1321         -         -           517        291          941       527          706        397        189      106
Physical increase                     223       12      235        123        9        132         -         -            52        29            94       S3            70        40         19       10
Price increase                       1211       60    1271         663       50        713         -         -          180        101          469       263          465         261       157       88
Contingencies  subtotal          1434       72    1506         786      59        845          -        -           232        130          563       316          535        301        176       98
Design & Supervision                   -        -       725         -        -         109         90        13          200        29           218       34           162         25         55       8
TOTAL COST (DH1'000)                 3670      189    4584        2015      151       2275         90        13          949       450          1722      877          1403        723       420      212
TOTAL COST ('JS$'000)                 966       50    1206         530       40        598         23         3          250        118          453       231          369        190        111      56
August 1975



TABLE 8
MOROCCO : AY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates   UAT Infrastructure
(DH'OOO)
Exchange Rate: US$ 1 = DH 3.80
A.                                               TOTAL COST          FOREIGN EXCHANGE COMPONENT              YEAR 1                YEAR 2                   YEAR 3                 YEAR 4                YEAR 5
Foreign                Foreign                Foreign                Foreign              Foreign
Civil    Equip-              Civil      Equip-                Total   Exchange        Total   Exchange       Total   Exchange        Total  Exchange    Total  Exehange
Works    ment      Total    Works       ment      Total        Cost    Component    Cost    Component    Cost    Component    Cost   Component   Cost   Component
5.   Power Supply
5.1  Trunk supply                           25       144       169       il           87      98                      -            68        39         101        59
5.2  Substation                           317         586      903      158         468      626          -           -           361       250         542       376           -         -
5.3  MV transmission lines                234         349      583       93         209      302          -           -           175        90         233       122         175         90
5.4  Transformers                         840       1551      2391      419        1240    1659            -          -           718       498         955       663         718       498
5.5  LV distribution lines               1607       2649      4256      643        1590    2233            -          -           425       223        1703       893        1277       670         851       447
Subtotal                        3023       5279     8302    1324         3594    4918            -          -          1747      1100        3534      2113        2170       1258        851       447
Physical increase                    302        528       830      132         360      492          -          -           175       110          353       211         217       126          85       45
Price increase                      1616       2842      4458      702        1909    2611           -          -           598       377        1742       1042        1413       821        705       371
Contingencies  subtotal         1918       3370      5288     834         2269    3103           -          -           773       487        2095      1253         1630       947        790       416
Design & Supervision                  -          -       2552       -           -       383         319         48          575         86         748       112         607        92         303       45
TOTAL COST (DH000)                  4941       8649    16142    2158          5863    8404          319         48          3095     1673         6377      3478        4407      2297       1944        908
TOTAL COST (US$'000)                1300       2276      4248      568        1543    2211           84         13          814       440         1678       915        1160       604         512       239
6.   Telecommunications
6.1  Trunk supply                          203        304       507      81          244      325          -                      203       130         304        195          -         -
6.2  Distribution lines                    640        970     1610      256          776    1032           -          -           162       103         644       413          482       310        322       206
6.3  Telephone exchange extensions         160       1431     1591       64        1288    1352            -                                 -          -                                675        796       677
Subtotal                        1003       2705      3708     401         2308    2709           -          -           365       233          948       608        1277       985       1118       883
Physical inerease                    150        406       556       60         346      406          -           -            55        35         142        91          191       148        168       132
Price inerease                       64'       1782      2430      268        1542    1810           -           -           130        83         491       315          859       662        950       750
Contingencies  subtotal          798       2138      2986      328        1888    2216           -          -           185       118          633       406        1050       810       1118        882
Design & Supervision                  -          -        -         -           -        -                                    -         -           -         -            -         -          -         -
TOTAL COST (DH'OOO)                 1801       4893      6694      729        4196    4925            -          -           550       351        1581      1014        2327       1795       2236      1765
TOTAL COST (US$'000)                 474       1287      1761      192        1104    1296           -          -            145        92         416       267         612       472         588       465
August 1975



TABLE 9
MOROCCO: BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates : UAT Infrastructure
(DHO000)
Exchange Rate: US$ I = DH 3.80
A.                                              TOTAL COST           FOREIGN RECHAIGE COMPONEMT             YE&R 1                YEAR 2                  YEAR 3                 YEAR 4              YEAR 5
Foreign               Foreign                Foreign               Foreign              Foreign
Civil    Equip-              Civil      Equip-                Total   Exchange      Total   Exchange       Total   Exchange       Total  Exchange    Total  Exchange
Works    ment      Total    Works       ment      Total       Cost    Component    Cost    Component    Cost    Component    Cost   Component   Cost   Component
7.   Landscaping
7.1  Internal armas  nd gardens           2795       177     2972      839         97        936         _         _          297         94         1189       374         892       280        594       188
7.2  External arsas and gardens            850        35      885      255         19        274         -          -          89         28          354       110         265        82        177        54
7.3  Oued Lahouar arma                     549        22      571      164         12        176         -          -          -          -           285        87         286        89         -         -
7.4  RP 32 belvedere                       568        23      591      171         13        184         -          -          -          -           295        92         296        92
7.5  Beach parking area                    256        il      267      128          6        134         -          -           -         -           133        67         134        67         -         -
7.6  Site preparation for build-
ing construction                   534        -        534     267         -         267         -          -           53         27          214       107         160       80        107        53
Subtotal                        5552       268     5820    1324         147       1971         -          -          439        149         2470      837        2033       690        878       295
Physical incresse                    555        27       582      182        15        197         -          -           44         15          247        84         203        69         88        29
Price increamse                     33         153      3460    1083         88       1171         -          -          152         51         1233       418        1340       455        735       247
Contingencies  subtotal         3862       180      4042    1265        103       1368         -          -          196         66         1480      502         1543      524        823       276
Design & Supervision                  -         -        464       -         -         232        232        116          78         39           77        39          77        38         -         -
TOTAL COST (DH'O00)                 9414       448    10326    3089         250       3571        232        116         713        254         4027       1378       3653     1252       1701       571
TOTAL COST (S$V000)                 2477       118      2717      813        66        940         61         31         188         67         1060        363        961       329       447        150
August 1975



TABLE 10
MOROCCO : bAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates : Co-nmon Facilities
Exchange Rate: US$1 - DU 3.80
B.                                              TOTAL COST         FOREIGN EXCBANGE COMPONfENT           YEAR 1               YEAR 2                 YEAR 3               YEAR 4              YEAR 5
Foreign              Foreign                Foreign               Foreign              Foreign
Civil    Equip-              Civil     Equip-              Total   Exchange      Total  Exchange        Total Exchange        Total   Exchange    Total   Exchange
Works   ment      Total      Works     ment      Total     Cost    Comaonent    Cost   Comoonent         Cost   Component    Cost    Component   Cost    Componmit
1, Shoppinsg Centers
1.1 Services and office
buildings                       1233     432       1665       617       260      877         -        -            -       -             332        171        666       353        667       353
1.2  Shopping facilities                6082    2137       8219      3041      1282     4323         -        -            -       -            1644       865        3287      1729       3288      1729
1.3 Restaurant & entertain-
ment facilities                  888     475       1363       444       285      729         -        -            -       -             273        146        545       291         545      292
1.4  Pandicrafts center                  224     159        383       112       102      214         -        -            -       -              -          -         191       106        192       108
1.5  Cinema                              347      313       660       173       200      373         -        -            -       -              -          -         330       186         330      187
1.6  open-air theater                    117      42        159         58       86      144         -        -            -       -              -          -          79        72          80       72
1.7  Hammam                              222      204       426        111      122      233         -        -            -       -              _         _          213       116         213      117
Subtotal                       9113    3762      12875      4556      2337     6893         -        -            -       -            2249       1182       5311      2853       5315      2858
Physical increase                   911     376       1287       455       234      689         -        -            -        -            225        118         531      285         531      286
Price increase                     6694    2545       9239      3274      1680     4954         -        -            -        -           1140        602       3564      1914       4535      2438
Contingencies  subtotal        7605    2921      10526      3729      1914     5643         -        -            -       -            1365        720       4095      2199       5066      2724
Design & Supervision                 -        -       1106         -        -       318         -        -           553     159            553        159         -         -           -        -
TOTAL COST (DR'OOO)               16718    6683      24507      8285      4251    12854         -        -           553     159           4167       2061        9406     5052       10381     5582
TOTAL COST (US$'000)               4399    1759       6449      2180      1119     3383         -        -           145      42           1097        542        2475     1330        2732     1469
August 1975



TABLE 1l
MOROCCO: BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates: 'Common Facilities
(DH' 000)
Exchange Rate: US$ 1   DH 3.80
B.                                               TOTAL COST          FOREIGN EKCHANGE COMPONENT             YEAR 1              YEAR 2                   YEAR 3                YEAR 4               YEAR 5
Foreign               Foreign                 Foreign              Foreign               Foreign
Civil     Equip-              Civil      Equip-              Total   Exchange       Total   Exchange       Total    Exchange      Total  Exchange    Total   Exchange
Works     ment       Total   Works       ment      Total      Cost    Component    Cost    Component    Cost        Component    Cost   Component   Cost    Component
2.    Sports & Beach Facilities
2.1   Tennis courts                       218         38       256      109         23       132          -          -          -                     52          26        102        53,       102         53
2.2   Swimming pools                      934        927      1861     466         742      1208          -          -          -            -      373          241        744       483        744       484
2.3   omnisport areas                      72          13       85       22          8        30          -          -          -            -         -            -        42        15         43         15
2.4   Stable and riding school            608        260       868     304         142       446          -          -          -            -         -            -       434       223        434       223
2.5   Beach facilities                    934        398      1332     466         218       684          -          -          -                                  -        666       342        666       342
Subtotal                      2766        1636     4402    1367         1133     2500          -           -          -           -       425          267      1988      1116       1989       1117
Physical incresse                   277        163       440     137         113       250         -           -          -            -       42           26        199       112        199       112
Price increase                    2101        1124      3225     998         829      .s26         -           -          -            -      211          133       1325       744      1689        949
Contingencies  subtotal      2378        1287     3665    1135          942     2076          -           -          -           -       253          159       1524      856       1888       1061
Design & Supervision                  -          -       381       -           -       114         -           -        190          57       191           57          -         -          -         -
TOTAL COST (DH'OOO)               5144        2923      8448    2501        2075     4690          -           -        190          57       869          483       3512      1972      3877       2178
TOTAL COST (US$'000)              1354         769      2223     658         546      1234         -           -         50           15      229          127        924       519      1020         573
3.   Maintenance Facilities
3.1   Garbage collection build-           213        297       510     107         237       344          -          -                       -        -                     107        54       403        290
ings and equipment
3.2   Street & garden maintenance,        213        339       552     107         271       378         -           -          -                        _                  107        54       445        324
buildings and equipment        ____
Subtotal                       426         636     1062      214        508       722          -          -          -            -         -            -       214       108        848        614
Physical increase                   43          63       106      21          51        72         -           -          -           -         -            -         21        il        85         61
Price increase                     381         569       950     193         458      651          -           -          -                        _                  168        85       782        566
Contingencies  subtotal        424         632     1056      214        509       723          -           -         -                        _                  189        96        867        627
Design & Supervision                  -          -       100       -           -       30          -           -          -           -       100           30          -         -         -          -
TOTAL COST (DH'OOO)                850        1268      2218     428        1017     1475          -           _         _            _       100           30       403       204       1715       1241
TOTAL COST (US$'000)               224         334       583     113         268      388          -           -          -           -        26            8        106       53        451        327
August 1975



TABLE 12
MOROCCO  BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Cent Estimates  Regional infrastructure
(DH'DOO)                                                                 Exchange Ratez US$1 - DR 3.80
TOTAL COST         FOREIGN EXCUANCE COMPONENT            YEAR 1              YEAR 2                  YTEA7 3              YEAR 4               YEAR S
Foreign              Foreign                 Foreign              Foreign              Foreign
Civil     Equip-             Civil      Equip-              Total   Exchange      Total  Exchange       Total    Exchange      Total  Exchange       Total Exchange
Works     oent      Total  Works        ment      Total     Cost    Component    Cost    Component    Coat        Component    Cost   Component    Cost  Component
1.   Ait Melloul Byvass
1.1  Excavation and fll                  862           -      862     431           -      431          -          _       431          215      431          216          -         -
1.2  Road Construction                  3898           -     3898    1949           -     1949          -          -       1169         585    1560            779      1169       5e5
1.3   Oued SOURs Bridge                 5400           -     5400    24             -     2             -          _       l080         486    21£Q           92        21fiQ    92-
Subtotel                     10160          -    10160    4810            -     4810         _           -      2680         1286    4151          1967       3329     1557          _          _
Physîcal increase                 1016           -     1016     481           -      481          -                   268         128      415           197       333       156
Price increase                    5186           -     5186    2449           -     2449          -          -        930         446    2066            979      2190      1024
Contingencies  subtotal       6202           -     6202    2930           -     2930          -          _       1198         574    2481          1176       2523     1180
Studieis ad soil tests               -          _       148       -           -      118        148       118          -            -        -            -          -        -          _          _
Design                               -           -      804       -           -      281        512       181        292          100        -             -         -         -         -
Supervision                          -                  356       -           -        71        -            -       93           20      146           28        117       23          -          _
Professional services
subtotal                      -          -    1308         -          -        470      660         299       385          120     146            28       117        23          -
TOTAL COST (DH'OOO)              16362           -   17670      7740          -      B210      660         299      4263         1980    6778          3171       5969     2760          -          -
TOTAL COST (US$'000)              4306           _    4650      2037          -      2160      174          79      1122          521    1783           834       1571      726          _
2.   Upgrading of CT 7002
2.1  Road safety improvements           3000           -     3000    1500           -     1500          -          -        500          250    2000          1000       500       250
2.2   Parking facilities                 200           -      200      100          -      100          -           -       100           50     100            50          -        -
2.3   Landscaping and signals                         50      150      50          40       90          -          -         75           45      75            45              -         -               -
Subtotal                      3300         50      3350    1650          40     1690          -          -        675         345    2175           1095       500       250         -          -
Physical increase                  330           5      335     165           4      169          -          -         67           34     218           110        50        25         -          -
Price increase                    1621          25     1646     810          20      830          -          -        234          120    1083           545       329       165          -         -
Contingencies  subtotal       1951         30      1981     975          24      999          -          -        301          154    1301           655       379       190         -          -
7tudies                              _                 285        _           _      228       285         228          -           -        -                       _         _         _
Des:?gn                              -           -      285       -                  100        145         50        140           50              -                 -        - 
Supervision                          -           -      100       _          _        20          -          -         20            4      65            13        15         3
Profes sional services
subttotal  s                                    670                    -      348       430         278       160           54       65            13        15         3         -          -
TOTAL CO8T (DIlOOO)              5251          80     6001    2625          64     3037        430        278       1136         553    3541           1763        894      443          _         _
TOTAL COST (US$1000)              1382          21     1579    6908          17      799        113         73        299         146      932           464       235       116          _         -     .
August 1975



TABLE 13
MOROCCO: BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Regional Infrastructure
(DI'000)                                                                    Exchange Rate: US$1 = DH 3.80
C.                                                  TOTAL COST         FOREIGN EXCHANGE COMPONENT             YEAR I               YEAR 2                   YEAR 3                YEAZ 4                YEAR 5
Foeign                Foreign                  Foreign              Foreign                Foreign
Civil     Equip-              Civil       Equip-              Total   Exchange       Tdtal   Exchange       Total    Exchange       Total  Exchange       Total   Exchange
Works     ment       Total   Works        ment      Total      Cost    Component    Cost    Component    Cost         Component    Cost   Coiponent    Cost    Couponsut
3.  Replacement po  Fish Puaaps
3.1 Fish unloading pumps                   -          370        370     -           370       370        -          -          148        148          222         222         -
3.2 Installation of tbe
pumps                             340          85        425    136            68      204        -          -          170          82         255         122         -
Subtotal                        340         455        795    136          438       574        -          -          318         230         477         344         -         -
Physical increase                     51          68        119      20           66        86        -         -           48          34          71          52         -         -           -          -
Price increase                       151         202        353      60          193       253                  -          113          80         240         173         -         -           -          -
Contingencies subtotal          202         270        472     80          259       339        -          -          161         114         311         225         -         -           -          -
Design & Supervision                   -           -        120      -            -         72      48         30           29          17          43          25         -         -           -          -
TOTAL COST (DH'OOO)                  542         725       1387    216           697       985      48         30          508         361         831         594         -         -           -
TOTAL COST (US$'000)                 143         191        365      57          183       259      13          8          134          95         218         156         -         -           -
August 1975



TABLE 14
MOROCCO: BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Pro1ect Administration
(DH'000)                                                                       Exchange Rate: US$I   3.80
FOREIGN
EXCHANGE
D.                                                   TOTAL COST           COMPONENT               YEAR I                YEAR 2                 YEAR 3                 YEAR 4                  YEAR 5
Foreign               Foreign                Foreign                 Foreign                   Foreign
Total     Exchange      Total   Exchange       Total   Exchange       Total    Exchange        Total      Exchange
Cost      Component    Cost    Component    Cost    Component    Cost           Component    Cost         Component
Prolect Administration
1. Technical Personnel                                  4894                 1517          1082           591       1175       412         1047        306        795         104         795           104
2. Administrative Personnel                              615                  -            123             -        123         -           123         -         123           -          123           -
3.  Secretaries & Chauffeurs                             260                  -             52            -          52         -            52         -          52          -            52           -
4. Office & Transportation                               600                 360            120            72       120         72          120         72        120           72         120           72
Subtotal                                      6369                 1877          1377           663       1470        484         1342        378       1090         176        1090          176
Price increase                                      1168                 280            50             24       163         55          246         75        304          54         405            72
TOTAL COST (DH'000)                                 7537                2157          1427           687       1633        539         1588        453       1394         230         1495          248
TOTAL COST (US$'000)                                1983                 568           375            181       930        142          418        119        367           61         393           65
E.                                                                                      Cost Estimates : Technical Assistance & Studies
Tachnical Assistance &
Studies
1.  Second Tourism Project                              760                 456            152            92       304        182          304        182
2.  Agadir Severage System                             1900                 950           950           475        950        475           -                     -
3.  Agadir Urban Development                            760                 456           250            150       510        306                       -                 -           -
4. Environment and Architectural
Preservation Unit                               970                  290           145            44        275         82          275         82        275          82
Subtotal                                     4390                 2152          1497           761       2039       1045          579        264        275          82
Price increase                                     626                  291            75            38        305        156          146         67        100          30           -             -
TOTAL COST (DH0'O0)                               5016                 2443          1572           799       2344       1201          725        331        375         112           -             -          as
TOTAL COST (US$'000)                              1320                  643           414           210        617        316          191         87         98          30           -             _



ANNEX IIT
Page 1
MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Unité d'Aménagement Touristique (UAT)
A. Land-Use Plan and Zoning Regulations
1.       The UAT land-use plan indicates three main areas for development:
- a central area of 119 ha for buildings
- a belt area of 90 ha for gardens, sports and beach facilities
- an area of 32.8 ha at the southeastern extremity of the UAT'for
further expansion of housing.
The central area, designed on a 1:2,000 scale, consists of:
- 16.75 ha for hotels
- 50.25 ha for housing
- 3.90 ha for commercial buildings
- 11.80 ha for social, administrative and cultural buildings
- 36.30 ha for streets, parking areas, gardens and sports facilities.
The main objective of the land-use plan is to create a concentrated development
that resembles the physical appearance of traditional Moroccan towns. Building
densities range from 350 to 125 beds per ha 1/ in the housing zones and 550
to 380 hotel beds in the tourism zones. The maximum building height is two
floors (8 m) for housing and four floors (15 m) for hotels. Map 2 at the end
of the report shows the main streets and locates common facilities.
The zoning regulations for tourism accommodation and housing are summarized
in the table below:
1/ Net area without public streets, gardens, etc.



ANNEX III
Page 2
a/
Density   Max. Build.  Floor Area
Zones            No.of ha  No. of Beds  Beds/ha   Height (m)   Ratio %
Tourism Accommodation
Upper-class
hotels           2.60        1,000        380       15.0         50-60
Medium class
hotels          10.50        4,000-       380       10.5         60-70
Lower-class
hotels           0.55          300        550        8.0         60-70
housekeeping        3.10       1,700        550       10.5         50-60
apartments
Total          16.75        7,000
Housing
High density      14.85        5,200        350        8.0         75-85
Medium density    25.00        6,500        260         8.0        65-75
Low density       10.40        1,300        125        4.5         35-45
Total          50.25       13,000
a/ Beds per ha of land without public streets.
Areas are set aside for commercial buildings such as shops, banks, travel
agencies, restaurants, cafes, cinemas and a handicrafts center. Other areas
are planned for social and administrative use including three schools, a health
center, a municipal government building, a post office and a police station.
The land-use plan is in the process of being finalized as a "schèma d'aménagement."
Its enactment with provisions satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of loan
effectiveness. Since this land-use plan determines only the location of the
primary streets and the general land use of the urban sectors, SONABA will have to
complete detailed plans before final design of the secondary infrastructure.
The schedule for the preparation Qf detailed land-use plans and the final
engineering of primary infrastructure is illustrated in the initial implementation
schedule (Chart 2).
B. Infrastructure
2.       The infrastructure requirements have been studied in conjunction with
the land-use plan. The primary networks have been defined on the basis of
preliminary engineering studies; the secondary on the basis of standardized
requirements (e.g., the number of square meters of parking area per inhabitant
or tourist). Costs have been estimated within plus or minus 10%. Annex II
(Tables 6 to 9) includes detailed cost estimates based on the BCEOM-SOMET
preliminary engineering study adjusted to account for price changes since
December 1974.
3.       SONABA would implement directly the streets and street lighting, sewerage
and landscaping work. SONABA would employ consultants for final design and



Iu.tEX il!
Page 3
and preparation of requests for tender; it would prequalify firms, advertise
bids, select contractors and supervise the work (the cost of supervision is
thus included under project administration and not professional services).
The water, power and telecommunications work would be coordinated by
SONABA and implemented by ONE. ONEP and PTT, which would charge SONABA for
final engineering and supervision. A condition of loan effectiveness would
be the signature of agreements between SONABA, ONE, ONEP and PTT. Tllese
agreements would specify inter alia that all procurement under the project
be carried out in accordance wIth Bank guidelines.
Streets and Parking Areas
4.       Access to the UAT will be provided by a diamond crossroad on RP 32
and two connections over the Oued Lahouar to the limits of the STB (by a
bridge and a ford). The Municipality of Agadir will complete these connections
within the STB to feed into the existing street system there. The UAT's
primary street network consists of about 12 km delimiting the different urban
sectors. The streets range in width f.-n-"i 12 m with two separate lanes to
7.5 m depending on their location ard projected traffic flow. The secondary
network consists of 22 km of streets; 15.5 km are 5 m wide and the rest 3-rm
wide. All streets will have sidewalks on both sides. Pedestrian paths 2 km
long through green areas will connect the main service centers. The parking
facilities, 8 ha in area, provide space for 4,000 vehicles, 2,600 of which
are expected to belong to the resident population (one car per family). The
project also provides a large plaza for buses.
5.       Since SONABA would supervise the implementation of this component the
cost of professional services is limited to final design and is equal to 5%
of the base line cost plus price contingencies for street design and 8% for
bridge design. The foreign exchange component represents:
- 50% of the total cost of streetaand parking areas
- 40% of pedestrian paths
- 45% of bridges
- 30% of professional services.
Street Lighting
6.       Street lighting will be provided by underground cables originating
from a power substation at the UAT limits. Poles 12 m and 9 m high will
be used to light the primary network, and a simpler system for the secondary
network. Professional services for street lighting, as for streets, are
limited to final design and account for 5% of the base line cost plus price
increase. The foreign exchange component is estimated to make up 40% of civil
works and 60% of equipment.
Sewerage
7.       The consultants proposed a combined sewerage system that will collect
domestic sewage and stormwater at a low point near the mouth of the Oued Lahouar.
The sewage will be pumped back by a rising maini to a collector bordering RP 32,
while rainwater will be discharged into the sea. The capacity of the pumping
station and the rising main to the RP 32 collector is adequate to handle the



ANNEX III
Page 4
UAT sewage. If sewage from STB is collected by that system, additional work
would be required. The UAT sewerage network will follow the street system and
use concrete sewers produced locally. The project studied by BCEOM-SOMET
has been expanded to include a supplementary pumping station and main from
the beach facilities to the UAT main collector.
8.       Foreign exchange is estimated to be 50% and 80% respectively of the
total cost of civil works and equipment. Professional services are limited
to final design since supervision is budgeted to project administration. Final
design amounts to 5% of the base line cost plus price increase. Since a dual
system appears to be technically preferable, the solution proposed by the
consultants will be reconsidered during final design. The funds provided for
the project would adequately finance either solution.
Water Supply
9.       The total water consumption of the UAT is estimated at 1.7 million
cubic meters per year with a maximum demand of 115 1/sec. A 400 mm pipe, recently
installed by ONEP just to the limits of the UAT, will meet the water needs of
the UAT. A loop along RP 32 to the water station of Ben Sergao will be con-
structed later by ONEP as part of the general expansion of its facilities in
Agadir. This loop will protect the UAT against any interruption of the water
supply and provide additional capacity. The UAT water supply network follows
the road system and will be constructed in asbestos cement pipes produced
locally.
10.      The consultants' cost estimates for the primary network have been
revised on the basis of new estimates by the ONEP office in Agadir. The
estimates for the secondary network have been adjusted only to account for
price increases since December 1974. The foreign exchange component makes
up 55% of the total cost of civil works and 80% of equipment. Estimates for
professional services amount to 20% of the base line cost plus price contin-
gencies, the fee usually charged by ONEP.
Landscaping
11.      Landscaping and gardens are essential to create an attractive and
homogeneous atmosphere. Landscaping is planned for both internal green spaces
and the areas surrounding the UAT. The project includes civil works and
equipment for gardens such as irrigation and lighting. The average foreign
exchange component makes up 30% of civil works and 55% of equipment. Design
and supervision will be mainly by foreign consultants and represent 5% and 3%
respectively of the base line cost plus price increase.
Power Supply
12.      The estimated need for power amounts to 16,000 kW   (13,000 kW for
hotel development and 3,000 kW for housing). Power will be provided by a trunk
line about 2 km long connecting the UAT with the nearest HV line. An HV/MV
substation will be built near the UAT. The distribution system will be
based on a primary underground MV network connecting 30 transformers. The
transformers will feed independent LV underground networks distributing
power along the secondary street network. The cost estimates, revised by the
technical services of ONE in Casblanca, indicate that the foreign exchange



ANNEX lik
Page 5
component of civil works is 43% and of equipment 60%. Most of the equipment
is produced locally with imported materials. Professional services include
ONE's fee equal to 20% of the cost of construction (base line cost plus price
contingencies).
Telecommunications
13.      Telecommunications in the UAT are estimated to require 400 telephone
lines and 30 telex lines. The UAT would be connected with the existing
telephone exchange (2,000 lines) which is in the process of being doubled
and would be additionally expanded by 1,000 lines financed under the project.
The connection and the internal lines will both be underground. The cost
estimates for the connection line were prepared by the PTT technical services
which also revised the consultants' estimate for the internal lines. Part
of the equipment is produced locally with imported material. The foreign
exchange component of civil works is estimated to be 40% and of equipment 60%.
To ensure compatibility with the existing network the communications equipment
would be procured after only limited competition. PTT would not charge for the
professional services it would provide.
C. Common Facilities
14.      The project would provide a core of facilities for shopping, enter-
tainment and sports to make the UAT attractive to investors and visitors alike and
to ensure architectural homogeneity of the common areas.  Detailed cost estimates
are included in Annex II (Tables 10 and 11). SONABA will entrust the final
design of these superstructure facilities to consulting architects.  SONABA's
staff will be in charge of project implementation.
Shopping Centers
15.      The project includes two clusters of shopping and service facilities,
one at the UAT center and the other near the main group of hotels.
List of Facilities and Floor Space
Service and office buildings                2
UAT center                      1,200 m
Hotel area                        500 m2
Shopping facilities                         2
UAT center                      7,400 m 2
Hotel area                      1,000 m
Restaurants, bars and
entertainment facilities                   2
UAT center                        800 m2
Hotel area                        480 m
Cinema                                 500 seats
Open-air theater                       200 seats
Hammam                                 400 m2
Handicrafts center                     375 m2



ANNEX III
The cost estimates include site preparation and are based on the present
cost per square meter for similar construction in Morocco. The cost of
constructing two paved squares with arcades, fountains and architectural
decoration is included in the cost estimates of the service and office
buildings and the shopping facilities. The cost estimates of the cinema,
the open-air theater, the hammam and the handicrafts center include
furniture and professional equipment Y (e.g., motion picture projector).
The foreign exchange component is estimated at 50% of the total cost of
civil works, 60% of building equipment and 70% of furniture and professional
equipment.
Sports and Beach Facilities
16.      The facilities financed under the project would include:
- 6 tennis courts
- 4 swimming pools
- 1 multipurpose area including a soccer field
- 1 riding school including a stable, a riding area and a clubhouse
- beach facilities including an enormous swimming pool, a clubhouse,
cabanas and a sailing school.
Tennis courts and swimming pools will be grouped in two or three enclosed
sports centers2equipped with sanitary facilities. The stable and annexes will
have a 1,000 m  covered area, the riding club a 300 m2 floor space and the
riding area a 7,500 m2 corral. T§e clubhouse annexed to the beach facilities
would cover 1,000 m2 with a 200 m  restaurant and a 200 m2 nightclub.  The
cost estimates are based on the present cost for similar construction. The
foreign exchange component is estimated to make up 50% of the total cost of
civil works and 55% of equipment. 2/
Maintenance Facilities
17.      The maintenance facilities include:
- buildings and equipment for garbage collection
- buildings and equipment for road and garden maintenance.
Equipment, including trucks and trailers, amounts to 60% of the total cost.
The foreign exchange component is estimated et 50% of the cost of
civil works and 80% of equipment.
1/ The amounts allocated for this equipment are:
Cinema                DH 120,000
Open-air theater      DH  30,000
Hammam                DH  80,000
Handicrafts center   DH  60,000
2/ Except for the multipurpose sports area where the foreign exchange component
amounts to 30% of the civil works and for the swimming pools where it amounts to
80% of equipment.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOU1,ISM PROJECT
Regional Infrastructure
A. Ait Melloul Bypass
Scope of the Project
1.       All vehicular traffic flowing into the urban area of Agadir from
the southeast passes first through the town of Ait Melloul, where three main
regional roads converge. This traffic, which includes many trucks from the
agricultural and mining areas of the Souss Valley, has no direct route to
the Agadir beltway serving the harbor, the industrial zone and the eastern
neighborhoods of the city. The proposed bypass would complete that belt road
thus diverting traffic from the crowded ot-ommercial streets of Ait Melloul
and from RP 32, the central road of Agadir which borders both the STB and
the UAT.
Project Description
2.       The technical aspects of the bypass construction as well as the
investment requirements and the economic justification have been considered
in a prefeasibility study by the consultant consortium BCEOM-SOMET.
3.       The project would provide for the construction of 8 km of a 7 m-wide
road and a 400 m-long bridge of reinforced concrete across the Souss River.
The road would have hard shoulders 3 m wide and its design speed would
permit 80 km/hour. Between the junctions with RP 36 and RP 30 the road would be
bordered by two bicycle paths each with a 1.5 m width. The total cost of
the bypass, including professional services and contingencies, amounts to
US$4,650,000. The foreign exchange component would be US$2,160,000, equal
to 46% of the total cost.  The details of cost estimates are given in Annex Il,
Table 12.
4.       Physical contingencies represent 10% of the base line cost.  Price
contingencies represent 46% of the base line cost plus physical contingencies
and are estimated on the basis of an 11-12% annual price increase. Construction
of the bypass is scheduled for completion four years after loan signing.
The first year would be spent completing the studies and final design.   The
project would be supervised by the Agadir Public Works.
Justification
5.       Since the level of tourism-related traffic on the Ait Melloul bypass
would be quite small compared to commercial and other traffic, the economic
justification for the project has been carried out on the basis of benefits
accruing to all road users in terms of reduced vehicle operating costs and
time savings. The consultants projected use of the bypass on the basis of
traffic counts (Tables 1 and 2). Vehicle operating costs (Table 3), the value
of time and the maintenance costs were determined on the basis of BCEOM's
"Etude du Secteur des Transports" updated to 1975. Assuming a 20-year economie



ANNEX IV
Page 2
life for the bypass, the internal rate of return would be 27.7%. The sensitivity
of the rate of return to variations in investment cost and benefits is given
below:
Sensitivity Test                  Resulting Rate of Return
Investment cost overrun (15%)                    23.0
Benefit increase         (25%)                   32.4
Benefit decrease         (25%)                   22.4
B. Upgrading of CT 7002
Scope of the Project
6.        The Imouzzer Valley, one of the most scenic attractions in the vicinity of
Agadir, cuts through the rugged mountains along the north coast of the province
for nearly 30 km. Palm groves and picturesque villages with traditional mud
architecture dot the valley. Several thousand tourists visit here annually,
many on regularly scheduled bus tours.
7.        Although entirely asphalted the road to Imouzzer is unsafe because
of falling rocks, sharp curves and the absence of guardrails. The project
would-upgrade the road to meet the needs of additional tourist traffic and
facilitate communications for the 20,000 inhabitants. Since this road could
easily be connected with the Souss Valley and RP 40 from Marrakesh, thus
completing the road circuit from Agadir, the project would also provide funds
to study a proposal for such a link.
Project Description
8.       CT 7002 is 52.7 km long and has a 4-5 m platform and a 3 m asphalted
carriage. A recent prefeasibility study by the consultant consortium BCEOM-
SOMET for upgrading the road indicated a required investment of US$3 million,
price contingencies excluded. Since much of the work is not needed immediately,
the mission proposed to limit the project to what is strictly necessary
for road security and tourism. As a first step toward complete upgrading
of the road the project would provide drainage and earthwork, retaining walls,
widening of the most dangerous bends, stop areas to permit bus crossings, as well
as outlooks at the main panoramic spots, parking areas and leveled land for
tourism facilities (restaurants, bars).
9.      The investments required by the road are given in Annex II, Table 12.
They amount to some US$1,600,000 including professional services and contingencies.
The foreign exchange component would be US$800,000, equal to 50% of the total
cost. Professional services would include US$75,000 for preliminary studies, 1/
US$75,000 for detailed engineering and US$38,000 for supervision. Final design
and supervision would be mainly by local consultants. The price contingencies
represent 44% of the hase line cost plus physical contingencies and have heen
calculated at an annual rate of increase of 11-12%. Implementation would take
four years from loan signing, the first of which would be needed for further
studies to finalize the project. The Agadir TP would implement the project.
Since this investment would mostly benefit tourism in Agadir, it is justified
jointly with the UAT.
1/ Including feasibility of the tourism circuit road linking Imouzzer with RP 40.



ANNEX IV
Page J
C. Replacement of Fisl: Pumps
10.      With an average annual catch of 100,000 tons, Agadir is one of the most
important harbors for sardine fishing in the world.  The fish is now unloaded by
eight pumps which send water into a ship's hold until a ratio of one ton of
fish to three cubic meters of water is reached; the mixture is then pumped to
the wharf where a coarse mesh sereens out the fish. The water containing
blood, heads, scales, etc. is returned to the harbor and swept out by tides
to the nearby beaches. Several alternative solutions for limiting pollution
have been identified such as:
- treatment of the effluent from existing pumps
- replacement of the pumps with a pneumatic "dry" unloading system or
some other method.
11.      The results of recent studies carried out by the Ministry of Public
Works and by the appraisal mission 1/ recommend the replacement of the existing
pumps which are near the end of their useful life. The mission compared several
dry unloading systems (capacity, machinery cost, operating cost) and indicated
the Norwegian Myreus pumps as the most suitable equipment. The project cost
estimates (Annex II, Table 13) are based on this equipment because of its
high performance in relation to capital and operating costs. The purchase price
of six pumps would be some US$160,000. The installation cost would be US$190,000
including all local taxes. The foreign exchange component amounts to 100%
of the equipment and 48% of the installation costs. Design and supervision
are 15% of the base line cost plus physical increase. Although the Myreus
pumps have been assumed as a reference for the cost estimates, this does not
exclude normal bidding procedures for procurement, with detailed analysis of
different offers. The project would be executed by the Régie d'Acconnage du
Port de Casablanca (RAPC), the agency within the Ministry of Public Works in
charge of loading and unloading ships in all Moroccan harbors.  Bank financing
would be channeled to the Ministry of Public Works which would also Drovide
the counterpart financing.
12.      The pumps would be owned and operated by RAPC which would charge
fishmeal plants and boat owners for unloading the fish.  RAPC is expected
to charge rates adequately covering operating costs, depreciation and
financial charges. This would amount to about US$1.6 per ton (in 1975
prices), assuming a 10% return to RAPC on its investment. At present the
cost of unloading fish is about US$1.4 per ton.  It is not expected that RAPC
would encounter difficulties charging an adequate rate since the recommended
system would avoid the losses in the fish catch which occur with the present
system. 2/ The Government's undertaking to cause RAPC to discuss with the Bank
the proposed tariff structure for the use of the pumps is recorded in the
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations.
jj The appraisal mission was joined by Mr. Fougère of the consulting firm CANPLAN,
a specialist in unloading fish.
2/ Estimated to 17% of the catch in an FAO study.



TABLE 1
MDROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Regional Infrastructure
(Ait Melloul Bypass)
Traffic Previsions on the Existing Ait Melloul Road System
(ADT)
Coming      Stopping at                                 Transit Traffic to                                   Total
From        Ait Melloul             Harbor/Âna    Agad~ir   t       RP~ ho      nTraensihir              TTrfric
RP 30           1ol                     31DU        Rdi              3               620                      1,800.
1975       RS 509          540                      320           280           110             330                      1,040
RP 32           560                     410           920            80              780                      2.190
Total        1,710                    1,040         2,020           240           1,730                       5,030
RP 30           960                     720         1,290           280              920                      3,210
1980       RS 509          830                      410           430           140             500                      1,480
RP 32          860                      610         1               110           1.180                       3.250
Total         2,650                   1,740         3,070           530            2,600                      7,940
RP 30        1,460                      940         1,930           360           1,390                       4,620
1985       RS 509        1,270                      540           650           170             780                      2,140
RP 32                                   880         1.990           160           1.800                       4¨830
Total        4,060                    2,360         4,570           690            3,970                     11,590



TABLE 2
MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Regional Infrastructure
(Ait Melloul Bypass)
Traffic Previsions on Ait Melloul Bypass
(ADT)
Coming                       Transit Traffic to
From                  HarborjAnza   Agadir City                               TOTAL
RP 30                  190              440              20                   650
1975       RS 509                 210              190              80                    480
RP 32                   L2              780              80                 1,170
Total                  710            1,410             180                 2,300
RP 30                  460              720             130                 1,310
1980       RS 509                 280              300             100                    680
RP 32                  490            1,150             110                 1,750
Total                1,230            2,170             340                 3,740
RP 30                  650            1,160             180                 1,990
1985       RS 509                 390              490             130                 1,010
RP 32                  740            1,790             160                 2,690
Total                1,780            3,440             470                 5,690



ANNEX IV
Page 6
TABLE 3
MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Regional Infrastructure
(Ait Melloul Bypass)
aJ
Vehicle Operating Costs by Type of Vehicle and Type of Road
(DH/1000 Ian)
bJ
Type of Road
A                 B                    C
Type of vehicle               Flat road         Hilly Road        Mountainous Road
Cars                             295               297                   331
Trucks A (1.5 - 5 t )            660               665                   688
Trucks B (5 - 12 t )             868              1015                  2215
Trailer trucks ( >   12 t )    1331               1504                  2830
3  Costs are exclusive of taxes and tine value
/ A = slope  . 2%, 25% of bends. with R - 400 m.
B = slope 2-4%, 45% of bends with R = 250 m.
c = slope > 4%, 75% of benids with R = 100 m.



ANNEX V
Page 1
MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Société Nationale d'Aménagement de la
Baie d'Agadir (SONABA)
A. Background
1.      SONABA was founded July 6, 1973, with the objective of implementing
tourism development in the Bay of Agadir 1/. The Moroccan state owns 51% of
SONABA's shares. The other shares belong to the Office National Marocain du
Tourisme (19.4%), Crédit Immobilier et Hôtelier (10%), Caisse de Depot et
Gestion (9.5%), Banque Nationale de Développement Economique (9%), Diaffa (0.5%),
Maroc Tourist (0.5%) and Société Nationale d'Aménagement de la Baie de Tanger
(0.1%). SONABA's Board of Directors is chaired by the Minister of Tourism and
includes four other Government officials (the Governor of Agadir, Vice Chairman;
the Secretary General of the Ministry of Public Works; a representative of the
Ministry of Urban Development and one from the Ministry of Tourism) and rep-
resentatives of each shareholder. SONABA is headed by a Director General
who has received full powers from the Minister of Tourism. SONABA has agreed
to inform the Bank of any change of personnel in the position of Director
Gegera1,
9.      To coordinate the activities of SONABA and other concerned Government
agencies, two committees have been established at national and local levels
(Chart 1). The Interministerial Commission to supervise the development of
the Bay of Agadir was set up on December 5, 1973, by a letter from the Prime
Minister to the Minister of Tourism. Its membership includes representatives
of the:
- Ministry of Urban Development, Housing, Tourism and Environment
- Ministry of the Interior
- Ministry of Finance
- Ministry of Public Works
- Secretary of State for Planning
- Secretary of State for Economic Affairs
The local committee (Comité Technique Local Consultatif) was created in February
1975 and is chaired by the Governor. It includes:
- SONABA's Director General
- representatives of the Municipality
- representatives of the local agencies (TP, DUHE, ONE, ONEP).
B. Organization for Operation
3.      During the project preparatory studies SONABA operated with a skeleton
staff. Since then it has organized three divisions: a Project Unit, a Commer-
cial and Financial Division and a Legal and Administrative Division (Chart 1).
1/ SONABA is a commercial enterprise, subject to corporate law. As such it can
enter into contracts without going through the procedures used in the Admin-
istration. This will ensure the flexibility needed for timely completion of the
project.



ANNEX V
Page 2
4.      The Project Unit is headed by SONABA's Technical Director 1/, an
engineer with experience in similar infrastructure projects. He is
responsible for:
- planning and coordinating all project works
- selecting consultants
- supervising final studies
- preparing tender documents
- advertising requests for tender
- evaluating bids
- procuring equipment and necessary goods
- preparing and updating a critical path network for all project works
- preparing requests for disbursements
- preparing progress reports.
The Project Unit itself will supervise the work on streets, street lighting,
sewerage, pedestrian walks, landscaping and common-facilities. It will
coordinate construction of the electricity, water and telecommunications net-
works with ONE, ONEP and PTT respectively. Planning and architectural work would
be coordinated by the chief planner 1/ who supervised these aspects of the
UNDP studies. The detailed planning studies will be carried out by SONABA's
own architectural staff. This staff will work with investors, their architects
and the Municipality of Agadir in order to preserve the urban plan and the
architectural concept adopted for the UAT. During appraisal the Municipality
gave SONABA written assurances that it would grant building permits for the
UAT only after prior approval by SONABA's technical staff.
5.      SONABA's second key unit is the Commercial and Financial Division.
The commercial staff will be responsible for the campaign to promote the
sale or lease of hotel and housing sites as well as SONABA's superstructure
property. It would also assist investors in hotels and housing in their nego-
tiations with the local and national administrations (e.g., CIH, Municipality)
and promote common activities (e.g., reservations, food supply) among small
hotel operators. The commercial staff would also sponsor jointly with the
hotel owners a Comité de Station to be in charge of the UAT's ".animation."
It is expected that the Municipality and hoteliers outside the UAT would partici-
pate. SONABA has agreed to prepare and discuss with the Bank (i) within two
years of loan signing a timetable of all steps to be taken to implement the
proposed investment promotion. campaign, and (ii) within four years of loan
signing a program for "animating" the UAT and a schedule of its implementation.
The finance staff would be in charge of accounting and financial management
(para. 13). It would, in particular, define and keep up-to-date policies for
the lease or sale of hotel and housing sites as well as SONABA's superstructure
facilities in accordance with guidelines agreeable to the Bank (para. 12).
6.      In addition to these major units, SONABA would have a Legal and Admin-
istrative Division. The legal staff will draft the contracts for the design
and construction of the electricity, water and telecommunications networks
with ONE, ONEP and PTT respectively. It would also draft the conditions
(cahier des charges) for the sale/lease of UAT land and be in charge of preparing
1/ SONABA agreed to consult with the Bank on any change of personnel for
this position.



ANNEX V
Page 3
and supervising sale and loan contr-cts. Conditions of loan effectiveness
are the conclusion of contracts between SONABA and ONE, ONEP and PTT with
provisions satisfactory to the Bank. The administrative staff would be in
charge of personnel and equipment management.
7.      SONABA agreed to consult with the Bank on any change in its organ-
ization.
C. Financial Projections for SONABA
8.      Pro forma statements of income and expense, funds flow and balance
sheets for SONABA's operations are presented in Tables 1-3. These projections
include the UAT infrastructure, the SONABA superstructure and project admin-
istration and are based on the following financial plan (1981 prices):
DH Million       US$ Million
Requirements
Land                                       8.2                2.1
Construction                             120.1               31.7
Project administration                      7.5               2.0
Interest during construction              13.4                3.5
Total                                 149.2              39.3
Sources of Initial Funds
Equity                                    20.0                5.3
Government loan                           34.6                9.1
Treasury advance                          30.0                7.9
IBRD                                      64.6               17.0
Total                                 149.2              39.3
It has been assumed that about 14% of the investment would be financed by an
increase in SONABAts equity from DH 100,000 to DH 20 million. The Bank loan and
the Government loan have been assumed to be for 20 years, including 5 of grace,
at 8.5% interest. The Treasury advance would carry interest of 6% and be amor-
tized once the senior debt has been reimbursed. Interest on the advance would be
subordinate to interest and principal payments by SONABA of its senior debt.
Interest during construction on all three loans has been capitalized and is financed
pro rata by the respective loans. 1/
9.       It has been assumed that a prepayment clause would be applied if (a) the
ratio of land sold exceeds the IBRD loan amortization ratio after the second year
of operation, and (b) a debt service coverage ratio, 2/ of 1.1 minimum is main-
tained. Portions of the IBRD and Government loans are prepaid from the third
year of operation. Debt service ratios are presented before application of the
prepayment clause.
1/ In 1983 SONABA will have accunulated sizable cash if land is sold at a pace equal
to or faster than assumed during appraisal. In the projections, it has been
assumed that SONABA would use this cash to reimburse the Treasury advance in 12
equal annual payments.
2/ Defined as net current assets at year end plus estimated cash flow in the
following year divided by estimated debt service in that year.



ANNEX V
Page 4
10.     SONABA will derive revenue from several sources:  the sale of
improved land, the leasing of hotel sites, the sale and leasing of commercial
properties and a service charge for the use of common sports facilities.
Estimated revenues are given in the financial assumptions attached. All
rents and sale prices have been based on the recovery of all investment in im-
provements plus a reasonable rate of return. It has been assumed that 50% of
the total sites, shopping centers and other SONABA superstructure would be
leased rather than sold. This assumption and the timing of land and property
sales will have considerable bearing on SONABA's financial position. Although
subject to unknown factors, these projections provide reasonable estimates
of market conditions prevailing at the time of appraisal.
11.     The financial projections indicate that SONABA would achieve a rate of
return of 10% of net fixed assets dropping to 4% after all land sales are
completed. SONABA may pay dividends up to a-.maximum of 6% of its capital
in any one year out of net profits. The projections indicate that dividend
payments could be made. SONABA's DCF financial rate of return is 9.2%.
D. Financial Covenants
12.     SONABA's success will depend on its ability to control its revenue
through pricing policies which realistically reflect market conditiotls.
Assurances were received that SONABA would:
(a) prepare a pricing policy acceptable to the Bank. This policy
statement would list objectives and give the methodology for
calculating all sale prices and rents and would become part of
SONABA's cahier des charges;
(b) not incur any debt without the Bank's approval until 1986,
other than that incurred to finance the present project.
E. Audit
13.     SONABA would be required to establish, with the assistance of consultants
acceptable to the Bank, a system of commercial accounts to be maintained by
an accounting department suitably staffed. Accounts would be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audited financial statements
would be submitted to the Bank within four months after the close of each
fiscal year. In addition, since the Government is a major shareholder in
SONABA, the accounts would also be audited by the Ministry of Finance.



Table 1
NOROCCO: BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
SONABA: Projected Income Statements for Year Ending December 31
(DH millions)
Project Year                                1976/79    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Revenue (1975 prices)
Land sales                                       -    12.3    12.3      9.4      9.4     9.4      9.4     9.4      9.2        _        -
Land leases                                     -      0.2     0.4      0.6     0.8      1.1      1.1     1.1      1.1     1.1      1.1
Property sales                                   -       -        -     1.4     1.4      1.4      1.4     1.4      1.4      1.4     1.2
Property leases                                  -     1.3     1.9      2.2      2.5     2.8      3.2     3.2      3.2      3.2     3.2
Service charges                                 -      0-4     0.8      1.1     1.5      2.0      2.5     3.0    3.5       3.5      3.5
Total revenue                                 -    14.2    15.4    14.7    15.6    16.7    17.6    18.1    18.4          9.2      9.0
Adjiusted to 1980 level (1.45 of                   -    20.6    22.4    21.3    22.7    24.2    25.6    26.3    27.0    13.4    13.1
1975 prices)
Cost of Sales
Iand and Improvements                            -     2.2      2.2     2.1      2.1     2.1      2.1     2.1      2.0        -       -
Property                                                    -           1.4     1.4      1.4      1.4     1.4      1.4      1.4     1.2
Total cost of sales                           -      22      22       3.5     3.5      3.5    -Y.7      3.5      3.4         1.     2
Operating Costs
Administration                                   -     1.0     1.1      1.1      1.1     1.2      1.3     1.3      1.2      1.1     1.0
Maintenance                                      -     1.5     1.5      1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5     1.4      1.3      1.2     1.1
Promotion                                        -     0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1
Total operating costs                         _      2.7                                                        =2f  Z  77  2'!2 2.9    . 2  2.2
Gross Operating Profit (GOP)                       -    15.7    17.4    15.0    16.4    17.8    19.2    20.0    21.0          9.6     9.7
AdJusted for inflation (7% p.a.                    -    15.7    18.6    17.2    20.1    23.3    26.9    28.0    29.0    13.4    13.5
for 5 yrs)
Depreciation and amortization                      -     6.o      5.8     5.7      5.3     5.1      5.0     4.8      4.7      4.4     4.4
Profit before interest                             -     9.7    12.8    11.5    14.8    18.2    21.9    23.2    24.3          9.0     9.1
Interest
IBRD/Government                                -     8.5      8.2     7.9      6.5     5.0      4.8     4.0      3.2      2.4     1.7
Treasury advance                                   -     1.8      1.8     1.8      1.7     1.5      1.4      1.2     1.1      0.9     0.8
-    10.3    10.0      9.7       2    -.2                52       -3     3.3       2.7
Profit  before tax                                 -    (0.6)    2.8      1.8      6.6    11.7    15.7    18.0    20.0        5.7     6.4
Income tax                                         -       _      1.0     0.6      2.3     4.1      5.5      6.3     7.0      2.0     2.2
Net profit                                         -      -)   -T         1.2        TT  *. 10.2    11.7    13.0              37
Ratio ot net profit to net fixed assets %          -       _      2       1        3       4       10       13      16        4        4
Debt Service
Cash generated                                   -    15.7    17.6    16.6    17.8    19.2    21.4    21.7    22.0    11.4    11.3
Debt service (senior debt)                       -     8.5   1U.8    11.8    10.7        8.4      7.6     7.1      5.9      4.9     4.0
Debt service (incl. treasury advance)            -    10.3    13.6    13.6    14.9    12.4    11.5    10.8         9.5      8.3     7.3
Debt service coverage (senior debt)              -     1.8     1.4      1.4     1.7      2.3      2.8     3.1      3.7      2.3     2.8
Debt service coverage (inel. treasury            -     1.5     1.2      1.2     1.2      1.5     1.9      2.0      2.3     1.4      1.5
advance)
OJQ 
January 1976                                                                                                                               X >



Table 2
M_ROCCO: BAY 0F AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
SONABA: Projected Balance Sheets
(DH millions)
Year                                        1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    198 9
Assets
Current assets                                                              7.8    15.0    19.3    13.9    17.9    25.0    31.8    40.2    32.7    30.7
Work in Progress                          1.8    16.0    52.6    91.9
Land (Net)                                8.2      8.2     8.2      8.2     7.9     7.6      7.4     7.2      7.1     7.0      6.9     6.8      6.8      6.8
Land Improvements - utility contribution                                   74.8    72.9    71.0    69.1    67.2    65.2    63.2    61.2    60.2    49.2
Depre.i.ation                                                             3.0     5.9      8.7    11.4    14.0    16.5    18.9    21.2    23.4    25.5
Net                                                                      71.     Z7-R5 67  2      3 7.7    53.2    4.77    4.I3 7     0 OÔ    jS6-.8    33.7
Properties for sale                                                        10.9    10.9      9.5     8.1      6.7     5.3      3.9     3.1      3.1      3.1.
Depreciation                                                              0.4      0.8     1.0     1.1      1.3     1.4      1.4      1.5     1.6      .7
Net                                                                      10.5    10.1      8.5     7.0    *B:3;      3.9 02.         1.6      1 5      1.4
Fixed Assets                                                               32.9    32.9    32.9    32.9    32.9    32.9    32.9    32.9    32.9    32.9
Depreciation                                                              1.4      2.8     4.2     5.6      7.0      8.4     9.8    11.2    12.6    14.0
Net                                                                      31.5    30.1             27.3    2.       24.5    23.1    21.7    20.3    IB:3i
Pre-opening expenses                      2.5      5.7    11.2    16.6    21.1    21.1    21.1    21.1    21.1    21.1    21.1    21.1    21.1    21.1
Amortization                                                              1.1      2.2     3.3     4.4      5.5      6.6     7.7      8.8     9.9    I1.0
Net                                                                      20.0    18.9    17.      16.7    S313               3 5 .   123    11.2    10.1
Total Assets                         12       27-y    7-2*0       7   ir9.    1 Zi7   1        129.8   125.1   123.6   122.0   122.6   109.3   101.6
Liabilities and Capital
Current liabilities
Income tax                                                                         1.0     o.6      2.3     4.`.     5.5     6.3      7.0     2.0      2.2
Dividends                                                                          1.6     1.1     1.6      1.6      1.6     1.6      1.6     1.6      1.6
Maturing debt                                                             3.6      3.9     6.7      '.9     5.3      5.6     5.2      5.0     4.8      5.2
Prepayment                                                                  -        -    12.4     6.6      6.2      6.9     6.3      5.4     5.7        -
Total current liabilities                                               3.        6.5    20.8    16.4    17.2    19.6    19.94    19.0    14.1       9.0
Long-term Debt, Net
IBRD                                     1.0     5.4    24.3    46.9    62.7    60.1    49.3    42.8    36.9    30.5    24.6    19.5    14.3    12.5
Government                              0.4      1.2     6.7    19.7    33.7    32.4    26.6    23.1    20.0    16.4    13.3    10.5          7.7      6.8
T:      6.6    91.0                     92-      75.9    65.9      6-.9    46.9    37.9    30.0    22.0    19.3
Treasury advance, net                    6.1     8.3    20.9    30.0    30.0    30.0    27.5    25.0    22.5    20.0    17.5    15.0    12.5    10.0
Capital
Equity                                   5.0    15.0    20.1    20.1    20.1    20.1    20.1    20.1    20.1    20.1    20.1    20.1    20.1    20.1
Retained earnings                                                         (0.6)   (0.5)   (0-5)    2.0      7.6    15.7    25.2    36.5    38.6    41.2
19.5  i9.619.6    22.1   27.-7            35.8   WE73 5 6. 3W      387    61.3
Legal reserves                                                              -      0.1     0.2      0.4     0.8      1.3     1.9      2.0     2.0      2.0
Total shareholders equity and
liabilities         12.5    29.9    72.O    167   179.7   1E2E7   1Z-O  129           125.1   123      122.0   122      109.3 1-.1 2
Net current assets                                          -4                . 2      5 (1-5)   (            0.7 5     .4  12.L   21.2 10.6   21.7
Net fixed assets                                                          141.7   133.6   124.7   115.9   107.2    98.6    90.2    82.4    76.6    70.9
Senior Debt/equity plus Treasury advance                                    65/35   65/35   60/40   56/44   50/50   42/48   34/66   26/74   20/80   18/82
January 1976



Table 3
MOROCCO: BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
SONABA: Projected Sources and eplication of FUnds
(DH millions)
Project Year                             1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Sources of Funds
SONABA equity                           5.0    10.0      5.1
IBRD loan                               1.0     4.4    18.9    22.6    16.9
Goverrnent loan                         0.4     0.8     5.5    12.9    16.0
Treasury advance                        6.1     2.2    12.6        1
Net profit before tax                                                    (0.6)    2.8     1.8     6.6    11.7    15.7    18.0    20.0       5.7      6.4
Depreciation asL ' .     . i.   ,ion                                     6.o      5.8     5.7     5.3     5.1      5.0      4. 8    4.7     4.4      4.4
Decrease in assets                                                       2.2      2.2     3.5     3.5     3.5      3.5     3.5      3-4     1.4      1.2
Total sources                        12W05-  17.14       i0                            10              20o3     12 2.              ;i   II       12.0
Application of FUnds
Land                                    8.2
Capital expenditure                     1. 8    14.2   36.6    39.1   28.14
?reopening expenses                     1.4     1.6      1.7     1.4     1.5
Financial charges                       1.1     1.6      3.8     4.1     3.0
12=5    r7--.-   ZDE-   M-75    32.9
Repaynent of LT Debt
IBRD                                                                           2.3      2.5     2.7     2.2      1.8     2.0     1.8      1.6     1.5
Government                                                                     1.3      1.4     1.5     1.2      1.0     1.1     0.9      Q.9     Q.8-
Subtotal                                                                     3        3.9     I.2              3.41            2.7      2.5 2.3
Prepaynent
IBRD                                                                             -        -     8.1     4.4      4.0     4.5      4.1     3.5     3.7
Government                                                                       -        -     h43     2.2      2.2     2.4      2.2     1.9     2.0
Taxes                                                                               -     1.0     o.6     2.3      4.1     5.5      6.3     7.0      2.2
Dividends                                                                       _ a       1.6     1.1     1.6      1.6     1.6      1.6     1.6     1.6
Treasury advance                                                                    -       -     2.5     2.5      2.5     2.5      2.5     2.5      2.5
Change in cash                                                           7.6 23 L.       J.      L5.)    3.9        .o     627      8.2 ffl$)   L(.3)
12.    Î::iÉ  2.1    S;   1-40.5   10.8   1l1o    15,4    20.3   2122i   23    -i  11.5    12.0
January 1976
-Ic



ANNEX V
Page 8
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1.      Land for the construction of hotels, villas and apartments is
sold at an average of DH 97.4 per square meter and ranges from DH 70 for
hotel sites to DH 170 for high-density apartment construction. The pro-
jections assume that 80% of this land would be sold.
2.      Ground rent has been calculated at DH 400 per bed per year, for
20% of-bed capacity.
3.      Rents for commercial properties are based on rates of DH 15-20
per square meter per month.
4.      Properties for sale have been priced at a markup of 50% of cost.
5.      Sale prices have been calculated in 1975 prices, inflated to 1980
prices by a factor of 1.45 (para. 3.32). Gross operating profits have
been inflated at 7% per annum for 5 years to give cash flow in current prices.
6.      Annual service charges for common facilities have been calculated at
an average of DH 500 per bed for the 7,000 hotel and apartment beds to be
constructed within the project area. Charges are based on the recovery of
capital costs and operating expenses of the sports and beach facilities plus
maintenance of common areas not under municipal jurisdiction.
7.      Administrative costs have been estimated at 5% of sales.  Maintenance
has been estimated at 2% of capital costs of facilities belonging to SONABA.
Promotional expenses have been calculated at DH 100,OOO for ten years.
8.      Depreciation has been estimated at an overall average rate of 4%.
9.      The utility contribution, representing SONABA's investment in infra-
structure, has been capitalized and amortized over a 25-year period with the
exception of the portion applicable to land and properties sold which has
been written off at the time of sale. Project administration and interest
during construction have been capitalized and written off over 20 years.



BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF SONABA
Shareholders
Board of Directors
Interministerial                      CMiister of therBsmr
Commission                C...hairman of the Board
Commission    .......       ~(Minister of Tourism)        I
(Minister of Tourism).f
Comité Technique 1
Local Consultatif    .........         Director General
(Governor of Agadir> I
Project               Legal and                  Commercial and
t   Unit   \   |      Administration   i         Financial
t-1t
World Bank-15168(R)
C



ANNEX VI
Page 1
MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Market Justification
1.       Tourism assets in Morocco include the Mediterranean coastal region
of Tangiers to the north, the beaches stretching the entire length of the
country on the Atlantic coast to the west, the Imperial cities of Fez, Rabat,
Meknes and Marrakesh in the interior and the varied cultural sites of the
south. These assets, easily accessible, have long been popular with motorized
travelers. Recently Morocco's attractions, particularly Agadir and Marrakesh,
have been opened up for visitors arriving by air. Agadir offers great scenic
beauty, climatic conditions favorable for year-round beach tourism and a con-
venient center for varied excursions to the entire Souss region of southern
Morocco. Agadir's combination of tourism assets is unique in Morocco and a
rarity in the wider Mediterranean context.
Accommodation Development
2.       The number of beds of international standards in Agadir will reach
about 4,000 by the end of 1975. Another 4,000 beds are scheduled for completion in
the existing tourism sector (STB) within the next five years. Beyond that, an
additional 3,000 beds are forecast by 1988 (Table 1). This would complete
the accommodation scheduled for the- STB according to its revised schèma
d'aménagement, The UAT project would provide approximately 7,000 additional beds
during the period 1980-86. The following table summarizes the projected buildup
of hotel capacity in the UAT and in Agadir overall.
Hotel Capacity in Agadir (Number of Beds)
UAT   STB and Other Sites in Agadir   Total Agadir
1975                                    4,000 a/                   4,000.
1980                 1,000              7,500                      8,500
1981                 2,000              8,000 b/                  10,000
1982                 3,000              8,500                    11,500
1983                 4,000              9,000                    13,000
1984                 5,000              9,500                     14,500
1985                 6,000             10,000                    16,000
1986                 7,000             10,500                    17,500
1987                 7,000             11,000                    18,000
1988                 7,000             11,000                    18,000
a/ Capacity including a 480-bed hotel scheduled to open in November 1975.
b/ 4,000 beds under construction.
Market Characteristics
3.       Agadir's assets began to be tapped on a significant scale only at the
turn of the last decade when the number of beds of international standards rp.qhed
1,200 and foreign arrivals numbered 46,000. The ensuing expansion of capacity
to 3,400 beds in 1974 was followed by an increase in traffic to 119,000 visitors,



ANNEX `VI
Page 2
an annual rate of growth of 28%. Commensurate with its unique assets, the
share of traffic to Morocco secured by Agadir almost doubled from 6% in 1970
to 11% in 1974 (Table 2). The growth in foreign tourist traffic to Agadir
during this period was accompanied by a rise in average length of stay from
three to eleven days. Consequently bed occupancy levels in Agadir rose from
37% in 1970 to 67% in 1974, reaching 75% during the first eight months of 1975 (Table 3).
4.       The high occupancies enjoyed by Agadir's hotels have led to high rates of
refusals and overbooking. During the peak months of the 1974/75 winter season and in
August of this year for instance, tourists were sent as far away as Taroudant
(100 km from Agadir) for lack of space. More fortunate visitors were accommo-
dated over night in hotels still under construction and given meals in the hotels
where their stay was originally intended.
5.       Arrivals are well spread out over the year making Agadir a year-round
destination. Ninety percent of all foreign visitors arrive by air (compared to 36%
for the country overall). Most are on inclusive tours marketed by European
operators, with about half arriving on c :rtered flights and the rest on block
space contracted from scheduled carri -s. In 1974 about 85% of the visitors
came from Western and northern Europe with France (42%), West Germany (13%) and
Switzerland (11%) the major generating countries. The rate of repeat visitors
among tourists is high, a noteworthy characteristic for a new destination. Over
the last five years Agadir has diversified its clientele; the share of French
has decreased by over 50% in favor of growth in traffic of Swiss, British and
Benelux nationals (Table 4). Domestic traffic accounts for 20% of total arrivals
and 8% of total bednights.
Market Prospects
6.       Although Agadir is Morocco s only winter beach destination, its growth
prospects are linked to those of the country as a whole. As its capacity is
expanded and internal access improved with the completed road from Marrakesh,
Agadir will benefit increasingly from the tourism assets of the rest of the
country.
7.       Future growth of traffic to Agadir will therefore depend on Morocco's
overall growth as well as on its competitiveness with comparable destinations
in neighboring countries and in West Africa and the Canaries. North Africa is
a major competitor in summer but not in winter, with the possible exception of
Djerba, Tunisia, which enjoys pleasant .%eather in winter but ?s not as warm as
Agadir. West Africa (particularly Senegal and the Ivory Coast) is not a likely
competitor because of the price disadvantage. The Canaries offer the greatest year-round
competition to Agadir.  Both offer pleasant, safe beaches and truly summer-like
weather, but Agadir is additionally favored with varied cultural and scenic
attractions close by including Marrakesh, Goulimine and the entire Souss region.
However, despite a closer proximity to the main European market, Agadir appears
at a slight price disadvantage vis-a-vis the Canaries (Table 5). Only 10% of its
present capacity is of lower category compared to 30% for the Canaries and
therefore the price of an inclusive tour to Agadir is on average, slightly
higher. It will be possible to market the accommodation proposed for the UAT
at prices that will compare favorably with those of the Canaries, and enable
Agadir to tap the middle- and lower-income segments of the market.



ANNEX VI
Page 3
Market Projections
8.        No substantial change is expected in the factors affecting inter-
national and domestic demand for Agadir. It is assumed that visitor traffic
to Agadir will grow in line with the planned development of the resort's
accommodation capacity.
9.        Assuming that the average length of stay of foreign visitors remains
the same at Il days and assuming that internal tourism's share will increase
to 15% of total bednights in Agadir as incomes in Morocco continue to rise,
the number of foreign visitors projected on the basis of an expected occu-
pancy rate of 60% would reach 305,000 in 1988. This implies an average
annual growth in foreign visitor traffic to Agadir of 7.5% in the 1975-88
period which is both reasonable and conservative in light of the following
considerations:
(a) Foreign visitor arrivals in Agadir have increased by 28% annually
in recent years. If there had been sufficient capacity, particularly
in the lower category, a much higher growth rate in traffic might
have been expected.
(b) The uniqueness of Agadir's assets in Morocco and the growing
popularity of beach-based winter tourism warrant further increase
in Agadir's share of traffic to Morocco. On the assumption that
the demand for Moroccan travel will double by 1988 from its 1973
figure of 1.2 million, the projected foreign arrivals in Agadir
would represent 13% of total Moroccan arrivals. If arrivals in
Morocco triple by 1990 1/ (equivalent to a 7% rate of growth,
considerably lower than the growth rate of 19% observed between
1968 and 1973), the foreign arrivals in Agadir projected above
would represent only about 8% of all arrivals in Morocco, signifi-
cantly lower than the 11% in 1974.
(c) Agadir's market includes a significant proportion of upper-income
visitors which makes it less vulnerable than other destinations
to a possible reduction in the real growth of disposable income in
Western Europe. This is consistent with past experience that
tourist demand is highly income elastic and with the absence of
disruptions in tourism to Agadir during the 1974 economic difficul-
ties. 2/ Agadir also stands to benefit from the expansion of the
market segment vacationing twice a year.
(d) As traditional destinations in Europe become increasingly crowded
and those south of the Mediterranean continue to enjoy a price
advantage, vacation traffic to Morocco gnd thus Agadir should
expand more vigorously.
1/ A recent study of Mediterranean tourism by the Battelle Institute forecast
3.6 million arrivals in Morocco by 1985.
2/ In 1974 traffic to Morocco as a whole decreased 14% while traffic to Agadir
increased by 2%.



ANNEX VI
Page 4
Marketing
10.      The marketing strategy proposed for the UAT development will be
aimed at attracting both the upper- and middle-income family markets.  The
UAT would be marketed by tour operators and the vehicle will be the package
vacation lasting either one or two weeks. Suggested packages for the UAT
include seven-day and fifteen-day vacations to be marketed through wholesale
and retail travel outlets. A typical eight-day, seven-night package on a
half-board basis (i.e., room, breakfast and one meal) would cost US$160
(1975 prices) excluding air fare and personal expenses. This is competitive
with comparable packages to the Mediterranean and the Canaries and the US$27.50
average daily expenditure (1975 prices) also compares favorably with
expenditures recorded in competing destinations (e.g., US$27.40 in Tunisia
and US$24.80 in Spain in 1974).



Table 1
MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECTS
Evolution of ARadir's Capacity by Categoro  of Accommodation
Under construction
19/ b7   cr                1972                      l9/                       l973 c/v1975                                      or c/azmed
a/         /     c!         /           .7 
5-Star  2      747     29.9         2    747       24.3       2      747    24.3       2       747     21.1       3    1,227    30.2         -         -        -
4-Star  2      760     30.4         3  1,170       38.1       3    1,170    38.1       4    1,380       39.2      4    1,380    33.9         4       1,874 46.8
3-Star  4      635     25.5         4    6971'    22.7        4      697    22.7       5       795     22.6       5       795    19.5        -         _        _
2-Star  4      102      4.1         5    206        6.7       5      206      6.7       7      348       9.9      8       416t/  10.2        8       2,035  50.8
i-star  9      253     10.1         9    253        8.2       9      253      8.2       9      253       7.2      9       253      6.2       1          97   2.4
Total  21   2,497    100           23  3,073      100        23    3,073   100         27    3,523    1oe        29    4,071   100          13       4,oo6    100
a/ Number of hotels                                                                                                                                               'd
b/  Number of beds
c/  % of total                                                                                                                                                     > c
d/  Includes a 480-bed hotel scheduled to open in November 1975                                                                                                      H
e! Extension of an existing hotel
/ Includes a 68-bed apartment scheduled ta open in December 1975.
Source:  Délégation Régionale au Tourisme



ANNIX VI
Page 6
Table 2
MOROCCO
BAY 0F AGADIR TOURISM PRBJECT
International Arrivals at A-adir
ARadir
Agadir       Index      Morocco       Index      Morocco
1970             46,331        100        700,992       100         6.6
1971             65,022        140        757,256       108         8.6
1972             85,217        184        987,611       141         8.6
1973             116,461       251     1,225,784        175         9.5
1974             119,054       257      1,052,000       150        11.3
Source: Délégation Régionale au Tourisme



BAY CF  AGADIR TOul1ISM  8100T
8U013UP oF AB00800dAT1ON A8 BSM 0CUP0 OCY D  AbADIR /
Jrn=ury 1970 - Ag..et 1975
_  p57o                                          1971                                                1972                                               1973                                               1971                                               1715
B.d ,eaito       R.d,i.ht8    N.d oe,hW.efhv      RMd Caso a sl       bednlhteh    Bd     Bma         ,bd c      t     BeddigOt,   bd  Beoup.o.,T       Bed cwa0itî   %edaiîhAs       M.d                 oB.d 0w0it,,       r ~ *ah&    Brd ooo            _bd L.aAk         baaah.   .M          oez
J.,u.ry          170             5,811           39.9               1,540          22,604           h7.                 2 ,1h.       31,117            b6.9            2,308           b8,128          67.3                 2,718         .2,77$          50.8              2,928         57,197            63.0
6br,r y          470             6,277           47.7               0.81O           22,689          52.6                2,2Mn       32,168             55..            2,718           51,719          60.0                 2.718         13,189          57.1              2.928         65,398            79.8
86v              170             6,743           46.3               1.5LO           25,162          52.7                2,20.        43.800            6..2            2,716           58,140          69.0                 2,718         60,599          71.9              2,928         74,492            82.1
4rl1             830            11,258           17.2               1,.5O          30.150           65.3                2,20.        79,302            59.h            2,710           51,831          63.6                 2,718         70,817          86.8             2,928          62,837            71.s
Y                 m870          10,512           1.2.2              1.5.0          21,01            ....O               2,201        55,222            81,0            2,718           53987           64LI                2,7 18         h7,glh          s0.9             2,928          64,982            71.6
830            6,528            25.b              1,651           11,730          25.4                2,201         28,2hO           .2.7             2,710          58,266           71.5                2,718          39,431         48.4              2,928         51,155            58.2
hiy              830             9,229           35.9               1,660          20,Q4.           J2.9               2,20C         43,707            6..0            2,717           52,997          62.9                2,718          68,628          81.1             2,928          72,669           80o0
A.8ut            830            12.099           47.0               1.5,0          27,373           77.3                2,308        ù.,225            69.8            2,708           68,208          81.0                 2,928         86,690          95.5             2,928          83.869            94.5
B.pteée r        830             6,918           27.9               1,510          22,794           19.3               2,309         30,035            50.6            2,718           50,776          62.3               209p8           73,669          83.9                    -                         -
8,t5,e           830             7,9W6           31.1               1,510          13.728           28.8               2,507         71,35.            hl.8            2,718           46,276          54.9                2,928          5b.245          61.8            -                                 -
N?ob- ,          830             8,070            32.1              1,510          16,985           36.8                2,308        32,603           17.1             2,718           31,037          38.1                2,928          48.256          S-.9             -              _                 _
13.,8.r          830            10,379            10.3              0,5ho           21,837          15.7                2,70e        39,012            65.6            2,718           26,102          31.0                 2,928         52.293          65.3             -                                -
Te.1 3U-r        -              102,350          37.8                             256,183           1..6                -           .3,676             5,.2            -              597,447          65.8                -             690,813         67.4              -             531,779           74.7
S/ Fr81% O .ai   t02D  ,ap.aoy.



Table h
MOROCCO
BAY oF AGADIR TfURISM PROJECTS
Distribution of International Arrivals at Agadir 1969-1973
Growth
0rigin            N  1970---                1971             No 1972  X             1273               1274      Index
France           27,501   59.36        36,196   55.67      39,973   46.91      46,234  39.64      50,013  42.00   182
Germany           4,161    8.98         8,599   13.22      10,455   12.27      15,693  13.45     15,344  12.88   369
US - Canada       3,118    6.73         5,054    7.77       5,195    8.44       8,414   7.22       7,588   6,38   243
Benelux           2,440    5.27         3,714    5.71       4,743    5.57       7,939   6.81       6,914   5.82   283
Great Britain     2,075    4.48         2,929    4.51       5,373    6.30       9,976   8.55       8,193   6.88   395
Switzerland       1,800    3.88         3,o46    4.69       S,765   10.28     I2,793  10.97      12,665  10.64   704
Italy             1,694    3.66         2,071    3.19       3,054    3.58       3,948   3.38       4,157   3.4?   245
Scandinavia       1,042    2.25           715    1.10       1,273    1.49       3,431   2.94       6,127   5.15   588
Others            2,500    5.39         2,088    4.14       4,396    5.16       7,023    7.04      80      6.76   32
Total         46,331  100.00        65,022  100.00      85,217  100.00    116,461 100.00    119,054 100.00   257
Sources Délégation Régionale au Tourisme.



ANNEX VI
Table 5                            Page 9
MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT-
Comparison of PackagTurPie  (171.
(Indexes)
From:    Paris      Stuttgart    Copenhagen    Brusselles
A  B   C   A   B   C    A   B   C      A   B   C
Agadir              100 100 100 100 100 100  100 100 100   100 100 100
Balearij  Islands    56  57  56  39  51  29   54  62  74    46  41  48
Canaries             85  52  99  63  64  63   83  50 119    78  39  95
Madeira             132 123 116  88  82  92   96  79 115    84  59  94
Djerba                92  93  92  73 106  44                  62  81  55
Rhodes                            97 102  91   65  50  81
Malta                 85          65  72  59                  58  33  68
Cyprus              137                                 -    83  88  81
Algeria               82  88  79  62  82  44
Senegal             141 138      224
Ivory Coast         137
The Gambia                                    142 103 183
Thailand            186          248 134
Ceylon                           214  90      169 136 204
Kenya                            182  97 256
1/ Valid for all 5candinavia
A Price for a one-week package
B Price for additional week
C Difference between A and B, a measure of transport cost
Sources:  Jet Tours, Air Tour, Escapade, Horizon 74, Trans 2t6, Trans Tours,
Vacances Aériennes, Vingresor, Transair, Trans Europe, Neckermann.



MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Accommodation Facilities
Financial Analysis
A. Introduction
1.        The proposed development and phasing of the accommodation capacity,
along with a composite occupancy curve and pro forma statement of income and
expense are given in Table 1.   It has been assumed that accommodations will
be opened at a rate of 1,000 beds per year over a seven-year period starting
in 1979-80.  Hotels are expected to be chiefly three-star category and about
25% of bed capacity will be located in housekeeping apartments. Hotels in
Agadir presently are predominantly forr- and five-star and the accommodation
capacity proposed under the project TiLL provide a more balanced product line
for Agadir and permit the developme.~t of the high volume market forecast for
the area.
2.        the projections have been based on the following estimates and
assumptions which take into account the actual experience of hotels in Agadir
and other relevant areas in Morocco.
B, Hotels
3.        There is no marked seasonality in Agadir and fairly high annual
hotel occupancy can be expected. For individual hotels, bed occupancies were
forecast at 50% in the first year rising to 60% in the third year of operation.
The resulting overall bed occupancy curve rises from 50% in the first year
of operation to 60% over a 9-10-year period. Most of the clientele is expected
to be group and/or charter (80%) and room occupancies will be only marginally
higher than bed occupancies.
4.        Statements of income and expense in 1975 prices were prepared
following the U.S. Uniform System of Accounts for Hotels. Rates based on
the year-round rates currently being obtained in Agadir for rooms and meals
were calculated assuming all guests would stay on a half-board plan
(on a per person basis for bed, breakfast and one other meal). Allowances
were made for a modest number of meals served in addition to the half-beard and
beverage, gift shop and other sales (telephone, laundry) were calculated on a
per guestnight basis. The resultant average guestnight expenditure in hotels
is as follows:
DH            US$
Room                       25            6.58
Meals                      24            6.32
Drinks                     12            3.16
Other                       2            0.54
Total                   63           16.58



ANNEX VII
Page 2
It has been assumed that shops in hotels would be rented (1 square meter per
guestroom) at a rate of DH 10 per square meter per month.
5.        Costs of sales were estimated as ratios to departmental sales.  A
ratio of 32% was used for food and 30% for beverage sales. The number of
employees per room average 0.86 in existing hotels.  Based on this ratio
and applicable wage rates in Morocco, payroll amounts to 19% of total sales,
including allowances for housing, meals and transport. The category of "other
direct expenses" includes cleaning supplies, replacement of linen, china and
glassware and agency commissions. The undistributed expense categories were
calculated using ratios based on experience in the area. The provisions of
the existing incentives package have been applied. Service charges and
ground rent (Annex V)   have been calculated at DH 500 and DH 400 respectively
per bed per year. Based on these assumptions, the hotels reach a steady gross
operating profit of 31% (adjusted GOP after service charge and ground rent
of 26%).
6.        The overall financial internal rate of return for the hotels
taken together is 9.9%, assuming that the hotels are managed by the owning
company. If they were managed by management companies, the rate of return would
be about 6% after deduction of management fees, These results are in constant
1975 prices and do not include capital gains or the effect of inflation.
7.        The DCF rate of return- on the project is considered reasonable and
the accounting ratios show that the hotel can serve its debt comfortably and
pay dividends of over 10%.
C. Housekeep ng Apartments
8.        It has been assumed that 1,750 of the total 7,000 beds would be in housekeep-
ing    apartments.  Occupancy in the apartments has been projected on the
same basis as for hotels, -that is, an average bed occupancy of 50% rising to
60% by the tenth year of the project's operations.
9.        Apartments are assumed to generate revenue from -ent,
and minor amounts from shop sales. The average ni2htlv rental
for apartments has been assumed to be DH 25. Operating costs have been based on
consultants' estimates for labor, supplies and operating overhead such as heat,
light and power. Service charges have been calculated at DH 500 per bed
(Annex V).    Based on these assumptions, the apartments reach a gross operating
profit of 64% (after service charges, 52%).
10.       The overall financial internal rate of return for the apartments
is 15.9%, assuming that they are managed by the owners. Thic rate
may be misleading since direct management is unlikely. However, since it was
not known whether the apartments would operate as resort condominia, cooperatives
or under some other form of management, the results have been shown assuming
direct management.
D. Overall Results
11.       The rate of return on the hotels and apartments is sensitive to
investment cost, occupancy and operating costs. The rates of return resulting



ANNEX VII
Page 3
from variations in the basic assumptions are shown in the table below:
Rates of Return
Hotels     Apartments    Overali
Best estimates                        9.9          15.9         10.9
a/
Gross operating profit
(a)  +25%                          13.3          19.8         14.4
(b)  -25%                           6.0          11.5          6.9
(c)  Investment cost +10%           8.5          14.4          9.6
a/ Reflecting changes in occupancy, tariffs and operating costs.
E. Single Hotel
12.       Income statement and cash flow for a three-star hotel are shown in
Table 2 with assumptions listed on the following page. Assuming that the
project benefits from the existing incentives package, internai rates of return
on the project are as follows:
Overall Return       Returns to Equity
Direct Management
Best estimate                     10.1                    21.4
Benefits + 25%                    13.2                    27.1
Benefits - 25%                     6.6                    15.4
Investment cost + 10%              8.9                   19.3
Management Contract--
Best estimate                      6.5                    10.9
Benefits + 25%                     9.0                    14.4
Benefits - 25%                     3.4                     7.0
Investment + 10%                   5.4                     9.6
It is likely that hotels will have management contracts and consequently the
right-hand column is the more relevant.



Table 1
MOROCCO: BAY OF AGADIR TOURISI', PROJECT
Summary Statement of Hotel Tncome and Expense
(constant 1975 Dirhams'000's)
Project Year                                                  5              6             7             8              9            10              il            12            13
Accommodation (beds)
Hotels                                                  750         1,500         2,250          3,000         3,750          4,500         5,250          5,250          5,250
Apartments                                              250           500            750         1,000         1,250          1,500          1,750         1,750          1,750
Total                                           1,000          2,000         3,000         4,000          5,000         6,000          7,000          7,000         7,000
Composite bed occupancy (%)                                   50             52            55            56             57             57            58             59            60
Guestnights (000's)
-lotels                                                 137.0         286.9          451.2         615.5          779.7         943.9       1,083.2        1,135.3        1,149.7
Apartmenits                                              45.5           95.7         150.4         205.1          259.9         314.7          369.4         378.8          383.3
Total                                              182.5         382.6         601.6          810.6       1,039.6       1,260.6        1,452.6        1,514.1       1,533.0
INCOME STATEMENT
Sales 
Rooms                                                 4,563         9,565        15,040         20,514        25,995         31,465        36,315         37,854        38,324
Food and beverage                                     4,932        10,330        16,242         22,158        28,069         33,979        38,995         40,870        41,381
Other                                                   365           765          1,204         1,641         2,078          2,511         2,905                         3,075
Total sales                                     9,860         20,660        32,486        44,313         56,142        67,955         78,215        81,752         82,780
Departmental expenses:
Cost of sales                                         1,728         3,618         5,691          7,764         9,832         11,885        13,669         14,320        14,497
Payroll and related expenses                          2,192         4,397         6,614          8,831        11,048         13,266        15,485         15,506        15,523
Other direct expenses                                   925         1,936         3,046          4,155         5,264          6,372         7,321          7,661         7,760
Total departmental expenses                     4,845          9,951        15,351        20,750         26,144        31,523         36,475        37,487         37,780
Departmental profit                                        5,015         10,709        17,135        23,563         29,998        36,432         41,740        44,265         45,000
Undistributed expenses:
Administrative and general                              370           774          1,218         1,661         2,105          2,548         2,949          3,067          3,104
Advertising and promotion                               408           408            608           831         1,053          1,274          1,475         1,534          1,553
Heat, light and power                                   385           770          1,154         1,539         1,924          2,309         2,693          2,693          2,693
Repairs and maintenance                                 633         1,265         1,99           2,530         3,163          3.795         4.428                 4,428
Total ondistributed expenses                    1,796          3,217         4,977         6,561          8,245         9,926         11,545        11,722         11,778
House profit (loss)                                        3,219          7,492        12,158        17,002         21,753        26,506         30,195        32,543         33,222
Store rentals                                                 45             90           135           180            225           270            315           315            315
Cross operating profit (loss)                              3,264          7,582        12,293        17,182         21,978        26,776         30,510        32,858         33,537  b 
Sround rent                                                   150           300           450           600            750           900          1,050         1,050          1,050 OS z
Service charge                                               500          1 000         1,500         3,000          2,500         3,000          3,500         3,500          3 500
Adjusted gross operating profit                            2,614          6,282        10,343        13,582         18,728        22,876         25,960        28,308         28,987    c
August 1975



Table 2
MOROCCO: bAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Typical 100-Room. 3-Star Hotel
Projected Income Statement and Cash Flow
(constant 1975 Dirhams 000's)
Year                                                           1           2          3            4           5           6           7            8           9           10           il         12
Bed occupancy (7,)                                            50          55          60           60          60          60          60           60          60          60           60         60
Guestnights (000)                                             36.5        40.2        43.8         43.8        43.8        43.8        43.8        43.8         43.8        43.8         43.8       43.8
Modified American Plan                                        40          40          40           40          40          40          40           40          40          40           40         40
(DH per person)
INCOME STATEMENT
Revenue:
Rooms                                                  912       1,005       1,095        1,095       1,095       1,095       1,095        1,095       1,095       1,095        1,095      1,095
Food                                                   876         965        1,051       1,051       1,051       1,051       1,051        1,051       1,051       1,051        1,051      1,051
Beverage                                               438         482          526         526         526         526          526         526         526         526          526        526
Other                                                   75          80           88          88          88          88           88          88          88           88          88         88
Total                                          2,301        2,532       2.760       2,760       2,760       2,760        2,760       2,760       2,760        2,760       2,760      2,760
Coat of sales:
Food                                                   280         309          336         336         336         336          336         336         336         336          336        336
Beverage                                               131         145          158         158         158         158          158         158         158         158          158        158
Other                                                   36          40           44          44          44          44          44           44          44          44           44         44
Total                                            447          494         538         538         538          538         538         538         538          538         538        538
Direct expenses:
Payroll and related expenses                           552         552         552          552         552         552         552          552         552         552          552        552
Other direct expenses                                  230         253          276         276         276         276         276          276         276         276          276        276
Total                                            782          805         828         828         828         828          828         828         828          828         828        828
Undistributed expenses:
Administrative and general                              92         101          110         110         110         110         110          110         110         110          110        110
Advertising and promotion                               55          55           55          55          55          55          55           55          55          55           55         55
Heat, light and power                                   77          80          83           83          83          83          83           83          83          83           83         83
Repairs and maintenance                                118         128         138          138         138         138         138          138         138         138          138        138
Total                                            342          364         386         386         386         386          386         386         386         386          386        386
Sales and local taxes                                       115          127         138         138         138          138         138         138         138          138         138        138
Profit before fees and rent                                 615          742         870         870         870         870          870         870         870          870         870        870
Service charges                                              28           28          28          28          28          28           28          28          28           28          28         28
Gross Operating Profit (GOP):                                587         714         842         842         842         842          842         842         842          842         842        842
Interest                                               149         141         133          124         115         106          97           87          77          66          54          48
Depreciation and amortization                          300         300         300          300         300         300         300         300          300         300         300        300
Income tax                                               -           -            -           -           -           -           -            -           -           -         195         198
Net profit                                                    38         273         409         418         427         436          445         455         445          476         293        296
CASH FLOW
Cash generation                                             587          714         84e         842         842         842         842          842         842         842          678        678
Less:  Replacements reserve                                   90          90          90          90          90          90           90          90          90           90          90         90
Grant repayment                                                -           -           -           -           -         180         180          180         180         180            -          -
Gross cash flow                                             497          624         752         752         752         572         572          572         572         572          588        588
Debt service                                                318          318         318         318         318         318         318          318         318         318          205        205
Net cash flow                                               179          306         434         434         434         254         254          254         254         254          383        383
RATIOS
GOP/Total revenues (%)                                        26          28          31          31          31          31          31           31          31          31           31         31
NP/Total revenues (7)                                          1          10          14          15          15          16           16          16          16           17          il         il
NP/IIitial equity (7)                                          27,        157.        2370        237%        24"         24°.        25%          25%         25%         267.         167        16%
Debt service coverage                                        1.6         2.0          2.4         2.4         2.4        1.8         1.8         1.8          1.8         1.8         2.9         2.9
November 1975



ANNEX VII
Page 6
Investment Assumptions for A Typical Hotel
Number of rooms                            100
Classification                             3-star
Investment cost per room                   DH 60,000
Composed of:
Land                             5%
Construction                    35%
Heavy equipment                 25%
Light equipment                 15%
Fees                            10%
Incorporation fees               5%
Working capital                  5%
100%
Financial plan
30% equity
15% state advance (payable in 10 years with 5 of grace)
55% CIH loans 40% at 4.5% interest over 20 years with 3 of grace
15% at 4.5% interest over 10 years, no grace period
Depreciation: 5% of investment per year
Replacements:  equal to 30% of initial project cost over project's life



ANNEX VIII
Page 1
MOROCCO
BAY OF AGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
Economic Justification of the UAT Investment
A. Rate of Return Computation
1.       Although the proposed tourism component will provide infrastructure
in the UAT, it is part of a development program which includes hotels and
apartments. Hence its economic evaluation has been made in this larger
context.
2.       The gross benefits to the economy resulting from the project would
come from the expenditures of tourists attracted to the UAT's hotels and housekeeping
apartments. The implementation of the UAT is expected to affect the revenues
of competing accommodation in Agadir and elsewhere in Morocco in two ways.
Firstly, a share of UAT visitors, particularly during the slow months (January,
June and October-November), could have been accommodated in existing hotels hence
a portion of the UAT visitor traffic is not incremental.  Secondly, the extension
of capacity in the UAT could induce lower hotel rates in all of Agadir's
accommodations. In view of the favorable market prospects for Agadir and the
large overhang of frustrated demand, the UAT's effect on prices would be
limited. The quantification of these two effects is difficult for lack of
significant data. As a proxy measure, a quarter of the UAT's net benefits has
not been counted as incremental.
3.       Some of the services would be paid for directly by the tourists while
others would be compensated for only indirectly. Accordingly, the costs and
revenues must be carefully analyzed so as to avoid double counting.
4.       The expenditures of visitors to the UAT have been estimated on the
basis of tourist expenditures at similar facilities in.Morocco and competing
destinations. Visitors to the hotels, representing about three-quarters of
the number of visitors to the project area, would spend US$28 per guestnight.
Visitors to the apartments would spend US$26 per.guestnight. The breakdown
of average daily visitor expenditures according to the facilities used is
summarized in the table below.
Breakdown of Expenditures of Visitors to the UAT
Apartments        Hotels        Total Composite
DH     US$      DH     US$        DH      US$
Accommodation, food and
beverage                    58   15.20      66   17.30        64    16.90
Shopping                      25    6.60      25    6.60        25      6.60
Sports and entertainment      10    2.70      10    2.70         10     2.70
Local transportation and
other                        5    1.30       5    1.30          5     1.30
Total                      98   25.80    106   27.90        104    27.50



ANNEX VIII
Page 2 
5.       On this basis the composite daily expenditure per visitor has been
estimated at about DH 104 (US$27.50) which includes food and accommodation
at hotels and apartments, DH 52 (US$13.60); additional expenses for food and
beverage, DH 12 (US$3.30); miscellaneous sales, DH 5 (US$1.30); shopping,
DH 25 (US$6.60); sports and entertainment, DH 10 (US$2.70). Hotel revenues
assume an average bed occupancy rate on the whole UAT rising from 50% in 1980
to 60% in 1990. The only benefits from the proposed housing program which
have been included are the yields from the sale of land.
6.       Although a portion of the net revenues accruing to the Moroccan
airline from tourist traffic would be attributable to the project, it has
not been taken into account in calculating rates of return. Aiso excluded
are the benefits resulting from developing the UAT in a planned and coordinated
fashion, ensuring maximum attractiveness to the tourists, integration of
tourism in other urban activities, efficient use of infrastructure and the
best use of land.
,Cost Assumptions
7.       The relevant costs are the capital and operating costs of the infra-
structure provided under the proposed project and of the hotel and related
superstructure facilities to be built in the project areas, plus the estimated
capital and operating costs of producing the goods and services consumed by
the visitors outside the project area.
8.       Investment costs cover the capital cost of constructing the tourism-
related works in the UAT, upgrading CT 7002, replacing the fish pumps and
constructing hotels and other superstructure facilities. Accommodation investment
costs are assumed to average DH 30,000 (US$7,900) per bed for hotels and
DH 70,000 (US$18,400) for housekeeping apartments.
9.       Economic costs of superstructure operations are derived from the
projected financial accounts of hotels, restaurants and other facilities which
in turn are based on actual accounts of similar establishments in Agadir.
Since SONABA is expected to recover the investment in utilities through land
sales and leases, the related investment costs do not appear in the utilities
rate base. The utilities incremental gross operating profit generated by
servicing the UAT accommodation has been assumed to cover the
maintenance and replacement expenses on thè UAT's utilities works.  The
operating and maintence costs of nonrevenue-earning infrastructure items
(such as streets, street lighting and landscaring) as well as the operating
costs of solid waste disposal and other municipal services would be paid
for by the Municipality. Since the municipal taxes to be levied on the-UAT
adequately cover these costs, they have been neglected. Incre-
mental revenues from the airport landing fees have been assumed to cover
the incremental costs incurred. The share of Morocco's generic tourism
promotion attributable to the project, estimated at DH 1.9 million per annum
from 1982 on, has been included in the rate of return computations. The
training costs, estimated at DH 416,0OO per annum from 1983 on, have also
been taken into account. Investment costs, operating costs and gross revenues
are all calculated in 1974 prices.



ANNEX VIII
Page 3
Gross Operating Profits
10.        The gross operating profits projected for the main categories of
visitor expenditures are shown below for the year 1988, when all the hotels and
operations will be activated.
Average Daily           Gross Operating
Visitor Expenditures             Profit
DH                   DH            %
Accommodation, food and
beverage                                    64                  18.69         29
Shopping                                      25                   9.44         38
Sports and entertainment                      10                   4.03         40
Miscellaneous items                            5                   1.92         38
Total                                     104                   34.08         34
Efficiency Price Consideration
11.        Project amounts were further examined to determine the efficiency
prices of land, foreign exchange and labor. The use of the UAT land has been
valued at the benefits foregone in agriculture. At present, the official exchange
rate reflects adequately the value of the Moroccan currency. This situation
may, however, change over the life of the project. Accordingly the rate of return
calculations ignored shadow pricing for foreign exchange except for illustrative
purposes (para. 13). For people in the Souss Valley alternative employment oppor-
tunities are provided by emigration to northern Europe. Thus it has not been
found appropriate to shadow price labor.
Internal Rate of Return
12.        Each project facility and piece of equipment will have a different
economic life, but taken as a whole, the project is estimated to have an
economic life of about 30 years. The modest provision for some replacement
expenditures during this period is considered to be offset by the life of the
main assets beyond 30 years. The cost benefit streams are detailed in Table 1.
With the above assumptions, the internal economic rate of return on the project
would be 17.4%. The sensitivity of the rate of return to alternative assumptions
regarding costs and benefits is shown below.
13.        The rate of return would be sensitive to changes in investment costs,
gross operating profits, i/ the timing of hotel development and the assumed
shadow rates for wages and foreign exchange.  The rates of return resulting from
alternative assumptions for each of these variables are shown in the table below.
Resulting Rate of Return %
Best estimate                                                    17.4
Investment costs + 20%                                           14.6
Gross operating profits:
(a)  + 10%                                                     21.1
(b)  + 25%                                                     18.9
(c)  - 10%                                                     15.8
Two years' delay in opening of hotels                            13.4
5% shadow pricing of foreign exchange                            18.0
1/ Changes in GOP projections reflect potential variation in occupancy rates,
average daily expenditures and operating costs.



ANNEX VIII
Page 4
B. Balance of Payments Effect
14.       The proposed project is expected to increase gross foreign exchange
earnings by about DH 19 million (US$5.0 million) in 1981 when the first hotels
open and by about DH 160 million (US$42.1 million) per year from 1989 on,
when all planned accommodations have become fully operational. This compares
with DH 1,025 million (US$270 million) gross foreign exchange receipts earned
by Morocco from tourism in 1974. Foreign exchange revenues accruing to Royal
Air Maroc from international air travel have been excluded from the estimated
gross foreign exchange earnings.
15.       Foreign exchange outflows resulting from the project would include
the import component (about 13%) of operating costs, debt service on the foreign
share of CIH loans, fees to foreign management firms and debt service on the
IBRD loan. The total outflow of foreign exchange is estimated to amount to
DH 10.3 million (US$2.7 million) in 1981 rising to DH 20.1 million (US$5.3
million) in 1989. (This calculation does not take into account the incremental
imports likely to ensue from increased wages for labor employed on the project.)
The net foreign exchange earnings generated by the project would amount to
about DH 8.7 million (US$2.3 million) in 1981 and about DH 140 million (US$36.8
million) in 1989 and annually thereafter.
C. Employment Effects
16.       Assuming a ratio of 0.37 employees per bed, the accommodation in the
UAT tourism area would generate 2,600 new jobs by 1989. Additional jobs created
in the restaurants, shops, tour agencies, entertainment and recreational
facilities would amount to about 1,800. Indirect employment generated in con-
struction, handicrafts, agriculture and other services is likely to account for
7,200 additional jobs.
D. Budgetary Position of the Government
17.       The current expenditures budgeted to the project would include the
cost of Government services for vocational training and the share of the Govern-
ment's tourism promotion attributable to the UAT tourism development. These
expenditures would increase from DH 1.3 million (US$0.4 million) in 1981 to
DH 2.3 million (US$0.6 million) by 1989.  Budgetary receipts deriving from the
project would comprise taxes collected on room, beverage, food and other sales
and income taxes on salaries and profits. Taxes on tourist expenditures would
increase from DH 2.6 million (US$0.7 million) in 1981 to DH 20.1 million
(US$5.3 million) by 1989.  Income tax returns will increase from DH 0.8 million
(US$0.2 million) in 1981 to DH 4.6 million (US$1.2 million) in 1989 and
DH 17.1 million (US$4.5 million) in 1994. In 1981 the project would have a
small net budgetary surplus of DH 2.1 million (US$0.5 million) rising to
DH 22.4 million (US$5.9 million) in 1989 and DH 34.9 million (US$9.2 million)
in 1994. Taking into account the net budgetary receipts and the net operating
income of SONABA, the internal rate of return to Government on the investment
in the UAT is 20.5%.



Table 1
M9ROCCO
fkY O? AGADIR OURIS P6ROJECTS
Coat/ennefit Strasas (DH 0001
In constant 1975 prices
1976          1977          1978           1979           1980           1981          1982           1983           1984           1985           1986           1987
1. L.d-h/                                      820           820            810           820            820            820            820            820            820            820           820             820
2.  UT InveStcamt
Istrastraccare
Streeta Bcd parking                  683         3,696         6,762          4,502          1,997
Streertlighttng                       82            330          813            798            442-                                           -----
Secerage                             186         1,171         2,206          1.754            376-4
Watnr sapply                          72            615        1,002            750            210
Foyer                                  -         1,998         3,708          2,395            991              -              -             -              -               -             -              -
Teleccertcmnlcstians                 255           336           872          1,174          1,029
Lsrd.c.ping                          186           449        21236           1,851            773
Tata)                           1,464         8,595        17,599         12,224          5,818              -              -              -              -              -             -              -
Caneton Facilities
A-enity ceres                          -           442         2,422          4,673          4,676              -              -              -              -              -              -              -
Sparts snd beach ftcilitce6            -           152           526          1,750          1,750
Oth-r ca-60n facilities- _-                                       80            188            746      _         _    _       _      _       _
Total                               -           594         3,028          6,611          7,174                             _              -             _              _                             _
3.  OuCsîde Investdentsc/                        -              -             -         3,840          3,040                             -- 
4.  Inveantent in Aecpeemdatiîesd/               -              -        13,437        26,875         26,875         26,875         26,875         26,875         26,875         13,437
5. I-assntent in Reaianal W-rks
Fieh panpa                               38            316          473              -              -              -              -              -              -              -
CT 7002                                 197            676        1.966            452              -             _             _                               - _                                          -
Total                                235           992         2,439            452                     -              -              -           -          -              -              -              -
6.  R04rrI.oLets
TraîclcgV                                 -              -             -           416            584            584            584           416            416            416            416            416
Generic paenatia-f/                                                 272            680            680            680          1,520          1,900          1,900         3,900          1,900          1,900
SONARAAs epcrtatingepec.e.                -              -             -             -          1,400          1,420          1,400         1,400           1,500         1,500           1,500         1,300
Ttala  Caste                                     2,519         11,001        37,595        52,118         46,391         30,359         31,199         31,411         31,511         18,073          4,636          4,436
Il.-  &etî
a«,  Gr7r (helsîs aed aparcteants)                  -              -            -              -          3,264          7,582        12,293         17,182         21,978         26,776         30,510         32,858
2. Taxsi/                                                                                              2,070          4,162          6,048          8,655         11,032         13,339         15,344         15,993
3.  C0P otsideh/                                 -              -             -              -         2,782          3,833          9,j72         12.358         15,850         19,219         22,146         23,084
4.  E nest it ran laies fe L.nd ard
Cormon taaii4t±ca                           -              -             -             -            940          1,880          2,960         4,040           5,120          6,200         7,280          8,360
5.  Revenue tract ft C an Facilita leRes         _       - -                               _           1.300          1.900          2.200          2 500          2 800           2IlM          I2JO2          3.200
T.tali Be-fit.                                        -                                                   10,356         21,357         32,673         44,735         56,780         68,734         78,480         83,495
Aditstcd Be-afitriî                                   _             _                            -          7,767        16,018         24,505         33,551         42,585         51,550         58,860         62,621
a/   Irveermtnt caste are gi-en net ef taes.
b/   Land  Inian rrtflcts rever.ese  tregene in ceriaelîaral ce
c/   icaccîcent cec-t atside the UAT Inclades additiînel l1eee      r in tearia  ftacilitiîes (eKg., tceia, lace., retterante,  hop-).  The am..nt bas bece  linitnd ta DR 6.08  illlian
rince therc le an over-upply ef -aah f-cilitie in AK dir.
d/  AcacRteadatla.. caste arc ..sues d at DH 60,000 pet hbtel roon and DH 70,000 pet apartent.
e/  Trtnînlg calera ce-t ftr 100 percera par year in 1981 aad 1982  nd fat 75 peaple in 1979 and after 1982,
E/   Gesnric promction ce.t amctnts ta 0.5%  f receipts.
Berefita
S/   Te- enet af th.-e deraivd trac ddesettc taurîse ialade  -lec tac (4%/), beverare tax, patente, handicrafta as weli a- ahler tares in and  ataide the UAT.
h/i  la esc,i-ated et 39% af -ctsîde erpenditares.
i    Adji jastrd fEr nonincrepentai benetite satircated at 25% cf t.t.l (cc para.  2).  Ttala increment-l benefit  c-ntian. ta incr ..e.nttil 1997 ahib le the end of the tac
enerceatiop period fer cl hbtela.  The.e will reach Dh 69.7 milliac in 1997 darirg thb  'typical" yesr jr 1997.
Decerber 1975



MOROCCO: BAY OFAGADIR TOURISM PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF IMPLEMENTATION, EXPENDITURE AND DISBURSEMENT
YEAR 1                      YEAR 2                       YEAR 3                       YEAR 4                       YEAR 5                       YEAR 6
CODE  PROJECT COMPONENT                                 _             _-- _- -_ _
Qi    Q2    Q3    Q4        Q5    Q6       07    Q8    09    010    1i1   012   Q13   014   015   C116   017   1 8   Q19   Q20    Q21    022   023    Q24
A.  UAT INFRASTRUCTURE
1. Streets & Parking                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Detects Liabilit y Periodj
Primary Network                                                                                                                              .    .....
Secondary Network                                                                                                                                                                     ..................
2. Street Lighting
Primary Network                                                                                                                                          ..................
Secondary Network                                                                                                                                                              .        ..................
3. Sewerage
Primary Network                                                                                                                                          ..................
Secondary Network                                                                                                                                                                 .    ..................
4. VVater Supply
Primary Network
Secondary Network                                                                                                                                                                     ..................
5. Power Supply
Trunk Supply and Substation                                                                                                 ..................
Transmission Lines                                                              _ _
Distribution Lines                                                                                                                                                                    .. ................
6. Telecommunications
Trunk Supply
Distribution Lines                                                                                                                                                                    ..................
Telephone Exchange Extension_                                                                                                                                                         ..................
7. Landscaping
B. COMMON FACILITIES
1. Shopping Centers
Commercial Buildings                                                                                                                                                                  .....  .... ......
Handicrafts Center                                                                                                                                                                     .....  ....  ....
Cinema and Open-Air Theater                                                                                                                                                           ......         .....
Hammam                                                                                                                                                                                ............
2. Sports and Beach Facilities
Tennis Courts and Swimming Pools                                                                                                                                                      ..........
Multipurpose Area                                                                                                                                                                             ..........
Stable and Riding School                                                                                                                                                               ..................
Beach Facilities                                                                                                                                                                      ..........
3. Maintenance Facilities                                                                                                                                                                    .........    .....
C. REGIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
1. Ait Melloul Bypass
2. Upgrading of CT7002
3. Replacement of Fish Pumps
D. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                                                                                                _       _            _               -
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STUDIES
1. Second Tourism Project                                                                        _      -
2. Agadir Sewerage System
3. Agadir Urban Development                                                 -      -             -
4. Env. and Arch. Preservation Unit                                 _              _     _                     _      _       _
LOAN AGREEMENT SIGNING DATE
EXPENDITURES RATE-                                      1570                         6346                        13176                        12583                         7881
( in 1000 US$ equivalent)                               3.8%                         15.2%                       31.7%                        30.3%                         19.0%
DISBURSEMENT RATE                                       486                          2187                        5686                         6663                          4782                          896
( in 1000 US$ equivalent)                               2.3%                         10.6%                       27.5%                        32.2%                         23.1%                        4.3%
1/ Excluding Land Acquisition
July 1975                                                                                                                                                                                                  World Bank - 15166(R)






aa                                                                                                        n> >
o ' X D D ~~~~~~~~~> D>                                    >D>>>>cc>cOCm m>m
3  :3~~~~~~~~~~~a                                                                    <0       O,   go
_2'    -                             aa<- -     .....
,     J0              an   | -              - - -a - -                                           an -' -n -       1    ---------                
X~~~~~~~~~~-------    -;  -----  w 
_O' 2                                                                         nan°o                           j,          m- 
,                        1  ~~~~~~~~-------- '-'-- -- -- ---'------- - - - '_                                                                                   _
-----a                                                                                             o n                                  m
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
w ~         ~            ~            t                   ra            _                                                                 _ 






IBRD 11657R
ToCosoblanco                                                                                                  NOVEMBER 1976
O MOROCCO
Bay of Agadir Tourism Project
The Project Area
- (J      Main roads, existing
Secondary roads, existing
Project roùds
Future rood
f        Tamri                                                                                Project resort site
oCities or towns
- ----_    Rivers
Ceîr                                                                                             4<    Airfield
N\                                                                         J  To Morrakech
Tarbazoute
>\0lMikki                                 <°
AAD 1                                                  qTo . J .  Fa3 
: -R~~'< C«)8f>-ETikiouine                               _
Ber Serga                                                       Ou,l adl Teimca
ATIA NTIC                                 InezganI
Ait Mel Iou| \j
z
OCEAN
Biougra            O        5                15      20       25
Tifn                t/                                 <                            KILOMETERS
)                            >                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
sq K   J                                             \é~~~~~~~~~~~~~At    Baha
Arhbalou 
---Iflerriaiooojboundries-SPAIN
Mediterronean Sec
Tassila                                                              - -                 GISRLTA
a      ;                    0é                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ouida'i
N ~~~                         C~~~sobtonco-. - ~~~~~~~Mekrees
,,       X pQ(90'                                       Éi /~~~~~~~~~~~~~l adida.°°  ke6
/                     0                  >                       R4S Toe OOCjC O                 <
0 Morokech
/AGADIR
/        1                                               -        ~~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S;di If ni  t
Tiznit                 T0nfty0 -                                                           .
.   /  CO GOQ{;mine   TO rGfraOUT (1       bpl$, efldr,,enor    by tht






IBRD 11658
AUGUST 1975
Royal   Palace
Secteur   Touristique   Bainéaire
Future urbon
Development
/   Tourist acili modatiens  <                X       -Sa
/Byo  Aoi  Tourist   comoain andoje    ctÂF
Turlii faccomodtionss
/BaZoI Agdi Touris co    mdainad Presidet   ra
Toublict faccommoaties
Urban parks and sport facilities
Naturao vegetation and recreational areas                  development        |
Contour lines, 5 meter intervais                                             f           -    I/nt `
Bridges                                                                     /
I ~ ~         ~          ~          ~          ~         --: Ocean   
MEtE''R`S`    `   `   1Natural Park
C                  ~~~~~~ME T ERS`                                                                                   O`                     :
I                10,20,300Ç, 40*                0                                                                               -'9



