CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBFR 1202 MOR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Bay of Agadir Tourism Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'AMENAGEMENT DE
LA BAIE D'ACADIR (SONABA)
Dated February 27, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 27, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and THE SOCIETE NATIONALE D'AMENAGEMENT DE LA BAIE D'ACADIR
(SONABA) (hereinafter called SONABA).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Kingdom of Morocco (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million dol-
lars ($21,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement;
WHEREAS by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into be-
tween the Borrower and SONABA, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
SONABA on the terms and conditions therein set forth: and
WHEREAS SONABA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth:
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Con-
ditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Proj ect
Section 2.01. SONABA shall carry out Part A of the Project
described in, Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and technical practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist in preparing final designs
for the works in the Project Area and in preparing bidding docu-
ments and analyzing the bids SONABA shall employ engineering con-
sultants and other experts whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and services (other than consultants' services) for Part A
of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SONABA undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Bor-
rower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by SONABA to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-4-
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SONABA shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for Part A
of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) SONABA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract docu-
ments and construction and procurement schedules for Part A of
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) SONABA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in Part A of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of such proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part A of
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan relent
to it by the Borrower and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
Section 2.06. SONABA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, SONABA shall not take or concur in any action


﻿-5-
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) SONABA shall exchange views with the Bank
with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the perfor-
mance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of
the part of the Loan relent under such Agreement.
(b) SONABA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
part of the Loan related thereto, or the performance by SONABA of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿-6                                        0
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SONABA
Section 3.01. SONABA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. (a) SONABA shall conduct its operations at all
times in accordance with appropriate administrative and financial
principles and practices under qualified and experienced manage-
ment and staff.
(b) SONABA shall inform the Bank of any proposal to fill a
vacancy in the position of Directeur General of SONABA and shall
exchange views with the Bank on proposals to fill a vacancy in the
position of Technical Director or Chief Urban Planner.
Section 3.03. SONABA shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
every six months following the date of this Agreement, reports on
the progress in carrying out Part A of the Project together with
revised critical path networks related thereto.
Section 3.04. SONABA shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
(i) within 2 years of the date of this agreement a program for the
promotion of investment opportunities in the Project Area aimed at


﻿-7-
national and foreign investors and (ii) within 4 years from such
date a program for the publicizing, promotion and operation
(animation) of the tourist facilities in the Project Area.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SONABA shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of SONABA.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, SONABA shall
establish within one year of the date of this Agreement a system
of commercial accounts to be maintained by its accounting depart-
ment.
Section 4.02. SONABA shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank
as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified ccpies of its finan-
cial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of SONABA and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.


﻿*                                      -9 -
Section 4.03. (a) SONABA shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank within 12 months of the date of this Agreement a statement
of the financial policies of SONABA satisfactory to the Bank in-
cluding the establishment of selling and leasing prices for com-
mercial and recreational land and improvements calculated at levels
which will enable SONABA to recover its investment costs, including
those for infrastructure, to provide a reasonable profit and in any
event to maintain a debt-service coverage ratio of 1.1 to 1.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
i         "debt-service coverage ratio" means the ratio
between net current assets at the end of the
fiscal year last ended (or a more recent
twelve-month period) together with the gross
operating profit after taxes forecasted for
the current fiscal year on the one hand, to
total debt-service forecasted for such current
fiscal year, on the other hand;
(ii)      1net current assets" means cash, securities
and receivables convertible to cash within
one year less liabilities due within one year
excluding debt-service;
(iii)     "gross operating profit" means gross revenue
of SONABA less expenditures for operation
and administration; and


﻿- 10 -
(iv)      "debt-service" means the aggregate of payments
due by SONABA in such current fiscal year on
account of principal, interest and other charges
on the proceeds of the Loan relent by the Bor-
rower to SONABA and on the long-term loan to
SONABA from the Borrower referred to in Section
4.05 of the Loan Agreement, and of interest on
the treasury advance referred to in such Section.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SONABA
shall not incur prior to 1986 any debt other than for the financing
of Part A of the Project.


﻿*                           -11 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of SONABA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i)       the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms: or
(ii)      a date 20 years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Sec-
tion, the Bank shall promptly notify SONABA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or a. uch other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (UIT)
For SONABA:
Societe Nationale d'Amenagement
de la Baie d'Agadir (SONABA)
Boite Postale 348
Agadir, Morocco


﻿-13 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
SONABA                             81896
Agadir
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SONABA may be taken or executed by the
Directeur-Gene"ral or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing.
Section 6.03. SONABA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evi-
dence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of
the person or persons who will, on behalf of SONABA, take any ac-
tion or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or
executed by SONABA pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agree-
ment.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ M. P. Bart
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'AMENAGEMENT DE
LA BAIE D'AGADIR (SONABA)
By /s/ Abdelhadi Boutaleb
Authorized Representative


