Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11680-CD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
BASIC EDUCATION PROECT
(EDUCATION V)
APRIL 16, 1993
A
I i               1     .        -:       . . . ,! i;.4r. '     .1 p    
"7                           T,t  :AP : l-
Population and Human Resources Division
Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
| This document has a restricted distribution and mgY be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othenrise be disclosed without World Banck authorzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = CFAF Franc (CFAF) / US$1 - 275 CFAF
WEIGHIS AND MEASURES
Metric System
I m. = 1.09 yd.
1 sq.m.  10.76 sq. ft.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APE           Pants' Association (Association des Parents des ElUves)
ADB            African Development Bank
AGETIP        Executing Agency for Public Works (Agence dAxkutlon des favaux dInti* Public)
CMA            Contract Management Agency
CRFC          Regional Center for In-Service Training (Centre Regional de Formation Continue)
CPSF           Office for Promotion of Girls' Education (Celluke de Promotion de la Scolarisation des
Filks)
DEE           Directorate of Primary Education (Direction de l'Enseignement ElEmentaire)
DFAP          Directorate of Pedagogic Training (Direction de la Formation et de l'Acion
P&iagogique)
DO            General Directorate of the Ministry of National Education (Direction Generake de
I'Eduscation)
DP            Prefectoral Delegation for Education (DElegation PrCfeorale)
DPEC           Directorate of Planning and Examinations (Direcion de la Plan ficxion des Examens et
Concouws)
DPEN           Prefectoral Delegates for Education (Delegues Pr4fectoraux de l'Education Nationale)
ENI            Primary Teachers College (Eeok Normak dInstituters)
ETE            Education-Training-Employment
GTZ            German Corporation for Technical Cooperation (Deutsche Geselbhdftfi r techniache
Zusammarbeit)
IDB            Islamic Development Bank
IEE           InpectoraSe for Primary EducAon (Inspection de lEnseignement ElEnentaire)
ISSED          Institute of Education (Insitut des Sciences de l'Education)
KfW            Bank for Reconstruction Kredktanstal Ir Wledraujbrau)
MEN            Ministry of National Education (Minimtere de l'Education Nationale)
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
PCU            Proiect Coordination Unit
SES           Testing and Evaluation Service (Service d'Evaluation a de Suivi)
TGP            Teachers' Guaranty Fund
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
WID            Women in Development
ZOPP           Objectives-Oriented Project Planning System (Ziel Orientierte Projekt Planung)
FISCAL YEAR                                         SCHOOL YEAR
Januay 1 - December 31                              October-June



FOR OFFICUAL USE ONLY
B¢ASIC FUCATION ECR,
IEDUCATI[ON l
TAILE OF CON
D OMU M  IN 1IE PROJECT  5EM  ................................................................... i
CIREDIT AMD POEKMCT SUMMARY .................................................................. ui-iv
L    PM          y       £ZO .............................................................................. 1
K    sECTORAL C0NrX   .........................................................1
A. Bkon1 ..................
B. Ecoomic Developments .......................................................1
C. Public and Community-Based Education .......................................................2
D. Sector Development Issues ......................................................                        3
1. Primay Education ......................................................                            3
2. Geneal Secondary Education .......................................................7
3. SectoradManagenment .......................................................7
E. TheGovern_ent'sStfategy .......................................................8
.    e B k Group's            ......................................................................... .     9
TE ]PROJE CT . ...................................................     9
A.  trjec Objectives and Description ...................................................... 9
I. Policy Measures ......................................................                            10
2. TImprovi        and  quality of uy ofpimay education nationwide.1............................. 12
3. Supposting a pilot 'school improvement' program in three eions. .18
4. Stoerigth.ing critical Secord Instituions ..........................................              22
B. Project Cost and Finacing Plan                    .......................................... 23
IV. PR,OJECTB         LEMR AUMO ........................................................ 25
A.  Status of Proect Pepation and Readin   ...........................................   25
B.  Project Coordination and M aeent ..........................................                           25
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation ..........................................                                  26
D. Procure ..........................................                                                     27
E. Disu             ............................................. 30
F.  Accouting, Auditing and Reporting ...........................................                         30
V.  IROE ISFIIS AND 1                         ...........................................                           31
VL AGREMPNENTS REACTIED AND ERECM DATION   ............................................... 32
is rpt is bad oam do  ndins of an aprisa nisson ta vised  ad   Jam                 1M  coamrising:aMsmMms  MaMaS
Ndao Mlu Lon     d 1    Blld AJW6   A  Abtew..              Spweislis ;ue       AH*  Proam  Officer (Mldnt Midd  
Jonata MhM,                        JIai  Leygoalb, Seniw Staff Asan    and Thom  Boyn, UM C_To                      T
additin projet prspp          icluded M JMas. Ma)y    s Ps-Prlowd, hhcipu OperAo  Oflicer, S                 vr DIVP.
Texbook Speoah  Abdou Slm  Dtbo, NOO adwJi.; Vic"d Molis, Co  a                  r k   Train  SpeoiaGt  and Andr
NzVftydk, Cdna*&WCoM=0Ky Dcvept Spa 4Ist. IFqpot pcesing and poject coai  wen finalized by Mesr  Ndi@
and Maum, wit assaa    fiom Mm. Lqguls. MI. athens Masafi and Mr. B r Pdrima are d  Departmet Dicor aN
manging Dividan aC , tapectedy, for1t   operton; Me     Juan Pawa  nd Mauel Zynena areo tpe  reviewe.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



AnJ    I  BWl Daon
Anex 2  Flow Chat
Annex 2-1 Oganigam
Anex 2-2 Education Data
Table  1:     Enllmlt Ratio by Praaau
Table  2:     Enrlmen and Poplaio by Pr#et    and Sex
Tableau 3:    Ewvain da la scosaadoal p*naev
Tabkau *      Dbse*ado ddes atam par altgoak
Tablau 5:     Sm    da mate  aqplantvpar xhvau a w
Tabla 6.,    Ewkat do AmJ  a rwoou de lPEw
Taeau 7:      F_wa   aw 'd lutanuadeeak
27xbeau &     Doundv bu abw
Tableau 9:    Idkatewr c awift e Muorleu
Tablau 10:   In_dcataw  aauww    de J%w  d_s Vaavep.aa  pvim     a
Tableu 1.:    CW*t wt_  amaup.wl
Tablau 1X     Flu d'tv da hi N 19
-ha6a 1:      lw desmble du ukanumw de Paleuea
&h6nak        C&vWp*  bkdapdlant
ShEma 3:      &Uaww du T)*7r am Tdwd
Ane  3  Anmnd Monitoring -dica    and Logical Pmmwo
Annex 4 LearedePolblqueF4dwadve
Annex S  P~armVme de Ceewnalon de Claw.
Anex 6  Ma&MafDldaq
Amex 7 FonWon desv MUw
Anez 8  Teat aetladotEs
Anex 9  Appue  a APE
Anna 10 Ternw de R       c de l waon dP Pest
Ann  11 Poject Cost Snnay
Anex 12 Psoct Montrng and gSvision
Annx 13 Pnomnt Armngemts
Anex 14 EqundeManad d'wautdo
Ma  1 DiDb2P2fl
MW BD 24722



.i Z
1.     'Aco du Smno Natioal                     o     i    F), H     oM  do pr4adon de la Ta.o Ro1d
sw t'Qdueaon. Novbro 1989
2        Rdunion de suivl- Tabl. Roade Oshve MIl, sousc    EAucation FonMatio, MlNo6 do Ptan. Nvombte 1990
3.      'dnwAs pow use 8tro d. Ddvel_oet du Syagu d'Bducalho at do Poationa deu TCHADW. PAnob
Odwld et eo Peot IR}DU, Jhvier 1991. (Rapport prEpar pout Is Dhiron APSPH doe  anquo Moal.*).
4.     'Statdgl EVE ABF1utn dus Scdar  et Cadag Mascro.oo               e, ien bourdon at Ftwaolo  0 .
IREDU, Nnier 1992 (Rapport prEpr6 pout Is Cdluto Technique do Su;v   um                    do T     -
Ptojst PNUD-UNDCO CHD/9t001).
S.      'Cedrag  Financier a Budgitae do Pkowammo d'Action EN , Jean Bourdo   t Fragois Odve, DU.
Septbro 199 (  ppoit prEpwr pow b Cellule Technique de Suliv Ed __ m   _ a   _I    du Tca -
PNUD-UNESCO CHD/911001)
6       'SouaPtpoggmme Enspnent Ediake', Cdllde Technique do SuhU Mnatn du Pla. Asat 1992
7.      -3ous.Ptopume       pon $1_dar, Celulo Technique do Suvl Maiko du Pla. AoOt 1992
S.      *Soua.Ptogmm  asgnaent Tecbhique et Fon    Profsalon ., Cellul Technique do SuIvV Mi r du
Pa a. A 1992.
9.      'SouPSog Sueo  nm      tSupdrteur at Rech o, Celule Tecniqu do Suivi/Mlathre du Pan. Aaot 1992.
10.     -SouwP  _rmi  Apbsbtlsatlon', Cdlulo Tochnique do Su FlMitko du Pla. Aft 1992.
I I     Appal h& I. SImatg EB1 au Tcbted, A. Dhbrsgy, J.P. Gorovib, M. Sadi. Mal 1991.
12.    'Apew Systb6tique do Rapport d'EaquSo asn los Asp    Socio-culturws do!  Frquentation Scol    des Fil an
Niven Pdimair an Tehad', MEWUNICEP. Avri 1992.
13.    'L   Mo nt Socio.Economnque de a Fenmm on MlIeu Rural au Tohd', Diredo do  l'' at doe 
Foatio hofeJseonafloAsrcoes, Minlsate de l'VAkutr, 1991.
14     'La td4laion des  ifectif Scors aux Nlvean Secondi  at Supdrieur an Tdad', Sapo Cu_a, IRlED.
Octob  199
15.      aComvmumawa, AndtE Nw*pay&6, Ddco  1992 (mission IDA de prddaluation).
16.     'E*Btud   lew Assoeiaon do Parws d'Elvs (APR)', Marns Caaho. Ocabr 1991
17.     -aChe  & Double Vacatio', Owmsin Jadot. Octobre 1992.
18.     'La fomation ds Maf  edoo  Form         s', Michd Moisal. Jm  1992 (mission IDA   ptddvalua ).
19.     'Le DEepdios Scoirme PourquoW?, Celui do Rexion at bo D6veloppemeet du Syst&so Educatl, MEN.
Aot 1990 (Ehuds raWes dns le cade  du proje Educatdon MV.
20.    'Formation Ressure Huma.. pourt  Ddveloppentnt Rural, ToE an 2000', Mln o Asriculture. OcL 1990.
21        Vot Contucton do Clases, Vmo Proa, O0wals Dellbour ,      s It  rnatona. Oabro 1992.
22.     'Rapport dESalnatln du Proj do Formation des o   us_ shelhrs (1987-1990)', MEI. Ju"lUt 1990.
23.     'PIan d'Oretation, le Tohad vats l'an 2000, Minist*o du Plan et do la CoopEatio.
24                 do Payest du alar des En*Wn, BIEP Tohad, Ma 1993.



-i"-
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
BASC EKD1UAfON1 WET
(EDUCATION VI
CRMMADIT WO.ECr SMMAU
B      :rrowu-,         Republic of Chad
BAi§Ad&M:-              Miistry of Nadonal Education (MEN)
Credit A _9Muh          SDR 13.9 miMon (US$19.3 milon)
Ts=:                    Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Cofundng:               Govrment of Germany, DM 9 m9llion (US5.6 equvalent)
Project Descripdon
The Govenmen of Chad has developed an Educadon-Tralnng-Employment (ETh) strate  for
1990-2000: this project would support its implementation between 1994 and 1998.  ho ceta
poject objectve is to improve the access, quality and efficiency of primy educadon, primay in
rral areas and nationwide for girls.  To this end, the project would suppot a natl
development ptogrm for primary education designed to achieve the fWowing args   fr 1998:
rsing overall pimary enrollment ratio from 59% in 1990 to 65% and the shae of female
erlment from 31% to 36%, and reducing the average repetition ats f*om 30% to 20%.
Secondary objectves are to promote a more deicient resource use in the educaton sector.
To achieve these objectives and to help finance recurrent costs etaled by project Invomen, the
project would support policy meaes to: (a) increa public expdure on pimay ducation
(b) Increase efficiency in the use of primary school teachers and dasoms; (c) promot gis'
partiipation in primary education; and (d) encourage prive initiatives in th  prvision of
education.
Wihin the framework of these policy measures, the project would finance Iwesm   dened to:
1. In=rv thle acess and quallt of gdM=r educatin natSonwide b:
(a) construcn  800 primary school clssms nd rehabiating 200 claom;
(b) purchasing and distrbung about 780,000 primary textbooks and 10,000 teahr
guid;
(c) restucturing and improving preservice and inservice teacher training;
(d) strengthening sol inspections and teacher supervision;
(e) developing and implementing a program to accelerate girls' education.
2.    Support a pilot idmool improvement proam for adm     edumdo  In dre rions
(a) promoting locally-based pedagogic improvement projects In 90 Indvidua schools;
(b) tetng an impwved student assment program in 100 schools;
(C)           the management and organizaton capacity of 100 parn   t .



.iii-
3.    S h_ Cdllu l Setrl Institutos k.;
(a) fiurter developing the planning and management capacity of MEN;
(b) reinforcing MEN's capacity to prepare and implement donor-financed education
projects.
To mitigae the potential negative impact on project Implementio  of a weak central
adminisaon and an uncertain political and economic environment, the project has been designed
to draw heavily on the proven existing capacities of local organizaions, NGOs and the prvate
sector.
e d Benefis:   bnVIplementation of the overall education program supported by this project
would provide additional enrollment capacity for approximately 117,000 additional pupils from
1994 to 1998. The main direct impact of the project would be to provide classrooms for 55,000
pupils, largely in rural areas, where 84% of project financed classrooms would be constructed. It
is expected that the primary enrollment ratio in rural areas would increase from 51% to 59%,
whereas that of urban areas would improve from 91% to 95%. Since repetition is expected to
decline from 30% to 20%, intake rates into grade one of primay education would increase more
rapidly (from 64% in 1990 to 75% in 1998), and the number of school years invested for each
student who reaches grade 6 would decline from 18 to 9 by the end of the project. In addition,
project investments in textbooks, teacher training, girls' education as well as project support for
sectoral policies would improve education quality and efficiency throughout the sector. Project
qualitative inputs and policy measures to limit repetition would improve quaity throughout the
primary education system, thereby lowering the average number of years it takes to graduate. In
addin, pilot school improvement projects would further improve education quality and
strengthen local initiatives in three regions covering 36% of primary school enrollment in 1990.
Support for insttional development would improve management and sustainability of the
ucation sector, and budgetary policy measures would prevent distortions in resource allocations
withi, the education sector. in the longterm, the project would raise the productivity of the labor
force and contribute to increased well-being among the Chadian population.
Blak. The fagile political enironment and weak implementing capacity could jeopardize project
implementation. To minimie the effect of this risk, the project would promote the Government's
commitment to: (a) decentralize education management; (b) reinforce the operaional responsibility
and management of schools by regional directorates; (c) rely on the private sector, NGOs, and
communities to manage construction and school improvement proJects; and (d) furlher develop
stakeholder commitment through the continued use of participatory, objective-oriented project
planning and implementation methods (ZOPP). The support for local school improvement projects
is also designed to build on the resilience and executing capacity of local communities. Another
risk is dtat the Government may face difficulties in regularly paying teachers salaries. This risk
would be addressed directiy by the introduction of a special payment mechanism to facilitate
regular salary payment for primary school teachers consisting of improved salary payment
procedures and a teachers' guaranty fimd. In addition, this risk would be midgated by (a)
consensus-building with the Government under the ETE framework; (b) prioritzing this issue in
macroeconomic dialogue among the IW, IDA and the Government; (c) maing close
coordination with and support from the French and other bilateral agencies; (d) monitoring of
public expitues for primary educadon through the special payment mechanism and during
anual reviews of project implementation; and (e) maianing high levels of community financing.



- iv -
A~~~-iI
(EDUCATION Vn
Im SAq PRQD3C COS!IS AND FINANCING PLAN
(US$ mnhlion)l
ESTRWATED PROJECr C0M12
LOCAL    EQRIQBm TIL
1.  Access, Quality, and               13.9            10.7            24.6
Efficiency of Primary
Education Nationwide
2   Pilot 'School                       0.6             2.2             2.9
Improvemenlt' Program in
Three Regions
3.  Critical Sectoral                   0.4             1.8             2.2
Intituons
Total Base Costs                   14.9            14.7           29.7
Physical Contingencies              0.5             0.9             1.4
Price Contngencies                  0.9             1.7            2.6
TOTALlPROJECr                      16.4            17.4           33.8
flm  d g ,Ph (US$ millon)
IDA                                                19.3
Government                                          7.9
Germany:                                            5.6
G1Z                                           (2.2)
riW                                            (3.4)
Comm_nities                                         0.9
TOTAL                                              33.8
tm"  MA DWbrm ents JSS million)
IDAFY                    94        29           2E         22         98          22
Anmual                  0.6         3.9        4.4        5.5         3.6        1.3
Cumulative              0.6        4.5         8.9       14.4        18.0       19.3
1     Toalsmay not add up du to roundig.
2     Net of taxms and duties



REPUBLIC OF CHAD
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUATION 
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.1   The Govenment of Chad has requested IDA fincing for a project to implement part )f
its Educatlon-Tralnlng-Eployment (ETE) Strategy (pan. 2.33). The ceral objective of the
project is to enhance the access, quality and efficiency of primary education, primarily In rural
areas and for girls' access to primary education nationwide. Secondary objectves are to promote
more efficient resource use In the education sector. Total project cost   esstmd at US$33.8
million equivalent (net of taxes and duties), with a foreign exchange component of US$17.4
milion. The Government and communities would contribute-in kind or in cash-he equivalent of
US$8.8 million, KfW would finance US$3.4 million, and GTZ wold finmce US$2.2. The
remainig US$19.3 million wculd be fimanced by IDA.
1.2   The proposed project would be the fifth IDA-fmnancew opetion for the development of
education in Chad since 1968. Investment programs and policy measures supported through the
project are based on lessons learned from the first four projects, the ETE roundtable held in 1990
among the Government and the donors, sector studies commissioned between 1990 and 1992,
regional stakeholder meetins during and after the preparation mission, and a project preparadon
smin  conducted during the pre-appraisal mission. The project was processed by IDA in close
coordination with WFP, UNDP, FAC, UNICEF, EEC, GMZ, BMZ, NGOs, and represenatives of
the Assoiatons des Parents des ELAves (APE).
H.  SECORAL CONTEXT
2.1    Chad is one of the poorest countries in the world. Per Capita GNP is $210 (compared to
US$635 as an average for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA)); life expectn   at birth is 47 years
(compared to 52 years); female adult literacy is 18% (38%); and total adult literacy is 30%
(49%)3. The population of 5.4 million inhabitants Is divided among about 110 ethic groups.
Sinc independence, recurring political instability and domestic strife bave thwarted development.
Agriculure-chiefly subsistence production of food crops by small holders-generates 35-40% of
GDP and provides a livelihood for more than 80% of the population. The industrial sector (20%
of GDP) includes a large cotton parastatal, public and para-public medium-scale enterprises, and
informal micro enterprises. The service sector (40-45% of GDP) includes a large informal trading
sector.
B. 13ono9mlDe  elDpmwl
2.2 A major economic adjustment has been launched since the end of the civil war (1979-83).
3Wodd Deveaopmt Inors, WorldDeveopnw Repm 1992; UASCO Satdcal Yearbook, 1992.



-2 -
Aftr the sever drought of 1984 and a subsequent drop In world coton prices, *he Govmuent-
suppotted by IDA and the DO-established an emergency program to reform the cotton sector. In
1987, this program was extended, under a comprehensive adjustment progrm, to nclude refoms
in tnsporn, livestock and trade. Progress was generally good: the financial viability of the
cotton company was grely improved, competitlon and private sector development improved In
transortaon and livestock. Progress to improve public resource management was mixed. Curet
penditures were partially restuctured to favor key development sectors and the share of
xpenditures on supplies and materials was increased. However, the civilian wage bill was
increased by 63% between 1988 and 1990: combined with an overrun on mlitay expenditures,
this caused the current fiscal deficit to increase from 2.2% of GDP in 1988 to 5.% in 1990.
During this period, public investment-which is totally externally fianced-rew from less than
5% of GDP in the early 1980s to nearly 10% in 1990.
2.3   Economic developments since the beginning of 1991 hWe been dominated by political
evns. The economy is currendy depressed, and enterprises in the formal sector are in danger of
collapse due to the unctain business climate linked in part to lower cotton earnings, withdrawal
of import protection because of difficulty enforcing customs procedures, and a build-up of public
sector payment arrears. The main budgetary problems have been serious overruns in military
expenditures and the civilian wage bill along with reduced revenue performance. The budget
deficit burgeoned in 1991 to about US$90.2 million (one and a half times larger than the 1990
deficit and roughly 7% of GDP against a target of 1.7%).
C. Pubhc and Commwdut-nx    dEdumtion
2.4   The forma education system in Chad is organized as In most other Sahelian counties. A
non-compulsory one-to-two year program of preschool education is followed by a six-year cycle of
primary educaion. Post-primary education includes a seven year cycle of secondary education-
fiur yeas of lower- and three years of upper-secondary schooling-and programs at the University
of Chad and at the Instt Supleu des Scences de l'Educadn in N'djamdna. In addition, the
education system includes teacher-taining colleges as well as technical and vocational schools.
2.5 By contrast, the level of development of community-based primary education in Chad is
unique in the Sahel. First, 400 local communities have created their own primary schools (6coks
spontanes) which are managed with little support from the Government. Of these co_mmnity
scools, 46% are incomplete and offer less than three grades: in total, they cover approximately
19% of primary enrollment. Second, even among government-recognized primary schools, local
APE assume major responsibility for financing school constuction and maintenance as well as
employing supplementary teachers. In addition, four types of specialized primary schools-
common to the Sahel-cover 2% of primary enrollment. Koranic schools, found in most villages,
only teach the Quoran; private Arabic schools teach religion and literacy; and small subsidized
catholic and private secuil schools teach the official curriculum.
2.6   In tota, approximately 2,150 public and private schools provide preschool, primary,
ndary, tecical and vocational training in Chad. Responsibility for all levels of fonnal
educadon lies with the Ministry of National Education (MEN); the Haw CoW de V'Educadon
(BCE), composed of representatves from several ministries, coordinates education, training, and
employment policies. Ihe structure, organization, and stadstical profile of the education system
are presented in Annexes 1. 2. and 2-1.



-3-
D. Sector Development Issues
1.  MM=
2.7   The ETE roundtable and the work conducted during project preparation Identified the
following aspects as the main deficiencies in primary education: (a) severe financial constraints; (b)
low and inequitable access; (c) poor quality of education; and (d) weak management and
supervision.
(a)    Severe finandial constraints
2.8   Following the war conditions from 1979-1983, public and private school attendance rose
rapidly. From 1984 to 1990, primay school enrollment increased at a rate of 5.4% per annum,
and the enrollment ratio increased from 51% to 59%.
2.9    Currently, government financing for education is 17%  of government reacu
expenditures. The budgetary allocation in Chad among primary, secondary and university
education has been well-balanced compared to most other countries in the region. The sha  of
prmary education in the education budget-above 64% between 1985 and 1987 whie the pimary
education system was being rebuilt-was 51% in 1991, compared to the SSA average of 42%. Tho
rent share of the education budget for post-primary levels are: gener  secondary (22%)
technical and vocational (2.5%), higher education (15%), primary and secondary teacher traing
(8%) and administration (1.5%).
2.10  In 1990-91, it is estimated that local communities-through their APE-conributed CFAP
317 millon (about 7% of the pmary recwurrent budget) toward primary education. Acording to a
recent survey, 71% of primary schools receive some financial support from APE. Community
efforts have included employing and maintaining 3900 'supplementary' teachers (40% of pimary
teahers nationwide), building and maintaining classrooms, and providing supplies, materals, and
school management. Community teachers receive-in cash and in kind-on average 5000 CFAF per
month. Some of these teachers-classified as bdnivole d'at-receive an additional 4000 CFAF
from the Government. Because of the low level and disparity of teacher salaries, the unit cost
(primay student/year) is only $23, compared to $69 for Francophone African countries. This
ranges from $6 in dcoks spontandes to $36 in schools which are fully staffed by civil servants.
2.11   The regular payment of all civil servants is a serious issue in Chad: currently, paymen  of
teachers' salaries are up to 6 months lae, particularly in ttie provinces.  The Government's
inability to deal with the problem of salry arrears has decreased both the caroom presence and
the level of motivation of civil service teachers, thereby severely lowering education quality.
These arrears are the result of two elements: cumbersome payment procedurs for all civil servants
and cbronic lack of fnancial liquidity. The salary payment system Is segmented: three regional
and ten deparmental treasuries in the prfectaes pay local civi sevns after receiving a cash
voucher from N'djamna, either with funds from locally-generated revenues or with fndS
delivered from the central truy. PrEfectwres with a deficit balance can receive support from
ether neighboring prefectoral treasuries or from the central treasury (Amex 2-2. Table lO. Ihe
montly establishment of payroll lists and the delayed delivery of the cash voucher cause a lengthy
payment ystem, even in the case of financial liquidity. When the national tesu  is not liquid,
payments are further delayed, particularly in prEfectres that are in permanent deficit (atha, BET,
Biltine, Guera, Mayo-Kebbi, Ouaddai, and Salamat). Approximately one-third of all primary



-4-
teachers are posted in these pr4fectures. From early 1991 tD January 1992, an experimental
scheme under the Fourth Educaion Project-monitored by the MNitries of Fince and Educaio-
-initiadly reduced payment delas. Bascally, this procedure consisted of simplifying the reWuar
verification of payroll lists and incresing the number of cash payers in N'djamdna nd In three
pr*Wctures. Due to liquidity problems, the elimination within the MEN of the executing directoae
(DAF), and the testing of a new payment procedure to identify 'ghost' civil servant, the scheme
was abandoned In February 1992 and has not been resumed.
2.12 Ihe fragility of this financial situation threatens educational standards at all levels as well
as tixe sustnOablity of community initiatives. The Government should not try to integrate all the
currently employed supplementary teachers and bdnOwles dWatot into the civil service: In 1991/92,
this would have increased the primary education budget by 33% without increasing the enrollment
rate. On the contrary, in order to reach the 65% overall enrollment target in 1998, to improve the
nationwide quality of primary education, and to sustain the development of primary education, the
proposed project assumes that (in addition to the teachers the Government will recruit and finance),
communities continue to support recurrent cost financing of primary education and at least provide
for 60 new teachers a year.
2.13 Despite significant community efforts in education, community schools are weak In
manaement of their own rources and in organization: parents would like support for
iprovement of the operation of their community schools in order to provide adequate and
effective primary education. In addition, the conventional private education sector In Chad is not
developed. The lack of incentives-chiefly because of excessive regulation as well as the general
climate of uncerainty-has hindered the development of traditional prvae sdcools.  ohe
Governmt is committed to promoting measures to support community and private schools (e.g.,
tax exemptions, increased access to sites, promotion of non religious subjects in Arabic schools).
(b)   Low and J     tequlebl access.
2.14 The primary school enrollment ratio in Chad is 59%4, compared to the Sahel average of
52% and the SSA average of 78%. The share of total primary enrollment constituted by girls Is
31%, the lowest in SSA. The average pupil/teacher ratio (67:1) is one of the highest In the region
(38:1 on average)5.
2.15  Across the counry, there are wide differences in enrollment ratios, ranging from 10% in
parts of the North to 115% in parts of the South (see Annexm2.). School enrollment is lowest in
fou (of six) northernprEfectures with 23% of the school-age population: Bildne (10.0% overall,
7.3% % for girl), Batha (12.7%, 3.7%) Ouaddai (14.9%, 5.8%) and Kanem (12.0%, 18.4%). In
these and other remote areas, schools are more expensive to build and serve less students per class:
the average class size in the ra north is about 20 students, compared to 35 in the nura south.
The large catchment radius in rural areas means long waing distc  and special food-supply
problems. A nationwide feeding program supported by the World Food Program (WFP) Is foud
in most rual schools (para. 3.54).
2.16  The shortage of classrooms is reflected by the high pupil/teacher ratio (67/1) ad
overcrowded lasses In urban areas. In 7 (of 34) school inspectorates, pupil/teacher ratios range
from 70 to more than 80. In the West and East N'djamdna inspectorates, the pupil/teacher ratios
4 Not Ieluding Arabic schoobs (seo pa. 2.5).
5 Rppolmonde sur pedcadon. 1991, UNESCO.



are 94 and 78 respectIvely: some first grado classes have up to 150 students. bn order to improve
access, the Governme  has introduced an experimental double-hift teaching system in 20 urban
classes.
2.17  The shorfge is paty due to the lack of financing by the Govarnmet for primary school
contuction. Moreover, according to a government survey, 71% of existing classes are below
constuction and pedagoglc norms, which has an adverse effect on student learng. The ongoing
Education Rehabilitation Project was to have provided for the constuction and rehabilitation of
about 1,000  sses: a satifactory classroom protope was developed, but only 800 classes would
be constructed becase of Implementation and scheduling problems, long delays in the prorment
process, and the complexity of the Implementation approach. To Improve Implementon under
the new project, the Governmet has agreed to introduce a new system to delegate management of
part of the school construction program to the private sector through a contract-management firm.
2.18   The low r       n   of gids is mosdy caused by low admission rates: only 48% for
girls compared to 81% for boys. Again, this trend is pardcularly strong in the northern
prectures: it is pardy due to long distances to school, and pardy to cultural attudes tward girls'
education, specialy in rural areas. Parents in rural communities have lower expectaions of
modern sector employment for girls and have littl understandig of the overall benefit of girls
education: they prefer to educate boys, pardcularly when school places are scarce. In addition,
some pares are unwilling to send girls to non-religious schools or to schools which are far away,
prefrrng to keep girls at home to prepare for mariage. The ETE roundtable accented ihe
importance of girls' education.
(c)    Po Quaty
2.19  Low rates of interna efficiency and examination pass rates nmifest the low quality of
primary education. Chad has one of the highest levels of repetition in primary education in the
world. The repetiion rate ranges from 30% to 36% between grades 1 and S and reaches 40% In
grade 6. Ultimately, only two students out of three pass from one grade to the next All told,
only 30% of the Inial cohort entering primary education reach grade 6, and only 22% evetualy
pass the fa examination (CEPE) to certi completion of primary education. Taking into account
repetition and dropout, two out of every three student years is wasted. This abysmal level of
internal efficiency is atttable to the poor learning conditions, poor teahing cadre, Insufficient
and poor educational supervision and monitoring, and deficiencies in the curriculum.
2.20  Pupils in Chad do not bave access to the minimum reading materi quhed for  fective
leaning.  The allocation of Government resources towards instuctional materials-less than
US$.50 per pupil per year excluding interaonal aid-is insufficien. By June 1993, the ogoing
education reiabiliation project wil have distrbuted 798,000 textbooks (522,000 under the IMA
credi and 276,000 financed by the French Cooperion) in  i subjects: French, reading,
mathmatics, Arabic, geogaphy, social sciences. Given the rapid increase of primay enrollment
and the Goverment arget of 65% of enrollment ratio by 1998, an increased investment In
textbooks is needed.
2.21   Prary-school  achers ar trained in five Teacher-Training Colleges (Ecoe No naks
d'Inh e  - EN!D, and in 34 regional in-ervice teacher training centers (CRFC). The five ENIS
trn two tpes of eachers. Graduates from the lower cycle of secondary schools undergo two
years of teacher training to become Instwems Ajoints; graduates from the upper cycle as well as
existing Ittwews Adjo    complete a one year teacher-taining progam  to become Inshttews.



-6 -
Ihe training capacity of the five ENIs i shown in Annex 2.2 The CRPC-composed on average
of 3 to 4 conseilen pddagogiqes-organize workshops of I to 3 days for sets of neighboring
schoos.
2.22  The 3900 'supplementy' teachers-*tres suplpaus-ln the dcoles spontandes (see para.
2.10) have no pre-service training, and 62% of them have had no secondary education. In order to
raise their abilities, the Government has encouraged those with at least a lower secondary
education to complete in-service training and to take the teacher qualibfng exam. Additionally,
the Government plans to improve the qualifications of all teachers by amplifying In-service training
activities for both supplementary and publicly-financed teachers.
2.23  Pte-servlce training has not adequately prepaed teachers for real classroom sitations.
Too much emphasis has been put on general education at the expense of continuous skill
upgrading, the more effective training to Improve teaching skills. In order to reduce the share of
training programs devoted to general education, the Government began in 1991 to recruit more
among students at the end of the upper secondary cycle to become bhsteurs bachellers: the
current program includes 54%  bnsteurs bacheilers and 46%  ntfuewrs adjoims.  While
founded on good intentions, this decision proved costly: the average salary of an buntier
bachler is 25 %  more than that of an instuteur adjoim, but there is no evidence of a
corresponding improvement in pupils' leaning. To limit salary costs, the Government now plans
to recruit and train four   ftewrs adjois for every lnaw bachdier.
2.24 Ihe primary education curriculum is ill-adapted to the basic pedagogic requirements. The
content is too theoretical: there is not enough focus on basic liteacy and numeracy skills, nor on
up-to-date issues such as health, water sanitation, and protection of the enmronment. In addition,
the curriculum is based on passive teaching methods: primay education would be improved
through the use of more inductive and problem-solving methods that have relevance for pupils in
their spcific context. The Government has proposed to revise the primary curriculum (including
environmental, nutritional and health-related topics) over the next two years with support from
FAC.
(d)   Weak management and supervison
2.25  The coverage of the inspetorate system needs improvement. Each of the 34 primary
school Inspectors is expected to supervise-with pedagogical advisor  asistance-about 210
teachers. This high number combined with the large distances covered by each inspector and the
lack of transportation lead to very infrequent school visits. The lack of adequate supervision-
along with frequent changes of teachers' posts-generates a feeling of helplessness and
abandonment among teachers, especially the young and inexperienced.
2.26  Ihe dfectiveness of the inspectorate system also needs improvement. Tne inspectorate
staff do not bave up-o-date infmaton on general assistance to teachers and on monitorin of the
education system at the local level. This is compounded by their lack of decision-making
authority. he system would beneflt if inspectors and headmasters-acting according to standard
regulations-bad more responsibilities in managing schools at local levels. The Goverment plans
to expeiment with a decentralized approach-including the establishment of 14 DdMgadons
Prfeciorales de l'Edcadon (DP)-which would empower the inspectorates and the APE to make
decisions at local levels.
2.27  Prior to grade 6, monioring of student learning is the respnsibility of individual schools



-7-
and teachers, wthout standd guidelines.  Comparing student performance-and thereby
ideni,fying weak schools-is difficult this hampers timely remedial action to imprv schools. The
high proportion of unqualified teachers, the weak  ining of school inspectors, and the scarcity of
teaching materias also suggest that student assessment between grades 1 and S may be ineffective;
many teachers and inspectors have limited test-designing sks and no access to teaching materials
which could help them improve. Ihe Government has proposed the Introduction of a pilot
program for better evaluating student performance and improving teacher quality.
2.    Genral SecWnd    Education
2.28  In the four years of lgXqUWndar education, repetition rates range from 23% to 35%
ard the nunber of pupil-years requested to produce one graduate from the four year cycle is 6.8.
Girls represent 17% of enrollment. In public schools, 50% of all candidates pass the BEPC, while
the candidates from privat schools have a 65% success rae. In uoper secondary educO=on.
repetidon rates range from 30% to 37%, and one out of two students leaves the system witfout a
baccalaurid. Girls represent only 10% of enrollment.
2.29 The overall quality of secondary education is adversely affected by a shortage of qualified
teachers. In 1990-91, it is esdmated that only 50% of secondary teachers were qualified to teach at
that level. Passive teaching methods-as well as the theoretical bias of the curriculum-are ill-
adapted to quality education, particularly in the scientfic streams. To cope with the large number
of unqualified teachers and improve quality, the Goverment plans to emphasize in-service training
at the secondary level as well as to revise the secondary curriculum with assistance from FAC.
3.   Maw             n
(a)   University Educaton
2.30  Financial and administrative management of the university is weak, particuarly i intr-
department coordinaion. The staff do not provide sufficient professional support and follow-up
for teachers and students: My lack technical expeience and efecdve management and budgeting
procedures. In addition, the infonnaion system is weak: education statistics are delayed becuse
of outof-date computer equipment. Ihe Government intends to coninue to streamline and
improve the administration of the University and to better manage the efficiency measures that
have already been introduced. The French Cooperation is providing technical assistamce,
equipment, logistical support and training of staff in order to improve overall University
management.
2.31   Despite weak managerial capacity, though the application of strict admission and
scholaship policies, the Government has managed to avoid the crisis in higher education now
faced by most Sahelian countries. First, enrollment at the University of Chad is not as crowded as
in other universities In the region: since 1987, the total number of students has remained below
3,000. The number of new enras deceased from 1,286 in 1988 to 1,278 in 1991: temporary
figures show only 1,080 new ents in 1992. The Govemment has now introduced even stronger
admission and scholarship reguations in order to avoid distortions. Baccalaureate graduates must
pass a University admissions test which is scaled according to the number of places avaiale;
quotas for each field have been established and applied since 1990. Second, the amount of
resources spent on student subsidies is moderate in the Sahellan context. No first year university
studets receive scholarships, and they are awarded on the basis of merit starting the second year.
The monthly scholarship amount (25,000 CFAF) has remain unchanged since 1972. Total higher



-8-
eduaion scholatsbips-CFAF 873 millon In 1991-represent 10.5% of the education budget,
compared to 21% on aveage for the SaheI6.
(b)   Weak Manageial and Plannng Capacities
2.32  The Mnistry of Education (MEN) includes 12 National and 14 Regional Dkectoate.
Their responsibllities are not clearly defined, and roles and functions tend to overlap.
Adminisrton remains highly centralized: even routine decisions-such as the dhanging of
teacheras' posts-a  made in N'djamdna  Internal communication and coordination among the
Ministy and the regional units are ineffective, with limited sharing of experiences. Additionally,
the staff consits largely of teachers untrained in strategic thinking, policy analysis, investment
planning, budget management, or personnel management techniques. To remedy these problems,
MEN intends to decentralize educational planning and resource management, to facilitate local
Iniiaves, and to provide inspectors with adequate budgetary and management authority to support
teachers and work with local communities and NGOs. In addition, MEN plans to develop
managerial and plnnig capacities within the Ministry, emphasize budget preparation and control,
and improve personnel mnagement techniques and donor coordination.
e. MTe Goveunment's Srategy
2.33   he goal of the Govemment's Education-Training-Employment roundtable in November,
1990 was to develop a sound sectoral strategy and to rebuild the education system without
repeating the costly errors of neighboring countries (e.g., over-ension of university
scholasp, use of wastefl school construction techniques, over-reiance on public sector
financng). Chadians from many backgrounds and sectors (maniny from the public sphere) and
most major donors attended. The resulting policy document-adopted by the Government in
December, 1990-presents various optons for education and taining and examines a range of
chall   , inluding macro, budgetary and employment consaints.   Subsequently, the
Govement established a technical unit (CIS) to coordinate the education work program and to
develop a sub-progrm by levels and types of education. each sub-program was reviewed withn
the Govenment and discussed with the donors. The CIS has performed its role well and has
provided a critical link between the MEN and the donors in education policy analysis and project
developmenL
2.34  For prmary education, the key elements retained by the ETE sategy (and supported by
the proposed project) are: (a) to expand access to pry education by allocatng more public
resources for the education sector, lncluding increasing the  nber of primary teachers; (b) to
ensure a more Intensive utilizadon of teachers and facilities by augmenting the use of double-shif
and multigrade teaching tecbiques; (c) to improve peformance and acquiiion of basic skills by
prmting eher retg, textbook distribution, and more pedagogic support; and (d) to
promoto privat and communiy intatives by developing a partnerhip with APE and NGOs at
local levels. For seconday and higher educadon, the Government plan to continue Ot apply
admssion reglaions. For inst nal development, the Government plans to stengthen the
analytdal and mmaamet capacity of central and decentrlized uns in planning, budgeting,
aluato, and monitoring.
6 Buddns Faso Mal Maurtnia, Niger, Seonega, and Chad (1992)



-9-
F. The Bank Group's Role
2.35  Lssons learned from previous projects. This would be the fifth IDA-fianced educadon
project in Chad. From 1968 until the war period, IDA financed three projects. Ihe first two-Cr.
126-CD, US$2.2 million, signed in 1968; Credit 251-CD, US$2.7 million, 1971-were completed
in eight years, four years later than planned. Th third-Cr. 811-CD, US$8.3 million, 1978-was
completed in 6 years, following an interrupdon during the civil war. These projects supported
investments in teacher-training and technical centers, primary education iastructure, disition
of educational materials, and management and planning of the education sector. The Project
Completion Reports of these ree projects-all rated unsaisfactory by OED-offer the following
lessons: (a) the projects were over-ambitious, with components in agricultural, techical and
general education; (b) the Government had difficulty in assming recurrent costs, for which no
specific finacing mechanism was developed; (c) project institutions were inadequately staffed; (d)
mainteance of physical components was sustained only when school directors and users were held
acocountable; (e) IDA supervision, which relied largely on cownsut , was insufficient; and (fM the
donors-particlarly bse of lack of coordination-were not able to provide adequate  ical
assistance as the project developed.
2.36  Implemention of the ongoing Education Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 19504C, US$25.2
million, 1988)-which has supported sectoral rehabilitation-is proceeding steadily after a difficult
two-year start-up (including looting and damaging of the MEN building and 30 project vehicles
during the December, 1990 political events). Performance has been good in all pedagogic aspects
and in the development of a long-term sectoral strategy. Disbursement is on schedule, and most
covenants are in compliance: the project is attaining its development objective of rehabiitating
primary education and the sector's management/planning capacities while laying the grundwork
for future development."7 This generally positive picture has been marred by two Issues. First,
the constuction componen was delayed due to a long bureaucratic bidding process and to an over-
estimation of the capacity of one NGO to oversee construction of 1,000 classes. Second, the
Government has failed to address the question of teacher salary arreas (ara. 2.11).
2.37  Rtiale for IDA involvement. IDA's coun  strategy for Chad supports acdvities that:
(a) address basic welfare issues; (b) place minimal demands on govemen resources; (c) make
maximum use of non-Government capabilites through reliance on NGOs, local communities and
the private sector as implemenng agents; and (d) improve the prowpects for long-term growth.
The proposed project is a central part of this assistance program. It would also form part of IDA's
long-tem education strategy in Chad-including possible operations in vocational training and in
higher education. As a key partner in the development of the ETE strategy and in the
establishment of macroeconomic policy, IDA can continue to effectively promote a susinable
education policy during the project period.
7 S#,ffppnaralRee.i: Ed&Wadon RejbPkaoA  projed, p. i



- 10-
m. THE PROJECT
A. holed Objcives and Desciiflon
3.1.  'Me central project objective is to improve the access, quity and efficielny of primary
education, primarily In rural areas and for gils ationwide. To this end, the project would
support a nationa development program for primary educadon designed to achieve the foliowing
overall targets for 1998: raising the primary enrollment ratio from 59% in 1990 to 65% and the
share of female enrolment from 31% to 36%, and reducing the vrage repettion rate from 30%
to 20%. Secondary objectives are to promote a more efficient resource use in the education sector.
3.2   To attain these objectives, the project, within the frmework of a et of policy meures,
would  upport three inestment components. The policy measures included in the Letter of
Education Sector Development Policy (AmIexA are described below. The Investment components
are designed to: (a) improve the access and quality of primay education nationwide; (b) support a
pilot 'school improvement' program for primay education in three regions; and (c) strengten
critical sectoral istuons. Monitrable indicators for ihe policy measures and the Investnt
components are included In the Logical Framework (cadre logSique), which Is based upon the
ZOPP8 methodology (Annœ  I.
1.  Polc M
3.3   To ensure attainment of project objectives and help finance recurent costs enied by
project Investments, the Government and IDA have agreed on a set of ten policy measures
designed to: (a) Increase public expenditures on primary education, (b) apply efficiency measures
in primy education; (c) develop and implement measures to promote girls' participation in
primary education, and (d) promote the expansion of private and comunity schools. Each of
the measures are briefly described below, while further details on monitong indicators are
given in Amex 3
(a)       _        -t    on Xi=
(1)   Ensuring that, from 1994 to 1998, 280 new teaching posts are added
anmnally to the Government's primary education budget and an aveage of
380 new teachers are trained annually (par. 2.12 and 3.7).9
(2)   Ensuring  regular Goverment teacher salary  payments, following
Introduction of agreed specia financing mechanism (paras. 2.11 and 3.7).
(3)    Ensuring that, over the project period, the anua taining maeis
budget for primary education (under a specific line item In the natonal
educaton budget) Is gradually increased-by annual inrements of CFAF
40 million-from CFAF 40 million In 1994 to CFAF 200 million in 1998
(par. 2.20 and 3.16).
8 Object1woreedpria panng, a p&ticipatoy proect deeopmnt thnique rfined by al
9 For each m ue, th first pagph cited desmcibes the Im tid ths ptcul measuro desid to
addrss; te scond pararph cited prvides fiuh detaison how the measure would be implemented.



-11-
(b)  Meaumes t  icrese efficiency in the use of grimary  chool teachers and
(4)   Ensuring that, starting In school year 1993194, taers are traned on a
basis of 4 nsdtwes adjois for every knsbweur badkr (par. 2.23
ad 3.17).
(5)   Maitaning multigrade teaching In no less than 35% of rural dassrooms to
ensure an average pupil/teacher ratio of at least 35/1 in nral areas (par.
2.15 and 3.23).
(6)    Stardng in school year 1994/95, expanding double-shift teaching in urban
areas (with one teacher for two cohorts of about 55 pupils each) to reach
1200 cohorts of students in 1998 (paras. 2.16 and 3.23).
(7)   Abolishing student repetition, stardng SY 1994/95, in grades 1, 3, and 5,
and reducing repetition in grades 2, 4, and 6 (paras. 2.19 and 3.24).
(c)    Measus IQ incee girl' stddatign in MiMM education
(8)   Establishing, by the end of 1993, a unit wihin the MEN responsible for
promotion of girls' education (pars. 2.18 and 3.27).
(9)   Reviewing with IDA, not later than June 1994, the findings of the study on
economic constrais to girls' participation in education and startig to
Implement, not later than October 1995, an action program to this ed
(paras. 2.18 and 3.26).
(d)   Meues tD mgs Dg initiatives in the sion of
(10)  Reviewing with IDA the recommenaons of the UNDP financed study on
promoting private initiative in education, and starting to implement,
beginning in October 1994, an action program to this end (paras. 2.13 and
3.6).
3.4 Simulations of primary education growth show that the enrollment ratio target of 65%
could be reached by 1998 if community financing patterns continue (APE providing for 60 new
teachers per year during project period) and public financing expands in line with policy measures
(1) - (7). Assuming that salary scales do not change, an average annual increase of about CFAP
5OO million for teachers' salaries would be needed in the education budget. (See para. 3.53 for an
analysis of the recurrent cost implications of implementing the program supported by this project.)
3.5   The above measres would be implemented by MEN in consultation with the Minisries of
Plan and Finace. By ensuring adequate growth of primary education, the policy measures are
ewpected to redistbute the benefits of education In favor of rural chldren and girls. Ihe
Govermnnut has provided IDA with a signed Letter of Education Sector Development Policy
confirming Its Itention to apply the above policy measures. The Government gave assurances
during negotiations that it would implement the policy measures described in parn. 3.3. In
addition the Government gav assurances that it would: (a) no latr than November 30 of each year
review with IDA progress in achieving project objectives including the policy measures outlined in



-12-
para. 3.3; and (b) funish to IDA prior to the organization of this meeting: (i), the draft recunt
budget for education for the upcoming fiscal year, and (i) the draft investment budget for the
education sector for the upcoming three years. The recurrent budget and the investment budget
shall be acceptable to IDA. Progress in implementing the policy measures would be moniored in
accordance with the cadre 10oIque (Ane&), which includes the quatifled indicators given above
for measures (1) - (7), while progress for measures (8) - (10) would be monitored In accordance
with dated covenants lisd under the relevant project components and specific actions agreed upon
wit the Government.
2.      nmproinfs the access and  nailty of primaa education nationwide (US$24.8
million)
3.6   This component contributes to the Government's objectives to increase the primary
enrollment ratio from 59% to 65% by 1998, spread educational opportunities more equitably
between urban and rural areas, and between boys and girls, pursue progams and policies to
Improve the quality and efficiency of primary education. Ihere are five sub-components: (a)
constructng 800 primary school classrooms and rehabilitating 200 classrooms; (b) purchase and
distribution of about 780,000 primary textbooks and 10,000 teacher guides; (c) restuctring and
improvement of in-service and preservice teacher trainig; (d) strengthening primary school
management and inspecton; and (e) development and implementation of a girls' education
program. In addition to the activities described in the sub-component, the Government plans to
study and launch initiatives designed to stimulate private initiatives in education, with assistance
from UNDP.
3.7    As indicated above, the Goverment would apply policy measures listed in para. 3.3 in
order to support the Investment program. In particular, to reach the enrollment target would
require recruitment of about 280 additional govenment-financed teachers per year during the five-
year period 1994/98 (para. 3.53). To assure reguar payment of primary teachers' salaries, the
Government would implement a special mechanism comprlisng two elements: improved payment
procedures and establshment of a Teachers' Guaranty Fund (1GF). The improved procedures-
based upon successful experimenion under the ongoing project (pam 2.1 1)-would center around
four activities: (a) payroll lists would be established monthly in N'djamdna and quarterly for the
rest of the country; (b) the MEN would transmit only the changes that took place in the proceeding
period (as opposed to redoing the entire list); (c) a special ordonnateur delegu#)O would be named
exclusively for teachers in order to speed up and secure the internal processing of their salaries
before the 25th of each month; and (d) a sub-program specifically for teachers would be developed
witbin the master computeized system for civil servant salary payment. The TOP would be
designed to guarante payment of salaries for government-financed primary teachers, particularly
in the seven prEfectwu  wih a permanent deficit balance. The initial amount and subsequent
replenishmens of the TOP would be deposited by the Government of Chad into a local commercial
bank. In order to ensure its sustainability, the balance would be equivalent to approximately three
months salaries for all primary teachers in prectures with a chronic deficit (CFAF 300 million)".
Monhoring of the payment procedures and the TOP would include the following elements: (a)
monthly report regardig the staus of salary payments of primary education teachers for the
precedig month, including samples from various regions; (b) extesive quarterly reports regading
10A high-level offiia with power to authorize ependitures.
PaFor each teplidmuo into the TOF, the Govenment would maintain a receipt indican te refen
miber, amout and date of the trusfer. Interes eaned on available fiuds would be used to finan
authrzed expses  No dimm    would be auhoidzed for indemities or for salay payments that wer
ia areas befo credit efecivene.



- 13 -
such payment for al regions to be prvided within 45 days of the end of each quarter; and (c)
records of all deposits and withdrawals from the TOP. Extena audts (financed by the project)
would. every quarter, verify tha: (a) payment of primary teachers' salaries is curnt; and (b) the
deposits amd withdrawals from the TGF are regular. lhe Government has submited a report
providing relevant detafls fbr Implementing this program. The Govenment ga  assurances durn
negotiations that these measures would be implemented during the proect pedod. As C(dkions
of credit effectiveness, the Govement would make an initial deposit equilent to CFAF 300
million in the TGF established in a local commercial bank.
(a)    ConstructIng 800 primary  chool dassroon. and rehabIlitadIg 200
classrooms (USS17.9 milIlion).
3.8   Scope and Objectives.  In order to reach 65%  enrollment in shool year 1998199,
construction of about 1,700 classrooms and rehabilitation of about 200 established classrooms
would be necesosy during the five-year period 1994 to 1998. Ihe project would construct 800
classrooms in rural and margina urban areas of seven prEfetes where the enrolment ratio Is
below 65% or where schools are overcrowded and double-shift taching is introduced to increase
access. It would also rehabilitate 200 classrooms where double-shift teaching is to be intoduced.
For the remaining 900 classrooms required to reach the 1998 enollment target, financing has
already been secured for more than 850 claom s under programs of others donors12: Given
past trends it is anticipated tgat the balance would be secured by communities.
3.9   Iemp nation arrngm       In order to increasse the cost-effectiveness of the construction
program, the Government has agreed to delegate all construction management to a contact
ana         agency (CMA) (e.g., AGETIP), selected according to procedures sadsfactory to IDA.
During the first project year, a contract for 100 classes would serve as a test for the wmagement
and implementation capacity of the CMA. Ihe remaining progam would be undertaken by the
CMA following a satisfactory evaluation. The MEN-without executive responsbility for school
construction-would define construction priorities, programs and standards.   Under this
arrgement, the School Construction and Planning Direcurate would: (a) prepare a contolidated
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance budget; (b) establish a databa  with up-t-date
information on unit construction costs, space requirements and crteria for determing priorities;
(c) design a safety net program to ensure adequate construction coverage for the poorest
communities; and (d) organize local information campaigns on the importance of adequate building
maintenance and budgeting for this purpose.  At the regional levels (Dkr wrates and
qspectorates), the MEN would: (a) inventory the quantity and physical condition of school
facilities; and (b) prepare regional work programs for construction, rehabiliation and maitenan
3.10  Within the seven prfecres covered by the constuction progm  (Chai-Bagurimi Mayo-
Kebbi, Moyen-Chari, TandjilE, Salmat, Ouaddai, and Biltine), eligibility for school contuction
would be on a compethive basis and planned yearly. Priority would go to: (a) rua communlies
with a school catchment area that allows for at least 45 pupils per classrooms or that curreny have
incomplete grades and use multigrade teaching; and (b) margina urba  areas where double-Mif
teaching is introduced to increase access. Selection for classroom constuction would be based on
simple criteria (e.g., commuities' contributions towards payment of teachers' salares,
construction of latrine, fencing or other physical annexes, progress in incring girls' pardcipation
in education). Most of the classrooms would be associated with existing scools: there would be
12 Swis-Aid (47 classooms); P1EDMICEP (90 claswoons); FEDIACRA (81 clasooms); Worid Vision (81
casooms); SECADEV (44 clasrooms); D)B (300 cassom); ADB (210 classooms), se pam 3.54.



-14-
no displacement of people. Classroom construction would be In accordance with approved Bank
standads which esult In no adverse eonmental impact. Ihe rebabilitation program would
mainly support the hntroduction of double-shift teaching in urban areas.
3.11  In the first project year, prior to launching the constuction program, MEN staff at the
regional level would conduct an information campaign-using guides developed under the ongoing
Education Rebablitation Project-on the selection proces, the responsibilities of APE, and model
contcs.  Subsequently, the project would finance the constuction and rehabilitation of an
average of 200 classes each year. Applications prepared by APE-with the assistance of the school
inspectorates and NOOs-would be screened by a regial committee. Following approval, each
application would consist of (where necessary) a contract between the APE or NGO and the CMA
specifing the nture and etent of the work and the right and obligations of each party. The
CMA would be responsible ft management of the whole construction program and for selecting
NGOs, supervisors, and contractors.
3.12  P3eat suppgothe project would finance: (a) construction of 800 classrooms and related
friture. Of this total, the IDA credit would fimance 400 classrooms, and KfW the other 400
classrooms. Ten percent of the classroom cost would be financed by local communities; (b)
rehabilitation of 200 classrooms and related furniture (under the Govermment budget or through
donor financing); (c) contract management by the CMA, supervio costs and specialist senrices
for the technical audit; and (d) salaries for civil servant teachers that would staff these classrooms
(by the Govemment). The Government has submitted: (i) a construction program for the first year
project; (ii) a draft contract with the CMA, including terms of reference; and (ili) a draft manual of
operational procedures for Implementing the construction program. The Government gve
assurances during negotiations, that it would: (a) adopt and implement annula budgets that provide
finds fbr the rehabilitation of 50 classrwms per year, sardtg in 1995; and (b) review with D)A
the  commdations of the UNDP-flnmced study on promoting private initiatives in education
and, by October 1994, start implementing an action program to this end. Signature of a contract
with a CMA for school construction management would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Detais of this component are given In Annex S.
(b)   puehase nd distribution of lmar  textbooks and teacher gides
MIn k6 miDion1.
3.13  Scp and gbjecies To improve education quality, the project would increase availability
of t-tbooks and school materials. The project would provide 16 titles representing about 780,000
textbooks (preference would be given to textbooks with teacher guides) and 10,000 teachers
guides. The ongoing Education IV Project has provided 798,000 textbooks (para. 2.20): it is
expected that about 260,000 of these texbooks will still be available in 1998. By the end of 1995,
the proposed project would provide another 780,000 textbooks, allowing for at least one readiog
and one mathematics textook per two pupils for all six grades of pfimary education as well as one
science textbook per four pupils for the fnal four grades.
3.14   WM0fnn arrangum. Procement of tetbooks would be based on the experience
of he ongoing project, through interaonal competitive bidding based on pedagogical assessment
and price. During the first project year, about 40% of the new textbooks-representing six titles in
mathematics for all six grades- would be purchased; during the second project year, the remaining
60%-including French and social sciences textbooks-would be purchased.
3.15 No cost recovery for textbooks is planned. Textbooks are to be loaned free of charge



- 15-
because of the general poverty of the population, the high level of commuity fiacng of
teachers' salies and schol constrcon, the urgen ned to Improve pupils access to pedagogica
materis, and the natiomnide obstacles to girls' education. Textbook proisio  and dtribuion-
Including delivery to individual schools-would be contracted to privato providers. Studen would
be responsible for replacement of lost books. In order to suppott the effective use of these
textbooks (as well as Improve overall school quality), the MEN traing materil budget fbr school
supplies to primary school students would be increased over the project perod from 40 million to
CFAF 200 million (by anmual increments of CFAF 40 million). The Project Coordinaion Unit
(PCU) and the Directorate of Primary Education would be responsible for Implementing this sub-
component.
3.16                 The proJect would finance: (a) acquisition of about 780.000 textooks,
10,000 teaching guides, and 6,000 metal book containers; (b) a distribution contract; (c) teacher
training for books and gide use; and (d) three months of specialist services to assist the MEN in
the preparation of bidding documents and in training in sku of six MEN staff in textbook
evaluation and quality conUtrol. The primary school material and supplies would be financed totally
by the Government through the anm    budget. To this end, the Government would increase Its
budget for primary education training materials annually CFAF 40 mllion to reach CFAF 200
million in 1998 (para. 3.5). Details of this component are given in An&M  6.
(c)    Restructuring and lmrovment of in-seryice and pre.errloe tInhd
tran   D .l million,.
3.17 Sco=e and objectives This sub-component would upgrade the skills of teachers by
improving the pre-service and in-service training programs. Program curricula would be linked to
other aspects of the project by covering teaching methodology Qmcluding techniques for multigrade
and double-shift classrooms), the use of new textbools, promotion of female education, promotion
of community participation, environmental education, school maintenance, and management and
time-tabling. Ihe strategy for upgrading the skills of teachers would be to develop and implement
three levels of integrated workshops (atellers lnes) for different types of education persnnel.
This atelkers gnrfs program would require the cooperation of diverse regional structures for In-
service teacher training-including the ENI, the Centres Rgltonaux de Formadon Con*nWe
(CRFC), and the Inspecton Enselgnem   Prkmnare (IEP)-with support from FAC technical
assistance. To ensure a more efficient use of limited sector resources the ENI would recruit four
Inlteurs 4dolnt for every Insts eur bachelkr during the project period (para. 2.23) (saving
approximately CFAF 400 million during the project period) compared to the current recruitment
program of with 54%  itukeurs bachelers.
3.18  Imlementtoii a g           svis e Verainng: In the initial phase of ree workshops,
a national team of six staff would be trained to redesign the in-service program and to improve the
skills of school inspectors and regional in-servlce staff. In the second phase of 60 workshops,
inspectors, pedagogical advlsors, and school directors would be trained to improve their scills in
training teachers and in providing pedagogical support. In the final phase of 1400 local workshops
organized for groups of neighboring schools, teachers would be trained to upgrade their skils,
with an emphasis on real classroom situations. This final phase would target three cohorts of
teachers: (a) untrained but eperienced) community teachers; (b) semi-qualified and qualified civil-
servant teachers (including moniteurs,   t weurs 4djoas, and  statwew), and (c) new
community teachers and private school teachers.
3.19  The program for about 3,700 untrained community teacers-of a currt stock of about



- 16 -
7,980 teachers would focus on mastery of the primary school curriculum and materis. This
program would be taught in 10-month phases-begining in August of 1994, 199S, and 1996-in
each of the 14 DPs. 'Me 10-month program would include a four-week semina followed by nie
months of self-study (including 2 evaluation workshops in order to improve the adopted staegy),
supervised by inspecoors, pedosogical advisors, and school directors. 'Te program would start in
school year 1994-95 with 1,200 teacers, about 85 teachers per DP. In 1995-96 and in 1996-97,
1,250 teachers would start the program, including unqualified teachers appointed by local
communities In the previous two years.
3.20 Ibe program for semi-qualified or qualified teachers would include two types of annual
atellers   grds: six-week specialist workshops from 1994 to 1996 for a group of about 2,200
teachers, and three-week advanced refresher seminars from 1997 to 1998 for a group of 1,700
teachers. The first program would give preference to teachers with at least three years of
experience; the second would Include teachers who have completed the first program as well as
newly appointed civil-servant teachers with at least two years of experience. Teachers in double-
shift and multigrate classrooms-where the pedagogic demands are higher-would receive a special
traiing program.
3.21   Ite program for approximaty 300 new community teachers and new teachers in private
schools would focus on familiarization with the primary school curriculum and teaching skills. It
would be conducted in two-week seminars held In each DP for groups of 15-20 teachers. The
Direction de la Formatdon et de VActon Pidagogique (DFAP) and the Primary Education
Directorate, in close coordination with the CRFC and the inspectorates-would be responsible for
planning and Implementing the in-service training program.
3.22  PreserAce training The revised training curricula at the ENhs, supported by FAC, would
prioritize real classrooms situation: insMiem  adjoLnts would be trained for two years, and
ins eurs bachelers for one year. 'Me program would include field traiinig for the students,
and field supwvision by EN! staff In close coordination wih the school inspectors and pedagogic
advisors. The DFAP, in close coordination with the ENIs, would be responsible for developing
and implementing this program
3.23  Pject supr   he project would finance for the ln-sece training: (a) equipment and
transportation for the DFAP, the national in-service team, and the CRFC; (b) Pedagogic guides for
CRFC, (c) costs of material prining for atelkers lntegrfs participants, (d) six months of specialist
services for developing the atellers Iners programs, and the related pedagogic material; (e)
worshops to train the staff of the Centre RNglona  de Formtion Contnue (CRFC), Inspcdon
de l'Enselgnemen Eldmentalre (lEE), and school directors; (f) trainin at the level of individual
schools for teachers including maltres supplFants, (g) equipment and pedagogic materil for the
atelers lntegrds; (h) incr       recurrent costs for equipment and material; and (i) a 20%
overtime payment for teachers participating in the double-shift teaching program. The Govement
has submitted: (a) a plan acceptable to IDA on annual quantitative targets for new double-hift
classes so that 1,200 cohorts of urban students are enrolled in such classes by 1998; and (b) a draft
first-year program for the in-service training program. The project would finance for the pre-
service trainng: (a) teaching guides, mamnals, pedagogical ma s and equipment for the five
ENI; () three months fellowships for five EN! staff, and (c) transportation for student fieldwork
and field supervision for ENI staff. The Government gave assurances during negotiations that
training of new teachers would comprise 80%  ntkuteus adjoints and 20% butirs bachdilers
beginning in 1993/94 (para. 3.5). Details of the pre-services ad In-service training component are
given in Annex.



-17-
(d)    StmMhenlny   Ima   swhool mfuvm t and Ipe,tn   MUWS
3.24   Scoe. obec   nd imlementaton arranemt   To strengthen primay school
inspection, the project would develop operational procedures for monitoring: (a) teacher
spervisio; (b) girls' pauticipation In the education system; (c) implementon of double-shift and
multigrade teaching; (d) reduction of studen repetiton13; (e) school malnteoe; and (f) school
and community collaboration. Training So inspectors and pedagogic advisors-based on these
procedures-would focus on school management, teaching methods, and  acher supevsi
atlng  In 1994, an annual one-week seminars for 50 inspectors and pedagogical advisors would
be held at three sites. The objective would be to develop their skldls as trainers, given their
prvious experience as teacher supervisors. Subsequendy, primy school direcbtos would be
trained In management and teacher supervision during the local atelkers *megrds. Ihe Primay
Education Directorate assisted by the PCU would be responsible for planning and implentng
this sub-component.
3.25   Proec umo. The project would finance: (a) three mont  of specialist services for
developing the operational and monitoring guidelines for school directors and npectors; (b)
printg   and distribution of guidelines; (c) equipment, transportation for the Deligues Prfecoraux
de 1'Educaion Nadlonale (DPEN) and MEE; (d) sundry pedagogic and office materia and furniture;
and (e) workshops on teacher supervision and management for inspectors and consemlek
p4dagoglques.
(e) DRelopment and implementaidon ofa gIfl e&dai       gmSM
ndIllonD
3.26  Scope and objectives.  In addition to stimulating female enrollment throu  geneal
measures such as classroom construction (para. 3.8), provision of teaching materis (par  3.13),
and teacher training (para. 3.17), the project would Include a specific program to icease female
enrollment. A survey of socioculuual factors that affect girls primary school attndance was
conducted in 1990/1991 by UNICEF and the MFN. Mhe survey documents and anyzes the
incidence and the sociocultural ceses of gender bias and makes specific recommendations-uch s
an information campaign-to sensitize the population. A complementary study on economic fac
and on demand issues would be conducted under the ongoing project.  The combined
recommendations of the two studies would be implemented starting in October 1995.
3.27  lSlmentaion arrang       . In implementing these recoendations, the MEN would
launch a broad-based strategy which targets schools, homes and communities In regions where
girls comprise less than 30% of enrollment in primary education. The strategy would also tie the
eligibility for school construction (para. 3.10) and for school improvement progam  (par  3.36)
to progress made by local communities in increasing girls' participation in educion. A unit
(Celude de Promodon de la Scolarisaon des Files - CPSF), under the general director of MEN,
would be responsible for coordiaftig this component. Among their duties would be a more
detailed and systematic data collection and analysis-in coordination with the Planning Directora
of the MEN-on gender-specific issues in the education system, particularly In primary educan
13 TIe Gokenment pluas to imoduo  a staff rotation system in primary grades desed to eliminate
repetiton in gades 1,3, and 5: each teacber would teah  an cobort of sudents for two _cnseutWe yeats 0a
gades 1 and 2; 3 and 4; and 5 and 6), thereby improving pedagogic interventions for poteal repeot



-18-
(e.g., eionl and socioeconomic pats, repetition and drop out rates, orientation and tracer
studies, fmal professors). Given the comparative advantage of UNICEF in girls' educaion
issues, tie Goverment has proposed to delegate the overall managemet of this component
(including the project funds) to UNICEF, which would closely work with the CPSF).
3.28   PM     s .   hIe project would finance: (a) one vehicle and equipment for the CPSF;
(b) regional workshops and field visi and works for DPEN and IEE staff; (c) salary for the
coordinator of the CPSF14; (d) recurrent costs for vehicle and equipment; and (e) CFAF 90
million-to be managed by UNICEF-for implementing the recommendations of the studies (e.g.,
development of promotional materials and dissemiation through radio and TV broadcasts, local
workshops for policy makers and traditional leaders, and specialist services). The Govemnment has
submitted a drft contract with UNICEF for the management responsibility of this component.
The Govemment gave assurances during negotiations that it would: (a) establish the CPSF, with
terms of reference and a comosition acceptable to IDA; (b) review with IDA, by June 1994, the
recomendations on grls' particpadon in education, and (c) by October 1995 start Implementing
an action program to this end, including a national informaion campaign to sensitize parents and
decision makers to the Impotaunce of girls' education. As a gndition of d ment of the funds
to be managed by UNICEF, the Governmt would submit a signed contract with UNICEF
satisfatory to IDA. A financial audit of the use of the funds would be conducted In conjunction
with the required audits of all project accounts.
3.    Suaporting a pilot swhool immuvement proK am Eor prm     education In three
Caloms IUMS3S3 mJUJon}
3.29  The Govement proposes to decentralize education management and to promote local
decisionmaking in order to improve school quality. This component-building on this new policy
as well as on the proven experience of Chadian communities-includes experimentation with ree
tpes of schoolbsed programs In thrse diferent regions (MoyenChari and Mayo-Kebbi In the
south, and Ouaddai in the north) covering 36% of totl primary enrollment In 1990/91. They
Ilude: (a) 90 pedagogic improvement projects developed by and involving the community; (b)
comprensive student testing in 100 scbool (supported by an internationally renowned instituton);
and (c) support to 100 APE to organize themselves, to administer their fimds, and to mobilize the
coummuntes in support of prmary education.
3.30  By design, the component would help the MEN to detemine some of the most important
element for improving primary education quality, including pedagogic inputs, socioeconomic
milieu, and community involvement. Accordingly, participating schools would be involved in the
three related sub-compones In the following manner: among the 100 schools in the testing
progam, appoximately 25 would have both pedagogic improvement and APE projects, 25 would
have only pedagogic improvement projects, 25 would have only APE projects, and 25 would have
neiter. (Among schools nOt in the testing program, the remainin 40 pedagogic improvement
projects and 50 APE projects would be granted solely according to local demand, using the
established criteria).
3.31 This would be a self-help, demand-driven component: the number of pedagogic
improvement, testing, and APE sub-projects suggested are estimates which would be modified with
the development of local demand. A start-up period of one year would be necessary to introduce
the project services to the local population and to allow schools and APE to work towards fulfilling
14 Not 8 civil 8vt.



.19 -
the necessary eligibility criteria which are developed in the field.
3.32   All the duee sub-components would be overseen and coordinated by GTZ (n dose
coordination with the PCU and the DPEN), which has experience In participatory development in
all thre  regions.  GTZ would fince one community development specialist per region-a
pedagogic/education specialist with strong self-help experience-and the supporting equipment,
office material and transportation. It would also manage the funds for local pedagogic projects
(CFAP 55 million) and funds for APE support (CFAF 55 million). In supporting the threo
experimental activities, GTZ would provide in-service, on-the-job training for local superviso
staff (DP, inspectors, school directors, anmaeurs and consellers pidagogfqWes) with courses in
animation, workshop facilitation, and other specific measures.
3.33  Ibe GTZ team would have its headquarters in one of the three regions. A commite-
made up of the three DP, the GIZ team, the Project Director, and the representatives of NGOs
and APE-would meet three or four times annually to coordinate activities and to ensure a regular
exchange of experience. The Government has submitted to IDA a draft contract with GTZ for the
management responsibiity of this component. As a conditon of disburements of the funds, the
Government would submit the following documents satisfactory to IDA: (i) the manua of
procedur, including evaluation criteria and allowable expendiures for the micro pedagogic
projects and for support to APE; and (ii) a signed agreement between the Government and GIZ on
GTlZ support. A financial audit of the use of the funds would be conducted in conjunction with the
required audits of all project accounts
(a)    Promoting peda c improement proeeb In 90 indiidual siooh
12 millonl.
3.34   Scope and obiective.  To improve school quality, the project would support local
pedagogic-improvement projects designed at the school level by teachers, parents, and NGOs.
They could include activities such as: (a) improving reading, wriing, mathematics, and socail
scence skills; 0b) implementing new pedagogical models and teaching approaches; (c) increasin
com# muity participation in school activities (e.g., teaching of local histry, functional skills need
in the community); (d) developing supplementary instructional matrs for independent study; ad
(e) implementing pedagogical and supervision workshops for teachers in a set of neighboring
schools.
3.35   JW1emem ioa arrangement The local project would be prepared by one school or by a
group of schools (public or private) and endorsed by the APE, teachers, and school directors.
After approval at the inspectorate level, the local project would be presented to the   mit
PrEfetorale de l'Educadon (CPE), which would include regional education autorities, APE,
NGOs, and GTZ (as coordinator and manager of the resources) for seection and fiacing
approval. In addition, the CPE would be responsible for regular follow-up on the imple on
of the local projects, the use of the fumd, and a bi-annua report to the PCU.1s
15 7hefoilowng Is an example of how dIs syiten would wot* A sdwool - led by dhe diecor and dare
mendbf of dwe APE - waxts to do tch local cdld  about de preventon of soil hiwon. 21. G2Z
eommunity deelpe spedalt - In co dnaton with dhe scool dircor and the fnspec    - hep fe
soo to kdent*(  acty what ivons are possbl&   s a resk, die school applerforfn  to hie
stAof an NGO duzt it arady wor*Ing in thefield, to train lock teads in erosion comrol eduati   lhe
prpsl  akopod at th reg8ar meetng of the CME. dhe following year, after the trnng, Su tahen
lead spedal sdence courses on erosion controlfor the suents andfor fntee parew.



-20-
3.36  Finacg would be made available on a competitive basis to selected schools. To qualify,
participatig schools would have to establish a girls' promotion program and to mobilize 10% of
the locd project cost. In addition, the local projects would be assessed on their reladve cost-
effective merits. The project would give preference to schools with: (a) high repetition and
dropout; O) less qualified teachers; (c) incomplete grades; (d) high pupils-teer ratios in urban
are.; (e) double-shift or multigrade teaching classes, and (f) a proportion of girls enrolled below
the national average (31%). Ihese indicators would help to rank the schools according to risk:
60% of the funds would be awarded to high risk schools, 2S% to average risk schools, and to low
risk schools. Selected schools would be entitled to receive only one improvement fimd (not to
exceed CFAF 300,000). After the school has mobilized 10% of the value of the fund, it would
receive 75% of the fund: the remaining 25% would be received upon satisfactory project
completion.
3.37  During the fist year of the project, the DP-with GIZ assistance-would initiate a
dissemination campaign for local quality improvement projects to reach school inspectorates, MEN
personnel, primary school directors, heads of APE, and proprietors of private and comnit
schools. A three day seminar would be held in each inspectorate for a representative from each
school to develop a shared vision of the factors that contribute to school effectiveness and a shared
undrstnding of the program's objectives, proposal requirements, and evaluation criteria. Key
ech   pesomnel involved in selecting and approving the quality improvement projects would be
suitably trahied; and a manual of procedures would be developed and tested in 10 schools.
3.38  During the second year, implementation of approximately 20 quality improveme
projects would begin. For the last three years, about 25 local projects would be financed per year.
his Implmtation schedule would allow for close monitoring and supervision as well as
continuous evaluation. An evaluation of the entire program would be conducted at the end of each
year by the GIZ team and the MEN with inputs from the school inspectorates and the DP. Any
proposed changes to the program resultng from this evatuation would be submitted to IDA for
review and agreement. -depfth case studies would also be conducted on six participaing schools
to Identify pedagogic factors that improve perforance at the school leveS16. 'Te DP and the
PCU, with GTZ assistance, would be responsible for planning and implementing the program.
3.39  PWect         The project would finance: (a) key technical personnel (financed by GMZ;
and Ob) funds for the selected local projects (not to exceed 500,000 CFAP per project) to be
managed by GIZ.
(b)   Testing an improved student assessment program  In 100 admol
US$0.9 million).
3.40 Sg= ad gbjectives To fther improve education quality, the project aims to establish a
pilot stdent assment system. Standardized tests in French, mathematics and the social sciences
would be used in grades 2, 4, and 6 of a representative sample of schools in the tree regioDs
where th pilot improvement program would be implemented. The results of this diagnostic
testig-al4ong with other school characteristics-would be used to: (a) monitor performance changes
over time among the schools; (O) identfy problem areas in the curriculum; (c) identf school
among the sample which need special assistance; (d) evaluate the effectiveness of double-hi and
multigde teaching and of project investments; and (e) evaluate the efectiveness of the local
16 To undrke this study, Chad woldd participate in a reearch progam aon maging shools for
offwkm "Voaized for the Africa region by the Techical Dqamnt of the Waod Ban



-21 -
pedagogic improvement projecs. These evaluations would in turn be dissemited hrough
workshops and the media-to teachers, teacher-trainers, supervisors, administAors, and parents.
If successful, this assessment system would be expanded throughout the entire wchool system.
3.41  Imnplmentation affan    no The MEN evaluation unit and the DP, In collaboaion with
an overseas institution with an expertise in student achievement assessment, would be responsible
for developing and Implementing the evaluation system. The cooperating institution would assist
in: (a) determining staffing, equipment, organizational and training needs; O) providing workshops
and training on specialized topics; (c) overseeing data analysis; and (d) preparing plans for
incorporation of the lessons-learned into national teacher training. GTZ would ensure overall
coordination with the other regional sub-components.
3.42  PWect spo. The project would finance: (a) three months fellowships for key technical
persnel; (b) seventeen months of specialist services with the collaborating institution; (c) local
workshops for inspectors and teachers; (d) pedagogic and office equipment; (e) printing and
distribution of testing sheets; (f) one vehicle; and (g) incremental recurrent costs for materW and
equipment.  The Govement has submitted the following documents: (a) a shortlist of
interntionally recognized insutions in the field of student evaluation and achievement testing;
and (b) a draft contract and terms of reference for the collaborating    ning institution. Detafls of
this compoent are given in Annex S.
(c)    Strengihening the management and orgnizational agaity of 100 APE
EMS1.2 million).
3.43  Scooe ad objective  To improve the capacity of local communities to manage schools-
thereby improving education quality-the project alms to reinforce their APE. School inspectors,
directors and staff of NGOs-in their advisory and supervisory functions-would advice APE
boards on: (a) the selection process of teachers; (b) information on low-ost building design; and
(c) accessing support for community schools. NMCs, ftrough courses in accounting, management
and functional literacy, would help APE to strengthen their organization, to manage resources, and
to play an active role in addressing major education problems (e.g., low girlS' enrollment).
3.44  Ipementation   wgemM  Like the pedagogic improvement sub-component, this would
be a demanddriven. self-help component. The guiding principal of this component would be to act
on demand from APE: it would begin with an information campaign on project activities. The
selection process for this assistance would be the same a that for the pedagogic improvement
projects (pam. 3.30). The average size of each fund would be CFAF5 00,000, with a maximum
size of CFAF 700,000. In collaboration with the DP, 0G7 would codnt   this sub-component,
manage the resources, and select NGOs for implementidng the activities.  Positive results of
ongoing village-level activities led by NOOs argue for delegating program execution to NGOs,
with GIZ supervision. NGOs would be selected on the basis of their local experience and on their
implementation capacity, and be under contract with GTZ.
3.45  Proect goo  The project would finance: (a) key specialist services (financed by G);
and (b) funds totaling CFAP 55 million to be managed by G0    to support accounting,
nagement, futional literacy activides, and NGO participation. Details of this sub-component
are given in Annex 9.



-22-
4.    sh ftregtenncritical &dsQUI 0tut1= fUS$6 millien
3.46 This component includes measures to improve the capacity of central and regional services
for administrative, planning and monitoring activides. It comprises two sub-components: (a)
fiurer developing the planning and management capacity of MEN; and (b) reinforcing the MEN's
capacity to prepare and Implement donor-financed education projects.
(a)    Fuirther developing the planning and management Canity of MEN
mlJSSO.6 nilon8
3.47   Scope, objectives and imnMementation arrangement This sub-component would build on
efforts-begun under the ongoing education project and during preparation of the proposed project-
to upgrade MEN's planning capacity. In the last three years, staff of the Divirion PlManifcaon
(DPEC) have been trained in collection and analysis of educational stadstics and in school
mapping: the proposed project-through training and equipment-would increase DPEC's regular
capacity to promptly analyze and publish education data and design related policy. In addition to
continued training in educational statistics and school mapping, the traiing would focus on the
economics of education and education planning, with an emphasis on policy development The
project would also provide local training in statistics and school mapping for school inspectorate
staff (particularly on improving the data collection and analysis) as well as locl training in
personnel and resource management for DPEN staff.
3.48  In addition, a study would be conducted to clarify MEN responsibilities, job descripdons,
and actiities: its objectives would be to: (a) develop an improved monitoring system, including
new procedures, report forms, manuial databases, and data collection sheets; and (b) reduce the
adinisative burden of MEN staff with technical tinig. GIZ would assist the MEN in
carrying out the study at the centra and regional levels, in coordination with tte planning unit
(DPEC). Following up on the introduction of the ZOPP methodology during project preparation
(para. 3.2), GIZ would also assist in the development of a simple but applicable planning system
tha produces clear operations plans, and qualitative as well as quantitative evaluation prcedur.
3.49   Poect        The project would finance: (a) ten months of specialist services for studies
on educatonal analysis development; (b) ten months of specialist svices (financed by OTZ for
objective-oriented planning (ZOPP) and monitoring assistance to the MEN; (c) three months of
fellowships In educational planming, statistics, and school mapping for planning unit staff; (d) local
training workshops in school mapping, statics and management for inspectorate staffs; (e)
equipment and transportation for the DPEC; and (f) sundry office supplies and incremental
recurrent costs for equipment.
(b)   Reinforcing MEN's capacity to grepe and implement donor-fnanced
education prpjects (US$2.0 miliDon
3.50  Scoe. objecives, and imWlementation arrangMent. To enhance the institution building
effects of the project, the components would be executed by the instuons which would normally
conduct the concened actives. As the project involves diverse istutio  at the national and
regional levels-including NGOs, the private sector, and other donors-the exst  PCU within the
MEN would ensure overall coordination of project activities and serve as liaison between the
Government and IDA. The PCU would focus on: (a) fciltating implementation; (b) providing
professional advice and guidance to implemention services and agencies; (c) assuring that inputs
provied by other donors contribute to the MEN's development objectives; and (d) monitoring and



- 23 -
evaluating project outcomes. The PCU would have a Director and a Deputy Director, appointed
by and responsible to the Minister of Education, as well as three senior professional staff (ocally-
recruited accountant and procurement officer and internationally-recruited education adviser).
Support staff would Include two secretaies and two drivers. The nomination of a qualified project
Director has recently been received. The other staffs would be recruited under terms of reference
to be agreed with IDA, with experience and qualifications satisfactory to IDA; and appointed
subject to IDA's approval. The PCU would obtain professional advice and support from local
and/or regional firms under service contracts, particularly in: (a) accounting; (b) contract
administion; and (c) procurement documentation and processing, Arrangements would be made
to transfer some existing PCU staff (those seconded from the civil service but no longer required In
the restructured PCU) to other government services. Non-civil servants whose services are no
longer required would be terminated.
3.51   Tr3ect wa=  Ihe project would finance: (a) fivo years of education specialist services,
(b) fifty-eight months of specialist services for audits, accounting assistance, procurement
assistance, preparation of future education projects, (c) organization of project launch seminars,
and project review workshops at national and regional levels; (d) equipment and transportation; (e)
sub-regional study visits, and overseas conferences, (f) field visits, (g) salaries for contractual PCU
local staff17; and (O) incremental recurrent costs, including utilities and miscellaneous supplies.
The Government has submitted: (a) a shordist of accountant finns and draft contract and terms of
reference defining the accountant assistance, including training of staff and management system;
and (b) terms of reference for the PCU staff. The Government gave assurances during negotiations
that it will operate the PCU under terms of reference (including staffing) acceptable to IDA and
would not replace any staff without IDA's prior consent.
B. ProWect Cost and Tindng Plan
3.52   The total project cost over the five years of implementation is estmated, net of taxes, at
US$33.8 million, with a base cost of US$29.7 million and a foreign exchange component of
US$17.4 million. Price contingencies, estimated at US$2.6 million, assume an annual domestic
inflation rate of 3% and a foreign inflation rate of 3.7%; physical confingencies are estimated at
US$1.4 million (4.8% of base costs). The project would be fianced by IDA (US$19.3 million,
57% of total costs), KfW (US$3.4 million, 10.2%), GTZ (US$2.2 million, 6.5%), contrutions
by local communities to primary school construction, teachers' salaries, and local pedagogic
improvements projects (JS$0.9 milion, 3.0%); and budgetary allocations from the Government
(JS$7.9 million, 23%). KfW would cofinance the constuction of primary classrooms; GmZ
would assist in the monitoring, and coordination of the local pilot projects and in the main ce
of the objective-oriented planning approach of the project. The major assumptions in ariving at
the cost estimates and the detailed project costs-including by component, cost category and source
of financing-are given in Annex 1.
3.53   Recurrent cost implications. Recurrent costs generated by the education development
program supported by the proposed project investments (mainly teachers' salaries) would be
financed through the Government budget, contributions by local commumities, and through cost
savings resulting from the project. To attain the target of 65% primary earollment by 1998
implies the need for an additional 2.5 billion CFAF over the five year project period to finance the
salaries of about 1,400 new civil sevn teachers18. (Mhe estimates of the additional teachers'
17 Not civil wsrgadus.
Is Commuiosm- dough thir APE -would provide for an additiandl 300 teces during the ptqec



-24-
salaries f  each year from 1994 to 1998 are respectively: CFAF 161 millon; CFAF 329 mIllion;
CFAF 496 million; CFAP 662 mfllion; CFAP 827 mIllion). bn additon, the Goverment material
budget for pdmary education woud annually increase fiom the curret level of CFAF 40 milon
per year to CFAF 200 millon In 1998 (by annual incments of 40 mlion CPA, begnnig In
1995196. The co  saving  stdmates assume a contnation of the efficiency measures supported
by the project (i.e., an buthiuer adJointl*adeur rao of 80:20 for nw recuits, and a gradua
intoduction of double-shift teaching to reach 1,200 cohots of urban studeats enrolled in double-
shift classes by 1998 (para. 3.3)). Expressed as a percentage of the 1991 education budget, the net
Incremental recrent costs range from 1.4% in 1994 to 8.3% In 1998. In summary, Incremental
recurent costs generated by the project's Investments and the policy measures are comparatively
low, especily when compared to the many benefits the project is expected to generae. lhe
following table analyzes the cost savings and Incremenal recurrent costs generated by the project.
Table 1: Net Inment Expditures Generted by the Poject (in CFAF milion
(ngaive figures indicae cost savigs)
Polii mMeres               192419S IS519   1996/197 I997a8 1998/9 OM
A. 280 ew taching posts        161     329     496      662     827   2,47S
per yr a\
B. Inease of primy edation       0      40      80      120     160     400
maal budgot
C. 4 a#ots for eveay           -16      -40     -71    -111    -lS9    -397
bacheUer b%
D. Dobl ftteahing 6\          -28      -SS     -83    -110    -138    -413
Net ln=_itd ExpenO_es          117     274     422      561     691   2,065
(A+B+C+D)
NetinrumuaWlexpenditureas     1.4%    3.3%    5.1%    6.8%    8.3%
pereag  of 1991
educato budget (U)
a/ Fpawnol Ipat of nw v sean eaching post
bt Sav  gsnted by =n iaue abach            f rcrutmen rAio
of 4:1 oomped to the umat pgnm of 1.2:1
o/ _avis  eatod by uing doublSt achiog in 1200 urwban  es by 1998
3.54  Asn   from other donors.  As cofinancders of this project, the Governent of
Germany-throgh KtW and G17 respectively-would finance the onstuction of 400 dasroom
ad would sppr tecical assistace in the three pilot regions and in the MEN19. In addiion,
over the next decade, other donors would support coordinated actviies within the sector. FAC
plas to finace curriculum development in primary and general secondary education, to provide
tchnical astae for teacher ttainig and for school supervision, and to promte quality
improvement In higher educat    ADB Intends to bufld 210 classrooms in the northern regions;
Swis AUID (47 daswoom), FEDIAICEF (90 classrooms), FiED/ACRA (81 dassoom), Wadd
19 KfW and  M ha  bee ivited to paticipate in the prject netiat   in order to firm up thde faucing
PAIP



-25 -
Vision (81 classrooms), SECADEV (44 classrooms), IDB (300 clas:rooms). UNICEF would
cofinance a study and subsequent follow-up on girls' education; UNDP would fid a study on
promoting private initiatives; and WFP would main  its school-feeding progrm for 125,000
rural primary students and 2,000 mattres suplpams for the ne four yeas.
IV PROJECT  IPLEMETATION
A. Status of Project Pfraradion and Readines
4.1 To assure local ownership and to improve the quality of entry, project preparation was
conducted at the regional and national levels using a participatory approach. First, the IDA
preparaon mission and staff of the MEN initiated and attended two regional stakeholder
conferences in Sahr and Bongor: inspectors, directors, and teachers; members of local APE and
NGOs; and representatives of women's groups evaluated local problems in primary education and
presented possible solutions. Subsequently, the MEN initiated two similar regional conferences in
Abeche and Moundou as well as a five-day seminar in N'djamena on decentralization of the
education system. In a final six-day conference during the pre-appraisal mission, the logical
framework (cadre logque) of the project (A&ex 3) was constructed using the ZOPP methodology,
a participatory planning tool developed by G0Z (provided as an input by Germy) desiged to
clarify project objectives and activities among critical stakeholders. Participants in the conference
included staff of the MEN, representatves from the regional stakeholder conferences, staff of
NGOs, and members of the IDA mission. Additional preparation activities-including pre-
investment studies-were coordinated by the current PCU and MEN teams, assisted by other
donors (UNICEF, UNDP, FAC) and consultants financed under the ongoing project During the
prais  mission, represenatves of the Getman Government-including BMZ, G1Z, and KfW-
contributed to project development. Throughout project preparation, dissions were regularly
held with other donors-particularly with FAC, 017, KfW, UNDP, UNICEF, and EEC-to ag
on priorities within the ETE strategy. Working papers for all projects components have been
prepared. Architecurl designs for primary school constuction and a procurement schedule are
avable; the remaining documentation for civil works, including draft bid docments have been
reviewed during negotiations.
B. Prmti  Coordinaon aMandagin t
4.2   The project implementation manual, based upon the cadre logwue and initiated during the
appraisal mission, wil be finalized for the project launch workshop, (see draft in Amex I4).
Coordination of each of the project's components would be carried out by designated units in the
MEN Three sub-components would be managed by non-public insttutions: the primary school
construction sub-component would be delegated to a CMA under contract to the MEN para. 3.9);
the girls' participation sub-component would be delegated to UNICEF, which would work closely
with the CPSF, under contract to the MEN (para. 3.27); and the pilot local programs would be
delegated to G0Z, which would work closely with the DPEN, under contract to the MEN (para.
3.32). The PCU, based on the successful model in the ongoing project (par. 2.36), would focus
on project administaton (particularly accounting and pocurent), inter-agency cooperation. and
communications with IDA. The responsibilities of each of the mvjor components, also based on
successfiul iplemeno  in the ongoing project, would be as follows.  PrmarL
viQn1Ide  would be manged by the Director of Primary Education   Implemtion of
desinted sub-components would be under the responsibility (established during project
preparation) of respective MEN units: (T) Insw de Sdcs de lE=ucaton (ISSED) and the
PCU would coordinate textbook procrement and distrbution; (i) DFAC would codiate in-



-26-
service and preoservice teacher training; and (iii) the Direcion de l'Ensegneme  Eldmamre
(DEE) and the DP would be responsible for school inspection and teacher supervision. }X
'School Imovem ' pm     would be the responsibility of the DEE and the DP: GTZ would
provide technical assistance; and the Service d'Eva1uatlon et de S&di4 (SES) would be responsibility
for coordinatg the testing/evaluation sub-component. Crical Sectora! IsitutQns would be
under the responsibility of the Directon Ggnerale de l'IEducatlon (DG): the DPEC would
coordinate all planning activities; and the PCU would be responsible for donor and project
coordination. The Policy Measures are integrated into the various components and would be
implemented by the respective units. The PCU would provide a monitoring and advisory function.
4.3   The PCU would be the responsible for day-o-day coordination of project implemention
and monitoring, administrative and fnancial issues, and inter-agency coordination.  More
specifically, the PCU would: (i) coordinate the preparation of annual work programs and budgets
for all components; (li) procure goods and services and recruit consultan (with the exception of
the school construction sub-component managed by CMA; to the girls' educadon sub-component
directiy managed by UNICEF, and to the pilot program sub-component directly managed by
GM; (iii) maintain and consolidate all project accounts, including special accounts and accounts
kpt by the CMA, UNICEF, and GTZ; (iv) prepare the necessary documentation for withdrawal of
proceeds from the IDA Credit; (v) make arrangements for the audit of project accounts, SOEs, and
for the specW mechanism for teachers' salary payments; (vi) prepare, as required, semi-antnu  and
annual progress reports for IDA, the Government, and cofinanciers; (vii) organize annual and mid-
term revws of project implementation; and (viii) liaise with cofinanciers and maintain an effecive
dWogue with key donors and agencies in the education sector.
C. Msnllorand  iEatm
4.4 Monitoring and evaluation of project performance-including investments and policies-
would be carried out by the respective implementing units and coordinated by the PCU. The
ZOPP methodology would be used as a tool for project moniorW   and evaluation. The CaWe
Logwque would be used as a tool to monitor project implementation and to assess the progress of
the Government's education development program. Special efforts would be made to measure the
Impact of project investments on qualitative improvements by assessing student performance
through the pilot testing program.
4.5    GTZ would assist the MEN in facilitating the project launch workshops in the dbiecdon
techniues in N'djamena and in the three prfectures with experimental programs: these workshops
would lead to operations plans based on the ZOPP framework. Project launch workshops in the
other precnres would focus on administrative aspects of project implementation, especially as
regards the presentation of information on eligibility conditions and introduction of the project at
the grassroots level. GTZ would also assist the MEN in updaing and further developing the cadre
logque and in evaluating project impacts during annual and mid term reviews.
4.6   I its role as project coordintor, the PCU would: (a) transmit to IDA progress report on
project implementation and outcomes twice a year (in April and October), using the format
developed in the ongoing education project; (b) organize, no later than November 30 of each year,
a joint IDA/Govermt review of project implementation, based on the progress repo, annual
work programs, and budgets for the next academic year; (c) carry out a mid-term review of project
implementation-including financi  and technical audits-jointly with IDA (and to the extet
possible, with KfW, GTZ and the French Cooperation), no later than May 1996. Based on tis
review, the MEN would upde  the cadre logiqe for continued project Implementtion. Details of



-27 -
the IDA's supervision plan and of the elements of the annual and mid-term reviews are provided In
Anm& 12. Within six months of the Credit closing date, the PCU would also transmit to IDA a
completion report, prepared In accordance with terms of referencs satsfacry to IDA. The
Government gave assurances during negotiations that these requirements would be met.
D.
4.7   Table 2 summarizes the project elements by category, estimated costs, and proposed
procurement methods. No special exemptions, permits or licenses need to be specified In Credit
documents for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) as Chad's procurement practices allow MDA
procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations. Procurement
schedules and the packaging of works and goods are given in Annex 13.
4.8    Civil work. The proposed civil works program (totaling US$8.9 million, net of taxes and
duties and including contingencies) includes: (a) construction of about 800 new classrooms and
related facilities such as storage, principals' offices, latrines, and enclosures (US$8.2 milion); and
(O) rehabilittion of 200 classrooms (US$0.7 million). Of the civil works under part (A) of the
Project, the IDA credit would finance the construction of 400 new classrooms (US$4.0 million) to
which communities would contribute cash or in kind equivalent to 10% of project funding (see
Amiex .. KfW and communies would finance the remainder under the same cost-sharing
arrangements.  The Government and communities would finance the rehabilitation of 200
classrooms.
4.9    Cla   om cotrmto  nd railto.  Classroom construction management would be
delegated to a Contract Management Agency (CMA)20. The CMA may be the ATEllP, a non-
governmental Chadian construction management agency that will probably be established before
aedit efectiveness with support from the successfiu AGEP project in Seneg. If ATET  is
established to the satisfaction of IDA and the Government, this service may be contracted to it on a
sole-source basis, provided the price, terms, and conditions are reasonable. In the event that the
ATETIP is not established to the satisfaction of IDA and the Government, a consultant would be
selected from a shortlist in accordance with lhe Bank's Guideines for the Use of Consula
(August 1991). Signature of a contract with a CMA for school construction management would be
a condidon gf credkeffetiveness. Civil works contracts would be awarded based on procedures
described in an imple  ion manual (similar to that introduced for Senegal) as agreed with
Government during negotiations. The CMA would maintain a roster of pre-qualified contractors
eligible for Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), would permit additional applications at any time,
and would not preclude large or foreign firms from participating. Standard bidding documents
would propose a reference price and indicate unit prices and quantities. Conactors would be
Invited to bid by way of discounts either on the total or on the unit prices. Contacts would be
awarded to the lowest evaluated bid based on criteria specified in bidding documents. Ihe contract
award committee of CMA would open bids in public and have full authority to contract. It would
justify, however, in writing and prior to signing the contract and with reference to the bidding
documents' criteria, any decision not to select the lowest evaluated bid. For contracts with fewer
than five bidders, or cons greater than or equal to US$200,000 equivalent, the award
committee would request IDA approval prior to sigilng the contract. The CMA would contract
supervision of construction to firms and NGOs (for remote areas) selected in accordance with The
20 A onsultant acting on behalf of the Govenment for managing and contacting all neOCe    activities
eated to contuction (e.g., studies, suprviion, accomunig, reporting), hadlng pocuement in
accordance with agreed upon procodues to the saction of IDA and Ihe Govemment.



28 -
Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultant (Augs 1991). Where necssary, partcularly in
rmote areas and among communties that are nor orgnized, the CMA would also select qugified
NMOs as contractors (different from the NGOs engaged in supervision) for carrying out
construction programs with community paricipation. ITese NGOs would be selected through
prudent inational and local shopping, based upon price quotations (not to exceed the cost
eimate of CFAF 2.1 million for each classroom) obtained from at least three reliable NGOs,
provided that the agreed amount does not exceed US$1.7 million. Primary school rehabilitation
would be financed by Government.
4.10     .     Goods financed by IDA (US$8.3 million) Include firniture, equipment, office
supplies, vehicles, textbooks and pedagogical materis. Since foreign bidders are unlikely to be
interested in school furniture (because purchases of finiture would be phased In over a five-year
period) and local firms can produce below international market prices, primary achool firntur
financed by the Credit (US$1.9 million), although phased in time, would be procured through LCB
in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Pedagogical materials, equipment, office
supplies and vehicles would be grouped into packages of at least US$0.5 million each and procured
through ICB in accordance with the Bank's Gidelines for Procw'mnt under 1BRD Loans and
MDA Credlts (May 1992). Goods that cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$0.5 mfllion
would be procured tirough LCB. Textboo  purchasing (US$S5.1 million) would be procured
through ICB.21 A preferential margin of 15%, or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less,
over the c.i.f. prices of competing goods for all ICB procurement would be given to domestic
fims. Procurement of small items for pilot projects and the girls' education promotion campaign,
totaling US$700,00 and which are not expected to exceed US$3,000 per item, would be handled by
GTZ and UNICEF respectively. The payment of the IDA-financed portion of funds for pilot
projects and the girls' education promotion campaign carried out by G0Z and UNICEF22, wil be
done on the basis of prudent shopping, based upon price quotations obtained from at least three
reliable suppliers, provided that the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed
US$0.7 mifllion. Items for pilot projects and the girls' education promotion campaign exceeding
US$3,000 for each contract properly packaged would be procured through LCB. Office supplies
and spare parts which are available off-the-shelf and cannot be grouped into bid packages of at
least US$30,000, will be done on the basis of prudent international and local shopping, based upon
price quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers, provided that the aggregate amount
of such procurement does not exceed US$1.1 million.
4.11    Cna  servicesn tnational and local consultant services financed by IDA (US$3.5
million equivalent) would be contracted In accordance with the Bank's GCdd,,aes for the Use of
Cmnultn   (August 1981).  Ihe services include training, technical assistance, contract
managemen services, archtectural services for the design and supervision of the pimy
construction program, and specialist services In the area of procurement, auditing and accounting.
The construction management services of a CMA would be contracted to ATEIE on a sole-source
basis (see. para. 4.9). In the event that the ATE1IP is not established to the satisfacdon of IDA
and the Government, a consultant woud be selected from a shortist in accordance with The Bank's
Guidelnes,for the Use of Conslant (August 1981).
21 For txtbook bid evalutons, bids would be evaluated, in a first stage, for thdir tehnica and pedagocad
qualties. Prces of bidders meeting minimum techical and pedagogical requiements would be evaluated in
a second sta. Pices would oaunt toward 80% of the total bid evaluation; tehical and pedaogical
evluations would contribue 20% to the oveal evaluation.
22 Ib detbils of these specified acivides will be reiwed as these sub-componens develop.



-29 -
TOble 2: Siwmary of Proposed Procurement Arrawniments
tol mqlition eculvalent fncluding Cntinemiesl
Procurement Netheds for IDA -FfIeind        Totat
1. Clyl IVIu
1.1  New prtmary classrooms constructon                      2.5       1.9 a/   3.8 b/       .2
(Part A onty)                                     -         (2.3)     (1.7)      --)       (4.0)
1.2  Primary classroom  rehabiittation                      z         -          0.7 e/    0.7
(Part A only)                                                                               0.0
2. gm
2.1  Furniture                                    -          1.9       0.2       0.5 c@     2.5
-         (1.9)     (0.2)     (-)        (2.0)
2.2 Office Equipment & Suppifes                    0.5      .          0.1      -           0.6
(0.5)     -         (0.1)                (0.6)
2.3  Vehicles                                      0.3      *                               0.3
(0.3)                                    (0.3)
2.4  Textbooks                                     5.1      .         *         -           5.1
(5.1)     *         *         -          (5.1)
2.5  Pedagogicat Equipment                        -         -          0.3       1.5 Cl    1.?
-         -         (0.3)     C--)       (0.3)
3. CONLTANCIES
3.1  DOesign/Erineering/Supervision               -         -          0.6       0.1 cf     0.7
-         .         (0.6)     C--)       (0.6)
3.2  Specalatift Servicos (International)         -                    2.3       0.2        2.5
-         -         (2.3)     -          (2.3)
3.3  Specialists Services (Local)                 -         -          0.3       0.1 el    0.4
^         *X(0.3)             (..)       (0.3)
3.4  Supervision of pitot projects                                               2.0 d/    2.0
-  .     .         (..)       ~~~~~0.0
4. TRAINING
4.1  Fetlowships Abroad                           -         -          0.3      -           0.3
-         -         (0.3)     -          (0.3)
4.2  Locat Vorkshops                              -         -          1.1 0/  -            1.1
-    -         !~~~1.1)  -           11
S.      i
= .1  Funds for Pitot ProJects                     -         -          0.4      -           0.4
(part a onty)                                                         (0.4)     -          (0.4)
5.2  funds for Girls' Education                    -                    0.3 f/   -           0.3
(Part A only)                                                         (0.3)                (0.3)
6. N     lSEtS
6.1  Operation & Naintenance                                 0.5       0.5                  1.1
-    t.5)      (0.5)     -          0.1)
6.2  Sataries                                     -                    0.6     5.1 I/       5.8
Totst Costs                                     5.9       5.0       8.9      14.0       33.8
Total FinAneqd by the IDA credit               (5.9)     (4.7)     M.7)      (..4      (19.31
Notes: Figures my not add up to due rounding.
Figures in parentheses are the respective smoumts financed by the IDA erdit.
NBF: Not Sank-Financed.
(a): Carried out by NOs acting as contractors with comumity participation
(b): tS$0.3 Cowmumities 9 USS3.6 KfV               (c): Financed by Goverrment
(d): financed by GTZ
(e): Represents mostly pedagogic supplies and travel allowances
(f): Promotion empasgn expenditures to be implemented by UNICEF
(C): Financed by Government and Conmmities
* The folloing capital letters show the proJect components:
Part A: Access and Quality of Primary Education
Part 5: Pllot School Improvement Program
Part C: Critical Sectoral Institutions
4.12         urement stat    of ongoing prqect' and oroposed arrangements.  Under the ongoing
education project, classroom pruement was inialy slowed by delayed pr                 em t predur
and weak management capi, despite the introduction of an improved pr ment code in
1990. Under the proposed project, the CMA would manage new pdmarY classroom  coruco
and pro emt  Of frnire for those classrooms; the PCU  would be reponsible only for



-30-
procurement of textbooks and equipment with support from consultns when necessary. The PCU
would promptdy report bid evaluations and contract award inf on and review procurement
progress in biannual reports to IDA. The Government has submitted (a) an updated procurement
plan and timetable and (b) a draft procedural mamal for the management and execution of the
primary classroom construction program.
4.13 Reie by IDA. During project supervision, IA-financed contracts for works and goods
above a threshold of US$200,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review procedures.
The prior review process would cover about 90% of the total value of the amount contracted for
goods (100% for ICB and about 40 % for LCB). Selective post-review of awarded contracts for
goods and works below the threshold levels would apply to about one in tree contracts. The
CMA's contr  awards would be reviewed by its auditors. Draft standard bidding documents for
LCB have been reviewed by and agreed with IDA during negotiations.  The Government
confrmed during negotiations that the Bank's Sample Bidding Documents would be utilized for
ICB. Contracts for goods and services financed under parallel cofinancing arrangements would be
awarded in accordance with the cofinmcer's procurement regulations.
E. lZisbrseep
4.14  The project is expected to be completed over the five-year period; the IDA credit would be
disbursed over 6 years (aceording to the categories shown in Table 3 below; Chad's standard
disbursement profile is seven years). Disbursement of the Credit would be fully documented
except for contracts and expenditures valued less than US$20,000 equivalent which would be made
against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be
retained at the PCU for review by IDA supervision missions and for semiannual audits. To
facilitate disbursement, the Government would open a SpecW Account (SA) in a commercial bank
to cover WDA's share of eligible expenditures managed by the PCU. The authorized allocation for
the Special Account would be CFAF 150 million. WA would make an initial deposit of that
amount from the proposed Credit upon credit effectiveness and would replenish the SA upon
receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible expenditures. Replenishment requests would be
accompanied by up-to-date bank statements and reconciliations of the SA. Applications for direct
paymens and reimbursement or requests for special commitments would apply to contracts above
US$20,000 equivalent.
F. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.15   The PCU would be responsible for the project financial management and would maintin
consolidated project accounts following a system satisfactory to WA. Project accounts, including
the SA, would be audited annually by independent auditorsW acceptable to IDA; all disbursements
under SOEs would be audited semdanuaily, and the special financing mechanism for teachers
salaries would be audited quarterly. The annual audit report would be submitted to IDA within six
months of the end of each fiscal year; the semiannual audit reports would be submitted to IDA
within three months of each period; the quarterly audit reports of the special financing mechanism
woud be transmitted within forty five days following each quarter. The Government has submitted
a short-list of independent auditors, including the related draft contract and terms of reference.
Ihe Government gave assurances during negotiations that It would submit to IDA audit reports of
reasonable scope and details within: (i) six months of the end of each fiscal year in the case of the
annual audit report; (ii) three months of the end of each semester in the case of the SOEs; and (iii)
23 Differet from the aountig assistce to the proect nit.



- 31-
forty five days of the end of each quarter in the case of the special financing mechanism. The
appointment of an independent auditor under a multi-year conact acceptable to IDA woud be a
ofdWon of  dk effectvees.
m_~~~~~~W 3
Allocation and Disbursemnt of the IDA Credit
Comqa ofw ftenXr    Enosd IDA AlIQcaon    S -of Expenditux
amS$ w1ion)         Ewinmcd by Ml:A
1.       Civil Works a/                   3.6                   100
2.       Pilot Project Funds a/           0.3                    100
3.       FurIe, Equipment,                2.7                    100
and Vehicles
4.       Girls' Promotion Fund            0.3
S.       Tettbooks and Pedagogic          5.0                    100
Materials
6.       Local Training and               1.5                    100
Overseas Fellowships
7.       Technical Fees and               3.2                    100
Specialist Services
8.      Incremental Recurrent             1.5                   100
Costs bl
9.       Unallocated                      1.2
TOTAL                                    i2
a/ To be supplemvtd by commnity contrbution in cash or in Ida equivalent to 10% of prqect
3i Including overt e paymts to tehes in doubleft classes.
V.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1   pzo    Benft. Implementation of the overall education program supported by dlis
project would provide additional enrollment capacity for approximately 117,000 additional pupils
from 1994 to 1998. Ihe main direct impact of the project would be to provide classrooms for
55,000 pupils, largely in rural areas, where 84% of project financed classrooms would be
constructed. It is expected that the primary enrollment ratio in rural areas would increase from
S1% to 59%, whereas that of urban areas would improve from 91% to 95%. Since repetition is
expected to decline from 30% to 20%, intake rates into grade one of primary education would
increase more rapidly (from 64% in 1990 to 75% in 1998), and the number of school years
invested for each student who reaches grade 6 would decline from 18 to 9 by the eand of the
project. In addition, project investments in textbooks, teacher training, girls' education as well as
project support for secoral policies would improve education quality and efficiency throughout the
sector. Project qualitative Inputs and policy measures to limit repetition would improve quality
throughout the primary education system, thereby lowering the average number of years it takes to
graduate. In addition, pilot school improvement projects would further improve education quality



32-
and strghen local idatives In thre regions coverng 36% of pimary school rollm    in
1990. Support for ins"tional developmen would ipro  managenmet and sustainability of the
education sector, and budgetary policy measures wodd prevent distortions In resource allocation
within the education sector. In the long-term, the prjec would ras the productvity of the labor
force and contibute to Inceased well-being among the Chadian population.
5.2   RlWa. lhe file political envitoment and weak implement  capacity could Jeopardize
project imple n . To  _"min   the effect of tis risk, the project woud promote the
Govemet's commitme  to: (a) decentralize educaton managemet; (b) reinforc the opertnal
responsibility and magement of schools by regional direrates; (c) rely on the private sector,
NMOs, and communies to manage construction and school imptovement projects; and (d) further
develop sakeholder commitment through the contued use of participatory, objectve-iented
project plang and implemeion methods (ZOPP). Ihe support for local school mprowvement
Projects is lso designed to build on the reslience ad ecuting capcity of loed communities.
Another risk i8 that the Government may fce difficulties In regulary paying teachers salaries.
Ihis risk would be addressed dlrecty by the introduction of th special payment mechanism to
facilitate regular salary payment for primary school teachers. In addition, this risk would be
midgated by (a) consesus-building with the Government under the EiT   famework; (b)
priorizing this issue in macroeconomic dialogue among the IDP, IlDA and the Goeen  (c)
maintaining close codon with and support from the Prenich and other bilateral agencies; (d)
monitoring of public expendiures for primary education through the special payment mechanism
and during annual reviews of project implemenaion; and (e) mantaing high levels of community
financing.
VI. AGREEMESM REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1   The Goverment has met the conditions of neotiadons by furnishing the following
documents for discussion and fialiaon:
(a)    Draft Letter of Education Sector Development Policy, together with a draft acdon
plan to guide the Implementation of Its recommenda   (param3.);
(b)   Draft report describing proposal for: (i) Improved paymet procedures, and (I)
the operations of the TOF (para. 3.7);
(c)    Ppsed first-year program of primary classroom couction, based on school
location maps prepared by the MEN, a draft contact between the MEN and the
CMA (including term  of reference for the maagement of primary school
constuction), and a draft mnual of operational procedures (pra 3.12);
(d)    Annual quaitve targets for new double-shift classes so ihat 1,200 cohorts of
urban sdens are enrolled in such classes by 1998 (pam. 3.23);
(e)    Draft contract with UNICEF for the management esponsiity of the girls'
promotion component (pan. 3.28);
(t)    Draft contract with GIZ for the management responsiility of the pilot sdcool
improvement progrsm (pan. 3.33);



-33 -
(g)   A shortist of Inionally-recognIzed institudons In the field of educadon
evaluation and achievemnt teting; and a draft contract and tem  of refeec
de8fn    a proposed twining  angement between the MEN and the ntlusdon
(pa. 3.42);
(h)   A shordist of acuntant firm  and draft ontract and tems of rerce defiing
the accountt assistance, including training of PCU staff and the management
system; and tems of reference for the PCU staff (para. 3.51);
(O)    Standard bidding documents and a draft procurement plan for all major work,
including a timetable to be included in the project file (paras. 4.12 and 4.13).
6.2   Daftg negotiations, the Government gave asurances that it would:
(a)   (1) no later than November 30 of each year review with IDA progress in achieving
project objectves including the policy mes outdined in para. 3.3; and (2)
fih to lIDA prlor to the organizaon of this meet}og: Oi, th daft recumrrent
budget for education for the upcoming fiscal year, and Qi) the draft investment
budget for the education sector for the upcoming three years. Ihe recumnt budget
and the invesment budget shall be acceptable to IDA. Progress in implementing
the policy measures would be monitored In accordance with the cade logique
(Amiozl , which includes the quantified indicators given above for measures (1) -
(7), while progress for masures (8) - (10) would be monitored in accordance with
dated Cveants listed under the relevant project components and specific acdons
agreed upon with the Govemment;
0b) Adopt and maintain the agreed special mechanism that assmre regular payment of
primary teacher's salaries during the project period (paras. 3.3 and 3.7);
(c)    Review with IDA the recommendations of the UNDP-financed study on promoting
private Initiative in education and, by October 1994, start implementing an action
program to this end. (paras. 3.3 and 3.12);
(d)   Adopt and implement annual budgets that provide fuids for the rehabilitation of 50
dmc oms, starting in 1995, and increase its budget for primary education trainig
materials mually CFAP 40 millon to reach CFAF 200 million in 1998 (paras
3.3, 3.12 and 3.16);
(e)    Establish the CPSF, with terms of refece and a composition acceptable to IDA;
review with IDA, by June 1994, the recoendation on gIrs' paricipaon In
education; and s    implementng an action progrm to this end by October 1995
(Paras.3.3 and 3.28);
(t)   Implement the other policy measures with respect to (i) amnnsu budget alocation
for 280 new teachers, vi) tring of teachers on a basis of 4  hnstle    adjoUm
for every  udartew bachdkr, Oil) doublohift teaching, and (iv) abolishig
student repetition (pam 3.3 and 3.23);



-34-
(g)    Operate the PCU under terms of reference cluding s n  acceptable to MDA
and would not replace any staff without IDA's prior consent (par. 3.51);
(b)    Submit to IDA anual audit rports of all project accounts icluding fan
udits of expenditures for the construction sub-component and the use of funds for
micro-projects and girls' education) within six months of the end of tfih
Government's fiscal year and, semiamnual audit reports of the SOEs wihin the
montbs after the end of each audit period para. 4.15);
0)    Submit to IDA quarterly audit reports of the special mechanism for regular
payment of pimary teachers salares within 45 days after the end of each audit
period (para. 4.15); and
(D    Submit to IlDA progress reports on project implemeon and outcomes twice a
year (m April and October), u.Ang the format developed In the ongoing education
project (par 4.6);
(k)   Apply the prouement procedures and arrangements agreed to at negotations
(para. 4.12).
6.3    As a Condition of Board  ornton, the Government has furnished IDA a signed version
of the Leter of Education Sector Development Policy (para. 3.5);
6.4 As Cnitions aeoffectiveness, the Governmeat would:
(a)    Make an Initia deposit of CFAF 300 million into the Teachers' Guaranty Fund
established in a local commercial bank (par 3.7);
(b)   Sign a contract, acceptable to IDA, with the CMA for school consuction
management (para. 3.12); and
(c)    Appoint an independent auditor under a multi-year contract acceptable to IDA
(para. 4.15).
6.5   Mhe following conditions of disbursement would apply:
(a)    For the girls' education fund, the Government would submit a signed contract with
UNICEF, satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.28);
(b)    For local pedagogic projects and APE support funds, the Government would
submit to IDA: Q) the manual of procedures, including evaluation criteria and
allowable expenditures for these sub-components; and (i) a signed agreement
between the Government and GTZ on GIZ support, both satisfactory to IDA
(par. 3.33).
IU3COXEMMIATION . Subject to the above terms and conditions, the prposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$19.3 million equivalent on standard IDA terms.



- 35 -
ANNE 1
Page 1 of I
R;EPUBLIC C)F CHAD
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT (EDUCATION V)
BASIC DATA, 1990
GENERAL                                   HII0    U8SApARIAII AFRICA a/
GNP Per Capfta (SUS)                       210              635
Total Population (million)                 5.4              530
Population Growth Rate bt                  2.5X              3X
Population Growth Rate age 6-11            2.9X             I.A
Adult Literacy Rate (Total)                30X              49X
Adult Literacy Rate (Female)               18X              38K
Total Fertility Rate                                        6.5
Under Five Nortality cl                    209              169
Life Expectancy at Birth (Years)           47                52
Primary Gross Enrollent Ratio (Total)   59X                 76K
Prim1r  Gross Enrollment Ratio (Girls)   36X                72n
a/ Unroghted Moans
b/ Estimation for Chad: Urban Growth Rate: S.2K
c/ Social Indicators of Deelopmt, 1991-92
Su UNESCO Yearbook (1992), WorId Development Report (1992), Human Development Report (1991)
Eedcation (1990/91)     Enrollament           Percent Female   Gross          Pupil/teacher
Ratio X            ratio
Primary                 52S,165                  31                59         67  :1
Total Secondary a/       61,479                  15                 7 b/      40  sl
Lower secondary         48,935                  17                           42  s1
Upper secondary         12,544                  10                           35  :1
Tech  rd Vocational       3,327                  20                L.A        21  :1
Higher Education ct       2,982                  10                *.A        24  :1
af "Rapport de rentrea du MENa
b/ Estmation IREDU Report
c/ University of Chad
EDUCATION BDSGET
Per Student
1991/92 Budget       K of Education Budget         1990/91
(mllion FCFA) a1                             FCFA  000 US$
Total                     8,297                  100
Prfmary                  4,231                    51               8
SecondWry                1,825                    22              29.7
Tech/Voc.                  207                     2.5            62
Highor Education         1,244                    15             417
Administration              126                    1.5             L.A
Teacher Training           664                     8             316
a/ Executed budget not including cowunmity financing.



BA IC tESN C OF amw
TASC  OtAIC PIOJCT (EDUCTION V)
STCIU   W STE Esm       CTIF TCHADIEII
ECOLE DE SAME
(IUFlIERNS)
|EnE |20E 3ENEI
E 1. T. P
IERE  |2BE|EENE        |
ECOLE D'ASAICULSTE
CENES
OAPPEUTtSSME                            _  _                                                           |--
_EL 2ELJIImE 3EN tulE
1115  2185     GIOJL.
LYCEES
1-                                         I        I        I            C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2EIE |.ECtE |Tt   |
CPt    CP2    CEt    CE2    a"l    ce   I  E               SENE    UN        3EE                                                            a 
I_ ISTIiTUTEIES           I
Ems EWEITAIRES                         CPT          LYCEES @1 CEB           UEPC                                                      a
IERE2E               FOINmIUTA           It
:-N  a
oTb



ORGANIGRAMMEDU INISTERE DE LEDUCA TIONNA TIONALEEr DELENSEIGNEMENTSUPERIEUR
NINISTEDE ULEOUCATION
ET DE L'ESEtIIUE      SUTPERIEU1
|~~~~
|LLERS             CABINET                                                                              INSTITUT        IUSTITUT       CUWOSSIm
UNIWIRSITE     SUPERIEtU DE    NATIONAL US       TCNUDIENUI
DU   SCIEXtES OE    ~$IENCfOES           PMU
oAlowU E
ihltCTIOaN      DlItECTION     DlIRECTION      DlIRECTION      DIRECTION       DIRECTION       DliRECTION     DiRECION        lIREctioN       DliRECTION
DES         UE LA PLA-     U  L'ALPIIA-    DE VENSEl-    U LA ICR-         UE L#EVSEI-    Uf LOENSEI-    Uf LOEISEII-         DE LA           DES
PROJTS        NIFIcATION.    SEIISATION       ONIDET          NATION          UIEIEMI ELE-   61O151.                                                             OF 1  ACECE  ESORE
EDUCATION      E1*5116 El     El UE LA        TECINISE        ET DACTION      ISITAIRE        UIeNIDAIRE     supsuIsm        SCIENTEIMUE    NW6INES.
US LANGUE      SIONNEL                                                                                       ET DOU  ATERIEL          9
0 J



- 38 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT (EDUCATION V)
EDUCATION DATA
Table t: Ehrelltaut Ratlo bY P.efecture
PRIMARY EDUCATIO
ENRLLMUENT                   GER
AVG. ANN.
Prefectures     1990      1998 GROWTH      1990     1998
Batha          8,456    16,526   8.7X    12.7X   19.6X
8ET            6,221    11,261    7.7X    35.1X   50.1X
|Bltitn        2,890    6,619   10.9X    10.01   18.21
Chari-Saguirmf 89,019   119,919   3.8X    60.31   64.1X
tuera         25,090   36,010   4.6X    60.41   68.4S
Karon          7,686    15,546   9.2X    18.4X   29.4X
Lae            6.412    14,216  10.5X    24.51   42.81
Logwn* 0cc.   68,782   85,518   2.8X    115.31   113.21
Logan. Orien. 61,332    78,647   3.1X    99.5X   100.42
Mayc-Kebbi     8.893   117.373    3.5X    64.0X   66.7T
Noyen-Chari   92,684   123,448   3.6X    85.81   90.2X
Ouaddai        10227    24315   11.41    14.91   27.9K
Saluast        10147   18063.2   7.5X    47.1%   64.1X
Tandjile       47326    64638   4.01    78.0X   84.11
Girls        162,857  266,224   6.3X    35.9%   46.3X
Boys         362,308  463,675   3.2X    83.21   84.41
Totat        525,165   731,899   4.2X    59.01   65.01
Tabte 2s Ehrotent Ord Populatfon by Prefecturo and Seu
PRINARY EDUCATION                                                   1990                1998
1990
ENROLLUENT             GR          POP             TOT. POP
Prefect.        ETAS.             ilfos             Girts  Soys   Cfrls       Boys
8atha             52             2607    5, 49    0.07  0.19  33,712    30,784   84,236
SET               65             1764    4,457    0.20  0.51    8,954    8,774    22,457
Siltine            1T             556    2,334    0.04  0.17   15,027    13,729   36,428
Charf-Saura    233              32798    56,221     0.42  0.81   78,277   69,409   187,084
Gusra             15O            7637   17,453    0.36  0.85  20,981    20,s57   52,619
KeneM            tos             2534    5,152    0.12  0.25   21.117   20.608    52.8S6
Lae               40             1999    4,413    0.15  0.34   13,238    12.979   33,212
Logaon Oc.       236           22947   45,835    0.76   1.55  30,114    29,533    75,5s9
Logone Orien.    233            18274   43,058    0.59   1.41   31,131    30,538   78.120
Nay*-Kebf         378           23421    65,472    0.33  0.95   70,123    68,845   176,041
Noyan-Charf      331            31464   61,220    0.59   1.12  53.239    54.808   136,870
guaddal            40           2,013    8,214    0.06  0.24  34,707   34083    s7,141
Saelat            60             2413     7,734     0.22  0.73   10,968    10,59      27,315
Tandjf e          133           12430   34,896    0.41   1.16   30,616    30,083    76,891
Totat            2073          162AS   362,3098                  454,204   435,324 1,126,827
Tabtem  3: Ewlutfin de ta scotarisatfon Frbmire
1984/85    1985/86     1986/87    1987/88      19s88/8     1989/90     1990W/9
Effectifs            382.131    398.219    418.04s    437.942        462.309    492.331      525.161
Population            745s547    767.814    790.74s    814.362       838.683    863.732      889.528
Taux scolaire         s5.30X      51.901      52.901      s3.80x      s5.1ox         57K         59X
Taux cywn CEru.                                                                                  5.401
Sources: Dep- Rapports d  rentr6e, P. Abftim  (Consultant)



- 39 -
ANE 2-2
Pagp 2 of 8
TWbl       4: Ofetrfbutft n    mittt   catMr_                             _
_    __       .,_____   ..   P     I ..      __  ,    ,   .. ,   .
Instftutewut    Instituteurs    Noniteurs   swpl6ants       Total
adjoints                                          I
1991       1729            2267            83          3901         7980
199Z      M186             2SZ9            80          4216         8463
esurce:  aourcwv IrI                                                        - -
abtem 5: Stroftu    ds mtres ew plg*sat gwm
_tmss FHMS                      2 Sexe        Structure par
age de  ltres
s%Wp6ants
C.E.P.T         33,83%           I,GS            34,8BU         S0 * 54,4X
Sam/44" D?27,401                  0,41X 21,81X                   31-40 33,6X
8.E.P.c         22,891           0,82Z           23,71x         41-4 4.31
2nt&1*re         10,791          0,28X           11,W          plu 46 0,27
SAC            2,49X           0.05X           2,54X        non connu 7,5X
Total          97,391           2.611            1001
surce   Enquhte        -§9               6XlO
Tabtem  6: Evolutfon des dip.we  at recettes de tsftat (Nflttfads de FCFA)
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Recettes on X du plb             6.2    7.7    9.s    9.7        10  .5
Racettes (Nlttiards FCFA 1989)                         28.7   30.5   32.9
06penses (en X du PIB)          23.1   32.7   35.1   34.5   34.4   34.4
Dip.r. (NItltfards FCFA 1989)                           102   107.8  107.9
Eart                                                  *73.3  -77.3    s75
TQbew r: PuFf    n     de lte fdu fIntermtnle  CNlNitara* di FCFA cawats)
Enseale de l'tade
1966   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Dom                     33.8   52.5   50.3   45.s   39.3   46.1
prts                     7.5      13   18.9      27   21.7   32.9
Total                   41.3   63.s   69.2   72.S        61      79
Secteur 6ducatlon                       7.21    S.98    7.1   8.23
TaMeau 8: owds  t teaires
1975   1976   1963   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
budet Rtat FCFA ceurAt*           19.2   21.3   32.6   33.5   34.6   35.2   25.4   25.8   40.9   40.5   46.8
E9c./Itat                         14.10t   5.30X  14.20C  11 .80   14.70X  14.40X  13.901  12.101  13.8OX 14.501  17.001
E*ic.Ipfb                          1.501  1.801  2.0x   1.40   1.sox   1.90s   1.40X   1.001X 1.80    1.7    2.20X
Salafres/budget iducatfan                         90.10X  89.101 82.M   89.10x  96.101  96.201 ss.801 0.81  89.601
bgt  prinfr.ddsetlan             s5.201 59.901 69.201             6.701    641 66.301  59.10t    47X 49.eo0  S1.0OX
snr: Cadre mcro-6conamlques de ta strtigle iueatlon foratton du Tobad (Jean Bourdon  t Fracois Onivet. webre 1991)



- 40 -
ANNEXK2
Page 3 of 8
rvau'            TAux          Eal ft6
Tam btrut de scotartetion (U)            moyen       d'atphabftfsat   d'altocatf
d'linstructi        Ion           an des
an                         resscues I
Priaslr        Secondutro   Sup6tieur
1980 1968  1990  1980  1988   1980 1988   1980   1988   1970         1985   1980  1988
furkin  heso   18      34    36   2.7   6.6   0.3  0.7    1.3    2.6        8          15  0.94  0.85
Tebad          36      51    57   5.1   6.2   0.3  0.5   2.S    3.5   11               23   ...   0.69
Malt           27      23    24   8.8   6.0   0.9  0.8   2.2    1.8         7          23  0.84  0.86
Nauritanl.    3T       48    47   11.0  16.0   1.4  3.1    2.9    4.1   14             28  0.85  0.76
Niger          2       30    29   5.0   6.6   0.3  0.7   2.0    2.3         4          22  0.90  0.85
Smn6gul        48      39    59   12.0  16.0   2.8  3.0   3.6    4.8    1t            32   0.7?  0.68
IabaL          32      41    42   7.4   9.7   0.9  1.5   2.4    3.2    9               24  0.84  0.78
Francophon.P   76      77   ...  20.0  23.9   2.2  2.6   5.9    6.3   21               50  0.62  0.58
AMta,ane'    73        72   ...  17.2  22.8    1.3  2.0   6.4    6.4    27             48   0.60  O.S9
par habitant   74      82   ...  27.0  34.4   4.7  5.6   5.7    6.7   ...              SS  O.S8  0.42
*1too        90      93   ...  35.9  39.5  12.8 15.4   8.3    8.5 I ...              78 1 0.41  0.33
Les dnAmes o osnt pas dispfnfbles
-cet lndi"cteur omntre to nivesu maan d'instruct10n (nombre d'anees) qu1 serait atteit par ta populatian
kInkg of tfs toux d'acebs et de ta a4rvf. resterafent aux nfveaux de memx observ6s an 1990.
* 'ni Coetftcient. Ce co effcient qu1 varne entre z6ro et en msure tlatlocatfon des ressorwes pawr les
diff6rents groupes de to populatfon. Ptus It est lev6, moins est Equitable cette altocatfon.
LOAM rque non-Sah 11enn



- 41 -                                 ANNEX 2Z
Page 4 of 8
i*In1tO: Ind1crteurs aaratifsd. fluw dw      l _ 1 ui      t t
__ __ _ __ _   Esignemon tpriiio         _ _ _ _ _     __ _    ___ _ _ _ _ _
Taux          Taux do       T_udo          AaMa          Taum do       Taux do
d'admission     survio h la   redoublot    cdoessal=       ttan         redoubleniat
fun du oycl                   pour un      pd*anl a
()                           (%)          9ozts*      sagondalt    (O
1980    1988      1988         1980   1988       1988       1980   1988  1980   1988
0+F C+? P F +P  P a+F 0+P                                   a+F 0+F G+F a+F
Iurikna P"o   22    36   28    60       71  17         17        9        21        33  14        19
Tohad         ...    54   39    32       24  ...       33        17       ...       40  ...       23
MaU           23           17    42      37  30        30        1S       42        44  35        33
Maitaide      35    48   41    74       59  14         20        9        39       26   8         17
Niger         30    3224    7S           ...  14       13        8        35        31  7         20
S6*dS         45    52   46    86        75  16        16        8        29        31  14        16
33   41    33  62         53  20        22        11        34       36  16         21
Afiiaue nn
Franoophone   80    78    6757           51  27        28        ...      ...       38  21        22
Anglophone    89    86    84  66         64   9        10        ...      ...       44  ...        5
Asio          102 104    86  60         ...  11        12        ...      ...       74...         ...
AzuAriquo
Ledn          138  137   145  44         47  14        11        ...      ...       71  ...
Se= uaEsw OflW of msta 
**.m -1 doun6C5 no sont pas disponibls.
O Garon         P    File.
Nombro moyen d'n&-evcs n saire pour qu'ua         complte I cyble pdraim
Tabla 11: CAN untaires eomparatf_
Rapport 64ve- =ttre              Salaire' de           CoOts unftatres/PIS par hWbftant
m_ itre/PlS p.h.    _
Priaimre       Secondaire   Prfmfire   Secondaira   Primfre      Secondaire   Tertfairf
1980  1988   19    1980  1988  -_           _ _          1980   1966  1980  1988  1960   1988
lurking faso  54      S7      S7  26       30      13          26       0.33  0.21   1.26  0.89  23.5   13.9
Tehad         ...    68       67  31       41      10          16       ...   0.15  ...   0.50  ...        8.0
NaIl          42      38      42  17       12      8           10       0.39  0.39  0.81  0.88  10.0    6.0
nauritanle    41      49      45  31       22      11          19       0.30  0.17  1.77  0.82   5.2    4.1
Niger         41      40      42  31       30      9           13       0.24  0.25  1.0   1.10  14.3    8.0
SEn6gas       46      51      58  23       23       9          14       0.26  0.15  0.72  0.33   5.0    3.3
Sahel         46      51           27      26     10.0        16.3      0.28* 0.22  1.15* 0.7S  11.8*   7.2
AfrIeu non-
francophone   47      49           36      29     5.9         10.2      0.14  0.12  0.57  0.45  6.5        4.6
Angtophona    40      37           23      22      4.8        10.0      0.12  0.13  0.7?  0.64   8.0       6.1
Asie          37      38           23      23      2.9         3.9      0.08  0.12  0.19  0.21  2.5        1.9
Am6rique
Lane         37      34           19      22     3.3          3.6      0.09  0.06   0.12  0.09  0.78   0.39
, -      .---   -                                - I
i O          d uqm OF b   p



- 42 -                              AN- 2
Page 5 of 8
Tablea 12: Tba d yves dana la ENI 10991-93)
__90       1991        19          1993
lIsthuters-Wjolntas    En fonotion al   159         120
Ondlce 460) lke aie el    En fonotion    330         263         250         2S0
bl          489         383         250         250
Ttl
2bneannie                           118         199         120         2S0
En fonotion a/   382         330        262         250
En fonction     500         529        382
b/
Sorte Instituteurs-djolnts   Total                    500         529         382
_Inlt -ldle. S60)                        154        277         100          0
3&me aunne /                        2SO          0          200         300
En foncdon a     404         277        300         300
En fonodon
bl
Sortie Institute         Total                     404        277         300
eect tal per an                         431        596         220          0
962        593         712         800
1393       1189         932         800
En fonedon sl
Sorte totale        En foncion                  904         806         682
doet wavaeu              hI                      632         330         462
recrutemtso_           Total
-                                        -- I  I  I
a/     En fontio: Monits ou inst_tut  djk on servic.
b/     Bikes roon & pstir du DEPEC ou du BAC pour devcn  enseinmut.
a/     Le remoou_ do 6odonwim en lre anne  a oto arnt en 1991.
dJ     La toismo aunne do formation ea a.At. en 1992. EU.l dok 6o remplacde par une annie do formation
pour lke bachel;eta.



* Sch6ma 1: VUE D'ENSEMBLE DU MECANISME DE PAYEMENT
/EMInistioede\                                     istredesFnanceGS                                    Finan r
dTAPE 1                                        ItTAPE 2                                        TAPE 3
Personneld                      Direction       _              Direcfion de  
Personnel                      du Budget                       rinfonna0que      I
rEriselgnement  11Controle                                    Direclion du Tresor  9                  
ElFmentalre                     Finander     l.1 
:tseworde                                                             .                         tBUT 
tEnsegnement                                                                                     O TCD 
E16menbtlre    &       .C                                                                             11
.  de l'Enseignement E16mentalre  
W~~~~~



i MINISTERE DE L-OLICATION NATIONALE 
ET DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT SUPtRIEUR
_             r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
co
It
M o 1
CD _ 
i Lo-                                              m      Eo



C'4 W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j. 4I
It 
|          ~~~~t    6                           :        
S3unN3*3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~* I;sm  ,  .
Gi  .I   .L  ., . j .        £ .       z131d4S13R
S3am23g   _                           . 
63U3~~~~~ UIq   wIuuI~~~~~~~~"WWI 1
am\                                          'I'                          Wig" SP AI
193 I3M3                     -*led  p noPi
GP   umi"PWM~~~~~~~~~~~~~muoiimaum&ws
i  |   _   , }                 |           _                ll           +alJ|1"~~~~~~~-J
1,   SIID !1 __   |    ¢- '111              S3w11OWL M S3O S3    !11   4      *@si



- 46 -
AM=E 3
Page I of 12
11zs x  ECM2
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT (EDUCATION V)
ANNUAL MONITORING INDICATORS AND LOGICAL FRAMEWORK
Annual monitoring indicators (p. 2) bave been developed in order to assess progms in the
implemenion of the primay education section of the ETE strategy and In related projec
activities. These indicators are based upon the Logical Framework (Cadre Loglqu) (pp. 3-12),
which was developed In a participatory workshop durlng project pre-appralsal, folowing three
regional stakeholder conferences.
The Logical Framework includes the objectives and outputs (part 1) and actives (part 2) of the
proposed proJect.
Part 1 (pp. 348) includes the following column:
I.             d         A summary of the genal objectives of the ptojec and of th
outpts of each component and sub-c   e;
2.        b:      Measum  (direct or nirect) to verily to what extet th objectves and
outputs have been achieved;
3.      sagua hor   of data neceary to verify the stas of the objective and
outt Inicats;
4.                         . Important eve, conditions, or decisions which must
prevail in order to aeve the read objective or output
Part 2 (pp. 9-12) includes the following columns:
1.    Ress:  The activities to be undertake  by th  project to support the related
outputs;
2.      Tas: The goods ad seces necsay to undertake the activities, including unit
costs;
3.     p:f.  The total cos of each componen snd sub-component;
4.    A        The skeholders who wlll be involved in each activity.



- 47 -
ANNE3X 3
Page 2 of 12
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT (EDUCATION V)
ANNUAL MONITORING INDICATORS
UNITE ..---..- ANNEE    -
1994      1995        1996       1997       1998
1.   Taux de scolarisation primaire    taux brut    61.7%  62.5%      63.3%      64.2%      65.0%
atteint 65% en 19981                       (616,000)  (643,000)  (672,000)  (701.000)  (732,000)
2.   La proportion des filles atteint    proportion    31%  32%        34%        35%        36%
36% en 1998
3.   La scolansation en nilieu rural   taux brut  51%      53%        55%        57%         59%
atteint 59% en 1998
4.   Le taux de redoublement baisse a  taux      30%       28%        25%         23%        20%
20% en 1998.
5.   1200 cohortes d'eleves de 55   cohortes     100       300        600         900        1200
chacune en double vacation en
1998.
6.   1700 nouvelles salles de classes   salles de  360      360        360        360        260
en priorit6 en milieurural (dont   classes  (180)     (180)      (180)      (180)      (80)
800 par le projet)2
7.   200 salles de classes rehabilit6es  salles de  0      60         60          60         20
en zones urbaines             classes
8.   780,000 manuels decoles sont    ranuels    312,000    468,000
distribu6s d'ici 1995
9.   10,000 guides d'enseignants    guide       4,000      6,000
distribues d'ici 1995
10.  Formation des nouveaux maltrcs  maltrcs    380        380        380        380        380
(dont 80% instit. adj.)3                  (305)      (305)       (305)      (305)      (305)
11.  Trois ateliers intdgrds pour  ateliers     3
1'6quipe nationale sont organis6es
12   60 ateliers integrds regionales  ateliers  60
sont organisdes
13.  1400 ateliers integr6s de base  atelierx              350        350        350        350
sont organisees
14.  90 6coles ont realise des micro-   ecoles   10        20         25         25         25
projets
15.  Systame de testing applique dans  ecoles              So                     100
100 ecoles (cumulatif)
16.  100 APE participent au        APE           10        20         25         30         30
programme d'auto-promotion.
I Effectifs entre parenthses.
2 Salles de classes financ6es par le projet entre parentheses.
3 InstituteursAdjoints entre parcnth6scs.



- 48                                             ANNEX 
Page 3 of 12
CAE LOGIQUB D PUR 
SOb6AM DU PR=                                      DICATEUS              VMCATION                II        EUlSONS
OUE .GENRAL                                                                                     ___________            .     _!
CoauntrI asilfa, lne bach do s poialam as ma  1.1. Taux d'ulpabda    1.1. Suisiqua du Mi-
lre d-dduca*o&                                    don augmyt.           sOtre du Ns.
AmdUoi qu au1dvea.T abt quaiha 1ws PdduMlo   1. Taux de satsa    Satsique du M U                 1.280 Poss badm nouvxu mm
de bas. avwac   _     to bm d u aL la vosldudas  p dmAl  mcils 6S5% a    ii Rappoa do Iowaspa.   &J_s. daMqu ase  au budt de r1'
di. fill...                                       1998.                  sIgns at a Dlitado psi.   mm_ta  ql  nne as wasy"   pau as
hcutoa te ldEdacati. de 500 miIo de FCFA.
2. Los parfomuus sco.                         2. Le mam som   p tmns ipayds.
lW     d  Oe . set t
amilard...                                    3. Les APE mums 60 noaveux
-a _ suse.
3. La prpoado de"
.~~~~~U  filsdm 36% ean
1998.
4. La scolasdon en
Mileu utd mn  59%
as 998.
.. Le Wum de gdoube.
m     baiasI&20%au
nivuns ninal ats 1998.
4. Lta clus  a d   au
mcm35% do.t ebts
waids .. 4sOl
. 1200 ocbo   d'61.
voa de55 cSasu. sO
n double vacato as
1998.
8. Le tai. dvem-
etmo  Lta rum
&Na aSmiiu aw s.!
*1.1   aumcne a35.                             _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _
RSSULTATS                                        T                        _
Composac no. 1:
Dlaqissw       de Ib'claeat amloda    de b qui de
I'c_eleu1.                                             _         __                             __
1. Amiloa qu v_ainsiiui Ile S h  bs-  1.1. 800 WnU Uaus  1.1. ippOta DPI,  l .t. Leti  pIqu. dett .   as-
saucoan adclaim.                                  do eIAs conAis as A_ace  d'dxdcAo              wad pw Wl  APE
pitdad on mili meu s
dam 1 p7d .W u
1.2.200 sais de 4asi  .  1.2. Idea              Lo gctwa affacw dos -s e
tAbms an so                                   bdgilsad_estaw  pbut a          on
usbla.                                        de aI udes  dccl..prln idsos
13. LaalOOOnflsdeo 1.3. Idea
clas. i6quipi a an
mobilescaclars.



|~~~~~~~~* 7                   '3#7i] is7   
g  F   F  r  g~ ~~Fl          a   [   i
I~~~~~ _
7~~~~  - i 7U j{8 P1    i  



- 50 -
.AN= 3
PqS 5 of 12
SOWA= Du PROW                                24IATEUUS            VEUVICATION                 HONSl
4. Ruhtwt rom*ane* to _Wos du emil   4.1. Tous In _M_MM  4.1. iMppomb M S,  4.1. La my   lepquui de l1.
ISM  we ViW  paw l'a-   et uppaa d'inaup*a   aimw SM pdh_nus uId. a n
^_w       ez4pdd*so4qu. a d cC             "as de fmautha
N  U  fin pW an.
4.2. Ls SNM. ME a   4.2. Idmm            4.2 La d 1atm  d'o!e umsut hut
CRFCeou d ei  d4ufe de ti1n   do mbes.
Cacnoga"aa teo*
4.3 e.t  2.00O din-  4.3. IdMm
NM d'dseha at So
indauplsnat ccausilh
sloweat d'6u 10h at a
dchnu d'_nadamag
des UNUM.aI



- S1 -~
ANEX 3
Page 6 of 12
SOMdMA5B DU  RO/EMT VIICATER                                          VW      ATION    H     YPIESVS
S. La.  atdud= 4.fiilstoaodat   sm auaamdo  5.1. ToutsIaAPI    5.1. Sww4m                   5.1      a onSp.mibb de GOvabWud.
MENFS.                                           me WAbS   4          MENE S.               pMa du bs"Ue.  mtabur kg ill
uoaipas 4. asbi.
S.2. Du,.. 4  se    5.2. Rappeis UNIC8F  5.2 Lm melmms _m a_waln do
bUieds au 4.. pochst et CPSF du MENU.    bdMflce de.1 b   ciatIo. de l0a.
W de phidoyer eon fa
var de ta cobesag
de11" I tul amOS&e
dtrIAud sx ewieia
ts, sscwu ntieunx.
pauoqadpoulique.at
taedIo=Uu, evas
53. N S ed dat                              5.3 1ve__SpLa msssms..pes   astiP
weu araii 4a  Ws                                c_nm    do _wmsl
decks am b peslipa-
tom de. poema d'dIsvd
J pautide 1994.
5.4. Dest afUcha pubcl.
due du"4 am diffasia
481994.
5.5. De adeiaso
et t*vg   w  op sd
ad " n    wUnae hb
5.6. La am  ' - eas-
du dm=." tjorusx
rsdnmux ot b pJsab
ma4e 4. Ia soaia-
don d.. fiLk tugmas.
5.7 Lea eeommenda-
dua de ri'de ouVl&
usawoS .s cu ot.
Compo..asno. 2:                                 L4a lldaIV  lole
P       _gr s mm. .dmeam  dba    a de PosIps a_sent moat ode-
mm dam   b dSa  o                                " vta I'amiasftaob
4. ta qwefde Psmsi-



-52                                            ANNE3
Page 7 of 12
SO _AA  DlU                                     I1NDtRS  ICATEM       VU5CAON9    m
6. Appuyu la AU       does du G s*w pdaeognt aas  6.1. 90idooM owE Naw  6.1. teppowt leNIS    4.1. La.OMMUzdaLt ss AI
au aikvau des docde.                            das aiwpeojeta.       DPIE                  sPPONIMlu  soas I uo d6vaelppso4 _
.MW
6.2. Loo taux de madad-  6.2 Idea           6.2. a y e un t mm ade d  emi-
sodon db we zoo.                            so"ts damte pow de ohageme,qua-
piVaal" .um a plus                           t     A am do flied
spidoMo qutu nivwsu
6.3 Le tuux de  dudj.   6.3. Mdm
blbmnw at dabwAdou
damnlszo,p1.
went qu'su aiveau in-
04.
6.4. LetauxdeWfEquaa  6.4. Id
tad= ar6mte-
cla Iall" augment.u
plus nmp_demn qu'eu
GVu  Godol.
7. AmdiTiom to qsys    dei aM du vesieaeu soIa,.  7.1. Sytla  de tud    7.1. Rappo  maWt
appqid da  100 dcc.  Is eonscm.
7.2. On dispose ds    7.2. dm
obitflh vod" eon 1996
7.3. Tom In rnal      7.3. Idea
i                                    _l~~~~~~~~~~~1141, "osOum pU
_asp.ste  et APB do 3
10~l00 ccacem as  do,
p - sow Wm-
aim 4. zdwlAMa.
7.4 Ls "4sg _as
qaplquen us acvuvs
rmu. pow amMer
low sad"o Pddapsiq..
7.5 Los h_peowu et
dispos  d-u mawvel
hnsuoat de a;i des
doce..



53                                         ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 12
SObGOA3B DU MOllY                               D4DICATES              VWICATION             HYPOTHDESSU PPO        ONS
2                                               SA 81. Togi4o 8.. bsAPEN  . l. Rayppit 0 4s.   8.1.L    t      ow adepdel.
(Iwadvo. gonio  a4vowiam Oraalc iasadcn-  poy6es ti"oe du                                    bilptit olew pa Is pMje
anlb).                                          lvwu d'slvWts (p... de
mi) cone paV do
awmbres.
8.2 Tou teas APB ou   8.2. dew              8.2 Le AM  danuz out b"oal
un ausmbls gdni                             d'.
83. Lee mniba de      8.3 RIpp d@e Il
100 buOu APB  nE    compome.
a'-
8,4. 100 APE onupatio
ctpd on ptpme
85. Le APB paipM
~~~~~~MIOiU .   l'            iede
C;onyeano . 3:                                                                   . 
9. Ronf     erUs   cuiede      et 4ioedpa  Au  9.1 Tt*s4   t ecs& au 9.1 RappsMD=S.   9.1. IA  eabUh 4dup eAsumdiff4zou
MENM S I tn UhS  Gu.                             MENUS eu wve  con-  DPEt U, CRC.             aivox one _"M
doMAin, do le pleac-
tic de l'6ducdoo.
9.2 L peaol dv        9,2. DISC
DPEeat ME (SO cadhe
au maine) en baen 
admlisatlon et Gesion
do rdduon. can
mownai as tazisique..
9.3 Ls toamlamo
-o" son dqpas
gain . plun mmr on
mm de chque 
.cwn
9.4  I    oM e ame "
de navazas do cams
acclaim.



- 5                                            A-NE
Page 9 of 12
UOSULTAUt                           MOYVNS            MMDgy: COUfS                     ACIjURS
Rdws No.l:                                                             12Smtt d   S
buoflhresodi_m                         i
1.1. Ccaduireum cawpspdepubUolu dutt u du  1. 1. Bmoumotduds.                               1.1. DPI. DEL OPEN.
pmjs  t h cos dalii.                              mos i   at "i4. *d-
Gl" dis tsjomsx
1.2 DPI. buw d'd&i. ONG. AP
1.2. Ccasuulzs des amweUes mile  c_os.          1.2. 800 .l1s de oti.                       eoe-prua_ puivds.
gssI 2,l00ndiUla
FMPA 1'u powI t4-
ONO APMONO t s
2.0 mOs PCFA
Vultd pou Ishk
sspf      PCPA.                             13. 14gm
1.3. Riablw  d mleus 4. classes.
13. 200 sasde ctas-
-s casblta6e 4 800.0.
Q00CA1aIue                                  1.4. Wm
1.4.  Edus muss sd  _4 u     mb&r.              tiys.                                                                .
1.4. L.OWasO_is qui-
pio & 56.000 PCFA Is                        I.$. API d ,aza. hm*lUW. dave.
1.5. habous I"s pegraumm d1casdes des lahasau-   oham.
Wm  dow    bsw  D OPN.
'1.. stpmasiss
pSsans d'amish
ddvelappdau eaws do
Prq* IV
I  _  _-_      _.-_        ___                                      _._ _.- II
1dvAt No. 2:                                                          6.6 mom $
Dowt ha deoks do mmtdsl dsep4qwon quah mW    -
2.1. DiggIbu*r  swmwass olsiz  vmPm-   2.1 M780.000 a            b                          2.1 DMw dlaasddems , mcle
qai osot a"   ha CPI at CP2 Pinga4 Catu, et          mm 1.00PCPA .                          dab 
Schm  idu CEI auC                               c   umisn...
22. Dlsbu  ha gudes do ash.                     2.2. 10.000 gI bde                          2.2 DPW. UNCE. PAM, Seotr
FCFA ta cd unka.
2.3. A_     1'Pat"    du mesel &dks s           2.3. 6.00 cnmum de                          23 API,DPbl, d&rAUS, fsnauts
pe6a500 & 6.0 FcipA
2.4. Ase qua to budo ct umlag es demel    2.4. b bdptdo  boun-
ndscko   to paumw   ab           isswi.         am  et iiellM     setwnke
du pea_in  _gate as
go" 200 mdilo is
FCFdA a998.
2.5. Cae et l_d. _cadoaats  omi sdpseAs
de gelo de ma%sI ddqm               Inr           __AL
dt_t*s No3:                                                           21 edtio  S
Fosmsidou df ilsm ses  dt i poaamis t4'ppal a es



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 12
3.1. Modl5o 1. .oitmdeo   int       e labthi an bngiw-   3.1 **quksadu&'                      3.1. MD=. C, DPEN. OFAP, W.
taut laeUer pour eu_  I_gUmw a#i. at nlam         i..
I' eeS  b fth mtion aa Mhht.
3.2. MEND. EN!. Sa".
3.2. Evah_  In prmoto de fima   des eui.
geat.                                            3. APPa Coopdttin
Ptqia.                                      3.3. Wom
33. W.abow dos nouvux urriculh do oratioa.
3.4 DPE, ?WIES.
3.4. Dowt bW   S E wov  meido p6daglque at dqui-   3.4 Squipme
peomet.
3.J. DEE. DPI. ENL
3.5. Fome In cdm 4o ENL                          3.5 finorm'  do oe 3
I VPqiWr 4. c "4f"                          34. DEU  OPEN, DPI.
du EN.
3.7 OPAP. IN  ISED.
3.6 Fomr ar phk ke adg de   DPAP. des OPEN   3.6 03) 3rAom Wi§gE
etdes CRIC et le maniet crer des &tilriurs Wdre 13  do  mumim a d16quipe
avaux.                                           utiooah a   350.0
FCFA PuiM; (*) 60
3.7. Mout aen ooauvre Us dabtu de I'PduW  do PNMD    stdimr. Isig  au l-
saut l pton des inim pdvds.                      ves prteotord b 2l20.0-
00 PCFA P'Uali; (ilb)
1400 atalers inigru eau
am 4ostde group*. dd6-
1o1es 127.=  PCPA
R"Mi    No. 4:                                                          0,9 .m11o  S
Amfore P00f4lcMd do Pe        aet de h Ut 
visio
4.1. AppUquerlet a.mA des cdas tdouble vnado.  4.1. Pounuin h oCWF                            4.1  INS. DPI, DEE, APEM  DPEC.
at muiged.                                       poe de aeubilhio
et de h do. I t'osos*
adn 40   let mlofri
de *maiaon e 4as mn*
co    eveeWs AP.
4.2 MENES, DPI, OPEN.
*.2. Coadule uw ca_pa   de esmibllsadso pout h  4.2. 34 umbykas pow
double vaodoo en milien mebsi at des auW_ mdgra_t   be Iapeedom 1275.0.
en miud nrml.                                    00 PCPA   Ali; 14
a  pow Ws DOPN -
taho de 605.000 PCFA
I1mkd. .obyluai
"CPA.                                       4.3. AENIS.
43. P Ibit Whirap it     X a I, C1I,S.u ClI I
pa 4i rari accm 19941199s.
4.4. Dor in cads des OPEN de oaM  d diph                                                      4.4. DPPI,  MN, DPEN.
Ri5ha No.5:                                                            0  adi11m s
LXa aooiWAdc.des diuos eUna d hyas tam  do
MENES..



-56-                                          ANN3EX
: Page 11 of 12
d   ,Bio                  .                                       .                 . 
5.2. ConduIbt usa dd XmoUMOnaM W  In &Mu    5.2 1Uo               dipa. UNCEF. MINE.1 OP. DP.M
doonouIuwia_ib I to mdoaIdons Idllb             cea .    .                                  APE.
5.3. Man. on osvei kho i dn '      de IEtodi    S.3. Sninlm.                                53. 1dm
.o.pMmaoi.o I Pat* de 1995 dana Ws pidtocm. au Ia
unJdotj   dua  to Mh quo 30%.                                  5.4. MNES, UNICEF. MAS, ODP.
5.4 Soemer us   onp   do I'bihsIn on  pIr-                                                 5.5. UNICEF,. PI. OPAP. OPF.
_m de t heladatia sdufili I pu* de 1994 4wI
bu do I'dto mN/UICF de 1990191.                                                             3.6. MINES.
5.5*. Orpbnl  do  "amie  tdslonx  we rioitr                                                 5.7. MENS.
de b  ma,hotio do filos
5.6. RUduW. lh f. desfoniuulbo dos .                                  ___s
RElmu  No. 6:                                                         0.2 MilOG. S
Appaet PA  ullatl  dos tmmtopjots p6d&#oAula sau
lm dod.                                            __ __
6.1. Soubgios et aulaul doe iso!. et do AFL    6.1. aussve   tebaique                       6.1. OPEN, AP  ONG.
6.2 DvdooppodoesIniohdIsdquM.3ddnaowA_     L    62. i#mpul  de                              6.2. DPEN. AP, ONG.
madL
63. AU.. tw  to pta..d de p_l.., 6obs at
AM.                                            46.3. 90 31batsu                             63. DPEN APF  ponnol d'opsf
30 nlmmun, 90                                _o
6.4.  headon du_pano da hot novolo bob-         ta., su. bank.
eiqm  t ilnbeod.                                                                            6.4. DEEL IN  DPEN, ONG.
6.5. Ivakior smua         I  ihoiw lw ocdo.tvIii
pE444"s.                                                                                    6.5. OPEN, APE. ONG. DPI DEL
A.6.  Blw amune-pgpo wbi _ *us mama Ibide                                                   6.6 DPE. DE,L ONG.
6.7. IIemem Uh API, ho ooftmm. luo
6A. Ohouto    oto two ho Gomosi=AWaom
do. dod, 4AVta OPEN.
6.9. Montr 1Iso.de Iwthoooodopsoo.we 
6.10. ApW&pwba dn4s_*
dim   to pta utp .__                                  _  _  _  _  _     _ _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _   _  _   _  _  _  _  _
lib    p. No.?:-                                                      0.9 viam  S
1.1.  wv roeqpmudonobowo pur!. toO.             72. ntwidd bM.                              7.1. DP, DEE DPEC.
EqlOsm"owdosabwg
7.. Appyms a mobd   ho odvki do soad.    _        an  duo.'un inadn-                        7.2. DPI. Ud 4 do P.*tp *bsWao
73.    u rm         de ai           sh o                                                    73. DPI. DPEN, DE APE
comoo6a m he owAW= de UWg.                      47.2. lwindS7. 7.4. DE, DPI, DPEC.
7.4. vuimrh bewlwspodoas  o  ho asvonts  73. 3 spi  do ME.
et    x do M)11.                                                                            7 o   7. DPW, Ss. dwhsdft
Comahaw DEE
7-. _oaa doe edm da to gysb  do .oad_ 



- 57 -
Page 12 of 12
Rdaat No.8:                                                               0  minon S
dalo atln. "apcb  d'AAt&tO.smod= du ANE
-,wm -ub odIOOh4OU, aipaosuac wImdoo.
=He).
8._1. Pomw ls umhmb  de biui du AM dam la          8.1. 100buaxdos                               8.1. DP.  PEN, ON AE.
dI In tAo  d * dSoIsoa. 1'otgauion inaitU    APW fm
donAs, et 1'auio.p .-                                                                            8.2. DPI, ON4, APE.
8.2. Conduit us ptsuSzm d'alhabduaion (ounto.   8.2. 100 moabt4d
uole pour In tniwb   de bwu do APE.                bucou d4  APB alphabI                         8.3. ON. DPI, DES, MEN.S.
daba avot I'appua des
8.3. Wwvopper ut ppuytr PI' ;soipo   ptivd.        ONG.
3.3 Appui PNUD.
Rdalta No. 9:                                                             0.6 mrios S
lotms bc capacW  de concAption et do geosdo du                            (PlAnadon et gao*o).
MENES a toWu ls  vux.                                                     2,0 mition S (e*xdu-
tkH Soead= 4"P -j
9.1. Conduim    kia4dataizdo aenA_dupoje   9.1. osgaimdlnd'aw                                    9.1. DPEN. DP, DEI, OPEC, ME-
-vx dlfdtLo   aiveaux.                             lmot de Jsos_  su                             NES.
mvoeu =mtow at c  wEo-
92. Anaoaiws to abnum  de Puoxduou du projo.       W.                                            9.2. DPEI MENES.
9.2. AsimAoStWo .                             93. DPIL
9.3. aiou ur deAd I'ow genioelo dui MENES.   quo 0TZ I cou  em.
9.4. DPIL  MINES  omlzn_
9.4. Ekbom  des pmoodduws pou taivi do ecMU        93. ocoamfu
b tosein et dee ecdvfta ea     ux aiwcal, pCE                                                   9.5  DPM, DPEN, AE ON   oC0ind
boo,l et sspldf*ctorel y conWia Is cooadbriao dos   9.4. 50 gem tdrmi.                          taa
9.6. DPEN, ON , DPI OPEC c,vede
95. Ekboroue syamo do saais deo besins on Sx.a.                                                  tAa
do" des    gemaSapdcto e_mo ban do planifi.
catIon.                                                                                          9.7. OPEN, API, DPIt, DPEC, DEE,
9A.~~~t
9.A  Eleoo us sytb  dacuwetoa d'utlaio
de l'pia      tut l   e bn kgaw b                                                               9.8. DPI, c_euitsL
9.7. Foemo 1l camdau MENS   laeodlnt amu
Mdvi dun esym  ddo=e_u ot sx aocetqaosd'nI
edan des gwup. at doft ealr.
9.8 Mro  r an piod us Sys*m  do gamin do infnr-
nadon ndod vont I goado  pbaniul des 3oe
9.9  1nato t qa   t raw do bduwo= ntaske
esb_~



-58 -                   ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 8
REPDl3LIQUR DU TCNW                       UNITE-TRAVAIL-PROG8
JIENI81TnlR DU PLAY ET DS LA COOPRUAZTON
DIRECTION  ME:NIEL
K@XL/MPC/DG/93                          N'DJam6na,le 1 9 AVR. s93
La Ministre du Plan et de la Cooperation
A
VnnAipur le Pr6.Wont de
l 'Association Internationals
pour le D4dveloppament
Washington , D.C.
Objet    :Lettre de Politique Educative
Mftronce :Projet de DMveloppement de l'Edueation Pondlamentale
-        (Education V)
1. La pr6sente lettre de Politique Educative indique les intentions
du Gouvernement du Tchad pour la mise en oeuvre dun projet
d'&ducation afin de rAaliser la strat6gie Education Formation
Emploi (EFE) d6finie par le Gouvernement et dans la continuit4 du
Projet de R&habilitation de V'Education. I1 visa & revitaliser le
sectu;r ot A l'engager dans una voie de d6veloppement durable par
1' amnlioration de la rentabilit& 6conomique et sociale des
investissements dans ce aecteur notawment ceux pr&vus dane le cadre
du projet de D4veloppemnent de 1 'Education Fondamentale. Ce projet
sara un projet d'investissament qui aurait une s6ri, dae mesures
politiques. L'objet des masures politiques adopt6es par le
Gouvernement vise A:
(a) augmenter ltallocation des revenus publics au profit de
I1 'enseignement l1flentaire;
(b) am6liorer l'efficacit6 de lutilisation deo ressources dange
1e secteur de 1'4ducation;                         s
(c) promouvoir la scolarisation des filles A tous lee niveaux du
systme 6ducatif;



ANNEX 4
59                        Page 2 of 8
(d)  promouvoir les initiatives priv6es et comuunatitaires en
4ducation;
2. Un des probl&mes lea plus s6rieux auquel eat confront6 le
Tchad dans ses perspectives de croissance Gconomique at sociale
concerne 1Q niveau bas de d6veloppement des ressources humaines
et en particulier le taux faible d'alpbab6tisation et la baisse
des indicateurs de qualith dans l'enseignement. Cstte situation
exige quo nos efforts soient abord6a de faqon nouvelle A travers
un ensemble de niesures qiui concernent la gestion du systtie
4ducatif. Le Gouvernement va accorder une prioritG & la
r6solution des problImes dana le cadre de sa strat6gie
sectorielle Education-Formation-Emuploi , et de sa strat6gie
g6n6rale pour le d6veloppezent futur du pays. L'ensaignement
primaire coonstitue la priorit4 de la politique du Gouvernement an
uati6re dt6ducation afin de jeter lee baBes de d6collage
6conomique du pays , et d'am6liorer la productivitd de la main-
d'oeuvre, l'&tat sanitaire at nutritionnel de la population en
particulier des groupes vuln6rables quo sont leas femes et les
enfants. Des actions seront notament entreprises pour renforcer
1la solarisation ffminine. Dans cette perspective une
augmentation du taux d& scolarisAttton primaire & 65% d'ici 1998
ast indispensable.
3.DAnA 1e cadre du ur2jet dg rhhabIitation_de 1'fducatian, le
*ntivornem,nt a mis en oeutre un certain nombre de mesures visant &
accro=xrqs iB- woe,at.i'iag  publiques  allou6es  au  secteur  de
l&clucarimiu   ,  tI azt&linrer leur etricuuIL4. COoct nlingi qua ]A
financement de l'4ducation par Il&tar qkd japr6contait la * du
budget de fu.i.tionnement, en 1998 est pass6 & 17% en 1991. Dans le
mTaue temps la part relative du budget ae l laiginent. prjanaire
dans le budget de fonctionnement de 1'6ducation a 6volu6 pour
atteindre 51% . Une exp6rimentation d'un easeignement en double
vacation a 6t6 mise en place dans 19 classes af in de dtterminer les
conditions op6ratoires par lesquelles cette organisation sera
6tendue & un nombre substantiel d'6coles urbaines. Lea classes
multigrades ont 6t6 6galement ftendues en zone rurale et
repr6sentent ,en 1991/92, 35% des classes rurales. Les initiatives
communautaires en matihre do cr4ation d'6coles n'ont pas 6t6
£rain6aa. T.°Ri c9imnunaut6s locales A travers lea Associations de
Parents dE31&ves (APE) prennent uu chargo 40% dog effectifs des
ens ignants. Par ailleurs, des mesures ont *t6 prises pour
ax6lio"'er la gostion du syst4me 6ducatif, nota3ent par la cr6ation
de N"lfctiong PrAfA-r.torojes de 1 Education Nationale on vue d'u ne
meilleure coordination des actions d1baucatiuls au itivoau rfa1inal
et  d'une  responsabilisation  plus  accrue  des  structures
decentrallw6as.
2



-60                          ANNEX-4
Page 3-caf8
. A1inI de conL2tMir leia d46,enses d'enseidnement suZM4rimer, l.
Gouvernement a Zis fin A 1'acoas automatique des bacheliers AL
l'tniversit6 en instaurant des tests et en faisant le recrutement
gur la base des places disponibles. Pour ajuster les effectifa par
filiftre, une politique d'orientation des 6tudiants veras les
enseignements soientifiques et techniques a fti mise en place. En
outre, les. bourses ne sont accord6es qu'& partir de la deuxidt
ann6e universitaire. Catte politique a permis de maintenir la
volume des bourses & des niveaux raisonnables.
S. >(esuras cii vQnt fttre primes pour 'A pfr,ide 1994-1928. En vue
d'am6liorer l'efficaoit6 de l'utilisation des ressources,
affect6as au secteur et de d6velopper l'enseignement primaire
quantitativement at qualitativement, le Tchad mettra en place les
aesures ci-apris:
6.AgerptiZe  lea   resgources   diRponi,bla. pour  -dve1o0p1r
1M'anaigmement nprimaire et aimfliorer sa Wuali,6t. En plus des
d6cisions prises plus ban pour mieux utiliser las ressources; le
gouvernement mettre ft la disposition de 1 'enseignement primaire laS
ressources suffisantes pour assurer son dAveloppement:
(a) un programe de construction de 1.700  salles de classe sera
r6alis6 de 1994 A 1998, soit 340 en inoyenne chaque annde. Le
rpnnurs gu partenariat de type ONG, AGETIPE, Association de
Parents d'Elivaa et  La parLiApation co2mrnlautaire, sera
renforc& en vue d'augmenter leas capacit6s de rOalisation aux
moindres coats et la qualitA d'ex6cution.
(b) le budget do matfriel et de fourniture scolaires pour
1 'enseignement primaire sera progressivement augment4 pour
atteindre 200 millions de FCFA en 1998;
ru') 3Z0 ;uaXtres au moins en moyenne seront annuellement form6s
dans les 6coles normales aL 200 ma±trea sprnnt nguvelleient
affect6s dans lea classes du primaire;
(d) un m6canisme sp6cial sera mis en place pour assurer le
paiement r6gulier des salaires des enseignants du primaire.
7.Amoliorer  1'efficacitA  de- l'utilisation  des  ressources de
l 1'&ducation.
(a) Mieux utilissr  le  bcaux 2t los anseirnantg du iriXair=. I..
eat observ6 au Tchad & la fois la situation dans laquelle le
mattre  n'a  en  charge  qluwi  petit  nombre  d'6l&ves
particuli&rement dans lea zones rurales d'habitat dispers4, et..:
la situation dans laquelle les classes sont tr&s charg0es
alors qu'il W'a pas At6 possible de satisfaire toutes los
demandes dinscription  . Pour la premiAre situation, la
constitution de classes ft plusicurs divisions continuera
..      d'4tre appliqu6e aussi souvent que possible. Pour la seconde
3



-61-                             ANNEX4
Page 4 of 8
la constitution de classes A double vacation (une salle de
classe pour un mattre et deux cohortes) sera utilis6e
progressivement dans les zones urbaines pour reprdsenter 1200
cohortes de 55 6l&aves chacuno an 1998. Ces deux mesures sont
de nature  A  produire  des  dconouies  subatantielles qui.
participeront au d4veloppement de la scolarisation du.
primaire.
(b)  R&MIre 1e rgdcubISSqnt _dana  lIaclasses -trimaireS. Le
Gouvernement  2ettra  fin  &  partir  daoctobre  1994  au
redoublement dans leas classes de CP2, CEl at C4l ; et r6duira
seuisiblemont le niveau de redoublement dans les classes de
CP2, CE2 at CM2. Lea  4voes s8ront suivis & l'int6riour dfun
meme sous-cycle (CP1-CP2; CE1-CE2; et CM1-C02) .par le mom.
enseignant.
(c)  i2.nrm r la_.fomation des maitres de lIeDsoianoMent rringirm.
13 a 6t4 constat& dans Le diumina do la forniatig  dee maltres
qua lee programmes, les d6marches m6thodologiques mises en
oeuvre, ainsi que les sch6mas utilis4s devaient *tre revusR
afin d 'assurer une meilleure pr6paration des ensaLgnants ft
l'exercice de leur amtier . Dan  le domaine do la formation
initiale, il a 6t6 convenu d4' introduire Une reforme ayant pour
objet de corriger la pr4dominance thforique, en centrant la
formation Gur la pratique du m6tier, notamment an diversif iant
leas stages dans les 6coles et en augmentant la dur4e de ceux-
ci. Dans le domaine de la formation continue, il s8agit de
renforcer les actions de formation d6centralisfes, conduites
prAs du lieu d'exercice des maitres , toujoours plus eff icaces,
et & cat offat d'amnliorer la formation des formateurs d4
terrain et d'accrottre leurs moyens d'action. Dans certaines -
limites, la comp6tence d I un maitre de 1 '6cole primaire dMpond
plus de la qualit& de la formation reque quo du niveau
acad4mique de son recrutement. En cons6quence le recrutement
des elaves mattres se fera dans toutes les ENI sur la base de
80* instituteurs adjoints et de 20% d'instituteurs.
S.d&4ption de dispositions visana t aacroitro la saolarisation
(a)  la scolarisation des filles sera renforce par des mesures
appropri6es notamment dans les zones rurales oL ltinrgalit6
d'acc&s A l'6cole pose des problmaes;
(b)  r6alisation d'une 6tude proposant des solutions r6alistes A
mettre on oeuvre pour am6liorer et renforcer la
scolarisation des filles & tous lea niveaux du syst&me
*ducatif.
(c)  cr6ation d'une cellule rattach4o au cabinet du Ministre et
charg6e de promouvoir la scolarisation des filles;
4



ANNEX 4
-62 -Page5 f 8
(4)  introduction dans les programmes de formation initiale et
continue des enseignants de modules d'information et de
sensibilisation ourl'importance de la scolarisation des
f illes;et
(e)  Camp9gnQ nationala de snsibilisation our IfimportAnce de la
scolarisation des filles.
Os Favariggr, le, fty.212229ant-de 1 'anuaiqnoint. nrv6. ftt
encourAggr log initiatives -locales _an MatiAre d'6ducatL2n.. Vans lo
cadre do la strat6gie g6n6rale du TccLaLd pour le d6voloppement des
ressources humaines, at ou 6gard aux contraintes budg6taires gui
pAsent sur le secteur , des 4tudes seront rdalis4es en vue
d'arrAter les mnesures susceptibles d'aider le d6v4loppezent dU
secteur privd. Las coamunaut6s locales, en particulier les APE
jouent un r6le d4terminant dans le fonctionnement du systfte
6ducatif du Tchad. Le Gouvernement pense que cet of fort qui east
indispensable & l'efficacit6 du systAme 4ducatif, uirite d'&tre
soutenu. Dans ce cadre, our la base de critbres qui seront
d6t*rmin&s par le Ministbre de 1'Education Nationale, los &colas
communautaires (dites 6coles spontan6es) pourront b4n4ficier du
prograrme de cantines scolaires finance par le PAM.
lO.Le Gouvernement est convaincu que llensemble de ces mesures
conjugu6es aux investissaments oenvisag6s dars le cadre du projet de
l flveloppement de 1' Education Fondamentale aidera & faire 4voluer le
syctbme &ducati f tchadien dans le sens dIune plus grande efficacite
et d'ur1e plus grand. &quit,,ainsi que d'une pertinence accrue pour
le d6veloppement social et 6conomique du pays.
tt MAHaMT SALE
.~~~~~~~~~



- 63 -
Page 6 of 8
REPUBL1C OF CHAD
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT (EDUCATION V)
LErM2R OF EDUCATIONl DEVELOPMENT POLICYI
This letter of Education Policy confirms the Government of Chad's intendons to put
in place an education project in order to realize the development strategy defined in the sector. This
project subscribes to both the Education-Training-Employment (ETE) strategy defied by the
Government and the direct continuation of the Education Rehabilitation project. It aims at revitalizing
the sector and engaging it on a sustainable development path for the improvement of the economic
and social retns on the investments in the sector, notably those foreseen in the scope of the Basic
Education project (Education V). This project will be an investment project which will include a set
of policy measures. The objective of these policy measures adopted by the Government will aim at:
(a)   increasing public expenditures on primary education;
(b)   applying efficiency measures in primary education;
(c)   promoting girls' participation in primary education;
(d)   promoting the expansion of private and community initiatives in education.
One of the most serious problems with which Chad is confronted with regard to
economic and social growth concerns the low level of human resource development, particularly the
low rate of literacy and the drop in the education quality Indicators. Ihis situation requires that our
efforts be concentrated on the essential, and that the problems be tackled in a now manner through
policy measures concerning the management of the education system. The Government places
priority on the resolution of these problems in the scope of its sectoral Education-Training-
Employment strategy, and in its general strategy for the future of the country. Primary Education
constitutes the priority in the Government's educational policy in order to lay the foundation for the
country's economic development and improve the productivity of the labor force, the sanitary and
nutritional state of the population, particularly the vulnerable groups-women and children. Actions
will also be undertaken to reinforce girls' education. With this in mind, a 65% primary education
enrollment rate by 1998 is indispensable.
Measures alraytake
In the scope of the Education Rehabilitation Project. the Government implemented a certin
number of measures aimed at increasing the public resources allocated to the education sector, and
improving their efficient use. As a result, education financing by the Government, which represented
12% of the Government expenditures budget in 1988 increased to 17% in 1991. During the same
time period the primary education's share of the education operating budget reached 51%.
Experimentation with double-shift teaching was put in place in 19 classes to dtermine the operating
conditions by which this organization can be expanded to a substantial mmiber of urban schools.
Multigrade classes were also expanded in the rural zones and in 1991-92 represented 35% of the rural
classes. Community initiatives in the creation of schools were not slowed. Local communities have
employed and maintained 40% of primary teachers. In addition, measures were taken to improve
1.    This is an unofficial translation of the original French document.



- 64 -
ANNEX4
Page 7 of 8
the management of the education system, notably by the creation of Prefctural Delegtio  for
Education with a view to better coordination of educational performance at the regional levd, and
to reorce responsibilities of the decentralized units.
In order to contain higher education costs the Government introduced admission tests which
are scaled according to the number of places available. To adjust the number of students by fields,
a student orientation policy towards scientific and technical instuction was put in place. In addition,
the scholarships are not given until the second year of university studies. This policy allowed the
volume of scholarships to be maintained at a reasonable level.
Measures taken for the period 1994-1998. With a view to improving resource use in the
sector, and to qualitatively and quantitatively develop primary education, Chad wiUl implement the
following measures:
Increase the available resources to develop primary education and im=rove its qaity. In
addition to the decisions taken to improve resource use, the Governme  will make sufficient
resources available to primay education to ensure its development:
(a)    a construction program for 1,700 classrooms wiUl be completed between 1994 and 1998, an
average of 340 each year. The construction program will be delegated to a contract
management agency (AGETIPE). NGOs, Parents' Associations (APE) and communities
participation partnerships will be reinforced with a view to increasing their capacities,
reducing costs and improving construction quality;
(b)   the material and primary school supplies budget for primaq education wfll be progressively
Increased to reach 200 milion FCFA in 1998;
(c)    on average, at least 380 new teachers wiUl be trained annually in the teacher training colleges,
and 280 new teaching posts wfll be added annually to the Government's primary education
budget;
(d)    a special mechanism will be put in place to assure the regular payment of the primary
teachers' salaries.
Increase the efficiency in the use of primary teachers and classrooms.
(a)    Utilization of the classrooms and primary teachers. It has been observed in Chad that in a
situation in which a teacher is in charge of a small number of students (which is most often
the case in the rural zones with their dispersed settlements), or in a situation in which the
classrooms are overcrowded, it is still not possible to satisfy all the enrollment demands. For
the first situation, multigrade classes continue to be applied as often as possible. For the
second, the composition of the double-shift classes (one classroom for a maitre and two
groups of students) will be utilized progressively in the urban zones to reach 1,200 cohorts
of 55 students eac by 1998. Ihese two measures are of a nature to lead to substatial
economies which will aid in the development of primary education.
(b)    Reduce the repetition rate in primary classes. The Government will abolish, as of October
1994, repetition in gades 1, 3 and 5; and will reasonably reduce the level of repetition in



- 65 -
ANNEX A
Page 8 of 8
grades 2, 4 and 6. The stdents will be taught by the same teacher throughout the same
cycle (1-2; 3-4; and 5-6).
(c)    Reform primary education teacher training. It has been established in the pre-service teacher
traning system that the programs, methodological steps implemented, and the plans used
should be reviewed to assure better preparation by the teachers for real classroom situations.
With regard to the pre-service taining, it was agreed to introduce a reform having the goal
of correcting the theoretical predominance and concentrating on the practical aspects, notably
in diversifying the field training in the schools and increasing their duration. Concerning in-
service training, it is necessary to reinforce the actions of decentralized training, conducted
near the teachers' work environment which is always more efficient, and to this end improve
the training of the trainers and increase their means of action. Within etain limits, the
competence of a primary school teacher depends more on the quality of the training received
ta on the academic level at recruitment. As a consequence the recruitment of fiture
teachers will take place in all the ENI based on 80% futdtewes adjoins and 20% iftweurs
bacdiers.
AdQoin of provisions aimed at increasing girls' education:
(a)    girls' education will be reinforced by appropriate measures notably in the rural zones where
inequality of access to schools poses problems;
(b)   realization of a study proposing realistic solutions to be Implemented to improve and
reinforce gids' participation in education at all levels of the education system;
(c)    creation of a unit attached to the Minister's office and charged with promotion of girls'
education.
(d)   inoduction in the prservice and in-service teacher trauiing programs of modules of
information and sensitivity training on the Importance of girls' education; and
(e)    a national sensitivity campaign on the importance of girls' education.
Eage Ura tiatives in the grovision of education. In the scope of Chad's general
strategy for the development of human resources, and considering the budgetary constraints which
weigh on the sector, studies will be undertaken with a view to adopting the measures to help the
development of the private sector. Local communities, particularly the APE, play a determning role
in the fuctioning of the educational system in Chad. The Government believes that this effort, which
is indipnsable to the efficiency of the education system, deserves supports. In this scope, based on
criteria which will be determined by the MEN, community schools (called spontaneous schools) could
benefit from canteens financed by the PAM.
The Govermment is convinced that the whole of these measures combined with investments
envisaged in the scope of the education development project, wiUl help the Chadian educatlon system
develop more efficiency, more equality and a relevancy to the social and economic development of
the country.



- 66 -
Page 1 of 12
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT (EDUCATION V)
INFRASTRUCTURES SCOLAIRES
1.1     bi. L'objectf du gouvernement est de faire passer le taux brut de scolarisatlon de 59%
en 1991 k 65% en 1998 en m8me temps quo d'amMliorer la qualitd de l'enseignement primaire.
1.2    D       . La situation actuelle est caractrisde par un manque et une utlisation irrationnelle
des locamx, et par des btiments dont la durabiite est tres prdcairs.
1.3   Dams les 2.973 eciles publiques, priv6ee et spontandes rdprtori6es au Tcdad, 525.164 eleves
sur une popuation 884.000 enfats de 6-11 ans (soit 59%) sont rEpartis dans 7.690 saUes de classw
(soit 68 elbves par classm).
1.4   Le nombre   uffi   de sales de classe condutd ratioas trop 6leves dans les zones
urbaines - atolgnt 90 at 180 eleves par salle de cdasse - tandis quo dans les zones rutales, lornque
1'ecol existe, les salles de classe sont souvent sous-utilisdes. Actuellement, soulement 0,4% des
ciasses fonctionnent en double vacation dana les centres  forte concentration de population.
1.5   Le patrimoine so carmctrie par sa precitE, sa vdtu  et son mnavais etat. La plus grande
partie (73%) des 7.690 safes do classe ont une durde de vie reduite. Ces classes comprennent 4.228
classes en matriax vg&taux *Secko" (soit 55%), et 1.428 classes en terre (soit 18%) ont une dure
de vie nexc&dant pas cinq (5) du fait de l'absence de pr6cautions techniques suffisantes durant la
construction. Ce patrimoine eat d'autant plus precaire quo, mane parmi les ecoles en dur et en semi-
dur, 25% et 35% respectivement est en mauvais etat, et n6cessite des rEhabilitations etlou des
reprions impores.
1.6   Letat des  Istctr  dans une stuation prboccupante est essentiollement k mettro au
conmpte du processus de rEalisation actuel des ecoles primaires qui restm principalement de la
responsabilitedes communauts et des associations de parents d'eleves (APE). Celles-ci ne disposent
g6n6ralement pas de l'ensemble des moyes techniques ou fnanciers necessaires I une bonne rdulisa-
tion. Le probleme qui se pose se r&umo donc I la queston de savoir comment promouvoir et
valoriser les Iniatives c.ad. comment aboutir I des rdalisations de moilleure qualit6 et pour un coOt
qui reste acceptable (pour les communaut6s et pour le Gouvernement).
1.7    E XD          du guatdiem poe dducation (Credit 1950-CD). Les opEations conduites dana
le cadre du 4eme Projet d'Education montrent clairoment leurs limits - coQts de realisation, frais
dencadrement inclus, variant de 4 & 5 millions de FCFA par classe, faible contribution des
communa_s de 1ordre de 5% du coOt. Par ailleurs, les faibles r6sultats obtenus sur le plan
quanatife certanes aberrations concernant l'echelle et la localisatlon des interventions conduisent
I enmer une evolution sensible au procossu de rEalisatlon qui devrait se traduire par: (a) un
ddsengaoment de l'Etat du procssw de production et de gestion, (O) une programmation fin. des
interventions delgues an niveau local, et (c) une meilleuro coordination des projets appuyes par
divers sources do financement.
1.8     tmon des bsom  natonaux.   objectif d'accroissemeont du taux de scolarisaion
implique:



- 67 -
ANSX
Page 2 of 12
(a)      la rdlisation d'environ 1.700 salles de classes nouvelles sw la periode (93-98) - soit
un accrobsement denvmron 340 classes par an;
0b)      le remplacoemen   moyen terme de 4.746 classes; et
(c)      des mesures pour rdparer et entrtenir le patrimoine existant.
1.9 Les tableaux prdsentds ci-dessous sont basis sur l'bypothtse quo 1.200 cohortes d'dlbves de
55 chacune seront en double vacation en 1998, dam les zones urbanaines et 35% des classes en
mileu nrual seront multigrades. Les calculs oat aboutit I la adcessitd d'envisager la construction ou
la reconstruction d'un total d'environ 6.950 silles de classes (dout 4.750 reconsructdon/rem-
placement) sur la p*iode.
Prefecture     Effec-   Effec-    Crofs.    Taux    Oescola-   Ses-   Pro-    Pro-    Pro-   Reste  8101-
tif      tif     anmuetle    brut    rfsatfon    oIns    jet    ject      Jet     a      OD
1990-91   1997-98     en      1990-    1997-98   clas-  IOA-5   IOA-4    ONG   faire
X        91        en       ses
en        X
1-                       --        - -        - -             -       -      -                   -      -     -x .....,_,.... ___I
CHARI-SAeJIRMI    89.019   12Z.182      4,5     64,7        71,2    345    147        61      117      0
NAYO-KEEBI      08.892  121.009        4,      ,64,0       70,4    290    148        26     116      0
NOMEl CtARI     92.664  120.436        3,8    87,9         92,3    404    158        67       0    179
TANDJILE       47.326   61.497        3.6    78,0         81,9    284    238        16      30      0
IILGOE OCCIDEHtAL    68.787   E4.900      3.1    115,3        115      84       0       30      30     64
LOGONE ORIENTAL    61.332   76.Z83       3,2    99.5        103.3     86       0       26      30     90
SALAJAT        10.147   17.580       8.2    47,5         66,5      78      70       a       0       0
OUADOAI        10.227   17.719       8,2    14.9         20,9      63      31      24       8       0
UATHA         8.456    1.651       8,2      12,0       16.8      24       0       1S      9       0
LAC           6.412   11.109       8.2     24,5        34,3      28       0       28       0      0
SET           6.221    10.778      8.2    35,1        49,1        0       0       0        0      a
OILTIHE        2.890    5.007        8,2      8,2       11.5       l8       8       2       8       0
GUERA         25.090   34.155       4,3    60,4        66,4        0       0       0       4       0
KANN           7.686    13.317      8,2    19.3         27,0       0       0       a       0       O
Encore A distrl-                                                                                              510
buer
S25.164   709.6Z3     84.8    S9.3       6",8    1?04    800        323     352    333      S10
TOTAL
-            -_        -      .  -,.      -          _               m       -_  _           -
o table tiet compto:
-    des classes en double vacation vacadon et des classes multigrades oh ces solutions sont poasibles.
(Au total 1200 cohortes deront en double vacaion en zone urbaine en 1993 et 35% des classes nuales en multd).
-     De la colonme "projet ong" qui comprend: 47 sdcl projet suisse (mlk), 90 sdd projet fed-aidf (cb), 81 sdcj projet fed-acra
(69 mk+ 12 cb), 81 sdl projet world vision (30 tj+30 1.0c+30 1.Or), 44 sdcl secadev (1S cb+ 8 ou + 4 gu + 8 bi).
- De la colonne bid/bad qui comprend 210 sdcl sur financement bad, pr5vues pour le bet, et +/- 300 stdl financ.id.
1.10   Pour l'estmaton des besots de chaque prEcture en matiere de construction de nouvelts
sales de classe les ob3ectifs suwhants daugmmont   du t     de sulargon ont ete uttlisds daus les
catculs:



- 68 -
Page 3 of 12
(a)     augmention de 40% du taux de scolarisation dans leas prefectures oh le taux brut
actuel se situe en-dessous de la moyenne nationale de 59%;
(b)      augmentation de 10% du taux de scolarisation dans les prefectures oi le tU  bt
actuel se situe entre 59 et 69%;
(C)     augmentation de 5% du taux de scolarisation dans les prefectures oit le taux brut
actuel se situe entre 70 et 89%; et
(d)     maintien du taux de scolarisatlon dans les prefectures ot le taux brut actuel est Ega
ou supdrieur a 90%.
1.11   Strg   L'evaluation des resultats du quattibme projet permet de tirer des legons. Les
failbles rdsultats obtenus a l'occasion du programme de construction de salles do classe, tant sur le
plan quantitatif que pour la reduction des coats unitaires, impliquent un changement radical. 11
convient notamment de bien centrer le r6le de l'Etat et de modorniser les modes d'execution. Cola
signifie de:
(a)     Desengager l'Etat du processus de construction, en deldguant la mattrise d'ouvrage,
et y en associant lorsque possible des ONGs et le secteur prive.
(b)     Promouvoir les diverses initiatives des collectivites locales et groupements assoctia,
en leur apportant les appuis techniques et financiers necessaires pour consolider leurs
efforts d'investissement.
(c)     Adopter pour le projet des procddures de passation de marches simplifiees avec des
contr6les I posteriori.
(d)     Promouvoir un nombre lime (3 b 4) de boas modetes do construction, simples,
Economiques et deja Eprouves.
(e)      Renforcer la coordination entre les projets appuyEs par diverses sources de
financement.
1.12   L'lntervention du projet s'opErera en appui I des initiatives des communautEs et APE-on
veillant I respecter les nores et criteres Glabores au niveau central, et selon une programaon
etablie au nivesa dcentralise par les Inspections d6partementales (DlWgations du MEN).
Deu filifres d'lintervenulons sont prEvues:
(a)      Jntervention d'ONG
- Pour les Ecoles existantes ayant dEja fait la dEmonstration de leur soution I lecoloe (pis en
cbarge des salaires des mawtres, construction de classes etc..), et pour les zones oi lea popula-
tions sont dEja engagees danm dos opEraions communattaires avec l'assistance d'ONG, mais oh
I'Ecole n'avait pas encore et6 percue comme une prioritr, le projet fiacerait ls travax
confles k une ONG 4 concurrence de 90% des tavau. Les communautds mobilsant ou justi-
fiant de contributions oxprim6es sous forme montaire ou soUs la forme de tavx   additionnds
d'amEnagement de ldcole Oatrines, cloture, logement, puits, etc..), et 5'eegageSIt a prendre
en charge l'entretien des locaux et du mobilier.



- 69 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 12
(b)      REalisation I Ptrendise avec sUpDrsion     Bureau d'dtes ou ONG.
-   Cette fonnule tres conventlonolle reprEsent le schema utiise par le quatrieme projet avec les
Volontaires.
SM. Toutes les filieres devraient inclure: (a) la selection et la diffusion de solutions architecurales
et techniques simples adaptees aux contextes locax, et dEjk eprouvwes;
1.13 La rdduction des cofits sera obtenue grtce a: (a) la dEfinition de solutions techniques simpiles
basees sur les pratiques habiuelles deja dprouvEes, et restant adaptes aux possibtiis locales, Ob) la
definition d'un nombre limit de modbles d'ecoles correspondants aux particularitfs regionales et (c)
radoption de procedures de suivi et de contr6le simplifiees, reduisant les besoims en encadrement.
1.14   L'amzlioration de la qualitd des travaux sera obtenue par: (a) une supervision durant les
phases critiques de construction (soubassement, magonnerie, toiture); et (b) la prise en charge par le
projet des sur-cots engendrEs par le respect de normes techniques.
Progmme de monsron rEvu sur le =ijet oDs
1.15  Implantation gdogaphique du projet (voir tableau ci-apres). Le projet propose prevoit
d'intervenir dans 7 rEgions no bdficiant pas dejk d'une aide importante d'autres bailleurs de finds,
o. les taux de scolaisation sont les plus faibles, avec une forte concentration dans 4 regions.
Is projet prvot:
(a)     la construction dt 00 nouvelles salla de classe en zone rurales et urbaines qui
pormettent d'obtenir l'augmentation du nombre de classes escomptd, et en intervenant
en prioritedan les Ecoles pouvant offrir un cycle complet ot les mesures d'efficacite
sont appliquE. (classes muldgrades en zone rurale et double vacadion en zone
rurale);
(b)     la rehabilitation de 200 sals de class. dont les travaux seraient necessaires pe
I'introduction ou le mainten de la double vacation.
(c)     l'amEioation des conditions d'enseignement par la fourniture et le remplacement
des equipements et du mobilier-et en Incitant I la realisation de latrines, clOtures et
I I'amenagement de l'espace des ecoles concernea par le projet.
1.16   L'application des crabrea d'Eligbibite (voir crtbres ci-apres) conduirait  invenir en priorite
dans les zones rurales ol il seait possible de normaliser les Ecoles exises; consistant I obtenir des
ecoles de 3, 6 ou 12 salles de classe-selon le nombre de la population scolarisable. Dans les zones
urbunes le projet supporterait uniquement les besoins en construction de nouvelles salles de classe
pement d'a _r la capacite d'accueil des dcoles ayant adopte la double vacation.
1.17   Les autes besoins de travaux de rebabDitation et de remplacement do sales de classe
ndcessaires pour  antnr le nombre des infrastructres exitantes seraient couverts sur d'autres
sources de financement Chaque annde un examen conjoint serait effectue pour s'assurer du
finan cment des travaux de rehabilitation et de remplacement. La mise en place de ces financements
serait une conditionde d4boutsement du programm de construction de nouvelles salles de classe pour
l'anade suivan  prdvu sur le projet.



- 70 -
ANEXS
Page 5 of 12
1.18 Responsabilite de mise en oeuvre. Le programme de construction sera realise en s"appuyant
pour la conduit. des opErations sur le dynamisme des association de parents d'e1aves (APE), les
ONGs et le secteur prive. II est congu de manijre I limiter les besoins dencadrozment technique et
de supervision du MENES. Deux filieres out Et reteaues (voir la note ci-apres intitulee iFilires
de realisation). La mise en oeuvre des operadons devrait passer par les phases suivantes:
(a)  L'informadonlsensibilisation des communautds et des ONGs par lea inspections sur lea
posslbilitEs de soutien offertes I leurs initiatives;
(b) La validation des micro-projets par les Inspections primaireos et services d6centralises de
planification, aboutissant I la signature d'une convention entre I'agence d'execution et les ONG
opErant pour le compte des communautes et/ou APE;
(c) Pour la filiere "intervention d'ONG": (i) la mise 4 disposition d'un guide de construction
(catalogue de plans-ypes, fiches techniques, quanttatif/estmatf, modUles de convention et de
contrat); (ii) l'assistance d'une ONG pour la prdparation du projet, la definition du micro-projet,
at la mise en oeuvre des operations; (iii) la preparation et l'agrdment d'une requfte en vue de
l'obtention d'un appui I leur projet; (iv) la passation par l'ONG d'un contrat avec une petite
entreprise ou un artisant; et (v) le rbglement I I'ONG par l'agence d'ex6tion des subventions
versees par tranches successives-correspondant I lavancoment des travaux;
(d)  Pour la filiere Rdalisation des travaux rEalisds a l'entrepris. superviss par un bureau d'udes
ou une ONG': () la mise a disposition d'un guide de construction (catalogue de plans-ypes,
fiches techniques, quantitatiftestimatif, modeles de convention et de contrat); (ii) la dEsignation
d'un bureau d'etudes ou ONG pour la preparation du projet, la defin*ion du micro-projet et la
supervision des travaux; (iii) la preparation et l'agrement dune requite en vue de l'obtention
du projet rEalisE par lAgence d'Exdcution pour le compte de la communautA ou APE; (iv) la
passation par l'Agence d'Execution d'un contrat avec une entreprise; (v) 1'exection des travaux
I 1'entreprise; et (vi) le contrOle technique periodique effectu6 par le bureau d*Etudes ou l'ONG;
(e) La supervision globale effectude par I'Agence d'Ex6cution" dEsignEe a cet effat par le
MENES, et agi8sant en tant que *Maltre d'Ouvrage DelguE";
(i) Au niveau local, les collectivites (municipalitEs, communautEs rurales, APE, associations) se
chargeront de mobiliser ou justifier de leur contribution, et les moyens necessaires I l'exdcution
des travaux solon la filiere choisie;
(g)  Au nhveau dEcentralis  (prEfecture et Inspections): Les Doldgations du MENES, les
ispecteurs at les mattres seront charges d'informer les coilectivitds locales des appuis dont elles
peuvent bUndflcer et des crites d'Eligibilit6. Les DElUgations du MENES, qui pourront
bEneficier le cas Echdant d'assistanco, seront charg6es d'Etablir une programmation prEvision-
nelle annuelle en fonction des critbres de carte scolaire et de priorits degagEes localement;
(h) Au niveau central: La Direction de la Planification, en liaison avec les inspections, elaborera
et diffusera les critbros de carte scolaire et assurera la coordination des programmes annuels.
Cette Direction diffusera les normes techniques et s'assurera quo les moyeos en place permten
de garantir la qualite des travaux et le respect des normes;
(i) Tenant comptw de l'expdrience du 4bme Projet et dans la poursulte des Evolutions recherchees
pour accdlErer la mise en oeuvre, une partie des responsabilitds de Is maltrise tdouvrage sera
dElguEe a une entlt6 indEpdante qui aura pour mission de: (i) coordonner et donner les



- 71 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 12
agrements au ONGs qui op4reront en collaboration avec les collectivites locales; (iV) gerer les
conventions passdes avec les communautds etlou ONGs; (iii) s6lectionner, passer et g6rer les
contrats avec les prestataires de services, les fournisseurs et les entrepreneur, et (iv) effectuer
les palements.
1.19   Coat de la composante. La revision des standards et du processus de mise erc oeuvre et de
suivi des operations permet d'obtenir une r6duction sensible du cost unitaire par salle de classe. Les
coQts unitaires varient de 2. 100.000 FCFA pour les classes qui seront rEalisees par les APE avec le
concours d'une ONG I 2800.000 FCA pour les classes qui seront r6alis6es par de petites
entreprises-non compris les coats de supervision et de gestion. Ces coOts unitaires sont I comparer
aux coats des travaux realises durant l'execution du 4ibme projet-variant de 3.600.00 a 3.900.000
FCFA par classe pour les realisations actuelles. La rEduction escompt6e se justifie par la
simplification des modeles du catalogue, la simplification des procddutes et la rapidite des paiements
de l'Agence d'Execution. ls sont comparables a ceux obtenus par des projets similaires au Tchad.
La composane construction de 800 salles de classe et rEhabilitation de 200 autres, est estimee a 12.7
mIllions do dollars y compris la supervision, la gestion et la fourniture de mobiller.
Les Critbres d'Eligibiite
1.20 L'ecole qui introdult une requete pour bdenficier de l'aide du 5-bme Projet Education du
Ministre de l'education Nationale et de l'Enseignement Superieur pour les travaux de construction
neuve et les travaux de rEhabilitation de salles de classe, dot reMplir les conditions suivantes.
Statut              L'ecole dolt ftre reconnue par le M.E.N.E.S.
ReprEsentation:     L'dcole doit tre representee par l'APE de l'ecole ou par le Comite des
nitiatives Communautaires (APE/CIC).
Type:               L'ecole dolt s'engager I mettre en place I moyen terme un cycle complet de
l'eseignement eementaire (CP1-CM2) et doit comporter les trois premiers
niveaux (CP1-CE1).
Elhves:             Dans les zones urbaines l'ecole doit avoir au moins 50 Eives/salle de classe
et par maitre.
Dans les zones rurale la population habitant dans un rayon de 5 km autour
de IPecole doit mre au moins de:.
-     1.200 habitants pour une dcole de 3 classes,
-     2.400 habitants pour une ecole de 6 classes.
Capacit
financiere:         L'APE ou le CC dolt s'engager I contmer d'assumer le paiement des
salaire des matres suppldants nEessaires an bon fonctionnement de 1'0cole,
ainsi quo le coat d'entretien des bttiments.
Engagement
technique:          L'APEICIC s'engage I respecter les r&glements techniques definis par le
M.E.N.E.S. comprenant les plans et les prescriptions techniques repris dans
le catalogue etabli pour le projet.



- 72 -
AN=E I
Page 7 of 12
Taile minimm
d'intervnon:        La requke pour bEnEficier de l'aide du S-me Projet Education doit
concerner au moins deux salles de classme  constuire ou I r6habilter.
Scolarite des
filles:             Si la proportion de fills I I'Ecole est en dessous de 30%, cette proportion
doit prdsenter une tendance I l'augmentation au cours de la pEriode des deux
demnltes anndes, pour quo l'Ecole puisse bEnEficier de l'appui du prjet.
Apport des
APEICIC:            L'APE/CIC do la localitd doit s'engager I contribuer au coot des travaux 
con    nce de 10% du montant estim! des travaux. Ce coOt total est evalu6
par l'agce d'execution du programme de construction scolaire.
Coiprenant les "coles publiques privdes et spontandes.
L'apport de rAPE/Cc peut tre constitu  de diffentes maniEres suivat les disponibiutds des
APE/CIC. B s'agira soit de:
-Un apport en matraux locaux,
-un apport en main d'oeuvre,
-n apport en argent,
-la constuction des ltins  ou do logement de maftre,
4a put en zone rura, la clOture ou le raccordement sur
1e reseau d'eau eon zone urbane,
L'apport propose par I'APECIC est dvalue par l'agence d'excudton pour verifler s'il cornespond a
10% du coOt total des travaux. Une APEICIC est exempte d'un apport de 10% dans les cas suivns:
11  Si 40% ou plus des maltres de 1'ecole sont, depuis deux ans, des maltes suppldants dont le
salaire est et connu_era d'&re pris en charge par l'APEICIC.
21  Si la requfte de l'APEICIC concee r'achbvement de sales de classe dont lPAPE/CIC a entamE
Ia consitction au cours des deux dernibres annees. Dans ce cas, l saIls de classe doivent
rdpondre amx nmes de surfce et de durabiitE definies par le projee
3/ Pour les dcoles avec weproportion de files en dessous de 40% et I condition qu'il y ait eu une
_al-     n de la proporlon des filles d'au moins 2% la derniere anne ou d'au moins 4%
durant ls deux deenikes anmees.
I" fihifre de rdllatonproidae
Deux filies de rEalisatio sont pr6cnisEes:
Pil1o 1V:
par ONG
Pflike 2/:
Rdalhaio  par pette _ubrprise et mautin d'oevm par Buren d'Eudes ou ONG.



- 73 -
ANSC
Page 8 of 12
Ces deux flhieres foactionnement sous la contrOle d'une agence d'eoxcutlon (voir ci-dessous), qui
assure la matrise d'ouvrage pour la compte de l'Administration. Le choix des fflibres de realisatdon
pour le Seme Projet Education est fait sur base de crltbres d'economie, des capacitds tlchniques
diponibles et du niveau de mobilsation ou d'organlsation des APE et collecls.
LVagence d'& o
1.21   L'agence d'exdcution est responsable pour le bon fonctionnement des deux filieres de
rdalisation suivant des proc6dures pre4tablies dans un manuel de procddures et suivant un caloadrier
pr6visionnel de realisation. A cette fin I'agence d'execution:
-   prEpare une programmation annuelle des activites en concertation avec I'Adminion, les
ONG et les bureaux d'etudes contractes;
- veille I ce que la programmation soit respectee, et donne les consehls necessaires le cas echeant,
- entreprend toute action n6cessaire pour conclure des contrats d'intervention des ONG et des
bureaux detudes selon les crltMes etablis danm le manuel des procddures;
-   veille I ce que les normes techniques minimm  soicat respes dans 1'ensemble, et proud les
actions necessaires le cas Echdant;
-   gere la bonne ex6cution de tous ces contmts ainsi que les contrats des enurprises de
constuction;
- effectue les paiements des contrats (ONG, bureaux d'etudes, entreprises suivant la filike
concernee) I partir des fonds qui lui sont versds par trnches;
-   ger ces fonds, prEpare les piacea justificatives pour la re-alimentation rEgulibre des fonds; et
-   informe le Directeur du Projet Education rgulibrement sur les activites.
1.22  Cette lite de resposabiitEs n'est pas exhaustive. Un manuel de procddures apportera tous
les details necessaires.
FlUre 1/: Intervention par ONG.
1.23  &UgDaWM: Une ONG (agissant en taot qu'entreprise selectionnde par appel d'offres
local) signe un protocole d'accord avec l'agence d'execution du projet pour la gestion et
I'encadroment des operations dao une zone donnde et pour un programme donne. Ce protocole
d'accord stipule les modalitds concernant les procEdures de choix et de progra--alon des oprations,
la procEdure de paiement, la contribution des APE/CIC, I'approche technique, ainai que lea autres
reations contractuelles etr l'agence d'execution du projet et l'ONG. L'APE-CC qui reoit l'appui
de l'ONG, signe une convention fvec l'ONG. Cetto derniere gare le programe. L'ONG est
responsable pour la rEalisation complete des travu qui sont confies I un petit entrepreneur, I un
tcheron ou I des artisans. L'ONG s'engage I respecter le rgle ments tecbniques dEfinis pour la
projet comprenat les plans, lea precriptons techniques repris dana le catalogue dtabli pour le projet
et leas ds quanitatifeatimaifa. L'ONG s'engage i maintni le nombre de classes rEltant de
la n     o   La construction de classes neuves ne doit pas cofrespondre I un remplacement de
clae oaistt.



- 74 -
hC S
Page 9 of 12
1.24  Einanceme: Le projet finance 90% du cost minimum du projet de consucion. Le co*t
de l'encadrement par I'ONG et le coOt du mobilier sont A la charge du projet.
Pour la construction neuve: Le mont forfaltalre de cetwe subvenion s'ellve k 1,9 millions
FCFA/salle de classe (y compris un bureau et magasin rcr 3 classes) solon le schema suivant:
-fondatlons achevees          400.000 FCFA (20%)
-murs achevds (+avance toit)   1.100.000 FCFA (60%)
-achbvement complet travaux   400.000 FCFA (20%)
D1 'est pas exclu quo l'ONG fournisse sur ses propres fands une partie du montant du coOt des
trava   en nature (par exemple des IPN-120 pour la portee principale de la toltre, ou des
menuiseries confectionnEes dans un atelier encadrd par l'ONG).
1.25 Pour les travaux de rdhabilitation: Le montant forfaitaire pour des travaux de rEhabilitation
et le scheme de deboursement correspondent sont dvaluds et arrtds suivant les cas prdsentds.
L'assistance du projet pour les travaux de rehabilitation relbve de la contretpaies natioale.
L'APEJCIC apporte tout. contribution ndcessairea  l'achevement complet des travaux prEvus.
1.26 Techniui: L'ONG ave 1'APE/CIC fait un choix parmi des solutions techniques propodes
dos le catalogue du projet. Un encadrement technique de 8 sessions de travail sur chaque chantier
an moyeane est prdvu. L'encadrement technique sora founi par les ONG retenes et de prEfence
par des ONG qui sont deja actives dans la zone concernEe.
illIre 2/: R&alisatlon par plite entrprise et matrise d'oeuvre par Bureau dEudes on ONG.
1.27  Resgnaiites: L'APE/CIC fournit et/ou justifie de sa contribution pralablement a tout.
action de l'agence d'exdcution. Une fois cette conibution acquise, I'agence d'execution du projet
est endtiemont responsable pour reatisation complTte des travaux. L'APE/CIC s'engage a mainir
le nombre de classes resultant de la construction. La construction de classes neuves no doit pas
corespondro I un remplacement de classes existantes.
1.28  L'agence d'edcution du projet signe un control de matInse d'oeuvre avec un bureau d'etudes
ou une ONG (agissant en tant que consultant) pour la prOparation des dossiers de consultation,
l'uhiation des offrea; la coordination technique et le contrOle de la realisation des oprations danm
une zone donnEe suhvant l'approche de cette filibre. Ce contrat stipule les modalitEs concernant les
procEes de passation de marchd, les aspects techniques, ainsi que les autes relations contractuelles
entre l'agence d'execution du proJet et le maitre d'oeuvre. L'agence'd'ex6cution effectue les
palement aux entreprises sur base des pieces justificatifs etablies ettou contr6lees par le mafte
doeuvre.
1.29             L'APE/CIC fournit une contnbution, dont la valeur par salle de classe neuve,
est are au montant forfaitaire do 300.000 FCFA. Cetto contribution peut Wtre fournie ou exempt6e
sons une des manibres diffErentes stipulees dans les critbres d'ligibilite (par. 1.20). Le projet assure
le restant du financement ncessaire.
1.30  ldbniuo: Le matre d'oeuvre falt un choix parmi les quelques solutions techniques simples
et dprouvdes proposee danm un catalogue, aprbs consultation de 1'APE/CIC pour connaltre ses
prEfces. Le maitre d'oeure prEpare les documents tecaniques et conctueds de passation de
marchd sur base des modbles prddefinis dans le manuel d'exEcution du projet et mIs a sa disposition
par l'agence d'execution.



- 75  -                                      ANEX  5
Page 10 of 12
CHAD- "ASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
DETAILED COSTS OF SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION
ANALYSE COUTS CONSTRUCTION (REALISATION PM APE ET TACHERON)
COUT D'UN BLOC DE tROIS (3) CLASSES        EN FCFA x 1000
X  PROJET    COLL            TOT         IX                               I
ELENENTS                   FE       FE     LC    TOT       FE      LCI    TOT       FE      LC    TOTI    I
..... _.,....... .. ......... .... . ... ............. ...... t.............. I--------.. ---------------
NAIN-D'0EUVRE (1.O.)
....._.................
N.O. Non sp6clatIses        OX       0      0       0       0    650      650        0    650    650   10X
g.O. Spfciclaui.            0X       0    923    923        0       a       0        0    923    923  11"
Encadrement                 0X1      0      0       0       0       0       0        0       0      O   OX
.... ..................... ...................... ...... ..............
Tm ott Ot                            0    923    923        0    650      6501       0  1,57 13   5   1 25X
NATERIAUX
.......... ................................. 
Cfenit                    1001  1,283       0  1,283        O       O 0     011,283         0  1,283   20X1
Acters                    1001    504       0    S04        0       0       0      504       O    504    a
Petft Natdrfel            1001    225       0    225        0       0       0      225       0    2251  41
P*Inture                  1001X    70       0      701      0       0       0       70      0             1X
Nemnuseries N6talltques  100X    491        0    491        0       0        0     491       0    491 1 8X
Charpente                 100X    659       0    659        0       0       0      659      0    09   10X
Bacs acter 7/10           1001  1,190       0 1,190         0       0       0   1,190       0  1,190   19X
Sous Totat                 100   4,422      0  4,422        0       0       0   4,422        0  4,422 191
...- -----------------.. ...... ............ ........ ................. ...... ...*-s
TRANSPORT + NAGSINAE        ox       0    380    30         0       0       0        0    380    38016X|
.... |................. ..... ................. .... ............
FtAS G£1ERNJX              601              0       0       0       0       O        0      0         1 01
TOTAL EN '000 FCFA         69X  4,422  1,303  56s5          0    650      650   4,422  1,953  6,375  110
TOTAL EN '000  s                 16.08   4.74  20.53    0.00   2.36    2.36   16.08   7.10  23.18 |
PERCENITAGE/FIIAMICING    ...                    189X                      10O                   10011
POURCENTAGE/SAILLEUR
I S LS   275  FCMA
TOTAL AREA/
SURFACE UTILE TOTALE a  210 N2
FCFAMe a        30,357 NT               S/N2 .            $110 NT
FCFA/CLASSE a         2,125 ,000 NT         S/CLASSE *       7,727 MT
............................... ......................................................................................
A:RNCOST1.UKI(BA)
22-Feb-93



- 76 -                                          ANNEX 5
Page 11 of 12
CPAD BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
DETAILED COSTS OF SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION
ANALYSE C0TS CONSTRUCTIN0 (REALISATION PAR ENTREPRISE)
COT DI'UN BLOC Ot TROIS (3) CLASSES        IN FCFA x 1000
I X IPROJET PRCJET PROJET    C COLL   COLL    COLL I  TOT    TOT    TOT I X  I
ELEMENTS                   FE 5    FE      LC    TOT I    FE       LC     TOT       FE     LC    TOT |    I
MAIN-D'OEUVRE (N.O.)           t                    0       0    650      6S0        0    650          O I
N.O. Non spdce1lts6.s       OX       0      0                      5       5         0    60      6O     8
N.O. Spkcallsde              0X      O    923    923        0       0       O        0    923    923  11IXK
EnctKdr"ment                0X       0  1,05S       0       0       0       O        0  1,05S  1,055  12X
.... ..................... ........... ................. ........... ............I ....I.---*l*-
Sous Totat                  oxt      0  1,978    923        0    650      650     0  2,628  2,628 3 31%
NATERIALX
........................
Cment                    1i00X  1,283       0  1,283        0       0       0 11283         0  1,283   iSX
Actors                    100K    504       0    5041       0       0        01504           0    504    aR
Petit Nat6riel            100X    225       0    22S        0       0       0      225      0    225    3X,
Pointure                  0oo0i    70       0      70       0       0       0       70      0      70    12
Netts rtes  Ntalltqwes I100X    491         0    491         0      0       0 1  491         0    491    a 6X
Charpunte                 100X    659       0    659        0       0       0      659      0    659    oX
le" acter 7/10            100X  1,190      0  1,190 1      0       0       0   1,190       0  1,190   14X
..W..   ~~................. ....... ............... I...... ............... ....
Se"J Total                100X 4,422        0  4,422        0       0          1 4422        0  4,422  5I1I
.... ...... ... ;;.......... ...... ...... ......... ..................... ..
TRA" RT + PAGASINAG         0XI      0    440    300        0       O       O        0    460    460    5X
;i.............             ................ ------- -------  ------X---------t--
itA^I8 GEMERAUK            80X       0  1,100       0       O       O1,100  1,100  131'
*                                                    I--__ _ _ S   -~
TOTAL EN $000 FCFA         SIX  4,422  3,538  5,645       0    650      650    4,422  4,18B  8,610IX
TOTAL ENl 1000 110               16.08  12.87  20.S3    0.00   2.36    2.36 |16.08  iS.23  31.31|
u   I                        -- -------- --- |- -- - -
hCENTAGE/fIANCIN          ---                      66O                                            10**
OURCENTAOGE/8AILLEUR
I S US a 275 FCFA
TOTAL AEAW
SURFACE UTILE TOTALE a  210 N12
FCFA/1N2 a      41,000 NT               USj1/N2 a         $149 MT
FCFA/CLASSE a         2,870 000 MT          USS/CLASSE a  $10,436 NT
. .................................................................................
A:RNCOST2.W1(BA)
22-Feb-93



REPUMLIC OF CNAH
9ASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
AREA AND CAPITAL COST PER WSCOOL. CAM"IRoN SPACE AND PER STUENT
aSe Costs in FCFA x 1,000 (1)
Area In sq... (N2)          UnIt
---------------------   Cost  Per Unit                     Per Place
Capacity                  Net   Net    C.U.  ------------------------ ----------------
*---------               Per   Per  Per NE   ClvfL  EquIpt               Clvit EqaIp.
UnitUnit  Tot   Not Gros  Ptace  Unit  (Gross)   Work  Furnit   Total    Work furn. Total
... .......... ....................... ....... ............... .......  ..................
U     U    U    R2       2    R2    RE2   CFAf    CFAf    C?AF   CFAF    CFAF CFAF CFAF
............... ............................... ... . ......... ........ *....... ........ ....... ............... .... .._.  ..................
PRIUPr EDUATION
Kew Constructlon
..............................
* Classro    (Shn. Contract)  I    65   65    63    69   1.0    63           38   2,600      550    3,150      40      8    48
* Classrom  (APE)              1    65  65    63    69   1.0    63           28   1,920      S50    2,470      30      6    38
Block of 3 el. (Gen. Centr.)   1   195  195   225  3S5    1.2   225            26   9,241   1,708  10,949        47      9    S6
*Classroom                     3    65 1951 89   206   1.0    63             38   7799   1,650   9,449         40      6    48
'OffIce                        1      1    1     9    10   9.0       9       36     373       38     411      373    38   411
*Storage                       1      1    1    11    12  11.0    11         38     456       20     476      456    20   476
*Fe   (tradlt.)                I                      110    Mt               3     330        0      330
* Latrines                     2      4    8    16    17  2.0        8       16     284        0      2Q4      36      0    36
BLOCK Of 3 CL (Suilt by Private Contractor without Fence & Latrine)                 8,627
Btock of 3 cl. (APE)               I   1"    tff   225   35S   1.2   225        19   6,600   1,70S j8,508         35      9 
................ ................... ......  .................. .................... ........................ ....... ............... ............  ........ ..... ...........
• Classroom                    3    6S  195   189   206   1.0    63          28   5,761   1,650   7,411        30      6  38
* Office                       1      I    I     9    10   9.0       9       28     274       38     312      24   36    312
' Storage                      I      I    1    II    12  11.0    11         28     335       20     355      335    20   3SS
*Feno (tradit.)                I                      110    el               2     220        0      220
Latrines                     2     4    8    16    17  2.0         8       12     209        0     29       :26      0     6
BLOCK OF 3 CL (Built by APE & Artisans wIthout Fence & Latrine)                     6,371
..............................    ..........  . ....... ........... ........... ....... ...  .............
Rehabilttation                     1    65  65    63    69   1.0   63           12     824      5201 344           13     8    21
............... ....................... ... ...........  ......  ................. ........................ .......  ... ....... ............  .......  ... ......... ....... 
Repfir                            1  65   65    63    69    1.0  63              6     412      520      932       6      6    14
............................................................. ............................................................
(1): Cost for Contract manament, Design and Supervieion are ostiasted separately at 10X of construction costs;
3:ACLASS.UK1 (BA)
22-Feb-93
A:X§.COD



- 78 -
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT (EDUCATION V)
MATERIEL DIDAC1IQUE
Cadre General et dagostic
1.1 Dans le cadre du 4eme Projet Education, 798.000 manuels scolaires ont etW acquis sur finance-
ment IDA (522.000 exemplaires) et de la Cooperation Fran;aise (276.000 exemplaires). Les ouvrages
colises par ecole ont ete achemines jusqu'aux Inspections & partir de deux sites: NDjamena et
Moundou. La distribution s'est faite en deux vagues. La distribution de la premiere vague, qui portait
sur 478.000 exemplaires, a &t achevde en Decembre 1991. En ce qui concerne les 320.000
exemplaires restants, leur distribution est en cours. Ca quantitds correspondaient, au moment de ta
preparation du 4e projet, k un livre de fran;ais et de calcul pour trois Elbves, un iwo d'arabe pour
quatre EGtves, et un livre de gdographie pour huit Elbves. Ces ratios n'ont, cependant, pas ete atteints
I la suite d'une brusque explosion des effectifs.
1.2 En ce qui concerne lIutilisation des manuels scolaires de la premibre vague, des visites
ponctuelles ont permis de constater que les maftres avaient tendance I ne pas distribuer les livres A
tours eleves, soit parce que le nombre de manuels etait insuffisant, soit parce que le mattre ne savait
pas se servir du manuel de manitre active dans sa salle de classe.
Objectlf de la composante
1.3 Lobjectif de cette composante ost d'amElibrer las ratios quo e .4 ptojet a pormis d'anteindre
dans les disciplines de base. Le projet va, I co titre, mettro un livro de franais, de calcul a a
disposition de deux eleves du primaire et de sciencs d'obevWion. Cela correspond I quelque
780.000 exemplaires. La duree de vie des livres est estimee & cinq ans etant donne que les ouvrages
seront proteges; ils seront conserves dans les malles mdtalliques fournies I cet effet; ils ne seront
prkE&s aux elbves qu'aux heures de classe.
1.4 Etant donne que lISSED n'est pas, actuellement, en mosure d'elaborer ou d'adapter des
manuels scolaires, des livres vot kmre achetes sur le marchE pour completer les ouvrages fournis par
le quatrieme projet. Les manu_ls secont acquis I la suite d'un appel d'offres international base sur
des crittres p6dagogiques. On trouvera en appendice la liste des manuels & acquerir dans le cadre
du Se projet. En outre afin de faciiter la conservation des livres et des fournitures, le projet va
financer l'achat de 6.000 cantines mdtalliques.
1.5  Les founissur soront chargds de la repartition et de la livraison des manuels aux ecoles. Les
dossiers d'appel d'offres comporteront une annexe relative aux quantites de manuels et a la
localisation des dcoles regroupdes par prefecture et inspection. Une avance sera accordde I la
signature des cootrats. Le solde du prix des ouvrages livres at acceptes sera payd sur prdsentation
des certificat Emis par les commissions de reception qui seront insdtuees au niveau de chaque ecole
et qui comprendront d   nseigms et des parents d'Eleves..
1.6 La mise en oeuvre du 46me Ptojet Education (Credit 1950-CD) a montre l'imnportance d'uno
action d'accopgnment pddagogique des maltres et de suivi pour cette composante. 11 smra aussi
nEcessaire de former des cadres du MENES   I  evaluation du matEriel didactique.



- 79 -
Page 2 of 4
1.7  Formgio n    malka: Une acton de formation  l'utilisadondes manuels scolaites sa mende
auprbs de tous les maltrms de leseignement dldmentaire. L'un des points faibles du syst&me educatif
Tchadien a OtE lo divorce des enseignants d'avec les livres. Pour favoriser leur reconciliation, la
DEE et la DFAP vont preparer avec la collaboration des Dleegue Prdfectoraux de l'Education, des
programmes annuels de formation des enseignants dans les techniques d'utilisation des livres
scolaires. Ces programmes, d'une durde de deux a trois jours, s'adresseront d'abord aux inspecteurs
et aux responsables des CRFC. Ces derniers formeront les animateurs des CRFCF et les conseillers
p6dagogiques qui, I leut tour procdderont I la formation des enseignants I travers les 1.400 ateliers
de formation intdgr&- de base. Les coOts de la formation figurent dans la composante formation du
projet.
1.8 Formation des cadres du MENES: Dans la mesure ob l'acquisition des manuels va se faire
selon des crit*res pedagogiques, II sera necessaire de former des cadres du MENES I I'evaluation
du matEriel didactique afin de renforcer les capacitds du MENES en contrOle de qualitd du materiel
didactique a acqudrir. A cet effet, six cadres (3 de la DEE et 3 de l'ISSED) seront formes sur place
par un consultant.
1.9 Gesdon de la comoosante. Tous les aspects relatifs I la passation des marchis reltveront de la
responsabiitd de la Direction des Projets. Tous les aspoects pddagogiques soot grs par la Direction
do l'enseignem#nt ldmentaire avec I'appui de la DFAP, de l'ISSED et de la DPEC Afin de pouvoir
gdrer la mise en ouvrt de coe composante et de pouvoir procdder aux ajustements aussi bien du
point do we pddagogique que du point de we matdriel, il sera mis en place un dispositif de suivi et
d'evaluation:
(a)     Au niveau local: L'opdration cossistera, en collaboration avec l'inspection et l'ecole
A une collecte des donndes au niveau local. Une synthese sera faite et transmise &
la Delegation Prdfectorale (DPEN);
(b)     Au niveau rEiona: La DPEN fera une synthAse des diffretntes dondes de la
circonscription at son rapport sera transmis a la Direction GEnErae du MENES. A
ce niveau DPEN, des mesures correctives seront dEjA prises.
(c)      Au nhveau central: Le Service d'evaluation du MiE.ES procedera chaue annee I
I'evaluation de l'impact des formations donn6es en vue de leut amElioration. Ce
service en collaboration avec la Direction de projets, la DEE at la DFAP analysera
les diffrents rapports des DPEN et fera des propositions consdquentes. Ces
propositions porteront sur l'usage pddagogique des manuels par les maltres et les
elhves, la gestion at le contr6le des stocks, et l'etat de conservation des manuels
distribues. Une evaluation approfondie porterait tous les deux ans sur un echantillon
representadf d'Ecoles selon les crittres suivants: 30 ecoles urbaines, 30 ecoles
rurales, S 6coles de petites tailles, 5 Ecoles de grandoes tailles, 10 ecoles d'accbs
difficile.



- 80 -
Page 3 of 4
CALENDRIER D'ACQUISITION ET DE DISTRBUTION
DES MANUELS SCOLAIRES ET DES GUIDES DU MAtITRE
1. F6vrier/Mai 1994:             Prdparation et approbation des dossiers d'appel d'of-
fres.
2. JuinlJuillet 1994:            Appel d'offres.
3. AoUtlOctobre 1994:            Evaluation des offres et approbation des resultas.
4. Novembre/Ddembre 1994:        Signature du contrat.
S. Janvier/Septembre 1995:       Exdcution du marchE et livraison de la le vague d'ou-
vrages aux ecoles.



UIJELS A ACtUERIR tDM  LE COSK OU WMf PROJET
Coposantes EdbtatIan bssiqua
Subcomposnut N Wat6rIel didectique
ivesa    Titres   Effectifs a%    Ratio        Besoins  Besoius Rios   Stock        _untith        Calcul   Science franais
(titr./6l6ves) de base b% (titres * 3SX) disponible   A acehter
CP1     Franuois          150626         0.50        75.313          9T.907        24.510         73.397               0        0    733S9
Cacul                            0.50       75.313          97.90?        24.510         73.397          73.397        0         0
CP2     franCais          167369         0.50        83.6a5         108.790        27.235         81.55                0        0    S155S
Calcui                           O.5        83.685         108.790        27.235         81M.SS          81.555        0         0
CEi     franca s          114981         0.50        ST.491          74.738        18.710         S6.028               0        0 a    6028
Catcut                           0,50      5s.491           74.7n8         18.710        56.028          s6.028         0        0
Sciences                         0.25       28.74S          37.369         9.355         28.014               0    28014         0
CE2     franeafs          120811         0.S0        60.406          78.S2?        19.6S9         5W.868               0        0    S8J68
Catcut                          OSO        60.406          78.s21        19.659         58.8"$          58.868         0        0
sciences                         0.25       30.203          39.264         9.829         29.434               0    29434         0
CUt     fr nasis           81249          0,50       40.62S          S2.812        13.221         39.591               0        0    39591
Calcul                           OSO       40.625          S2.812        13.221         39.591          39.591        0         0
Sci s                            0,2S       20.312          26.406         6.611         19.795               0    1979          0
062     Franais            67668         0*50        33.844         U.99           11.014         32.982               0        0    322
Calcul                           0.SO       33.84           43.997        11.014         32.982          32.982        0         0
Sci s                            0,2S       16.922          21.998         5.507         16.491               0    1t491         0
Total                                               798.905       1.038.57        260.000        778.57          342.421    9375   342421
X                                                                                                                  43,98X    12.04X   43,98X
Ouantitt  Prix Unitaire      Total (CFA)
"Mes                              780.000          1.200      936.000.000                          t
Guides Naitres                     10.000          2.500      25.000.000                          a
Cantines shta liIqs                 6.000          6.500       39.000.000
Distribution (25X cort tota livr es)                          234.000.000
lotat (coot base):  enuts et Guides                         1.234.000.000
a/ Effectif par classe proj.tds pour 94/" plus accrossement durant to vie du projet.
b/ Un liwe por trots en frangals, at calcul; en livre pour qutre en sciencs
c/ Relwqat da owr_og.  achet6s den  Le cadre du 46  projet olos 35X por cowrlr tes dit6riorstion, besoins des centre de fomation.
a:x6.chd
0



-82-                               Pagelof5
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT (EDUCATION V)
FORMATION DES MAITRES
FICHE TECHNIQUE SUR LA FORMATION DES MAIRES
Les ateUen lnt&s de formaton condnue:
1.1 La mise en oeuvre d'une formation decentralisee prds tu lieu do travail des personnels a former
repond k des imperatifs d'efffcacite mais aussi d'economi: U est souvent moins onereux de ddplacer
un pedt nombre d'animateurs que de regrouper I distance les personnels I former. La conduite de
ces ateliers de base poufrait contribuer k l'integratdn des secteurs p6dagogiques et d'animation du
milieu, en rassemblant pour des travaux on commun des mahtre, des parents, des respousables des
APE et des villages sur des problematiques diverses teiles, par exemnple, celles de la gestion
financibre des APE, de la conduits des classes multigrades', de l'education environuementale, de
lenseigement de la letre, de l'Education sanitaire, de la construction de classes, etc.. Cette
diverait6 de contenus devrait conduire I la formation de pet  groupes (15 I 18 personnes maximm),
constituds en fonction de l'objectif, et k la ddsignation d'animateurs appropries, cette designation
pouvant irvenir au sein des Conseils r0gionaux et des Cooseils de circonscripdon d'IEE. En outre
la technique de formation par atoliers intgrs permet de regrouper des catEgories difffrentes de
fonateurs (Professeurs d'ENI, Inspecteurs, conseillers Pedagogiques, Dirocteurs d'ecoles ) pour des
actions centrdes sur la pratique.
organlson
1.2  EL=  I: Trois astlets intgrds: formaiop de I'equipo nanlonale danimation. Trois ateliers
seruaent destnds I fonmer les animauns de l'equpe nationale mobile I cette technique particuliere.
L'equlpo nationale comporteralt des cadres de la DFAP, des ENT, de L'ISSED et do la DEE.
1.3  EtJ2: 60 ateliers intEgres de formadon d'animaes. Ces ateliers seraient destines I apporter
un comolement de formation aux Consoilers p6dagogiques des CRFC et des lEE ainsi qu'aux
professeurs des ENI afin de les aider I fonder laIrs actions de formation sur la problematique vecue
par les maitrts ou les fius matres..
1.4 jte : 1400 ateliers Ode base.' Les Conseitlers pedagogiques conduisent deja des operations
de fonrtion en petits groupes danm les *Centres d'appui localises dans cetaines ecoles de l'aire de
competence des CRFC. Ces actions regroupewt des makres pour des travaux d'une ou deux journes
("jourdes pdagogiques)". Cos activitees saront pau k pau rnovees dans le domaine de la
mdtodologi. de la foration I mesure quo le, aim s auront pu participer aux ateliers de l'Etape
2. Ele s mrot 6tendues aux atrs activits et itvenans du miieu dans la mesure o4 cte
approcho est particulibrement bien adaptde aux opErations de sensibitisation et d'information des
communaut_s vfllageoisos et des APE. Les ateliers intEg   no concernmraient donc pas seulement
des Coaeillers pddagogiques mais Egalement des animeurs d'autes secteus (par exemple dos
animateurs des ONG).
La tormation Initlale
1.5  S   i      e.le. La formaion Initial actelement donn6e est une formation & domInant.
theotique. Les entralneMe s  la pratique du mEtier sont & la fois insuff s en durde, mal rdpartis,
et disjoints de la formation professionnelle gEnerale. Les stages de sensibilisationsont peu productifs.
Fonder les easeignoments profossionnels sur 1'expdience vdcue des fuitrs maltres lots dos stages
implique quo ces staghiros soient vus I l'oeuvre. It est donc importan qu'un Professeur d'EN en
visits dhacun d'eux lndividuellement am moins deux fois pendant sa formation initiale.



- 83 -                               ANNE7
Page 2 of S
1.6  Nouvelle-orienag"ion. Une formation professionnelle equiibree doit consacror au knoins 30%
de sa duree I des exercices on situation professionnelle. La structure developec comporte 20
semaines de stages ou de recherches sur le terrain sur 60 demandes de formation.
1.7 La duree des stages de sensibiisation est ramenee I une semaine en debut de premibre ande.
Cette premiere prise de contact avec la profession a pour objet d'amorcer un changement d'attitude
de la part des normaliens: ils ne sont plus des eleves mais de futurs maltres en situation de devoir so
former I l'exercice d'un metier.
1.8 Les stages de pratique guidee sont avances I la premiere annee, afin de permettre la misc en
oeuvre d'une methodologie de formation qui fonde les renforcements disciplinaires professionnels sur
l'exploitation du vecu des stages.
1.9 Au nombre de quatre, les stages d'observation ont pour objectif de permeltre une reelle Etude
du milieu professionnel, mais aussi de son environnement, par la conduite d'enquee sur differems
themes: I'ecole dans le village, la vie economique et sociale de ce village, le r6le des asociations de
parens d'Eleves, etc.. Ces thbmes pourront conduire I la redaction individuelle ou collective de
monographie ou de mdmoires qui seront conserves et exploitEs dans l'etablissement. Le stage en
reponsabilite reelle du normalien est prevu au debut de la 2eme annme do formation.
1.10 Un stage en responsabilite reolle - le normalien doit We seul dans la classe - est prevu au dE5ut
de la 2&me annEe. Cette mise en responsabilit6 pourra avantageusement se realiser par permutation
avec les enseignants titulaires des classes correspondantes - notamment des Istituteurs-adjoints, ou
des maltres suppleants - qui seraient repris I l'EN en formation continue.



- 84-                              ANNEX7
Page 3 of S
DISTRIBUTION DES STAGES DURANT LA FORMATION
1.11 La giO suivante est Etablie i padr td Ia formation en deux ans des ln-teurs-adjoints (60
semaines).
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUEM ED 
0
p
TI _T                                                             0
LAgende: S: stage de sensibilsation; 0: Stage d'observation; P: stage de pratique pideo; R: stage
en responsabilite; TI, 1T, T3: wimestres



- 85 -                             ANNEX7
Page 4 of 5
L'atder pddagogique - Exemple 1: L'exploitalon d'une leon d'essal
1.12 Objectif: Prdsenter une action de formation d'eThves-mattres conduite selon une ddmarche rEno-
vee, et faire comprendre cet demarche I un groupe de fomamrs de maltres.
1.13 PajicjM : (1) Un gtoupe d'Eleves de l'ecole primaire; (ii) un groupe d'4leves-mattres en
formation, I'un d'entre eux etant chargs de conduire une sequence de classe avec les elbves; ffii) un
groupe de formateurs de maltres de PEcole normale; (iv) un petit groupe d'animateurs nationaux
hautement qualifies, appartenant I I'quipe du Directeur de la Formation et de l'Action pedagogique,
ou enseignant a l'ISSED. Soit, au total, quatre categories differentes de participants, correspondant
aux quatre niveaux de cot atelier.
1.14 E   mnijeRhba: (i) I'eleve-maltre dirige sa sEquence de classe; (Hi) les eieves de l'ecoie etant
partis, un animatur national conduit un travail de groupe avec les nonmaliens. Objectf raliser une
analyse critique du travail presente; (iii) en rdponse, I'animater prEsen  aU groupe des elhves-
matres quelques ElEments do reprise. Cette premibre phase peut mre traduite par le schEma suivant:
Leas fornmeur                    Travail en groupe      SEquence de
I              E _  *        _asss    en s-ence                        -    ass,,e
1.15 Deuxi6ne Rhase: (i) les formateurs de l'EN qui onta ssisr en sience au dEroulement de ta pre-
mitre phase, sone invites, lots d'un travail de group. conduit par un auimer nationae, I exprinor
leurs avis: queUes sout les caractErsdquos principales de cette dEmarcho? Queles sont les difficultes
qui doivent tre smntEos pour l'appliquer? qomment ddduire, I partir du vdcu de cette action,
ane potgrammation d'enseignements? (ii) reprisd: les anima s apportent aux foeas les ElE-
menms de conten qui leur semblent necessaires. Cette deaxibme phase peut kte traduito par le
schEma suivant:
SEquence doclasse          Travail en group.                   Reprise
L'atelr pdaggque         ple 2: Vxplotatlo  d'ul stae.
1.16 Okicti PrEsenter aux formatears de maltres un autre exemple d'uction de formadion afin de
les mettre en mare d'appliquer une dEmarche renovee danm un contet plus complex* quo celui
de I'exemple 1.
1.17 Zaric: (i) un groupe d'E&ves-maltres revenant d'un stage; Oi) un groupe do formater
de l'Ecole normale; (il) deux ou trois animateurs nationaux, charge d'animer leas diffErentes phases
do I'operation
1.18 phm 1: Un a_mar national conduit un travail do groupe avec lea normaliens afin do les
amener I expdmer los difficultes rmncontr  sur lo terain des stage. L'anlmaeur distribue ia
parole, proud des nota, fakt de tomps en temps un renvol de synrse, en s'abstenant d'"jouoer
qudque elmment de contenu que ce soiL L'animateur dnonco une syntise finale qui tegoupe les
points principaux.
1.19 EaaZ: L'animator natil conduit un travail de groupe avec les formateurs de maltrs -qui
sont tes  silencie  jusqu'ici-, avec pour objectif do ddgager les elets de probldmatique qu'ils
out constatt lots do leurs visies sur le terrain, et qui n'ont pas ete relevE par les stagiaes. Distri-
bution de la parole, synth6ses inmdiaitos et synthse finale. Le group. dlabore un ou plusieurs
ptojet de formation rdpond   ax difficult!s constatos. Ces dax phses peuvent  e trauite par
le schdma suivant



ANNEX-7
-86 -                              Page S of 5
Travail de groupe avec leas staglaires
Les formateurs                Travail en groupe des fornateurs     Projet
F     ,  ~assisant                     1.l-           
1.20 Pbase 3: (i) Sdance plenibre regroupant les stagialres et les formateurs, animee par l'animateur
national. Objet: conumunication des constats du groupe des formateurs integrant, rectifiant et com-
pletant ceux exprimes par les stagiaires lors de la phase 1, et communication des projets de travail.
Le schdma de celte action devient:
Phase 3
._Ve  la mise en
Phasen =I= -                         Reunion pIE-        DEbat            oeuvre
nitre        Adoption des
Pha.e2                                                   pojet
Plan de developpement des classes I double vacation
1995          1995  t        1996          1997           1998
CP1           100            200           300            300           300
CP2                          100           200            300           300
CEI                                          o 1          200           30
CE2       _                                               100           200
CM1                            _           __                            100
CM2
NOMBRE           100            300           600            900           1200
TOTAL DE
COHORThS                   .L_,,__-_                                 . _  _ _.
a:x7.chd



- 87 -                                 %NNE25
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF CHADI/REUBLIOIUE Du TCHAD
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT (EDUCATION V)
TEST ET EVALUATION DES PERFORMANCES SCOLAIRES
A. Objectis
1.1  Un systtme exp6rimental pour Evaluer l'efficacit6 do l'enseignement elmentaire en terme des
connaissances acquises par les elbves sera mis en place dans trois regions dans le cadre du projet
propose. Ce Systbme d'Evalua:ion du Rendement Scolaire (SERS) aura comme objectif global de
fournir au personnel enseignant, aux administrations scolaires, aux decideurs et au public des donndee
flables et valides sur les connaissances des dleves par rapport aux objectifs du programme elementai-
re, de les aider I deflnir les caracteristiques d'un readement scolare satisfaisarnt, et de proposer des
domaines ob des amEliorations seraient souhaitables. Co systeme devra aussi permettre:
(a)      de suivre to progrts du systeme dans le temps;
(b)      de fournir du 'feed-back' continue aux programmes de formation des maltres;
(c)      de faire une comparaison du rendement scolaire des classes I double flux, des classes
multigrades, et des classes pilotes par rapport aux classes traditionaelles;
(d)      d'identifier les caractEristiques des 6lbves, des ecoles, et des mattres qui contribuent
A un meilleur rendement scolaire; et
(e)      d'hvaluer l'efficacite des investissements du projet propose.
B. Mdthodologie
1.2 Pour atteindre ces objectifs, la Cellule Nationale de Suivi et d'Evaluation, en liaison avec les
DEl1gations prefectorales, dhveloppera des eprqzves pour mesurer le savoir et le savoir-faire des
Elves danm trois sujets de ba  - fran;ais, mathEmatiques, et science-pour les classes de CP, CE2,
CM2. Ces epreuves sont adminsrEa I uQ dchantillon reprEsentatif dElhves et d'ecoles et
fourniraient les dondes sur le pourcentage d'eleves qui out acquis les connaissances de base.
L'Echantillon devrait inclure las eleves des classes multigrades, double flux et le programme de
classes pilotes.
1.3  La rdsite de l'Elvo hant liee I une varidte de facteurs relatif&   ses disposidons, son
enviroinement domestique, l'Ecole, 1'enseignant et le procoessus d'enseignoment, I'erude rassemble
dgalement des infonnations sur ces ints connus ou espErEs pour leut influence sur la reussite de
C. Rdsultats escomptEs
-   L       dctivant les objectifsa  evaluer pour chacune des maadtres et par niveau.
- ap= 1WW  sur les rdsultats pour chaque matihre et par niveau, rEdige clairemnent avec une
prEsentation simple pour un non technicien. Les resultats seront d&cits en terme de pourcentage
des Elbes peformants max diffErents niveaux. Los rapports devront contenir amsi des donnees
relatant la performance des eltves aux caracteristiques du maltre, de l'elbve et de l'ecole. Les
rapports serout rendus disponibles au niveau de chaque service du MEN, chaque inspection et
dans toutes les ecoles de formaion d'enseignants.
-   Une kmcua  rEsumant les resultats sera envoye aux directurs d'Ecoles et servira pour animer
lee rencovtes avec les mattres et parents d'elhves interessds.
-   Un MMnnort I%tech e complet ddcrivant les procEdures techniques et psychometriques suivies
dan Is developpement ot l'execution de l'evaluation pour la communautd de techniciens et ceux
intkrss  par la conduite de recherches utiisant la base de donnee.
-    Un plan d'acdon pour dhvelopper un programme de formation continue pour les maltres, pour
"mettre au point' la forn iton prd-professionnelle, et pour evaluer les manueis scolaires et leur
specifications.



- 88                      ~~~~~AN=E 
- 88 -                              Page 2 of 2
D. Personnel et formation
1.4 La mis en place du systrme d'evaluation ndcessitera la coordination d'une varidte de thches et
un corps de persomnel bien formn dans les domaines de la statistique , de la psychometrie et l1
developpement des epreuves. Pour mener une evaluation de cette nature, le MEN procddera I un
jumelage avec un groupe d'experts internatlonaux, pour une assistance technique I long terme afi
de developper et executer le programme, d'identifier les besoins en personnel et d'elaborer et fournir
un programme de formation technique.
1.5 Pour demarrer le developpement du systrme d'evaluation, le MEN devra s'appuyer sur sa
cellule de suivi et d'Evaluarlon qui devrait comprendre un noyau de personnel tchadien constitud d'un
coordinateur ayant des qualifications reconnues dans le domaine du management, un statisticien ayant
une experience dans la preparation d'enquetes, un specialiste dans le developpement de test et un
chercheur en education ayant I'experlence. Le groupe travailleta en etroite collaboration avec les
DElEgation prdfectorales, avec des experts internationaux selectionnds pour le ddveloppemnent du
Systeme d'evaluation, et par la definition des besoins en equipement, en formation et en personnel
additionnel. Avant l'evaluation du projet en Janvier 1993, ce noyau de personnel devra Etre identifie,
et trols cadres tchadiens du groupe effectueront des voyages d'etudes I l'etranger pour se familiariser
avec divers systemes d'evaluation. Les termes de reference pour l'assistance technique devront
galmemnt err prepares.
E. Mise en oeuvre
1.6 Le Systbme d'hvaluation sera mis en oeuvre durant la pEriod. du projet. Les ElEments
eonstitutif de ce programme seraient les suivams:
Annde 1: 
-   Formation: fnrmation I la rEdaction des objectifs de performance, I la confection des articles
do textes, et au developpement des questionnaires d'enquOte.
- Activite: Formulation des objectifs de rEussite en mathdmatiques, en francais et en science pour
les classes de CP, CE2 et CM2.
-   DEfintion des infonnrarons a rassembler et concernant les eleves, ecoles et les maltres.
- Confdection des Epreuves et questionnaires supplementaires relatifs aux eleves, ecoles r maltres.
Annde 2:
Formation: fomatdon sur les sujets d'analyse, test de notation, codification, questionnaire et any'
des rdsultats.
-   Pr6tet t utlisadon application des epreuves et questionnire
-   Notadon des rdsultats du rest. Codification des questionnaires supplementaires.
-   Ddvelopper les plans d'analyse des donnees.
Annde 3:
-   Analyse des donnes/preparation des rapports.
Anne 4:
-   Diffusion de rdsulrta
-   PrEparation des plans 4d'acton et mise en ocuvre.
a:x8.chd



- $9 -
ANNEX9
Page 1 of 2
REPUBTIQUE OF CHAD
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT (EDUCATION V)
APPUI AUX ASSOCIATIONS DE PARENTS D'ELEVES
A. Cadre g6ndral et diagnostic
1I.1 Au Tchad, pratiquement chaque ecole dlementaire et mOme secondaire a une APE. Les activites
des APE sont souvent l'affaire des seuls parents d'eleves. Tous les parents des anciens et nouveaux
6lbves inscrits dans une ecole sont par definition membres de l'APE de cette dcole et doivent I ce titre
remplir certaines obligations: (i) Paiement (quasi) obligatoire de la cotisation de l'APE fixee par
enfant scolarise et pouvant varier d'une annee I l'autre en fonction des besoins; (ii) Participation aux
reunions de l'APE.; (iii) Participation a la demande du comite de l'APE, aux activitEs de l'association;
(ii) Assistance dans l'encadrement des eleves; etc.. Le recouvrement des cotisations (taux de 40 a
60%), n'a &te jusqu'ici possible qu'a cause de son caractere "obligatoire."
1.2 En milieu rural, 1'esprit communautaire est encore relativement fort. Les infrastructures du
village appartiennent I tous les villageois. L'ecole, le poste de santd, le magasin villageois, la
pharmacie, I'hydro-pompe etc sont g6rds par la communautE. En milieu urbain, le fonctionnement
des APE rencontrent plus de difficultes. La vie sociale y est plus individualisee, les conflits d'indr*t,
les contraintes socio-economiques et les charges sociales plus marquees et plus lourdes. De manibro
gnErale il y a un probleme de ddpendance des APE vis-a-vis des direteurs d'ecoles. Les dirct
d'dcoles jouent un rOle dterminant dans le fonctionnement des APE. En fait, Us sont les pilers des
APE. Chacue annee, la quasi-totalite des APE se reconstitue grace I l'initiative des directeurs
d'ecoles. C'est encore I l'initiative de ces der*iers que la plupart des rEunions du comite et les
Assemblees GEndrales ont lieu.
B. Objectif de la composante
1.3 L'objectif de cette composante est d'appuyer les initiatives des APE en les aidant I s'auto-
organiser, I mieux gerer leurs ressources, et I developper des activitds Educatives Elargies qui vont
au doll des contributions financibres babituelles (construction de classes, achat de mobilier etc). 1l
s'agit par des actions de formation, et d'encadrement de: (i) assurer l'auto-dveloppement des APE;
(ii) de reduire leur dependance vis I vis des directeurs d'ecole; (iii) de favoriser des activites
zontinues des APE, et (iv) de mieux les preparer I travailler en collaboration avec les ONG et les
enseignants.  Dans ce cadre, i s'agira aussi d'integrer dans le programme de formation des
enseignants, un module sur 'I'Animation et la gestion des APE" afin de donner aux futurs
enseignants, les aptitudes necessaires pour soutenir valablement les APE. Le directeur d'ecole dans
le cadre de cetto strategie reste un conseiller de l'APE sans pouvoir dElibtratif, mais avec un rOle
important de formation et d'encadrement. L'objectif de son travail doit tre celui d'aider l'APE I
devenir capable de s'auto-organiwr.
C. Mise en oeuvre
1.4 Pour assurer un cadre lEgal favorable au developpement des APE, I'Administrion tchadiemne
est en train de finaliser un texte legal intitulE 'Ordonnance portant statut des AssociatIom des
Pafents d'Efves". L'objet de ce texte est de crder le cadre gEndral de rEglementation et de
fonctionnoment des APE sur le territoire du Tchad ainsi que leur relation avec l'Administration.
L'approche de cette composante est de rEpondre aux besoins identifies et exprimEs par les APE. Pour



- 90 -
ANNE2 9
Page 2 of 2
co fair.: la premiere annEe du projet servira a: (i) dEvelopper les criteres d'eligibUIite des APE et les
procEdures; (ii) organiser une campagne d'lnformation et de sensibilisation des APE sur les objectifs
du projet, sur le mecanisme par lequel une APE soumet ses besoins au projet; (iii) I former l'oquipe
regionale chargoe d'evaluer les requetes des APE; et (iv) I tester le fonctionnement du mEcanisme
sur une ochantillon d'une dizaine d'APE. Les ann6es suivantes du projet devront permettre de
toucher aux moins 100 APE en 1998. A la fin de 1' deuxitme annee du projet il sera conduit une
hvaluation I mi-parcours afln d'am6liorer l'ex6cution de cete composanto pour lee deux annees
suivantes. Compte tenu de l'approche a la base, les services des ONG dej& installes dans les rEgions
concernes seront sollicites en fonction de lours experiences et de leur domaine de compEtence. Ces
ONG pourront aussi participer a la formation des enseignants dans le domaine des techniques
d'animation des APE. La GTZ sera chargE. de coordonner cette composante et de gErer les
ressources pr6vues I cot effet. Elie travaillera en Etoite collaboration avec les DeIdgues prefoctoraux
de l'Education Nationale.
a:x9.chd



- 91 -
ANNEX 10
Page I of 7
RIEPUBLE O E
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT (EDUCATION V)
ITERPMS DE
DE A IRCTION DE COORDINTO
ET GES1TION DU PROJI&T EDUCATION (DCGPE}
1.1 gbiectif Pour aider lo Gouvemuement & atteindre les objectifs qu'il s'est fix, le projet foumit h travers
la Diection de Coordination et Gestion du Projet Education (DCGPE) uno assistance au Ministk9 do
l'dducation nationale pour gdrer les fonds, coordonner et suivre le projet-ot les divers Elements sont mis en
oeuvre par ses propres services ou des agences d'execution comm. I'AGETIP d qui il aura delegue des tiches
d'exdcutiou.
1.2  Foncion  Chargo de suivre l'exdcution du projet et d'en evaluer los raultats qualitati et quantatifa,
la DCGPE supervise et coordome las activitds du projet et les agents d'exdcution, y compris toutas les liaisons
avec la differents services du Ministre de l'education, les autra minisa  s et services offcidels intdruss par
le projet, at les bailleurs de fonds. Dans le cadre de ses activites quotdieno, la DCOPE a pour fonctions
spDecifiques de:
(a) coordonner tous los aspects de 1'execution du projet entre les divers services officiels inthdressEs;
(b)  veiller & ce que los coordoonnas de chaque composante s'acquittent efficacemeat do lerus fonctioos;
(c) organiser la dElegation de maitrise d'ouvrage pour los travaux de gEnie civil et suivre pour le coupte du
Ministre loexecution physique et financiere des contrats de trav;
(d)  orgniser a delgation I des agents d'execution de la mise ean omvre de certains    nts du projet at
an suivre l'ex6cution.
(a)  orgaisot is passation des marchEs de mobilier et de matdrel-nolainm  an ptrpant ou en aidant I
pvparer la dossiers d'appels d'offres, analydant les offrs, et prdsentant des recammadations pour
I'attributio' des nmchEs, et s'assurant quo los marches sont passes confondmmnt aux dircdves de l'IDA
ou des autres bailleurs de fonds;
(f) s'assurer quo la foumituet at approvisionnements achetes au titre du projet sont livrs & leuts
destinaons et mwcrts dans Jo regiske central des avoits;
(g)  organiser Jo re_rutmt des spEcialistes et adminstr las accords d'assice technique at les
programmes de bourses d'etudes;
(h) suivre at contr6ler las dates d'ach&vemnt at les co4ls des acquisitions;
(i)  assurer le flux sat_isint et ponctul des fonds aux Elements du proet;
(j)  tmnir la couptes du ptojet sdan des mthodes comptables gdnalemont acceptea;
(Ik)  ftablir los demandes de ddcissoment des fonds du crdit de l'IDA;
(1)  assurer I versoment pontuel, par le Gouvemement, des fonds do contrputie du ptet;
(m)  asser la rdalimto  dgulibre par le Gouvenmt du fonds de rsrve pour 1. pmt  gulier
des salaires des onseignants du puiairte at suivre lo fonconoenent du nicase de paiement.
(n)  tonir ls critues, y coupis lea ecitures fnanci&res lieos a l'excutdon du projet;
(o)  prdpaer rESuli _emt leas aorts  d'activite et autrts rapports devant etre prdsentes aux responsables
des compowa    du Ministbe et aux bailleurs de fonds;
(p)  assurer l'audit timtriel du fonds de rEserve spcial par le reviseur pnvd et le mndcaism  de paiement
idgulier deo salaires de l'Edmentaire; et
(q)  orpaiser Ia priparation des fis projets.
1.3    M : La DCGPE es rattachde I la Direction gEnErale du Minist&re; elle eat dirigde par un Drecter
& pbl temnps, appuyE par un pennel comprenant un Directeur adjoint/adiisruaonaie, un
coordonn atur do l'sducation, un spEcialist. de la passation des marchs, un comptabledu soutien appropuie
do deux secrasires, at doux chauffes.



- 92 -                                 Abl    10
Pagr I of 7
TERMES DX RE
D-U DlREtU E LAIRETION DE COODNTO am
GESTION DU PROJET EDUCATION (DCGPE)
1.1  Le directeur de la DCGPE est responsable de la bonne gestion et coordination du projet. A co titre il
voille  co quo les moyeos du projet soient utilisds avoc le mnaximum d'efficacite pour atteindre leas objectifa
fixEs en terme de ridsltats, conformnmnt aux accords passds avec les bailleurs de fonds. 11 est chag plus
prdcidment des thches suivantes:
(a)  Assu1er une diffusion suffisante de la documentation relative au projet (rapports d'evaluation, nrppots
d'activitds, accords de crEdit, documents de travail, directives des bailleurs de fonds);
(b)  PrEparer toute la documentation necessaire pour les examens annuels de mi-parcours et des plans
d'awtions avoc les bailIeurs de fonda;
(c) Assister leas responsable des composantes dans la preparation de leurs plans de travail et do leurs budgets
annuels;
(d)  Coordono tous les aspects d'execution du projet et donner l'impulsion nocessaire & temps voulu;
(e)  VoiUer I ce quo les responsables des divetses composantes assument efficacement lours fonctions;
(1)  Supenvsor les composantes et les unitEs de gestion, de passation dos marches at de comptabilit6 de Is
DCGPE pour quo los moyens prevus sur lo projet (fournitures, travaux et services) soient ddlivros solon
les progmmes Etablis em co qui concome los aspects finaciers at qualitatifs, et selon les proedus
acceptables;
(g)  S'sswuer quo lee fonds do contre parie nationale ou de co-financemeuts soient nis en place;
(h) Approuver los mouvements de fonds;
(i) VeilUer I co que tous les comptes des projets soient tenus selon des procedures comptables accoptables
par les bailleurs de fonds;
(j) Signor tous les documents necessaires pour les demandes de rettait de fonds sur les comptes de crEdit,
sur les fonds de roulement et comptes speciau1;
(Ic) Ptondre tous les arrangoments necessaires pour que los verifications des comptes soient effectuesa salon
los stipulations des accords do credit;
(I) Sassuwer quo toute la documnotation requise sur le projet soit disponible et transmiso aux bailleus de
fond solon leurs directives.
-    etudes r.F riaures (formation en Economie ou planification de leducation);
- expErience d'au moins cinq (5) anndes I un poste de responsabilite equivalente danm des fonctions de
gostion ou d'00-inistration publique ou privee;
-    expErience durant les dix (10) dernieres anndes dans le domaine de la progrmmation, de la gostion des
tossourc  financietos et humaines;
-    une boone counaissance du secteur de I'education;
-    rEfrnces au cours des cinq dernieres anndes faisant etat d'une aptitude d'organisation du travail, de
coordiation des diffErnos equipes, et d'une integrit6 professionnelle.
1.2  Qgditio d'eloi: Las codtions d'emploi feront l'objet dun contfat de deux ans nouvelable, a
ndgocior avwc l. Gouvonoment. Le Directeur poura kttm un fonctionnaire, mais dans co cas, son contrat ne
pourra pas Wtre financ sw le crdit de 'IDA.
Lieu d'affectation:          N'Djamdna
Durdo du contrat:            Deux ans renouvelables (avec une duree maximum de S ans)
date de prise de fonction:



- 93 -                                  ANNs1
Pae2of(7
LO F    REENCE
DU 5:QO RDIl= NIU S   A5G
I)E LA DRE:CTION )DI COODN1O
1.1 Pfrjfi: Placo sous I'autorite du Directeur, il lui rend compte do toutes les activitds soumises & n
respnsabilitd hidrarchique. Il est responsable de tous documents pour information et signature ddcisiounAlle
relatifi I la programmation, au suivi et & l'exEcution des actions p6dagogiques prdvues sur le projet. Plus
prcisdment, il est charge des thches suivantes:
(a)  Veiller I ce quo les activitds de chwune des cowposantes du Projet soimnt orintees das le SON des
objectifs assigns tos quo formuldes dans la description de claque composnte.
(b) Veiller au rnspect des programmes et des calendriers d'exdcution.
(c)  Asuer l'aoisation des diffErentes actvites et, eventu_mt, la complentarit des moyme Mis
en oouvre.
(d)  Veiller a ce quo 1'exdcution des aspects physiques du projet  coastnuctidon, 6quipmet, mdEel
didactique soit conform  aux necessitds pedagogique exprim6es par le bdneficiaire et aux iuctions do
Minist&re de l'Education Nationale.
(O)  Assuer la coordination des activites d'assistance technique due projet et fornuler des avis sur la sdlectic
des sp6cialistes et consultants.
(f)  Assur  le suivi de la formation sur placo et k I'etranger at fonder des avis sir la s6lection 'sa
candidats boursiers.
(g)  Appottr un appui technique at mthodologique aux diverses composmtes daos le doumine de a
(h)  Susciter at anuer des discus sur los rsultats des progammoes pioWtesec    avec l'appi do b
GTZ;
(i)  Etablir des rapports smeostris mar 10 ddroUlent des actvitds, y comprs 1' wliou d'imppct dos
ildicatoUr d'objectifs du projet avoc les rocommandations hventueles aux autortds natioales.
(j)  Contribuor I la prvpation de future projets.
Qualifications requises
Etudes supdrieures et spdcialisation en education roquises
-    ExpEience dans le demnibes 10 annges en onseignement et formation d'onseignants; exprin  en
mati&e do dvoloppemet des curricla
Exprience dau mois cinq ans a des postes do responsabit en matiereo o stion de l'ductimn et
d'excution do projets d'eduction.
-    Bonno connaissanco du stur de l'education.
-    Aptitude I travaillor en Equipe.
-     X       _Conaisne do l'infotique souhaitable.
-    Formation pluridisciplinsire souhaitable.
-    Bonne coaissance du frangais (ecrit et oral).
- Expdrience internationale d'au moins 5 annees.
1.2 Conditions d'eg oi: Lee conditions d'emploi foront l'objet d'un contrat de deux as rnwvelabo, 
nEgocier avec 1o Gouveronent. 11 s'agit d'un poste d'assstance technique (list rostrointA).
Lieu d'affection:           N'Djada
Durde du contrat             Deu  Ms ronouvelables (avec uno duor  maimum de S am)
Date de prise do fonction:



Ca  ;g



- 95 -
ANNEX 1P
Page 4 of 7
-    Etudes supriue (ea doomotu, comptabilit6 publique, gesion);
- xpdutieooe dim moins ciNq (5) anads  un posle d   s       it Equivalew dug i. secteur pubc,
pnd 0 do la uioa do proeb funEs par des oraisa do fiumamosa;
-    Exp orieI dm  lo doIainmi s tde l' on, do   formation et des essouros huains, soble, miis
DOt dEaav
-    Conaims      de syst&m  do -mos   comptable et financire indispensable.
-    Matiso pffait. do I'uhation d'ordinu.
-    REfErees su couls des cinq doaik  anndes faisant otat d'une aptitude I coorlon_ les activitEs d'un
Equipe do travail & aorgise son travail, et d'une intdgritd profesWionulIe.
1.2  C'di   d         : Les ownditions d'emploi froat l'objet d'un coatat do deux ns renouvable, &
ngcior avec to OkuwmmnL n s'ait d'un post. de coatractuel. Le candidat no pouna pas appaten  &
la Fawcion Publiqus.
Lieu d'aff.caon:            N'Djamdna
Durd6 du contoat            Doux  s rnouvlabIes (avoc uoe duw  maximum de 5 ams)
Daft do paso do foactica



- 96 -
ANNEX10
Page 5 of 7
TERMWES DE REFEEC
DU ILONSABL D)ES ACHATS
12p PROJ EDUC&TION (I)CGPE
1.1 Positio: Placd sous l'autorit6 du Directeur, et en relation permanent. de coordination avec le Dirtewur
adjoint et le Comptable, il lui rend compto do toutes les activitds soumises & sa rmsponsabilitd, relatives i la
progrmmation, I'acquisition et au suivi de l'utilisation des biens et services fournis par le projet.
ResgLoMabitite: Dans 1'exetcice de ses fonctions, il doit:
(a)  En ce qui concerne a p    aon:
(i)  Ouvwr et tenir a jour uon rEpetoi  des founissours et des entroppnses, on utilisant les procEdures
depr wdeoction prvues pour le projet;
(ii)  Ouvrir at tenik a jour un bordoreau dos pix unitairs les plus uels;
(iii)  Elabwer et toit A jour la liste ddtaill at chiffrde des acquisitions de biens at de srvices prevues sar
le fina_ement du projet pour toutes les composantes, et finaliser avoc les composantes les
caractEristiquos et spEcifications techniques;
(iv)  Elaboaer at tenir a jour It calendrier de passation des marches suivant un modle jug6 acceptable par
l'IDA pour le projet-comportant l'estimation previsionnelle, la procEdure do passation do mdu d
acceptable sdoon las temam dos accords de crEdits, la prpaation at l'appobation des appelrd'offis,
los consultations, I'dvaluation des offro, I'approbation des propositions d'attribution des maaichds, la
signature at la notification des marches, la fabrication et livraison, at la r4ception des marchs;
(b)  En co qui concer  la prparation des documents d'appels d'offros:
(i)  Elaber las dossie  standads d'appols d'offres pour les divers typos de fitures et los lettres
d'invitation at contrats pour les services; eo veoior 4 co que ces modeles regoivent lea app*obations
nEcoeaires dos baieurs de fonds et de l'Ad stion tchadienne;
(ii) PrEparer et/ou organiser et superviser la prEparation des dossiers d'appels d'offros et lettros
d'invitation;
(iii) S'assurer quo les dossiers out recus los approbations ndcessaires (au niveau national et aupres dos
baiUleus de fonds);
(c)  En co qui conene la passation des marchEs:
(i)  Prpaer et faire publier is. avis d'appels d'offret;
(ii)  Rester to Directeur a toutes les sdances d'ouveturo et d'Evaluation des offes ainsi qu'& twtos
lts sEances d'attribution des marcies;
(iii)  Veiler I la confection des rapports d1valuation des offres et s'assurcr que coux-ci re9oivent los
approbatiaons nEcesaires des baillurs de fonds et des membres competents do l'Administration;
(iv)  PrEpar  le marches et viller a co qu'ils soient approuvds, sign6s, visds et notifies selon le manuel
des prolddures et dans los meilleurs delais;
(v)  S'assurer quo les sisonnair  non retenus regoivent los informations nEcessaires ainsi quo leurs
cautions do souMissio asussit6t aprAs la ddcision d'attribution des marchEs;
(d)  En co qui concerns I'exEcion des marchEs:
(i)  Veiller I ce quo lea engagemnot sur marcEs soient systematiquement communiquds au Dircteur
adjoint/Administmteur gestioanaire et au comptable;
(ii) Veiller I co quo les dispositions necessaires aient ete prises pour que 1'execution des maches soit
supevisde suivat les exigence sp6cifiques do chaque marchC;
(iii)  Oraiser les commissions de rEception des fournitures, et s'assurer que les articles biens et services
rogus soul corect pour co qui est de la quantite et de la qualite et qu'ils sout conformes aux spdcifica-
tions;



- 97 -
Page 6 of 7
(iv) P         ksn la Desm nJcissis po*ur quo leas biens et services soient livrds et entreposds on soretd aux
ndroitset aux dates p*cisdes;
(v)  Praer las apports semestriels sur la situation des marches;
(s)  En c qul cone _e e raspect des accords avec Its bailHmura de fonds:
(i)  Veiller & co quo lUs proddurs d6crites dans los accords avec los bailleurs soient respoctdes I toks les
stado dos  quisitions de biens at de services;
(ii) Veillet & c quo leo moutmnl cunulds des foumitures acquisos suivant ls divorsos procddumes n
ddpassont pas los plafonds fixes dans los accords do credit;
(f)  En ce qul concwemn  lutilaon des bMe  acquis:
(i) Elaborer at tonir & jour les rapports sur l'utilisation et le fonctionnoment des equipemnots mis I la
disposition dos divetuse composantes et veiller I co que leur maintenance soit offectuee solon des
m6thodes efficacos et economiques;
Ouaificadons reuie
Diplm d'igdniour, droit ou Eoonomic;
-    Exprience do cinq aode mindmu      s lans  gostio  et a sinitation de prjets de taiUo simaire, dons
le soctour privd ou des projets similaires;
-       eMalis comct do la langue fiancaise at de l'utilisation dord_in; et
-    sIdrencos au cours des cinq deniibres anodes fisant etat d'une apttude a organiser son travail, at d'uae
intdtd profosinlle.
1.2 Conditions d'emploi. Les conditions d'emploi feront l'objet d'un conttat & ndgocier avec le
Gouvememmat qui so rEserve le droit de traitor avow d'autres firmes ou organismnes lo services d'expens ou
do consultts. 11 s'agit d'un posto de contractutl. §
(a)  Liom d'affctation:      N'Djamdna
(b)  Drdes du conta          Doux ans renouvelablos (avec une durde muxumum do S ans)
(c)  Date do pnse de fonction:



- 98 -
ANNE 10
Pap 7 of 7
IMMMINPRJ EDCI MG
1.1  Sous l'autorit d Decteur do la DCOPE, et sous la responsabilit6 du Directur adjon'ist/l
Gestionnairm, l comptable de la DCOPE est responsable de la tenue jouniro deo Ia comptabilit4, ainai quo
de la prEaration des vEdfications comptables relatives  1'exEcution du projet.
1.2  Plus pr6cisdmnnt, U est charg6 entre autre des tAches suivantes:
(a)  voile  co quo les comptes soient suffisaument appovisionnis in vue du regleni  rapide does dpes
e _ga    dons 1. cadr du ptjet;
(b)  tmkir & jour et do manir rdguliko des documents financiers (ounaux et lives comptablos) at un
c_mptabito dtailld pour chdque catgorin do coOts, composants et Sous-composQnes
(c)  Atablir les deman  do paioneut at assurer leur suivi;
(d)  praer les demandes do rtrait de fonds et tout. la documentation n6cessaire aux d nCAisem0nts
cofora      aux directives de V'IDA;
(e)  dresr menmsueliemnt lea ows de rapprocmt  bancaire du compte spcil du projet et sorti la
situation fihanciko do chaque composante;
(1)  spevso la activits do 1agent comptable matibre du projec,
(*)  toiu cUN    poili if       a  et soti les rapports prEsentaton rdgubre des comptes, &tas at
tbleaux do bord du projet;
lwifigldost mweuis                          ?
-    Formation do niveau supdriur (DUI) dan; le domaino do la comptabilit6;
Expence d'au gnos cinq (5) andes dana un service conptable traitant un flux annuel Equivalent
- Connaissance etlou expErienco des rhgles et procdure do dcaisemet des projat finncos par b
Baque mo_ideo ou des projets similaires comprent plusius composantes et sous-comp san   eat
sohitable masian indispnsable;
-    Bonne con_assuc do l'utilisation de la  icro-infornatique ean gnal et des logiciels comptabe en
paricher.
-    RofEece au couts des cinq demnibres annEes faisant etat d'uon aptitude & orgwaniser son tavail, et 'unQo
intOi6 po       i
1.3    it             . Leas conditions d'emploi feront l'objet d'un contrat de deux ans renouveable, &
_doir avec o Gocuvenennt. U 'sgit d'un poste de contmctuel. Le candidat no pourra pas appartonir I
Is Fonction PubHque.
Lieu d'affecaticn           N'Djamdna
Darde du costrat            Deux aa renouvelaebls (avec une durde maxilmuln do 5 ns)
Date dpi do fdnction
a:xlO.chd



Ched
*aodo Education
Comxpoente Projet Cbst Swunomay                                                                                   Tetd
OFOA 0001                        1US$ 'C000             Fondg    Be"
Loca       Fonk         Totd       Loca      Fondb      Tota    Exdue   Cojst
AAeAs of Gaid  Pwh    Educaion
Constucton and rehab.               2,818,900    1,468,600    4,287,400   10,250.5   5.340.0  15,590.6     34      52
tbdclks and teche Wngui             401,395.0    1,245,550    1,646,945    1,459.6   4,529.3   5,988.9     76      20
Teac twaninm                        391,882.5    117,832.5   509,895.0   1,426.0    428.5   1,853.4        23       a
In8petonand teahwr eupwon          109,650.0    98,670.0   208,320.0     398.7     358.8     767.5        47       3
Glte ducaton                         98,670.0    ll.053.8   110,823.8     858.4      43.8     402.3        11       1
Subtotal Accs of iChdt Pamv Educadlo    3,820,878    2,942,808    6,782,984   13,892.3  10,700.4  24,592.7   44      83
3. Plot Scod warovemt Proam
Podagogic Iprove"ent proect          49,500.0   247,500.0   297,000.0     180.0     800.0   1,080.0        83       4
Student aommont program              78,755.0   124,980.0   203,745.0     286.4     454.6     740.9        61       2
Oranbizaon of panwt eocdefofn        S0.000.0   247500.0   297,600.0      181.8     900.0   1,081-8        83       4
Subtota POO Schoo  pronwvment Proramn  178,255.0   619,990.0   798,245.0    648.2   2,254.5   2,902.7        78      10
C. Cadca Sectoad bInsdlIwe
Planning and mnaeument of mEN        22,400.0    120,270.0   142,670.0     81.5     437.3     518.8        84       2
Impean"tiln of education projects    92,350.0   374,220.0   466,570.0     33S.8   1.360.8   1,696.8        80       6
Subtald Cdtica Seatbonbuton           114,750.0   494,490.0    809,240.0    417.3   1,798.1   2.215.4        81       7
Tote BASELINE COSTU                   4,113,383    4.057,086    8,170,469   14,957.8  14,753.0  29,710.8      60    100
Phyicas Conngenlebe                 147,980.5   248,666.4   394,646.9     538.1     897.0   1,435.1        63       6
Price Ccntinganlee                  251,767.4   471.326.9    723,094.3    916.5   1.713.9   2.629 4        65       9                        1
Total PROJCT COSTS                    4,S13.130    4,776,080    9,288,210   16,411.4  17.3863.8   33.776.3    51    114



bZ 6046                                                                                                                                           04 -
a*miU" Ammab" by 0omugemI                              Aomed of away        Iao4o                                                                  kwomossm
fOPA                                                 Tow6oqs                 boeeom                       Pt_ Odud be_mmmmu P_                plow"
mmd                -4d _edmw                 P e'a,   _ 0.4.            oew04da        and       b_b_nab                       ol
__.ibe     _ ad&M tm mdmat u                        Geib       piAt              _       O pu.m    muo omo.mdo 1 _bd                 __owAs%
L 6.gmsEmm 00o0.
A. 066 wg               -24"AC " .                                                  -            _                  -            !                 .        T       d      .!!      1         .0
L. .um    . &mW..W
C     _Aba M*                         1.274.400                                                                                                                        1 '  '  '  '  '  '  '.27440    IDA   127t4 Y
owe Plejeot _.                               .            .          .            .      A4..... *. ..... . ..                                                         0960.0    tO*  5-M0
We       |_ Id*                                      *d*                          * mM  * -                            - _           -                           -    X.oo0                 .eS
tamp o  0m"                            1,2744o0            -          -'    7SA00D0                  40*0.N0            -.OA 0                                    -    1.400    10.0  144A.0
F                                                                                                                                                                      Mm.    t_" t 570*  * .7 "0*  _  .0  .  .  -  tn6  _  5J.2
_      _     _     _ peapdZ.sa.dmsds                      -   JL>    M         & U E &h                    - .........eD              -       8,7D.~ J              L      i ,1tt  tO      7,
bmi m m"Aed.mmm                      560*00.            .    54627.5      00.200       40.96"                   10.775.             -      2475.0               -    711,4.   -t0.0   71.114*
0.V%g  hs.                                                       16.6         M7M*       7Us05*             *       7,0*               -      7,005*         1Ol7       6AM,=*       GA      3211.
T    _30S f d  b Wdd                              1,_0 ..60 t.D*                             *            *            -0            *      1O*                  -        t" D 
_tbo      _       _ soO ,, DA2                      IAV WO                     1AWD 621 A"                                                                                            ,       .
r.tee                                         -.      1.        200s.12*       2.100*     1.07              *      a2,7o00             -       .0             0.40"      204,7Jt
0.0ma" *feam -mo                               .4                                   *.0        -22*00*                                                        7.1t0O    70A06*
It .56.                               10*0                           *            -          *0*000  *t000*9
osbS lad to.odeideeeImeb                204*00*.....2400                                                                                                                             5*0   14.700*
. bin    ad  eeod ds             *                                      *    *    -   ....           247.500*      70jl"A       247.600     ",fl1 O         368.400                           A
Ted bsnaft" on"                           S*710        1^.0 4       0          102D420*    6)22.-    207.?JOD       10445.0       20?.6D0* O   _20.20         2.00        6.721,109    0.   204.64*     I
AL CPmU"" Mi musqem                                                                                                                                                                                   0
*_ _ Cu_ ;t,D?t4DD t,4s X30,01AMM                                                                  tO,20 Dt  .D 2DSDD* %
11._                                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
t_i1m   Sdd                           1.414.00            .          .            .          .            .            ..                         .               .   1*14.000
Awmbsd.b  _        but  d                                 .   147,26DO            .    O,OOOD             .            .              .           ,                    tOD5          .          ,
g Cse*Seb                    _                       *         22.260*     104*000*    1t1.l_ 2S400       -  _1        o.700*   _           11.25.160*                    .200*7.0  .  8
teed timid mpeees                   .          .            .j~~~~~~~~~~~fl~~flMM           *AA                 .        2,250*
Toed UemWAU                                                   .   t7DJ.0 0_   104000.0                        *       7.10D.0             .,   1 .0                    
Told                                       4.2M07400    1.J40e .5  0,016*       20B6202   110.622A      207.000*     206,746*      207.500    142.670*         460.70*A    56170.A      4*   394.0"0
Poi  Cee_d"G.h                          272A.40*      62.277     e6.16a        6a.2    1S.26A          4.06,        0a..          6.000*      4       _602.3  10.100*    204.040
PA". OWAMinomub_eLg                                              O.34         t*n         0MA         3,7.0         2j.,          S9,         1640C6A .O1                MA.          . .4.n
Ted o2w        CROWN                       4.t15*01    1,01W    877 ,5SI.       234*.77.4  t122,60      S220          2A*"2        2 7a.       1A0.427*0       526.9        .262to      4.3   4356
Tom
Puie Sbuow                            1.615*11G   1,411*0    109,126*     113,4.1i    AMA620      2M1B7         147*5.1       20172       160)21         436.10       4.775*60    S.;    Mm"52
I'm|
DNt
o
oHg
-J



cwl
9I4mSCau_I. bvVw.                             Td ~6UCm1  ~SW                          e Cmbamg  $FA '0001                             tCdI5           9    0     1~. M '
_ egg      1995         1994        1997        low         Ta         t       t999                                  TA
Cgwtucdmn &W vdb                                  846,442.9   977,720.8   1,083,779    1.22Z403    786,250.1   4,915,601   3,074.3  3.,56A   3,B41.0  4.445.1  2t859.1  17,874.9
Taooka NdW tndw. OM"                               O8,937.4   892,230.7    80.000.0   120,000.0   160,000.0   1,613,168   2,039.8  3,24.5    290.9    436A      581.8   0.5933
TYdw tds*g                                        119,712.S    82,530.2   114,954.0   122,870.4   138.2t3.0   677,991.5    436.3    300.1    417.7    446.1    502.6   2,101.8
bup..*awd"a"   Mwiam                              133.465.7    27.953.7    24.128.9    24,S52.7    24,696.4   234,977.4    465.3    0l1t      87.7     90.4      69.8     654.5
Okgs b nucatim                                     22,970.1    13,9S98     32.879.0    47,79S. _t6.2,54.3    13tl.659B0J    S3.2     6B _.9 -..6                          48
-Am.,           Ay   my EM_                         1,6249    1,994.301    1,35.41    1,S37723    1,124I405    7.674.288   6,117.9  7,252.0  4.,96.1  5.091.?  4,097   27.906.5
11.96 Sdaaid       ft_ P.
PF_   kbWowm99 P cteb                              68,331.1    63.290A.    86.3215     70,401.7    75,183.9   335,9290     212.1    230.1    248.4    256.0    274.9    12.6
ofent  m     me evd                                84,622.0    39,224.9    46.54A      43,606.8    45,070.0   239,008.2    235.0    142.6    189.3    158.6    163.9      09.4
Org_*sdon of pee modatm                            67,781.1    62,465.5    87.221n5    72,051.7    76,959.9    3s,47s.B   2t0.1    227.1    2_44      262.0    279.9 e
R       famP bqwOVIU 90i                            160.,734.3   164.980s    92,o107.5   186,060.3   197,612.6   911,496.7   851.2    699.9    662.2    676.6    76s.   "314.5
C. 9d.od S8ckd) hibad...o
nhuumgamdnun.guA of UN                             63,325.0    35,207.9    35.672.9    19,241.9    19,919.1   163.427*.   193.9    120.2    129.1      70.0     72.4     694.3
_mtstan_    f ed on I                             103.29.t  1t13.388.2    99.798.7   104,516.2   114,O0s    63s.sss8   375.6    412.2    382.9    30.1   429.3    two
Sideuhi agdd)eg _.d buI w                           16e6s56.t   148,636.1   13s.47t.6   123158.1   t37.se4.9   702,426.      669.4    640.5    492.B    460.0  01,7       t
TID          ZCOSS                                   2,019.749    2.307.918    1,053,020    1.047,641    1.459.982    9,2680210   7,344.5  6,392.4  8,011.0  6.718.3  6.309.0  33.775.3
00
0G
o a
II'
a-



Chad
Ic-I I by fm                                         The                                               Icd                                      Load     3mh
MUO low)                           IDA            Gmmmu               anZ              KEW          C__ANDl              TOWd         Fe.       (EgdL      a
A_wi         _      tog      96    A_spw       t      m         % -   r_ut   9_    A _ %                 Emo  ,   IS,I    T
A. A    _oms of aity Filmy Edna&
Co     t uatun mt tcwb.    7,003.0   39.0   ,40.1   36.1                       3 * ,43.9   19.2    64.3    6.0   17674.0   62.0   0601.1   11,273.
Tftdoea mNd tauws gida    6,5136.8   77.*   1A64.    22.1                                                        0,603.3   19.5   5.133A    1459.9
Towhir Or*,                2,101A   100.0         *       *         *      *         *      *                    2,101t      0.2     41A    1,010t          -
btpoaptn          a1 t8da npmi  64.5  100.0                                                                        85*4     2.5      4119      442.7
aft educat4on        *                0                                                       -4_- *              482.0 t.4 4A  e              432.5
MMMuAammm         ty rh,    15s00.7   60.1  7,014.7   28A                        3,4A30    12.3   694.3    3.2  27*00.5   02.8  12.807.2   16,210.3
o. post OAt  _ tuymuuat ho
Psdogb buivamwm  pauJaca     170.2   14.0                     1,023*    83A                 -   B1.       1.0   1.221.8    3.0 e   1030        190 
tdht smaes.na I  a              A    0oo.         -                           * * - -  *                                    20       539.2     331.2
Orgmibatunof pawin amlt      2000    16.                      1.023.8- . 3.7~3                                   1.223.8  3.8j   1.023.8       200.0
SubtoaFUost8dot pm _         1,247.0   37.6                     2,047.1  s0t                         9*     0.0   3,314.5   9O6    235           729.20
C. Cdli Sem*wd bwetadu
Fiai mW d mmagemmntof M      431.3   72.6                       103.0   27A.                                       594.3     1 A     603.7      900
huphinaetanof _ducatn pr                  _--**.- 100.0                                                          I .0    A.0        .7         372.3    _
Toet Dhbu    nt              19,269.    57.1   7*14.7   23.4   2,210.1    0.5  3a430        10.2   914.1    2.7   33,775.3  100.0  17,303*   10,411A
0
bl-



Chade _du6 Tlo
EupsAdim Leosousu Pr4.t Cost Suimmwy                                                                                           Total
ICA0001                            ga S*000                a Flpa   se
Load cal             _   Totdl      Loal      F          Total    _ _ Costc
A. CM wods                                     33s,ooo.o    399,000.0    734,0.      1,218.2    1,450.9   2,69.1        54       9
L LwAp Gem *ant
Constualn Grat                               637,200.    637,200.     1,274,400    2,317.1    2,317.1    4,63.2       50    1I
Piot PMet ants                                99,60QD            -     99,500.0     361.8         -      861.8                 I
OhrEducation Gan                              79,000.0           -     76,000.0     272.7         -      272.7                 I 1
Schtst LuS Om lb m                             e11.7,0     637,200.0    1,448,900    2,961.6    2,317.1   5,288.7       4       18
C. FhIdWs aNWd oq _ns
FhwAur                                       171,630*    402,050.0    573,660.0     624.1   1,402.0   2,088.1         70       7
No pedapgog  Oaemad N      aterils                  -    137,666.3    137,660.3               500.6      500.6       100       2
Seuotd hFdta aN eqm" t                         171,630.0    539,716.3    711,34a.     624.1    1,962.6   2,586.7        76       9
D. Velidbse                                           -      6,220.0     66,220.0                240.8     240.8       100       1
L. Ped_aoa m_adab
Textbooa aN  tersgouide.                            -    1.238.200    1,238,200              4,502.5   4,502.6       tO0      15
Pedaogcald equpmst, guppie nd mat_er         431.47S.0    27.075.0    458,SS0.0    1U669.0     98.s    1.667.5         6       a
S ebtota Pedgogoa maest                        431,475.0    1,26S,27S    1,690,750    1,66s.0   4,601.0   6,170.0       75      21
F. Loca _tag                                   264,277.            -    264,.5        961.0          *     961                   3                 B
O. Ovoee FeNowshIps                                         70,950.0     70,9500          *      258.0     256.0       100       1
H. Load    asor 
Supevdan to                                  160,0.0      34,000.0    14,00A.0      581.8      123.6     7S0.         18       2 I
Maamenht                                 _  100,000.0                 100,000.0     363.6         .      363.6                 1
sa"l LOWd spede       r                        260,000.     34,000.0    294,000.0     945.5      123.6   1,069.1        12       4
L et'il renuted spe*llt                                     1.044,72S    1.044.725             3,799.0   3,799.0       100      13
ToWd wesitnmt Ca"                              2,274,083    4,067,086    6,331,166    S,269.4   14,75.0   23,022.4        e4      77
L Recurrn oasI
A. Operaio and managemen
Tee? Salrie                                  1,416,000           *    1,416,000    5,149.1              5,149.1               17
St*pot for dmlesMft toddg d gkre educaton    156,250.0           *    156,20.o      568.2                688.2         *       2
Opeatng Coe                                  281,300.0           *    261,300A      950.2                950.2                 3 3
Loal tead expanse.                             5.                -      5,7so.0      20.9         -       20.9
TOdal Reume Cast                                 1,839,300           .    1,939,300    6,688.4        -    8,688.4         .      23
T.eSASUJCO8TS                                    4,113,383    4,057.086    8,170,489   14,957.8   14,753.o  29,710.8       s0    100
Phyal Contnncie                                147,980.5    248,66.4    394,646.9     538.1     897.0    1,435.1        e8      5
Pdao Contngenies                               251,767.4   471,326.9    723,094.3     91s.s    1,713.9   2,629.4        65      9
Toeld POECTCOSTS                                 4,513,130    4,775,080    9,288,210   16,411.4   17,363.9  33,775.3       S1    114
a Compndas uAon .g.,b NbOy   andte     udt
Ab Proposd oontmc n _mement agec.



Bob Imndm
Is  Ii.a Am.its bw Yaw - _am 0.t CFMs
194      10        1t0      197       10       Ted
S. _,sht Cse
A. ClidS - eb.67.3    867.3    067.3  *67                                                       2,619.1   54.4    t,450.9
11. 1_ a.. Gin
C     _usdar Gran                            1,004.1   l.004.1   1,004.1   1,004.1    617.9   4,634.2   50.0   2,317.1
t Pimpect a                                     38.2     67.3      76.4     65.5    104.6      301.8
GMw' Siaon G_M_                                 13.6     27.3      81.8 _ 1227        27.3     272.7      -          -
_ad"    m    _ SWm anms                        1,055.9   1,008.6  ,1162.3   1,212.3    740.7   5,266.7   44.0   2,317.1
C. F _Ade. and eipaIm
Padla.                                         492.9    475.9    475.9    475.9    165.5   2,086.1   70.1    1,462.0
NOn peisod 0"4    an _tb                       600.B        ---_                         - t500.B  100.0,         0 SO.5
SelMed hFrt_ ad __*m"                            093.5    475.9    475.9    475.0    165.5   2,568.7   75.9   1,982.0
0. Vdea.                                         202.0     36.0         -        -         -     240.0  100.0      240.6
L. Pdaga-l&  mnd
Tmacocknd teedre udde.                       1,810.2   2,692.4                 -              4,502.5  100.0   4,02.5
PedagIec*qsp_nuw,   SB amt                      58.9 10.4    329.3             474.7    620.2   1.0B7.   5.8 _    98.5
S8A_d Pdagogcl ma_es                           1,867.1   2,070.7    329.3    474.7    620.2    6,170.0   74.6    4,001.0
F. Loadl -II                                      BB.9    174.1    237.0    242.0    239.0       961.0
0. Overse Felleowps                               63.0     08.0    105.0         -       4.0     258.0  100.0      255.0
H. LOWd _pdda o
8U|v%kn to                                     141.6    181.0    138.4    187.3       58.2     705.5   17.6      123.6
MOangant bto                                    83.0     83.6      83.8     83.6      29.1     363.6  _              -
Selotd Ladq dalen                                225.5    285.5    220.0    270.9       07.3   1,089.1   11.6      123.6
1. hI reuatd p.hst                               681.0  7B7.0    715.0    713.0    723.0   3.799.0  100.0   3.,799.0
Total  _mes Cosl                                 6,022.1   6,441.9  3,912.3  4,066.7   2,589.5   23,022.4   84.1   14,753.0
11. Ibnaret Cae
PAWM COON_
A. Opwmo. and maegen
Tuker's Sd.Ies                                 343.3    688.6   1,028.6   1,373.1   1,716.4   5,149.1     -
Support for doublo4M teaddo an girM, educatIon  23.0     S8.4    110.2    162.0    213.0       5662 -8
Opratng Cost                                   187.3    187.3    101.0    191.9    191.0       950.2
Load eval eupn                             _     4.2      4.2       4.2      4.2       4.2      20.9      .
Told                       SSeut COst    .68.8_   936.4  1.338.1   1,731.1   2.128.2   6,688.4                 ,         -
Teeld BASSE COSTS                                 6,580.7   7,370.3  5,248.3   5,787.8   4,715.7   29,710.8   49.7   14,763.0
P1ydc Cdntancas                                  410.1    391.5    257.1    264.0    111.9    1,43S.1   62.5       697.0
FIb ContngnIes                                   353.8    622.7    _         686.0    481       2620.4    8._2   1.713.0
Told PROW TCOSTS                                  7,344.5   8,392.4  0,011.0  6,718.3  5,300.0  33,775.3   51.4   17,303.9
Tue                                                      .        .                   . .                              -
FipI OE _hg                                    5,275.5   5,017.3  2,471.8  2,500.0   1,400.3   17,363.9     -          -
Coms sqervhn 1.4, by NWOO) ad _tehrd  at
%b ft _m eoret  _-om    .                                                                                                                            Ho



Clld
I bmmsu Asomaus by fhmdmm                               The                                              Ldod                                     Load     DU"a
FU8t l00                                IA *Uvueun.ut                     OTn              KIW         ComWAMadiS           Toed         Fo.       EbdM      a
An>ow t          ARM"*e    9      Ambow*    'A    ASKw   _         Aowd *    V_5    Aa"oz      9       cFi      T_s    To
1. CNN Wts to                   2,263.1   703    0839.0   19.7                                      324.7   10.0   8,24.6    0.6    110         ,465.2
2. Lo OSwn am" A2406.2   37.4                                                      3,430.9   63.4   689.4    9.2   8,431.4   10.0    2660.0   3,6.0.
3. Fwdnsh *ad Zqupnsx2          2,046.3   84.0    506.0   16.0         *                                       -        8,150.3    .3    2302.3   758.0
4. Vddes                         270.2  100.0             -           -                         -              -      276.2    0.3     266.0        7.5
L Pudqoglo Mgade                6,300.1    7.7  1,464.    21.3                                      - .6,614.6   20.2   5,224.6   1.6S0.1
6. Loud T _ab                   1,683.0  100.0                                      - *                            1,663.0    5.0         -    1.83.0
7. Owbtn  Fda wads               284.9  100.0         *         *      *           - *                  -      *      284.9   A0.      234.9
S. Tedded P  to                  920.1   84.7    167.0   15.3               - *         *      *                    1,003.1    3.2         *    1,D3.1
9. spedi" ts.rw                 2,321.1   51.2        *       -   2,210.1   468         -      *                    4,531.2   13.4   4.531.2
10. Toe' Bad                                     5,140.   100.0        *       -        *                           5,149.1   15.2         -    5,149.1
II  pa1. CoCf                   1.114.B t00.- 0*I1114A  S3.3                                                                                    1,114A  
Tld                               10,2996    67.1   7,014.7   23.4  2,210.1    6.5   3.430    10.2   914.1    2.7  33.776.3  100.0  17,363         6.411.4
af, dmm  oautd  sa _ddw
%*for ouA  Aa. i praaa sd gibtdiaoglsor
tb iw eerandnimiloCDt s i 1b ad rk' odueeon c  I
Wo Ddesi, .uuWhlma,W adNWnq   of omezndue m   n
_ _ _ _ _._a__ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
e l _ ____r w_-_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'S
''I
a-



Tmb 1asbmo..Cmw.id  SM
bEmb
A. Clinusm amwuoudmno                          sodsum 0  90    so     so      ea    400      2.24   10020   106*920  l0.020   1098920   10C*2         600.000
3. FeordOu                        afwtw.       00      80      s0     90      so    400       S03    46.620    46.620.  46.620    46.520   46.620     227.00
C. Il  umuu &                     senuise      so      s0      so     s0      so    400       100     SAM0    0.000       0.00     OA"0    0.A0        40.00
0. os.*Gson a                     muies        s0      s0      so     so      s0    400       200    10.00     10.000    10,00    10.00     10.00      00.0
L. Talviusi Adtld                  suit                                                                    -     ..__          . . .    _
Told                                                                                                  28944.  4.440       283.A40   248.440   238.440   1.217.200
% pb-, by KfWmndmnuwjg..Sm hnd orwashoqdvisat fn10%I
V0mwcant".npss  by OMA.
in qiswdimn of asnslaaeln ohm by Wft Mn p*mesmn.pss
%i By b*wwmdundy usasuud emtadmn ammdlmts.
Tab 2. cm""m Coutsn gm i
cat"i Comos
FCFA 000                                                         Camis                          ii3mCs 
A.  n"    nsu h                     _          80       0      lO    o0       8       00    sl14   1"0        10".0      0.=0   100.20                440
L Fuhwr                           Ounhw.        so0    80      0o    0o              200      gm    2A0        20.400    80.460    20.                 51300
C. _mgusb                           _uus        00     60      60      50     -0    4          O 800 10  J.0    5.000     6.O  0000 60 00    00 .000
D. _sr.InM                                      so 0   so0    sO      s0 o           200      200    10.0      100       10.000    000 6               40.0
Told                                                                                                   149.050   153.06    140.060   163.006*            00.
16 Ubum    IDbA aid i.wuadrss Ohi hInrd of ahqWidwvtlot 10%).
n OSqsidumn uof mm s   its.enoh  by Nbat aubqa p*mw  Insp
00
co
OI,
m_  ,  '  S0  lAt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
b F w _ w K "S g"*  t^,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



Chad
UAk      1 l9"          1fl1# 199   -l-             owJ2        19        1s                                  rod
A. Oau om n esutmeda (CONITACT lb          d_on           50     60      0o    60        *    200    2070   143.0   14t3.600  148         143.500          574.000
tl                                          *Wkb         50      60      60     s0       *    200        0   20.450    2.40      20.4      28.450      .  113000
C UMOMAt hs 5                                                    s0      60     0o            200      1to     5.000      000    5.0        BAN        *   206000
IL apawian Id                                            so0    60          60 50             200       100    5.000    5.000    5.000    5.000            ^200
L TedWid Aul                                 sut                                         3.00_1.50                                           A
Told                                                                                                            1U,ffO   161.60   163460  193460          .73.0
%§_As NWE
%bA -emi by BA ad eauId  InSid w eAd~ e      "Its 10%).
W _ aato nunausmuai by GM.
W 0.upwIdm of mbsM ai by W(SO ails p*dout    I Ism
owc
_d4. ClmI
Dt"S4 cSum"   RiiSmI
If aA    '0001__                                             _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _       S3ma
UAl       194  _1996   19S   ,9         tS109 8 TO      Ct       *19"     19S       1098     t9Zt    t998  _Ti,_
0
A. Chew. tdiiUabrnl                        dwmm_         60      60      00     6             200      000   40.00    40.00    40.0        40.eoo      .  150.
L. _m .                                     *dm          s0      60  60 s        0 s          200      560         20.460     20.460    366  20        -  1
C M_Al   las o0    60                                                   60      60so          200      100    6.000    6.000    O,Oo.    6.000         -   20000
S. 5wc                                                   60      s0     60      60 s          200      100    6m0        5.000      o           ,v
Uad                                                                                                              70.46    70.60     7046    704031.0
V)flnm  by Its awmen or eowt daid emi      aIe 64   ori cu ash.sdvatt 10%).
IC&Vsas uugua by CML8
&"M"p*I of omsstmudu dar
0s-
W_ifs _tih__dher_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



ksbbd bat. Sod OA
f ~ ~   ~       ~      ~      ~       ~     ~      ~      mt-S.                                __        __        _       _ _ t_ __          __
u           19  _      t9M ltlbi  tEl97   T*W              gd         100         tm _   "s           toy  1 m             lowb
I._T^ bum4m0 74
A. T_ebk ad Tom. _e iiM. I               bg.                                             4.                                       0                                  102...  0l0
Lheouomg4molj Pedapul podifeftb         .wIIa             3        ..                     .       3     SAM6       11.660                                       -       1.5
CT,  ht_N_ bmmdgim    Sm              Iue li             46      46                       *  *0          15.                      US                   *. t
&   .nbt_ Iwbo  d                       _Abb we h                                                                              40.§O .O , 15                  10 9_IAa    .
D.    medld WA .MISI                    W"---- immlb                                                                                 m     .M               m .  -AM.
To"d                                                                                                                 605.040      3.06 0.0    120.00    taken0    1.0604864
-w im         b I 1200 n     FeFA.w  l.O OOt a a idXeo F 600CFA PA  u.ojs 0000 _eo d tm     di d                   _
Cb e_                                                                                                                                   t d   _ "_nC%zeoPth  b
'.aa.wm   04*~g 046Wd. iiteedm Iu.im) t C   5.0 tim  "abe .9*ea and                            oo           4      _106          aslbs)n
T L    t_   . '-W
lkm    1~~~~~~~1 bwt    _w90 "o Cto  al;  i bow      2                                     %960              I140                                         1.
ldb. 3 ,      at 
T   d_el.   .    .sab. T  .bONTdI
FCPA 000                                                                   uaeth                        lb                                  belttt r ,tl  . Cod 7
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
0
bad9Gd.sad.m                            asobeb              5 er  _                 *ttoe    .FU  5n       50        2.00 -oC
11e.                                       ma.        -     d       .      1        *tO .   ml             7tl36                              *         * w - t *         3.76
TlemnbbueatUtl.                        3eab..                       2       3       .       .   S        3.06                    770    11.6            Ei               10.2
Ad *_ N aNlaeAdi.                                     106 106 106 106 106 526                            16        100.00                60      160       160           ,
I.



T" 1. tw    T_d Tf*4
DCaa
AhW
4X4dkW                                                   I                                    I        ?A       7 AM . .0                  *                         MAo
Mob*"                               G"b%_"            34              *      *             34          m     9             .       .         .        .    s
19_m  b                                  "t             34              -                    34      1.443.7   48AW.6                                        49 A
PF"d_  bod  t,Xo                        b            ,ook  1.7            1MMW0*
cgqto      4 INsa.                                                                                                           * *I                               10l7
pedM  "Nb                                                2      2       t      I              a        365      7 .700A  7.700.0  %8O     SO                  A 10D
_s          _    _tFIp Ov4pA                                                                                     10,4JO.' 7.700A   UNA0      S-M                  MMAfS0
L *AF_d _ww
Teat4 d# "14  mfo                                        3                                    3      30 1050      1.06
tNW_ of ,       oWd                                     24      20     20              '     6           2EO    $.*W    5AW    SAO"*    16D
Ailm"        I.  - A                   wowo               :      0           4CO    41,  1.'*27                         Ifj4,25  _61g    IO                   ZM
1._eW f4AMbW         1                                                                                           S-01 t         * 140    ,10.0  1,40.0%   1,0D 1,400   GIAM.0-  "4,*oo
_Atw  of to*U                         mhO                4      34     3t  :14        34    170          t20    4.8    4A0DO  4,0D"    US          4~        20640
All      - *1                         mtir               It                     t      I      6          740     740.0   740A    740D 1 4DD    40.             3.0"
1X_0m  P_a                             OP.-              t                                               290     25.0     M0.0 - ODA        "O0  0- MO - lie
0u*6ma 5*0 *"mo                                                    "0   0A    9, f  .0.,0 tDb                                                9.D                4i27Z 1z^
1'td                                                                                                               "AM  G2 . 0 ",S    .445 .0 tO706  It FM           48$2
la e_    b FW_F o de rAdo  _Wp
U 60 htd_* .d f "oh CW.
w    4 oi on tid  _, bmm_  motoo4 td                      fbo  pb"d In So    .
to      I             s   erg W0 '_  NW  pwp     db
sbX~~~Wdlm                ~ #d, i            " - __I
W @ _.,_ 1 _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_                                                                             *~~~~~~~~~O
b * _ h ' _ ' _  W     " n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P



WCfA VW_C
UZ0  110    toW_"l 107           1§tl TOM  U,*"l4, tZ                                1110   -totd 7
L kodAm cowpeU  ~Tdtsh
A. O4bmprnamatm
Mob*"m                                    m.h~gsu       * $4    *     -4                          m2    0,150.O     -                    *      *
Om.q woo  to                             edat _8 .      $4      -           -           24   1A42.76  4#07._
IL 140DM9ASI
MegaUmyd                                 mawrm          14               *              14        006   0470*                                 O,7*0A
Om" .W*muU A                             eat 8 .*#.     14      -14    1,A43.75 ....1O213L 
Otb%d 14 OM                                                     *  *                                                                - t8.002_
G.ftog.dquIto 1.82
Podft_& w.I_MWt                                          2     1            -            3 *     .,00   7.700*  X.86A0                       11 t,.6
_AMW  _.m    -                                                                                            9,310*  2.00*                    -  1t7D80
800d md C'rnPudwwqm5i                   I w,A so   s0    so    so                  *   200       16o             ,JA            MAl  &_ _AJ
TI  sA Gu                                                                                                  *724   4AX.026*    M*    MA         10204
8.U0M0
Md_ms.di_ *Ssm4    34    84  t4    84   170                                                      1OS   4,360  4.000*  4,00*  4,MA*  4,30*   AM0*
AO*dmAa8                                  i sea         *4    34      4    34     4   570         260  -t03 SAO"   4
0I 14 Om PSdUbS12.6012.660*12.600*1A001Saxe"   02*90*
8.14 ur
_*muim  mawwdsrn                        mdiwLA"       14    14    U       14    14    70        2n0   2800   20   20   2000  200   14,300*
Ahddam1                                   ad &DM        14    14    14    14   14    70          400 yto.o U. 4.eeoD,  J004         am". P A
TO A    CuOO eN                                         eae&.   0
Ibm*AtmDIAUi"MsII -        _dU 
Ab _t.~  SVPWU an mdll moa   a_w
Nh.paedoagmidsmua
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~ Am*vad.s.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s adetiga,aUuud.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 
0N.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



4
I..~~~~~~ 
*~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ld  u   qp                                                     _ qms  ap _P__ 
_     >    _ * J __v,scw    o_-                                                                                                                     Wes_- _lgll_s&
el~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AfoOwMd-p vw*wpVU  Rl%
*oU(eU w          v s-ow  *wvu  vms-  wow                                           ~~ -                                                   {.n     mmad
UinrYT ni                   Yio                        7      iR vs       i       va.                         'v w -w           ms pa W   etw
foW      00W    VW    @0W   @0W   rOWK    e>           S      I     I     I     I     I         UU             ~VUSwJAa
_st   vp   tr wI oo     aI  @vwVl        I vws A   PI  s      I     I     s     I     I        m.w4v
it flWe   Wm t  nM    Fw.- oF                        I    I            I     I        JI                        V 
Ban      saws        vsa    non   sonl   on            ,      I     I     t V                    PA"                 q  Wm AMpu -P"
owns   wows   *w& w V t        wL   al vowIclI   w                                                                                       paiw_
f0Wl    flLS WOOD     OWm m  lot    Wi       O         U      I     t    t  nt    tI           AMPS-                *    e t 3Swm Po ahsde
0w*    -     W      w       iwrt  ewt         i    -      *            I     tq
oe                            -       oes    ee                     *                          *s
urnE           -  .s           ' ,ee   1KWWWU *w - I_>_
rnces ~  ~     w  .u                                             NUNS.                                                          moo. wojw v   
I"  "mom 
owt      -        S        "        A   ol   bt                                               "4                           eptlU  0 _-
uqoo4 Wm  IV
DM_an     sea  gmWm 
_soDPaj 



- 112 -                 ANEX 11
Page 14 of 17
' 1li'            'I "I"l§
X 'l Ii            dI "I'
131                   g 8  I
sS{11ii        3ii"E lif     
*L '      !           'I     ji



3%
-4
- In
' -4
| Z^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-
MA     P a     VA"h  0 t p.  e  tape -. a   ^
15.43 PUP .NW -  Sp-                 f t'P pW- -   -     A
fl,si3u oUurW  @sI5 flsfl  vue53 0vsL; 
9.VU   @uW   yam   weot  V      Owr                                4                        P04                        f  l an    4 _ *
Wm,  vs  rowe   o w   oWm   Wm   @         5               * &    4     I      4       \'                              U sqw-mIP
~L  rowt  owt vOaWst to st Wsowt   9                        4      4AM                                                   f u        3t - *s
~I o0   w 01  ,f  ws'ug so'ns 'oms VW$                                           '                                            p    '00S
'VSE -                   *     O v Vz WIL  X         *             .      *      4                                             y) xt
yasvi  -           -           TEFFraVi n        *          *dWs *af                                                               nn Uo
*  . 5g            .     .   .lU   05   *                   *   *         .      4t  D
wmasaqmprpnedinrnu'S
t 1 vwfel slro ew nst @st O0331 #1306 534'5    ~                                            mrnUrnsWa u41 tso                      I
oqz#Blt vzg  os"~~~~wo vste  nt  ot                                                                                   OXPU_
ovwl ezo   0       wow   Wm   wo"wo         ont Kwi  owt ewi  oitg  owt                    lo                                Of MO O- 
oMs  -       -     Ous' ve M' oLem' eg's    s                                    4w s*  -                                   b o *  a" vw*
Urn   £03   _W Ni    W-                     W
Pft   Om  am  PIKL    nu                 got   Om         *a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a. PP
_d _W        _ P    i 'st Wi
POO



- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.*pd*KP  -Mp oinw-s
woLolm wowgi wowes 0,04ptlot wowSeowv wl"wilo -^A
8%st wewi -tam won Tam woiwg                                                                      ow_       pe_t
I9r   o    O           mOFCvw0                               *hW      9 0 "l"_                 P                "MA4
_~~~~~~~~~~~~X                                                      _*_4e/4pm p"_ _Inva
val                    - ,uvr OWL7en§   t                                                                IV WOPAItl
vg  rd                WOKtn  K    MSz   w X       W |S                                                rww"*t_
vow          rwou  0-roo  re.'aet $>f MW                                                      g  *Mt * Sppw_w&dWP
vowsg vowns oers oBt aw ows oo           on  _9 g    s e                                              owm*
*a*    *    *    os" 9ee   *   *   e   *    *    *                     - a 
"4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~N
9.' ~~ ~ ~    ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ._
¢000'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d 000@ V| m9w  pm fl'* 
r7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                            s irs  K' 0       -_
eors~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*psqnm3q pm .a,s suqa u dw    o       $_q
WWWPW  W   na  flp-p8IW Wp-
-I~~~~~~~-



Clod
Te  14. PW(st CoWelWdso *tA
U0Al  00d                                                                      Omu#he Co dee
£__*  z  1 1 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot  $                                               0 
A. 6 obtSees..
6Nation~ Somdb                            mam WellI                          I                          33.00  34000*  33A00.  33A000. 33AW0*33*00*166,000
Otwh _  b                                 n _                12     12    tO       tt     13    U0       ,a *o  3       33.030  33aO             420  1S0D
si e mh          h                                                                                               72*00722.000*66*0       iA          70.0  366,400.0
6 l T_a
t    _mite                                  _                  3                    *                           4 .   *  100  4,600.  -       -            460.
N    deth ebewP                             _0 *    20                     20      20     20     sO       1.         -    25*J    26A0    0 so     2600   t,OO
maIVal _                                    _                       Is      to     to6   It    60          1s             22.0   228.0   226.0       .0    600*
Wdy*b VIIII   inwq649                                         1      2       1 -           .      4        60   66  1       t.0 -60                   -    .200
Muepee _w*t (h~4                            M                               1              -      t       62      2*          *   025g2 .0    -        *   1 t,0.O
Ov m CaVew.'t                                                 t      -      1       *      1      3      1.100                                -
6*bi6Tabg                                                                                                         6.916*   1,66.0  3m00   471*  1,567.0  13t550
0. Tm.poad..
1.4x4     wb tIt O N                                                                .             1 t,O6 I               7.066*                       * t0
2. ub CV                                     n                *      1       *      *      -      1      3.676       a    ? "
Tmdbwadnwmcooft                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~76,F.67    op4.64  0W.060  07677.416* 360*20
L. Reowmm Coes
A. Cuwd.Else .I put00AAIJ4lb             .ed ofI                       1      I       I      I      5     t1.700 11.760*  11.7"0  11,700* t11.700 11.700*  66*0
L C*W oIs. owet Iw. bwe to              dg.t.u                  I      I      I       1      1             2 2.70   3.     2.700*  3.70e0   2.700*  3*0"  13tO
C. T       _ibd upt hl                     _A                                                                      ODD 00   000    .0 000    00      00.0  4,6S0
0. Logbtdaduppot .                         tudi,aL                                                                 624.0    92.0  3.164*  3.104*0  1S0"   SA0"
EP leld *1W It                         1 dee b d.eajw         so     e0     so     0o      so    300        2.6    MA    -        M.. Io"  --tim .S0.4_                 '-
Toldb_Cm@..                                                                                                       .10"A B.A3.J      tte6o  17.11       A    -w g           U
T.d                                                                                                                906.006* 10128,2.0 S066A4*7,490.06o1.0 40.70D
V) Nme.d.6 eewtedh ul  Ps.l*a 1cmw. 400.OOCPAaM.L AmeletenotwDma 1280.000. Sumowe.t Spedait amd AecowmtAt 200.000 "dt)
%O HOWeloolovent edede feebel oowsoe"sa  l60.oOAie) .m h allm smeeterv  NW.009     2 COwedfewa mm*0 SOONd
% i fo_ and Mdbtnmd _
V 00 dep of ibI * pw yw E FCU taf U.
. '
C
61
-4



- 116 -
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF C
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT (EDUCATION V)
PROJECT MONITORING AND SUPERVISION PLAN
1.1  IDA  suervision  input.   Regular supervision  needs are described  in Table 1 of this
Annex. In addition, specific tasks such as review of progress reports, terms of reference, annual plans and
audits, and pocurment and disbursement actions, are estimated to require 8 staff weeks of various specialist
inputs a year which are not included in Table I.
Bonower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)      Pmgts repots would be submitted twice a year, in October and April. They would include
a summnay of implementation under each project component. financial statements on projet
expenditues, updated project implementation (includmg the special mechanism for ktacher
salaries payment- SMTS-) and procurement schedules, as well as the status of conat
advertising, bidding, awards and completion dates and compliance with aggregate limits on
specified methods of procurement. The PIU would collect inputs from each responsible
MENES Directorate and prepare the reports.
(b)      Joint annual reviews. Once a year, no earlier than october and not later than November 30,
the PIU will organize a joint IDA/Government review of project implementation based on:
(i) the progress report in the above paragraph which, for the pumposes of the annual review,
wod also include: (ii) an annual work program and budget for the next academic year; (iii)
a draft budget for the education sector for the next year; (iv) the status of policy and project
monitoring indicators as listed in the ' cadre logique;"and (v) the status of SMTS
implementation. The annual reviews would be held at the national and regional levels using
the ZOPP approach developed during project preparation.
(c)      Mid-term review. In addition, the PIU would carry out, jointly with IDA, and, to the extent
available, with other donors affiliated with the project ( namely KfW and GTZ) and with
Cooperation Prsncaise, not earlier than April I and not later than May 31, 1996, a mid-term
review of the progress made in carrying out the project. The review would cover all aspects
of the project, with a special focus on: (i) progress in implementing policy measues and their
impact on the staffing, cost and efficiency of the system, including double-shifting in urbn
classrooms, lowering repetition in primary schools, the recruitment of teachers, and
completing the teacher in-service and pre-service traiing restucturing program; (ii) the
effectiveness of the different modalities of implementing the classroom construction
component and the ability of communities to finance their expected share; (iii) the
effectiveness of the SMTS; (iv) progress in implenenting the pilot 'school program'; (iv)
functioning of the girls' education programs; (v) progress m the studies on promoting private
school, and improving MEN management system; and (vi) progress in the implementation of
the programs financed by other donors, particularly KfW, GTZ, and the Cooperation
FranQaise. Based on the review, the MEN shall promptly prepare an action plan, acceptable
to IDA, for the further implementation of the project and the program, and shall thereafter
implement such action plan.
(d)      The PIU would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA supervision missions
and participating in the mission with tnem.
(e)      Pffijemption         . Within six months of the Credit closing date, a completion report,
prepared in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, would be utrnited to
IDA.



- 117 -                                    JNNEX 12
Pap 2 of 2
Table I
Supervision Plan
_~--_ -___ g____                                                                           -
IDA Fsal                       Activity                                   Skdll                 Staff
Year (FY)                                                             Requimets                weks
ad Ap-
FY94      Pepauation for and implemenudon of project launch   Civi wo*cs, Procurenent, Disburs  6
Oct-Nov    workshop                                         meat, Educaton, and Ptoject Man-
93                                                       agement.
Civilworsb/Implemetftdon, Educa-
Supervision Minsion:                            tion, Project management.            6
Aprl. -    Review the implementation of the mechanism fbr
May 94    teacher salaries payment.
Roview all component's progess in the preparation
of bid documerts and proeduml manuals, consuttant
recruitment and slction; PIU opetons education
budget for pimary school suppliea, for rehabilitation
an maite, and teacher rectuitment for current
academic year.
PY95      1st Joint Annual Review Mission:                 Same as above                       6
Oct-Nov
941      Review progss of past year and plans for the next
April. May year, including the management of: (i) classrooms
95      construction by NPI; (ii) Pilot' school Improvwmcnt
program by GTZ; (iii) girls' education program by
UNICEF; the procurement of goods and servic%;.
training programs, TORs for consultants and studies,
counterpart programs, budgetary allocations, commu-
nity contributions, project accounting and auditing.
and teacher recruitmaL
Supervision Mission                                                                  4
_  3ame as above
FY96      2nd Joint Annual Review Mission                 Same as above                        4
Oct- Nov
95      Mid-tem Review:                                  Same as above plus an Educator       6
April-    Comprehensive oview of project inpu;s. operations
May... 96 and outcomes and restructure project if necessary.
FY97     3rd Joint Annual Review Mission                  Same as above                        6
Oct. Nov-
.96      Supervision Mission                             Same as above                        4
April-May
1997
FY98      4th Joint Annual Review Mission                 Same as above                        6
Oct- -Nov   Suprvision Mission
97                                                       Same as above                        4
ApiMay
98
FY99      Projeat Completion Mission                      To be determined                     6
Nov-Deo-
.emb
i19_         _     _      _     _  _     _     _   _          _      _  _      _     _



Is ~   ~    ~      
I                                                                                          I
l-------g- - ------------------------ - - - - -               .    L  __________ig___.__-- ---- ----- -     ---- - -
--  ----------*- -------------11104 ------f  - --¢- *-n!-§---- "ITFR                                 -   -----  U!w- --ff--flif-
- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - - - - -- - - -- -- -- - -- - - -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- - -- - - -- --- - -  - -- - -- - - - - -
---~~~;-------         -           ------~~~~~~-- - ------------
L ---------     _____----           _ --- ----------------- - ---A------------------ ---T                              ---  -a----
l :s;_ *_ _------2---   -----r----------- ------- ---A-----------  ------------*----- ------ ---r--------r----~---
co           ff                         f#"te"                                 ee         ?"eeoeee                                                     ewe
----------      - r- ---N                                           _                      ; _     , -
8{~~~~~~3                                        a                          x                             39 ez   e    t                 xe iXwt#;
-                         --N -------   - --- - --------*------- - -----N- - -- - ---
-~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ #                                                                                                          *-    "   # Ii 
Ii                                                           -.'------------------r -------------- I
Wa'  ~ ~ 1,-                                                  -----------N-  -----                 -------
*                         --~~X 
*            N                          U                          N              *,      *      N"               N       * #
u1                            n          od              N "                                       2s         ~       N
-           N                                                     NU                                               
_* p _ _ __ _ _ _ ___  _ ___   _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _  _  _  _  __  _  _  _  _   _ _   _
.1       N1 NIxl!l'z'   Nl'llil    llll!'i   1l!    !1|   1



- 119 -
ANNsx 13
Republic of Chad
Baslc Education Project
Prio Revew Threshod                                 Contwt Profie by VuNumbu
EadLuAed                  Cumamiave                   peuavqs
Rg of                vue (no.) of                  vau (ud.)                      of tow
coanta  valu          cout    wthIa                      above                   vaou (no.)
(meL Continpaues)           eamp                         du**AO                        above
(US$ thousnd)          (USS mio)                   (US$  m)                        dwhold
(1)                        (2)                        (3)                         (4)
OOODS
Val       Nudbe            Vale      Numbr             Va          Numbe
1,O0aab evo               5.1          2              5.1         2              57%            5%
SWto999              0.0          0              5.1          2             57%             5%
250to499             2.8          8              7.9         10              89%           25%
30 w 249            0.5         10    '8                    20              94%           50%
Oto 29             0.5         20              8.9         40            100%           tOO%
Daintie of procue  is abait du  yam
WOPXS
Vale      Number           Valu       Nubr             Vauo        Numbr
1,00 ad aboe              0.0          0              0.0         0               0%            0%
S0to999              0.0          0              0.0          0               0%            0%
250to499             0.0          0              0.0          0               0%            0%
30 to249            2.5         12              2.5         12              57%           15%
0t 29              1.9         70              4.4         82             100o          100%
Duna=lo of pwmmuann s a boet fouryam
Ncse Thtesbo  alseti as emspmandt to a dsehlbl peawpaw. oovmp . of conew VA" (aend 89% for goods and 0% for wia),
whichaque a nc blindwvdl oaidforUrntak m r, gs  Urpe*st  SpdadUusaaoa_olanasS                             t
itty. Anylwlmboldfor ood.  wudqmddidaugaff wta whicwold nobndmbe.
C:.d OtuTRESUOWzlW3)



talA 3t Ptrn di psatim des vwdA& (  tmbsltlr  at lto ngsistial)
_........... .......... ......... ................ ............ ......... ........... .......... .......... I------
Lettre fnvftat.
Teros refereI 
bort List.    tancennt                Proposition
N6thodes         /         Catltatien             Attrfbutfon
de        Desser             au       Itedz   de cetrat    xEn
Typo de contrets        Estiatln pmsatn  4eApptl d'offres    Appal d'         des    trwm8I a  diA cetrat Signature  Acbbvinnt
ot Co _osn             fde montent crent  tranmfa a IDA          Offres    Offree       I'0A    pa ('IDA  di centret de centres
a n Ustx000   tat           drte-      I   it         date    date tbl       $   e   date Id)  d4t- te)
A.  PISTION   ..l.I  s         A.h.
.............. .......... 
1.  Cotrectfan Ctes                                                                                                                   |
....................... ....;
:.1 * El orer IW         .   Kr             ,         SNTT c            NA         NA         NA        10.92      11.n       02.93j
crStere, fStSbr ,        CAMZ  *     fFIBE UGIcUE
et Coats.                      21
* Nise a* point proto                                                                                                    03.93
mobitir acolire.
* *sie au point sufdi                                                                                                    06.93
d'entretlen.
a ^fitiser  1 *uw                                                                                                        03.93 
TravaSl eomposentem
1.2. Nise a lour dus                      cm                            NA         *AEXTENSIN           02.93      02.93      03.93
catel.a./pguide        f ONTRAT      FI          BELGIOUE
de cewntruction.           IDRE                     01,3
22
t.3. Elaborer Sanuet des            30    cS          AGETIPE           NA         NA       09 01.93   .                      0 o.3  03.93
Proc6d mre: Agence                   FlRN        SENEGAL                   I                                          I          I
d#WxcutSon, ONG6,                               T R: 01.9  3                        3                                            3
Buweau Etudes.                                               i
1.4. Assistance   ection            30   CMIS         ASETIPE           NA         NA       01.93.    0o.93.    01.93         03.9    £
C, hwuae   6tuds.                    fRIN        SENEGAL                                                   I
Tl: 02.93                           i
1.S. Assistance crdtien         GEf       CONS        AGETIPE           NA         NA       01.93.      01.93.  I 01.93       06.93 t
Agc d'Ex6cution.          AFTM       FIN,        SENEGAL ;                S
1.6. Audit Tadiniqu.           SAUC       CONS         02.93          03.93    | 04.93       04.93      04.93   106.93   106.98
124       FIRNN                                 |
I.. jBurea  d'Etudms           SEUCY      CONS         03.93          06.93       07.93      07.93      06.93      09.93     06.93-98 I
i               |  ~~~~~~73     flIINN                              t|i                             
1.6. ON"                       EOU        cm 011       03.93          06.93       07.93      07.93      08.93      09.93   | 06.94-98 |
1.9. VIWJ (Appuis aum           PW         NA    S  TR: 02.93           NA         NA 1  03.93          03.93   106.93                '
tInqpetlons pourw         us$ ?                                                                 |,      
IpregramItian                                                                      I i                                10IJ  49i 
.1---.................. ..........   i......... ............  ......... ........  ........... ..          1....1..



Lettre liwitat.                      1    .                                     J
Tecres reference                                 I
short tiste    tancament           IProposition                      I
N6tbodes        I         Consuttation          Attrlbution
de       DOssier            ou       temise  de contrat  Exaren                         t
Type de contrats       Estimation pssationn Appel d*offres   Appel d*       des   tranamis a di contrat Signature AiCthvent
et caxmpontes         du oontant contret transais a IDA       Offrae    Otfres r      l       3IDA      du tA cm contrat du cont*t 1
_   en IS$x§              dote          date       date d.te.Lb)   dee s4to (      gdte        I. date (el
sansibilisation                                                                                                    I
2.  Founnitures                                                                                              I
2.1. finaliser las listes.          9    IDIV     Ta: 02.93          PA         VA       02.93      02.93      02.93     03.93   1
2.2. Propositian miecnis es        1    CONS       TR: 02.9           NA         NA       02.93      02.93   1 02.        03-93
transport/distribution              I0DIV                                                               i             3
2.3. Prep. A.o.0 at ares           36   CONS       IT: 02.93          NA        NA        02.93      02.93      02.93     06.93
faerl-lvAiclules.                INDIV                                               
2.4. Prop. A.0. et mardhes         36   CONlS      TR: 02.93          NA         NA       02.93              1            06.93
s i   selA.O . sataires      I3DIV                                                                                            1
3.jCoordination Cestion            3       N       T  0                           A        2
...,,.,,,,,,.__......._, 
3.1. Elaborationdu                 36   con         TR: a2.4s                                                     9        0 NA  02.93  02.93  02.n  03.93
NiWel des Procwrs                   0I.DIV                  T                          .        06.93
3.2. lise en place systi           36   CONS         0.9            03.93       05.93     06.93      06.93      07.9      09.93   1
fiutien ici abl, at t               f      1                                                                          06
tfi n  Wcae b at                    I                                             I N
* AFpul copttbt,         MOMS                                                                                        06.98 
auc    de teV             105              '                                                            i
aexdcutlon du projet.                      I                                                                                 :
3.3. Audit dus caates dU      E3CV       CONS        03.95        03.93         05.93     06.93   1 06.93   i 07.93   ! 06.98   !
prjJet.                   105       FIN                    I                                 I          I T                  i
3.4. 061eation gestion ds   EDOUCV       CMOS      TR: 03.93          NA        NA         60.93 0                        06.98
contruction de sallte     364      AETIP?                                         I
gde ct _    .                                                                                Ti   
3.5. AFpaL Prdparatlon chi        108   CONS    Tit  02.93            NA        NA        02.93      02.93     02.93      12.93
SProJet.                            XIDIbV  |t{{S 
3.6. Coordination at           504      CNS        Tit: 02.93         NA         A        02.     3 02.        03.9       06.98 
tGttion du Projet                    0DIVt                                                   I
|<S positions ct6ss                                                                        
ir. + Ir adj * Pedag.                                                                                                                                       0 a  I i
Narchas + Ctwpta)
TOTAL (sw 41em. ProJet       274                                                                   0 i                [ .    :
t.... .... .. .        .........    .........   .........      .. .... .      ......, ..,...,,,.,.    ......     ..... .     .. . .. .
ITOTAL (saw Sia=* Projet    1,711                                                                       I i  I
....------- ... ..........                    ---------  - --............ ..................................................



PLAN OE PASSATION OKS NARCUES
....................... .......... ......... ............... ........... .........    _            .._..........I----------------
Lettro hwitet.
Terms reference
short list.     L  moxent              Proposition
N6thodes s                  Consultation            Attribution
de         Dossier            ou       RAzse   da rontrat   ExwAIe
typ  de oontrats         Est b tlon passation Appte d'offres    Appcl d'         des    trawmis a  du contrat Signature jAchvement1
et Coempxantes           di montant  contret  truanms a IDA         Offres     of fes       l' lD    per l IDA  du contost du contrat
an Us$xOWO    (a)           dkte           date        date     date (b)   date (c)  date (d)  date (e)
................  ...  .......... ........ ............... ......... ... ......... ........... .......... .......... ..........
|. IIMSTtSSEKI"
........... ............_
* fil6re AP£E4        (OMB   5,559      IA            MA              NA      MNA            MA          MA         M        09 94-98
* Filitr. Entrepriso         2,505     LOC       Prds6lectfan       09.93       10.ff       12.93     12.93       01.94      09.94-98
2.   fcsumitures                                                                                                                i
.......................
2.1  Petit MatErUl.                          30            MA                          MA         MA^ IUA               0O.94      03.94
Nbbi I ter                             tOC          09.93           Ot .9       03.94       04.94        MA       0S.94      09.94-98
Equfpt. A Vehfc.                       IIIT         09.93           01.94       03.94       04.94        MA       0 15.94     09,94
2.2  llls                    |   3.000       IT        09.93           01.94    103.94         04.941  05.94          05.94     09.94-95
3.   CONISULTANTS 
.... ... __._.......
3.1  Fomtion                                       I
3.2  ........                                                                                        
TotaL Cam Siam Projet    11.064                                                                     1           j.
...........     ........... ---.....-....'''''                   ...........  ..... ............*------------ -------   .
NA: NOn qpplicable; IWIV: Consultant Indivtdel; Tit: Tems de reference.
(a):  ilanternatioll; LOCaLocat; 650Tu3 quotations; CONsCocnultants
<b): 60 jours apres to date limift d'ouverture des offres
(c): sul.mnt pour lee contrat Ce coswultants
Cd): 6j1rs minimua pris Il telex de non-objection de 1'IDA
Ce): 3-6 mis pour lee  Wdpments et 6 a 18 mis pour les trcvam.
22-4e93  ACK4APROC.i(USA)
e:a13.cdW
o L
J1%



- 123-                              AS         14
Page I sur 10
TCHAD
PROJET EDUCATION DE BASE
EDUCATION V
ESQUISSE DE MANUEL DWECUTION
A.    Cadre Logiq
1.    Lo Cadre Logique contient les ElEments lds du projet: son objectif, les rEsutats et activi
planifeles, lea indicaters e suivi, les moyens de vErification, les hypothbses/suppositions easeDtielhes
concernant les facitu   qui sont en dehors de l'influence du projet, les moyens I employer et la
descition des budgets. Le Cadre logique est le document le plus succinct du projet. n et I distribuer
I tous les antressscomme prdsentaton du projet et sertn mnte mps de guide g     al pour les
acteurs et  pwvises du projet.
B.    Fiche explicative de planification pour atteindre les obJectifs et les rdsultats
2.    Los fiches explicatives sont des outils d'organsation detailles de la fagon suivante:
Hypotheses/suppositions de d6veloppement.
-      Indicatsrs des objectif detaill6s pour toute la duree de vie du projet.
-      bIndicateurs pour les hypothbses/suppositions esLsentilles au succbs du projet.
-      Aspects non-couverts par les indicateurs quantifiables.
3.    Pour chacun des indicateurs, les fiches presentent:
-      aLogiqe des indicateurs.
-      La base sur laquelle les planiflcateurs sont arrivds aux chiiffres et donnees annuels.
iies dEfinitions des tormes techniques, des donndos k collector et, si nEcesaire, leas
formules de calcul pour les indicateurs.
Los sources des donndes I collecter, louts mEhodes do collecte ainsi que la firdquenc de
collecte.
-      Los mdthodes, Ia fidquence de transmission at les destinatim du rapport.
4.    Les fiches explicatives sont des documents de base aniquels on peut se rEe  pour suivre pas-
-pIm et rdcapituler les points principaux du plan initial du projte. Les adaptations de planification
dEpendent des changements dans l'environnement du projet, des nformations et des expEriences nouvelles
fites au cos de l'execution du projet; ces adaptations sont decrites en detail dans les indicateurs de suivi
et d'Ealuation amuelle.
C.    Plan  aionnd    du projet et ffches de suti
S.    Le documoat de trwail pour la gestion du projet et les fiches de suivi contieonnnt des
formato  importn   pour les evaluations annudles et celles I mi-parcours. En tant que docm t
de traail, la fiche permet de salsir d'une fagon succincte, les donnes ldes du projet dans un seul tableau.
Ces dones cldes se rEfErent a tous les indicateurs de l'objectif et aux rdsultats; les indicateurs des
hypothbes/suppositions; les ddlais pour certains rapports cldes; les quantites planifldes et acquises; los
dElas prvus et acquis; et pour los hypotheseslsuppositions une dEfinition qualitative concise de la
sioaton acceptable et de la situation reelle.
6.    La fiche som remplie I partir des rapports des composantes du projet Egaement ideeifes. La
fiche couvre la durde du projet detaillee par annEe ou par someore. Le projet dEend du suvi et de la
figueac du rapport cholsi. Un exemple de fiche de suivi se trouve en annex.



ANNEX 14
- 124 -                                Page 2 of 10
D.    tE1au.pvionin&Ammnl
7.    Lo plan oprationel est Is document de base do 1'exdEcution des activitEs detaillees des
tesponsable I tous les niveaux du tableau schematique des divers services impliques dans le projet.
Puisque ce niveau do detail dEpasso las possibitds rEalistes avant le demarrage du projet dans la plupant
des composantes, ce plan devrait &re etaboro au fiar et I mesure lors du premier semestre de vie du
projet. La base d'Elaboration do ce document so fera dans les atellers de lancement du projet qui auront
lieu I des diffdrents niveaux des services du MEN.
8.    Le plan operationnel qui est deflni par tous les acteurs impliques demande uno approche
participative & tous les niveaux du personnel impliqud dans lo projet. Cette approche indique aussi quo
toutes les activitds ne seront pas elaborees en detail pour tous ces niveaux de responsabilitE. Le dEtail
_ugmento en descendant dans la strcture organisationnelle. Dans les cas oI un organisme en dehors des
instiutions de l'Etat sera chargE de participer & une des activitds decrites dans le plan opraionnel il
devra galement participer I I'tlaboration du plan operationnel.
9.    Apres avoir defini le plan operationnel I tous les niveaux de la structure, le document ser Edite,
finalise et distribue I chaque responsable dont les responsabilitEs sont definis. La document final
confirmera & chacun des participants ses responsablitds bien deflnies.
10.   La plan operationnel distribu6 aux responsables no contiendra pas seulement la description do
leurs activitds mais aussi celles des agents avec lesquols une collaboration est attendue ainsi que cellos
de leur updrieur. L'idde do travailler dans un syst&me organisd et do faire partie d'un effort commua
au dhdvloppement des activitds en rendra sa coordination plus facile.
11.   Le plan opErationnel ne doyra pas reprBhdre des activites continues.  Ces activitEs et
rosponsabiliEs devront Ot  ddcrites dans la description des tchos. En premier lieu, le plan operationnel
so concetMa sur los acivitds du projet. Le  atres activitds du MENES et do ses directions n'en feront
pas parie au depart. La projet appuiera uns 6tude de l'organisation du MENES qui aidera I decider sur
les modalites d'une extension hventuelle de co systme a toutes ls stuctur at services du MENES.
12.   Le plan operationnel complEtE W a insEW   dana le Manuel d'Exdcuton du Projet. La Direction
du Projet utilisera co plan commo base do ses activites de suivi I tous les niveaux.
E.    Qprion de la direction du prDk
13.   Descriptions des Tiches.
14.   Systme des Rapports.
1S.   Le systfme des rapports sera basd sur le plan opErationnel des differentes composantes du projet.
Ces rapports soront olabords paral aem ut am rapports rdgullers du MENES et utiliseront Is m&n fMlitro
de tansmission. Ils seront iWVgspres quo solen prises los dEcisions quo recommande l'Etude sur
I'organisation du MENES dana le cadre du projet.
16.   Los plans do rappors so rdfdreront aux indicateurs docrits danm la fiche explicadve de planification
a aut indications dans l plan opdratonnel. Dans co dernior, la frEquence, la forma do  ansmission et
les modalitds de collectes seront ddtrmindEs. D s'agit tout simplement de combiner les diffErentes
donnde d'un plan clair at simple pour elaborer les fiches de suivi qui deviennent la base du rapport.



ANNEX 14
- 125 -                                 rage 3  of 10
17.   Les fiches de suivi sont des instuments cds pour la saiblea,'  lo  ddpoullemm at
la transmission des donnes sur les indicas du projet Les fiches de suivi doive km congu d'une
ona I Oteo Egaeni  utlies pour l'accumuation des donnds. Un des objoctif de co systkn en de
crEt  chaqueo neau ule bas, do donndes.
18. Les fiches sont transmises au niveau superieur oh la synthse est faite. Co niveau doit Egalemmnt
Ott en mesuro d'accumuler les donndos et do les transmettre mu niveau supdrieur, et ainsi de suit.
19.   Au dell des informations quantitatives fournies par les indicateuts, certains ElEmem  demandent
une analyse. Cete analyse dolt te faite I tous les niveaux lots des sdances de   a  ou d'auto
Evaluation. Le projet foutnira une assistance technique dans ces domaines pour alder I trouver des
mEthodes et procEdures adaptdes  la ralit. En plus, i set utile de prEvoir I chaque niveau u oespace
spdcifique nsu la fiche pour les idtes innovatricos gEne&te par les agents du MENES.
20.   Le projet fournira les fiches de suivi. Elles mont dlaborE6s durant le lancoment du projet lots
do l'Elaboration du plan opdrationnl.
21.   Re-planification et modifications.
22.   La fiEquence de tansmission des donnees est dterminE par la ndcesait d'adapter le plan en ca
de pertubaton ou de n'lmporte quele autre raison qui causerait un dEsdquilibre danm l'eoxcution des
actiitd. Si la frquence de transmission des donnde est bien choisi et Is responsabilitE de prodre des
dEcisions clairement definies, le cadre supdrieur dokt Otte en mesure de prenre dos menros paHiatvs
qul atueraient les problemes rencontr6s. Ces dEcsions qui changeraent los actvs planififds do bae
achberat les manes rdsultats, et doivent Otto prises par cha    des rossables &k so nvoa.
23.   Dan le cas oh les indicater ddfinis dans les plan doivent Wteo modifids I caus. d'un Evnoumnt
p6vu, ce coLntat dolt Otto fak dans le prochain rapport. Dan le cas oh un Ev _ement perube les
actiitE d'une faon majeuro, Ie reponsable dokt contcter immdiatement son supdrdeur.
24.   Les Evaluations annudles et I mi-paroours donneront l'occasion do rEEchir st lo sagesm do
toutes les aproches I prendre. Les cdangement am  indicateun initlaux dolven Oto docume"  at
rattaches aux fiches eplicative de planiflcation.
25.   OpErations financl&res et comptables.
26.   OpErations jutidiques, contrata ec.
27.   Auto-Euation Anulle
28.   Le DPE fat paffi intrale de l'edEculon du projet blen quo cette dernibr soit a responsabillt
directe dos stuces nomales w Tchad. Dans la meuro oh les activitEs do la DPE sont dtominEe
dans le plan opdradonnel, 1'evaluation en devient plus facile.
29.   Cortatns membre du pesel du DPE out anssi des tiches oh les rEuttat sont immat_iels mala
nEamoins tras impotnt. II est impsible de trouver des indicater qwufiables at objectifa pout
Eauet catte actvM.
30.   La DPE devrait fire, comme toute organiadon, n   auto-auation qui at basE sun la
decipton des dches. En plus, le personnel doit Otte evaluo avec les patar qui deot bEnEficier



ANNEX 14
-126 -                                  Page 4 of 10
de leur appul et conseil. 11 serat in r   e Couie Un Stelrer au debut du projet pour se metre
d'accortd st les modalit6s et les objctiifs de 'dvaluation au nivea du MENES.
F.      rocMdures aour l'dvaluat-anlle et & mi-paMus
31.   L'objectif de l'haluation anmuelle et celle f mi-parcours est do rassemblor les responsables du
Tchad et de la Banque pour faire la synthese, aboutir aux conclusions It partir des expEriences
documentees, dvaluer que les objectifs et indicateurs itldaux restent realistes et prendre des decisions
eventuelles sur le fuitur ddrouleme  du projet. Cette procddure de rEvision aura & Evaluer Egalement la
situation des hypotheses/suppositions essentielles dans le cadre logique. Cette revue permettra la
modification de certains des elements de la plaiification originale.
32.   Les revues annuelles et mi-parcours sont basdes sut l'ensemble des fiches explicatives de
planification et des rEsltats obtenus ainsi quo sur une sdrf do sees d'auto-dvaluation mi diffEents
niveaux. Dans ces fiches, les indicateurs du Cadre Logique sont detaillds par anie. pour la durde de vie
du projet La revue ft mi-parcours donnera l'occasion de tefidchir profondEmnt 8ut les diffErents aspets
du projet.
33.   Les revues annuelles auont lieu lots do la visite du chdg de projet de I Banque MondWale. Afin
de prEparer a revue, to PDE onverra un rpport de synthes avec les donndos mr les indicat  du projt
et sur les sdances d'auta-Evaluation au ChargE de projet. La revue so dEtoulera dams des atellers inter-
actifs avec les responsables de service, at comprendra une visito sotr t terain4 on altenat les prEfectur
I chaque visite. Les atellers fourniront des recomandatlons pour adapter les actlvits I partir des legoas
appris.
34.   La preparation de la revue des sauces d'anto-auation aura lieu drectemn aprbs la fin de
P'awee scolaire. Le calendAer des sEancs est & determiner par les participan. II doit incture certaines
ds questions soulevees par los niveaux supErieur. Les resultats de ces sance seront documentEs sur
ls fiches qui sont ft developper.
3S.   Avant le demarrage de la wouvlle annde scolaire il conviendrait de rEuir los groupos pour faire
le point sur la planification des activitEs. C'est ft ce moment 1 quot la visitk de revue annuelle aPporta
un maximum do rendement. Les service nationaux supdEieurs auront ddpouiiE les rdsuttats des seances
d'auo-Evaluatlon et des rapport at pourront f part- de co moment ontrer dans Ia planification. La
mission de revue aura l'occasion d'appr6cier le procosss de suivi et de planification du projet.
36.   La mission do revue dispora des rapport sur les indicateurs ddcrits dans le Cadre Logique. Les
parnair du projet qui serot chargEs de t'exEction de ceaim volets fniro  gademet des rapports
et devront s'engagwr  discuter l'evolution du projet avec le personnel du projet, avec le persom ati du
MENES chargE du suivi et avec la mission de rwue. Ces discuions auront lieu dans los ateliers tutor-
actif ddcri plus haut
G.    Pro-ddur  des 12iflies   -mM es    - Met
37.   Constructions
- Critbros d'etigibiiti
- Filitros d'excution
- Fiche tenique



127. -                             ANNEX 14
Page 5 of 10
38.   Dstbution des Livres
- Choix des editeurs
- Termos do rfrce pour la dibutdon des lvl.s
39.   Fonration JtWalo et Codtue des E seign
- Choix do formatun
- Tormes de rEfreces gnerals pour formaen
40.   Amdlioration de l'Efficacite de Systhme d'Education et de la Supervision
41.   Scolarisadon des Filles.
42.   Micro-rdalisatons Pddagogiques.
43.   Tesdng des Elbves.
44.   Appul aux APE.
45.   AppuiM ax Structures du MENES.
- Tme do rErences pour l'assstance technique.
H.    Ateliers de Lancement du Pre
46.   Prdvir trois nivex d'atelier
(a)    Nive  naonal anc les Dirctio  des Seies at la Direc donG e du             . Durde
deum jourm au maximum. LVobjectlf at do dEcider sur les grSdes lig.s pou quo les autre
niveaux puissent ddmarrer la planificatn e dEtail. Ce ateliers visent Egaem  I crde une
cohsion hamoniu  dans l'oquipe national.. Cat atelier pemetra gaement do ceor les
questons du processus administ    du projet. L'ablier amra lieu avat le dmarrago du projet
dbs la mise en vigur  du crEdi
0)    Nhvea  des Directions Tehniques du MENM   (Direceua do Ser6ces comucods et les
esponsables des DIiOnS, Cellules et Sevices).  Drk: trois jour eiron  Lobjtnest de
planifle les acdvts ma nivean centra des srces t. Latelie rappuilora  alement
bac  ses rsonabiitds et corea une aosphke   tr ava   productive et coopEdre. Ces
atier auot lieu dam chaqu dtion hteossde at auront lieu aprs lo dmarg du projet.
(c)    Niveau prgMff     dans les troi8 Pdfchlot  cois g  le re   Los participants
coniprendrt_un ou deux           do deimo nivoa at los respnsables des serc  dams
les Prdbfcur, los SosPrctures, etc,.     : trob j   environs. Vobjef do ce atiefrs
est de plaor en dEta los actvis da  Ia PrEfecur.   east possible qu'vn sE d'ateliers
sera ncssaire I diffents nivax daos a Pfectur. Cos ateliers doivet asocier Egalement
les APE et ONG qui travaillent sur le terain et tout atrs oganisms qui peuvent conttibuer
avoc leurs exprienc. Los atelies auront lieu aptrs las ateliers du nivean des Directions
Technique.
47.   Tous les ateliers oibuoront & crdet Ul dynmism  au sen du pojet



ANNE 14
-128-                                       Page 6of 10
PICOE             MO31W   ELEffir  OffulTA
A.        c
1                   Isla m de i.kia1.  Gesoript Ion des facter s et OJ .nt et do                   p4"M satspiat
La   ijibjotn df cho ureelu ttetif (rdsutat) *t c_t c.t objctif irdutat) pout contribuer A atts, 1   lbJectif
siniraL Coblectif 'a pPoJet).
2      .  andqerteurs  r    t' .ltif t36.ultat4    Lists* dous lt e  indicat   ehousie pow mecre Is esuci dwl to
pe    ui-te-de-VWJ#ctif (r4sultat), coulett wvo In chfltfrs arnuos .nvlsa4  pout lar  du projst.
3.  Indicateur pour lea Nwnothlse.sam.ositians.  LUstc des fndlcteu s chelsfa pos  ecrer ou pous Juugr si lse
hypoeths_sippositions essantielle pour atteindre ltobjoctif gdnrat (objectif du projet ou r6sultat) presente sw
situation acoeptabL*.
4. Asoct non Couverts oar lts IndfateurS p uantif Cs. Pre Qntation doe  spects qumlitatifs dbet lthltuation
quantitatiew est =apousible au incoaplbt. Tow las aspects cone.rnent loo processus deoccumulation de savoirtfaire, de
capecit6 doivant *tre inclus dens  e ch ditro afin d4tre capabLe ma umSt de la rovu du projet de dannr un avis
vatabte et bas *ur lea prtvisions d6ifnies ie1.
B.  Fiches des IndIgatSs
.1.  IncReiatem    pow   ltCbjecttf
Examtes Irecte    1:
1. TIcx. L  texte couplet et exa  de tindicatesr r*pis du Cuire togiqms
2. DtMiSt. Pour   a"A a-nWs de durEs du projet lirndfetesar do't Etrs chfffr per les indicateur ananis.
3. Laoiou  de t Indlcatur. Jugtification de tutitisatfon de cot indtcstsur pow assurer to mAeue    dec efforts dns  to
poursuite de L'objectif.
4. Cconmnt rrivr & c MM c       fantf icadons?  Justificetion de la quanttficetion de Vtndicataur.   dthodo utitisd  powt
cotculor au ditor to niveu. Coperison eves to nivseu existet si possible.
S. Ddfifnitiong  ds term.s technioge. des don d        coltecter at des cateuts    far . Tow lto ters. dw  ts texts, de
-tindicateur doivnt  tre d6finis duon ft   cstairs et *p   ises. S1 tindicateur ioptique ds oe ctous b    fair  eec
catcuLs doivent at   proentis. tou tes chisfirs omprimis .r poureota*   doivent Atro d6finis ec  wptistion dec
-t4dnts ceosants.
6. Source des dosne.  eithode *t frimen   de aoltects.  La o6thode de cotlcts doo donnts doft atre wspilqus evec
urn d'scription dec difffrentes Rtapes dens Lo procssus do colects y inclus too rqponsabtoe de ctted   t  qu nt am
chiffras qui doivrnnt &tr co.ctEs d in d' Lts woir di1ponlble & tp _ asi gmo tea rosuourmcn huafines setrieltes *t
teaporaires & ptanift1r pour l ceottLete.
T. Mtthdx. et frdazmwe d' trnissleafen at destnatftare  s d*Ae.  Foritlirs de transiossion nwee tout. to fiLlire
de transission. L'econt *st a rttrs or los diff6rent  fofmLaires et lt  mitdeso powt elaes  r tes donnie transis



- 129-                                       AN     14
Page 7 o   10
Obloottf du Progit: Amllor quantitativemnt at quatiUtiveIent l        duc n          b   vee eeent sWr to
milieu rural at too filte
A. Simlns
1.      Lpobjectif du projet dolt contribuer & atteindre ltbJectitf gniral, qui Got
do satistfa re les beos no do  population on metitre d4ducation. Cette contribution sees effectudb per
la"iltioratln do l'acoi *u systmO  pour cotta partfo do   powpulation, St per l'aila oratton qualftatlve des
prastations du systb6. Coel 1sptique une etlo¢ation pu hs lporatnto des ressouroes notionals au profit do
lVenseignement itimentairo. Pour satsfairo eos bosofms le projet S formule ta suppos1tion que le budget
national pour I onseslne mnt 6lzmntaire aupantorait anuollecent A environ 500 million de FCFA.
2. IndIcateurs oour I Obiectif tR6sult.ts
2.1     Toux de scolsaristion de l ducatilon de base attefnt 65X  en 1998 an d6talt:
uantfti             61.71   62.51   63.3X   64.2X      65%
Anndo                1994    199     196    199       1998
2.2     Los perfouancos scoltaos des Mlmh   se sent  u1iordros do xxxX, an d6tall:
Quantit1
Mrne                 1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
2.3     La proportion do fIllte scolaris6os augmnte A 361 di ci 1998, on dtat I1
QuentItO              311     32X     342      35X     36X
An19o                  9     1       1996    1997    1909
2.4     La scolarisation on milieu rural atteint A S91 on 1998, on dftail:
Gumntitl              511     531     531     571      592
ArMIe                1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
2.5     Los taux de redoubleent dimimas de 30X I 202 d'1c1 199 asu niveu nationsl. En d6tail, rdoubtement:
Cuantito             30X      281     251      231     201
Arn                  1994    1995    19       199?    1998
3. Indflateuro eour les SoMmoeiftons
3.1  Augmentation du budgt du MENES st 500 millions de FCFA par an, on ditatl:
uant1it               S00     S00     500      S00     500
Arnie                1994    1995    1996    1997    1996
1. IIU9t5 non  aouvacts nsr lee Inilcateur @uant1fable   L'aspect do I'  itlforatlon qualitativ  du systalo
d6duicatlon  cst diffl_mnt eouvert par des indicataurs chiffrts. Le emveir fairs des gents wit diffironts
niveaux ot des ilUves pouvent tre test6 pWr des examons   ta fi n dwune fornatfon au toon  mois ce1 no darn      I
qu$une  ndicatfon de to qualiti des prostations de s8rviC eofforts pr I systtme d'idueation do base. Uhn
analyse do ta situation sot neeasaire a     tnuellomont pour diseutor aux diffpoents nivagux Is pogrhs sur le plan
do to qualtit.
NOtet Guelouss meets OddamlaiuS nouvent itre fnelus A co niveau cil donent une idee glus msiiCf Lfg  des
Omints ol. 1& arQoms *o Ia a.litd.I
B. ifches des Indicatours
.1.   Ind1catours pour l Objeetif
Indlcatour 1:
1. t xo. TaUm de scolArfsat1on de lt'dueation de bas attoint 65X on 1996
2. SItaflIa.
cuantit&
3. Limm _dePIzndincteui. La ecoltrisatfhn set rsoevao amo chifftre Indqumnt oa prtIcipatfon do ta
poputation  coltire A LIducation. Cot ndIcatour dolt tr, applia  aeA  dautrv cndoatorws plus spicifiquns
pour donner uer  Idi. our t qumntitO  c.o.d. to parti. de to population rh llsemnt sorvie per prostatlons
d'ducation.
4. Comnt Arrlver a eat sunficatione?  Lo tea  de scolarishtfon au  oment do to planiffeat1on attint M9
au plan notional. Los activitsh privuCmo dwn  to projelt aupunteront lace s I l'ducation do bess dues tls zones
rurales. Autros activitis qui vlsent a convalnore lcs parents do to valour dlun iducat1on de be, epdcifiqwu-
mlnt pour lts fill.Us et qul ont Is potontlel de lgvsr le tux as plan notional.
Moto: let  aculets fafta oour arriver au ehlffro de 65. leas formLes at ls htmothae  au lea semm-tendent
do,vint Mtr  nrdenps.
5. Oiflnitions des Terms Tachnfou    M d    ae Donies & Cot eeter et des Calculs A  loft.  Le tum de scotlrisatfon
brut ast difint morn Io nombr d#6t&ves qui friquentent l',cole pendant une *rnnt dwrnne divi6 pr is nosbra
total do to population A l'e9e de scolarisation pritsr. Co chffre est ppliqu a nivou notIonal, toutes lto
pr6fecturs entondoes.



ANNM= 14
-130                                        Page 8 of 10
N                            L P tmIl  pJ LE lf     tmait.1
6.  mitms ot PrImi    de cl.etet   L.e chiffr do g m  et ftVilla entrant a t'cotI set
elsie ma niwsa    dose per lit  em       hnuts t et d1reteUS d'4tlosuemnt. PoWr lte  6mles  spmntmn  lot Mitre
Wslta sent _*     do saiir l.effbtit des 6l0 . ChaqLa dtabli1aAnt *st *blg  de tmnfr de cAhfes
SW l*effeetif d;s Ili . Le-A        de Is gamoet fitt4s an Sp de  olar1t1 tmn pour         m iot dumb  est utuin per
1e service  de planiticatifl Ca eh1ffta $Mt dS stliutiona  u_ a     ur - du mnAtes potultes. A prtfr de 19  lo
chiffmr *d  re_sment o64*l d  ta popalation seront utitlsai pour le calculs.
7. Ni"         ot Frsamm  de TransW.afan at Reetintafire d        . L'.tfectff des &Ws at trese   per to
dirwetur A ltin    tion d .lm1ignmet  ldmintale £  et ncuir  de df fnir asI ie to  St Ilel aw M cur
Mt. r  =. L  napectlon traummt to chiffro dans un rappeort wd 1 au 9l4u* Prtbfctoral qui a si tour emwole un
a pear      t*. a   O tr_mt ca rcpport   tla  OEau tlo  chiffrs pwtrto upans slnt ads.  Le ret* du
tormalewr dolt Itre rnpli de to aSms fteon, galat powr le nwuf r6sultats.
plahn of U3tvt    EAU 3T
Rdmltalt 1:  smllirnr  ulntitativiant et qumntitatlven" t las infrastructure  selafres.
Indisa1 tu    er cR     MLtat o. 1
1.1     800 nouvellc sellse de casses  anstruits, on dbt*1ls
suentit6
1.2  200 satte de clum  r&Afltft, on d6tots
1.3  1000 sies de claes  duip6i in mobilttr, in deta:
ant1tb
Anbn
hlaree par AemoitI.qs
1.1   L'mtr*tiin ph"ique des doela at  duaw  per t  APE, on detaitl
Sumtit6
Djmde
Amamats nen cauvarts air la tuilund rcst Qumntjlablts.
3.  Ffche ds Indtoawc    s
3.1  tInlatmc as pow Rdtltat 1.
aWtle: Indfcatur 1:
Lee10 do l'hidicatmar
C et Arrivb & cS  fmtIfie t1
ODfinii  .di Trm   u1               d   m s  C olectr t  dn  Caculi A pairs
Smaree dii Qoumies. Nbthui.i St prdm.ace d Cattecte
INb*  at frbm    df tr          en gS gOtlntaie ds Oenr



RESULTATS                      PREFECTURES                    RESULTATS              UNITE DE NONtAIE       B      UDEt TOTAL
1. ANELIORER  UALITATIVENENT   EXEWPtE: NtEN-CHNIR, NATO-              RESPONSABLES            NtLLIONS KE FCFA         PLANIFIE        REEL
El QUiANTIATIVENENT LES 10-     KEDEI, WUADDAI, BILTINE, ETC.
FRASIRIJCUnRE SCOLAIRES.
TESPI    SMCUTITE   0UMNTITE                                                         FOMDS PRE-    FONDS
PRE W                REELLE                                                         VW             REELS QUA-
| _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _              PREYUE                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ __E                     I lTITE
ACTIVITES                          -          -B-EAU D'ETUDES                                                                                    I
1.1 URETER CONTRAT AVEC OR-    AVRIL                            APE, GO                    199NO
GAIUISE D'EXECUTION POUR LES    94                                                         1994
CONSTRUCTIONS.                                                                             1995
1.2 CONNWIRE UNE CMAIPSE DE   1994
PUBUICITE SU2 LES OFFRES DU
PICJET Et LE COtNDITIONS D'E-
LIGISILITE.
1.3  CONSTRUIRE DE NOUELLES    1994
SALLES DE CLASSES               1995
1996
1.4  EOIPMR LES SALLES DE       1994
ClASSES EN NOILIER.             1995
1996
1997
1996
1.6. ELSAORER LES PROWAIE S      OIS
S'ENTETIEN  ES INFRASTRCTU-   DE
REE SCOLUIRES DANS  ES DPEIN.    C"UE
.X_ AUIIE.             .            .                ._.
.. PLAN OPERATIONNEL NIVEAU PROJET COMPLET
0*
C



RESULTATS                       PREfECIURES                    RESLTATS              UNITE DE NONNIE              BWGET TOTAL
1. AIELIRER QWALITATIVE-      EEMPLEt WII-ClARI, NAYO-KE31,  RESPOSISABLES                 MtLLIONS DE FCFA          PLANIFIE      REEL
PENT El WJIIITATIVEBEt LES   OlUDDAI, BILTINE, ETC.
INFRASTRUCTES SOAIS.                                                   _ 
TEMIS     QUANTITE   I QJATITE                                                        FOODS PRE-    FOIDS
PEWm       PREVUE       REELLE                                                       VUS           RELS 4UA-
*iIVI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TITM    DES  I PPORTS,   RENIONS__ _ _ _ ___                         _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  __                              _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _
1.2  IMPORTS IENSILS DE                                          AEINCE D'EXECUTION
CONSTRICTION.
1.6  RWAORtS SENESTRIEL DE                                       OPEN
L'UIITE DO'EITRETIEN PREFEC-
TCIULE                                  __ _ _ _ _ __                                       __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
INDICATEUlS
1.1. 800 11UELLES SALLES GE   1994
CLASSES CON ttES.              1995
1996
1997
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1998 _ _ _ _-_                _   _   _     _   _                                 _   _   _   _   _  _
1.3  800 SALLES DE CLASES      1994 .
EIIPEES.                       1996
1996
1997
1998
SUPPOSITIONS/NYPOtII&SES                                                                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
ISDICATEUR DES SUPPOSI-     TEMPS           SITUATION               RESPOUSABLE            SITUATION ACTUELLE               ACTION
TIOS/WHYPOTAtSES         Pa1w           ACCEPtABLE                .
1.1  LEITRETIEN PHYSICE        1995     XX X DES TRAVAUX DEW     OPEN
DES ECCLES EST ASSURE PA       1996     TRETIEN PLANIFIES SWlT
LES APE.                       1997     REALISES
1998
PLAN OPERATIONNEL NIVEAU PROJET COMPLET
I'm
0i-
0o
I.,
s-



Republic of ahad
Bode Education FedCt
*ummsm oft sUmiPmU de D.bomS.WAis
~. w-                                          bd --
-Aht0w     _wd         P        S                                          B I dad  EdatoeUo Pvos   0 - Reol secto P6c      Us
______    ne .~.i mime .omoo            Si   out
1904       I                             0*0%    0.00%-
2                             *_       I A*0%    1*000%
3           0.         0.2   1.04%    3.00%                    8010j{J
4       ~~~0*       0.      .11%    2AW%                    60.00%
4       ~~~0.4      OA    &II%    aan "f
ism        I0.9                   I A    7.77%    7*0%             U
2       ~~~1.0      2.5  12*04%   10.0                      70.00%
a            o.e       a.s  10.07%   15% %0.0
4        1.0~I      4.5   S.34     16.00%                   0.0
60         I            .1        5.0  20.03%   22.0%              14
2           t.1        0.7  34.73%   27M0%                     500-
a           1.0        7.7  30.00    30*%               2
4           1.2         *   40.110%   4.0                      40.0 %
1           IA        10.3  15324%   30*0%
2           IA        11.7  00.30%   42*0%               3      0.00%
3              A.   I&O 07A   "AMb 
4           I*        14.4  74.01%   50*0% GOA%
10        1           1.2       165   410.03%    "4.0%
2           t* O       tO   00%    56*0%fGOSS    .4            10.%
8           0.7       17.    "04%   04*0%
4_  |                  t.40.7  2*   93.20%   70*0%              0.00%
1690       I           OA4       15A   65.34%   70*40%                                     222
2           0.4       10   07.41%   02*0%                             5
4           0.2       1 0.3     J100*  000                                                      FIsa Yw (bomb
_0    1                                            *                                             _                                                   .__0%
2                      90"d                                                                                x
2m          ___ __             _90.0*0%
_   --
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



IBRD 2472
CHAD
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJET EDUCATION DE BASE
|  - |    SOEtJCONSfftDNES^llEOF                 
POT-                                                                                               L        I    B     Y     A
PRWl I    LONSC#NALIXltE           3 
13 PtRYTEACHER TRAININO COUtLGFS 
*   wE tYNORtA4AWS oOTRsflFuTE(Js (8S^E)  -.~
A     REGIONAL IN-SERVICE TRAINING CENTERS
CENTRES REGONAULV DE FORM.TON                                                                                -
-20          COCNnNU(JE (CRFC)                                                                                                               2 0.o
PREFECtURE DELEGATIONS
IEi   GAtlRNS tStHECI'RlESVJE       I 
L'EDUCAIIN I(OPEN)
PRtARY EDUCATION INSPECTORATES
CtNIAFONS OES EENNSNeN                                                                        TIEST
PREFECTURE CAPtTALS                                   BORKOU         -    ENNEDI    -          IBESI
cw)     w  DHFtEV rP sffFfCu(lRI
NATICNA CMPTAL                                              
_   PRffECURE EOUNOARJES            |                                         A>AGEAU|
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES       I
FrONIERS INTERATMON4ES
10,0      200 KILOMETERS
rhu   h. b              ,              ,
00
0      SO      1t)D    ISO MILES            \
'P7~~~~~
7                                   \     L LOGONE                                 AFRICAN   I L               I N  
0S~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                         CENTRAL           S% Sv 
^   9RK A  N  E M                                                                 A R
A- ~I               -. -m                                       '.
BA THA                                                         1993
\ \ / O ~~~~~~~U A D D A I 
NIGERIA                 ,                       A           |                                       -8
/ <~~~BAGURIMI   G U E RA. 
/                  r              S e                   S   AFRlcAN  NIGERL )>, tIS SA
j ,>- ~~~~R EP UB L IC                                  >        -         m P
MARns 1993



