Document of
The world, Bank
FOR OWICIL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6023-,CD
MEMRANUMAND  CO4EDTN
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INENATIONAL DELOPMENT ASSOCIATON
TO THE
EXECUTIV DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 13.9 M4ILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHD
FMRA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
APRIL 16, 1993
1, t-po t. Nt.1- :(V'3 e 
Titl-3e:   3 T    DCTO    PF 2-CHA,DL
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipietsf only in the performanc of
dheir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Dank autorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - (CFAF) / US$1 = 27s CFAF
WflGIM AND MEAS
Metric System
I m.   1.09 yd.
1 sq.m. = 10.76 sq. ft.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APE          Parents! Associatio (Association des Parents des ElMes)
CMA          Contract Manaemen Agency
CPSF         Office for Promotion of Girls' Education (Cellule de Promoion de Ia Scolarlsation
des Flues)
DEE          Directorate of Primary Education (Direction de I'Enselgnement Elemenaire)
DG           General Direc  of the Mmistry of National Education (Direction Generale de
'Educat1on)
ETE          Education-Tramng-Employment
GTZ          German Corporation for Technical Cooperation (Deutsche Gesellschaftfr
Technlsche Zusammenarbet)
KfW          Bank for Rconstuction (KredtansaltflJr W.ederaubau)
MEN          Ministy of National Education (MfnIst*re de lEducaon Nationale)
NGO          Nonovernmental Organizaon
PCU          Project Coordinaion Unit
TG;F         Teachers' Guarat  und
UNICEF       United NaJons ChilWdres Fund
WID          Women in Davelpment
ZOPP          Objectives-Oriented Project Planning System (el OfentlerteProjektPlanung)
ISCAL YEAR                                                    SCHOOL YEAR
January 1 - December 31                                       October-June



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CH
EHI EDUCATIGN PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SrMMARY
Borrower:                                Tle Republic of Chad
Beniciaq:                                Ministry of National Education
Credit Amount:                           SDR 13.9 million (US$19.3 million equivalent)
Terns:                                   Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:                         Not Applicable
Finandng Plan:                           IDA                          19.3
(JS$ million)                            Government                   7.9
Germany:                    5.6
G1Z                    '2.2)
KJfW                     (3.4)
Communities                 0.9
TOTAL                      33.8
Economic Rate
of Return:                               Not applicable
Staff Apprisal
Report:                                  Report No. 11680-CD
Map:                                     IBRD 24722
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officir.1 duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR A FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Chad for SDR 13.9 million, the equivalent of US$19.3 million,
on standard DA terms wth a maturity of 40 years to help fance an educaton project. lhe
Government and local communities would conbute US$8.8 million equivalent.  Cofinancing
estmated at 9 million DM (US$5.6 million equivalent) is expected from the German Govnment
(KfW and G).
L COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE SRTATEGY
A. IBasund and Rem# 130nomn ;, frdomanue
2.       rnang. Chad preents a major development challenge. It juxtapose a highly unctain
political situation, a prospect of renewed breakdown of order, extreme poverty, 0th quite good long-
term growth prospects. Chad is a vast countrv, the fift largest in Africa, and groups together a large
number of extraordinarily diverse ethnic groups. With 5.8 million lnhabitants and a per capita GNP
estimated at US$210 in 1991, Chad is one of the poorest, least-developed countries in the world.
Economic development efforts have been characteized by successive promising starts stymied by
sious Internal and external blows. Recurring political instability and domestic strife, which empted
into civil war from  1979 to 1983, have been and remain the most intatable constraints to
development. Chad has also been severely affected by drought. Despite a major post-war
reconstrucon effort, Chad's physical infrastructure, human resources, and instiutional and
dministive capacity to support development are today still at the level where most other low income
Sub-Sabaran African (SSA) countries were in the 1960s. Chad ranks 150th out of 160 countries on
UNDP's 1992 Human Development Index. Health status is por: the crude death rate of 19 per 1,000
is about twice the average of low-income countries; life expectancy at birth (47 years) is well below the
average br SSA; matrnal mortality is high; and at about 210 per tousmand the under-S mortalty rate
is well above the SSA average (180). Malnutridon is a serious problem. In education, important gains
have been made since the war. The primary school enrollment ratio increased from 51% in 1984 to
59% in 1990, thf1stest prlmary growth rate in the Sahel, but it stil remains well below the SSA
average of 78%. The adult literac rate is also low-30% compared to 49% for SSA-and only 18%
for women (38% for SSA). Chad's population is expected to double in the next twenty years (an
estimated annual growth rate of 2.5%) which will put serious strains on land resources and social
ervices.
3.    Despite all its handicaps, Chad has a nber of positive elements to build up on and good
intrinsic growth poti. Compared to other Sahellan counries, Chad is revely wel endowed
with narWal resources for agricultural production, especially in the south where much of the population
is concentated. Food production is generally sufficient to met domestic demand, and agriculture-
particularly livestock and cotton producdon-are key sources of future growth. The private sector
could play a dynamic role, beyond the informal and rural production circuit, as a driving force in the
1omal economy. Exploitation of proven oil reserves for domestic consumption could add Impetus to
economic gowth in the medium term, by improving the reliability of supply and reducing the cost of
electricity and diesel fuel-key production inputs. Oil exploration in the south holds out the promise of
substati  reserves which could be exported; this could attract significant private investmet and



-2 -
dramatically transform Chad's longterm economic prospects. Chad's turbulent history has also left
positive elements: the civ}l sevice is modest in size; the economy is relatively unregulated; the
population has shown great self-reliance; and alternatives to public provision of services have
developed. Chad does not have the baggage of poor policies and entrenched interest grows suppordng
particular policies which hamper many other African countries, so most development effots are
focused on building rather than dismantling. The Government has exhilbited a positive, open dialope
with donors as well as a willingness to try new approaches. Finally, the international community has
eressed a willingness to respond positively to suitable development initiatives in recognition of the
country's poverty and urgent development needs.
4.    Ec        S      .ture. Chad's economy is based on agriculture, which generates 35-40% of
GDP and provides a livelihood for more than 80% of the population. Subsistence production of food
crops by snallholders is the principal economic activity, but output fluctuates widely, depending upon
ranti. Livestock and cotton constitute the most iln jrtant sources of cas income for the rural
population and of export earnings (75%). The small industrial sector, which contributes about 20% to
value added, is dominated by the parastatal (COTONTCHAD) which processes and exports cotton.
The rest of the sector consists of several medium-scale enterprises and a large mmnber of micro-
enterprises which produce consumer goods for the domestic market. The service sector makes up the
remaining 40-45% of GDP and includes a large trading sector.
5.    *&Nok Porm  and  formnce In the Post-Cvil War Period (198-990). Duing
the period 1984 to 1990, Chad made substantial progress in rehabilitating and reforming its economy,
despite inte    and external shocks. The economy during much of this period benefited from the more
stable political situation which prevailed under the Habre regime (which took power in 1982) despite a
conflict with Libya and sporadic internal armed conflicts. A policy of national reconciiation gradually
attracted vaious opposition leaders back to Chad, included them in the Government, and integrated
their armed forces into the army. In 1984, Chad launched a substantial effort to rehabilitate lphysical,
social and administrative infratructure which was destroyed during the war and to create the
conditions for economic growth. Immediately, Chad was hit by two serious external shocks: a major
drought and a 50% drop in world prices for cotton. The international community provided massive
food imports and logistical assistance to help Chadians survive the drought. In 1985, the Govement
put in place an emergency program (supported by IDA) to prevent the cotton sector's collapse; the
two-year program succeasfiully reduced the cotton company's production costs by 40% and operating
deficit by 75%.
6.    In 1987, the Government launched a broader adjustment effort which was supported by IDA
under the Fiancal Rehabilitation Credit (Cr. 1945 and A-037) and by the IM's Structural
Adjustment Facility (1987-1990). Ihe adjustment program focused on improving public resource
mamgement and efficiency in the cotton sector, and also included policy reforms in transporation,
livestock, and trade. Progress on reforms to improve public resource management was mixed. In
1988 and 1989, most of the macro-economic objectives outlined in the first two Policy Framework
Papers (PF7P) were attained. Fiscal revenues, which are reguarly below the average for comparable
low-hcome countries, increased steadily through 1990 due to more favorable economic conditions, tax
reforms and improved tax administration. The program only partially succeeded in its objective to
restructure current expenditures to favor key development ministries and increase the share of
expenditure on supplies and materials which was totally inadequate for a properly functioning
government. Current expenditures grew more than revenues because of a substnal increase in the



-3-
wage bill and military outlays. Tho current fiscal deficit-after having been reduced to 2.2% of GDP
in 1988-increased to nearly 5% of GDP in 1990 (roughly US$61 million on a current expenditure base
of around US$154.8 million), more than twice the PFP target .
7.    Important progress was made in reviving key sectors if the economy. Under the program, the
finacial viability of the cotton company was improved, with decreases of 5% per year in production
costs from 1988-90; for the first time in many years, the company made profits in 1989 and part of
these profits was passed on to famers through the new producer pricing mechanism. An integrated
package of investment and policy reforms in the transportation sector had a substanti  economic
impact: the combination of improved road conditions, liberalized tariffs and increased competition In
the trucking industry reduced road transport rates by an average of 30%. Reforms to liberalize
livestock exports and to improve the availability of veterinary drugs have had a more modest efect.
8.     Overall in the 1984-90 period, real and tangible progress was made In rehabilitadng the
ecowomy and promoting growth. By 1987, Chad's economy was more or less restored to its pre-war
level, and economic conditions continued to improve during the 1987-1990 adjustment period.
Together the adjustment program and the investment program that emphasized agriulture and
transportation reversed some of the negative impacts on the income and living conditions of the
population caused by the succession of civil war, drought, and the cotton crisis. Moreover, the
program had a positive impact on growth performance, particularly in the cotton sector. While eratic
(due to drought-induced fluctations in food crop production and prices), real GDP growth averaged
4.'.% per year. The inflation rate fluctuated widely with food crop prices, but averaged less than
3% per year during the adjustment period. Public investment, which is totally externally financed,
doubled from less than 5% of GDP in the early 1980s to nearly 10% of GDP in 1990; official
development assistance flows tripled. With the recovery in cotton export revenues, the current account
deficit was reduced from 33% of GDP in 1987 to 27% in 1990. The gross domestic savings rate,
perennially negative, improved from a low of -22% of GDP in 1986 to -12% in 1990.
TABLE 1: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
on % except as indkated otherwie)
198S    1986    1987    1988    }=       19I9    I        199
(ost)
GDP grwh raew /            25.9    -4.1    -2.0    15.5      4.9    .0.5     7.6      8.3
GDP per capit growth       23.4    -6.6    -4.5    13.0      2.4    -3.0     5.1      5.8
Bxportl/GDP                17.9    19.0    22.0    21.4    19.6    19.3    14.9    14.1
InvesbnenttGDP              5.4     9.1    10.2     7.9      9.0     9.4     7.2      7.5
Dom.savings/GDP           -22.4   -22.1   -19.6   -13.5   -16.0   -11.9   -16.9   -15.9
Goveroment revenue/GDP      6.9     6.8     7.9     8.0      8.9     9.6     8.7      8.6
Current xpenkdiures/
GDP                         -      9.5    11.3    10.0    13.1    14.4    15.6    12.6
Current defici/GDP           -    -2.7    -3.3    -2.0    -4.2    -4.9    -6.9    -4.7
Aid disbursements ($m)     144      221     285     291     315      327     373     318
1/ From a longer-term perspcfive, the growth rate for the decade of the 1980's was substantially better than earlier periods
(1977 constant prices): 0.6% for 1965-73 and -1.5% for 1973-80.



-4 -
9.    Economic Develomit In IM_l-1I92. Developments since the beginning of 1991 have been
dominated by political events and concems. An armed Incursion resulted in an abrupt change in
regime In December 1990. The new regime, headed by Colonel Idriss Deby, faced enormous
challenges: a vacwum of authority aer the immediate transition period; a fragile internal securiy
situation; drought; a cholera outbreak in Ndjamena; and a gnawing fiscal crisis. The new President
adopted an ambitious political, social and economic agenda: a thirty month transition to multipt
democracy; respect for human rights; restoration of security; downsizing and reform of the armed
forces; stabilization of the economy; and re-establishment of a medium-term macro-economic
framework to promote growth and development. Singe the adoption of the agenda, however,
development issues have taken a back-seat to the pressing need for political and military reforr:. An
eleven week National Conference-composed of representatives of forty political parties, civilian and
Governmem authorides-completed its work in early April 1993 by agreeing on the outline of a new
Constitution, a new electoral process, and the selection of a Prime Minister to head a twelve-month
transition Government. Some progress has also been made on downsizing the army (with the departure
of approximately 2,500 men by February 1993), although the objective of completing the
demobilization and reintegmtion of roughly 20,000 soldiers by the end of 1992 proved unrealistic.
France continmes to provide extensive technical and financial support for these reforms.
10.   One of the most prominent and recurring issues being discussed by the Chadian govermnent,
National Conference, local press and varicus segments of Cadian society is how Chad can break out
of its pattern of armed conflict to embark on a transition *o peace and sustainable economic growth.
This pressing development issue has two dimensions which are interrelated: the impact of the military
situation on the economic environment, and the impact of the military presence and military
expenditres on public resource mobilization and allocation. The first dimension is addressed in the
report of the private sector round table (prepared by Government and private sector representatives)
which identiffed improved security and governance as essential elements in creating a better economic
environment for private sector development. Concerning the second dimension, Government has
recognized that its financial resources are insufficient to meet its development needs, and that an
extraordinarily high proportion of them are spent on the military (estimated over the last decade to be
40% of central government expenditures). Chad's military expenditures exceed public expenditures on
health and education. In order to improve public resource mobilization, the Government has taken
steps (so far unsuccessful) to address the problem of soldiers (who are not being paid regularly)
diverting public resources such as customs receipts.
11.   Since 1991, the Chadian Government has been unable to stabilize the fiscal situation and the
third PFP (1990-1992) targets for revenues, current expenditures, and the current budget deficit have
ail been missed by significant margins (despite specific efforts to improve domestic resource
mobilization and control expenditures). The expenditure overruns since 1990 have been due to
pressures from military expenditures and the civilian wage bill, while revenues dewlined (particularly
for customs). Government is living hand-to-mouth and paying civil servants and the military
irregularly: as of April 1993, civil servant salaries were two to four months in arrears in N'djamena
and much longer elsewhere. In late 1991, the Government presented an informal outline of a
stabilization program, including budgetary targets and related policy measures. The key elements of
the program include efforts to improve tax revenue collection, to contain the civil service wage bill,
and to redirect resources to development sectors such as education from non development expenditures
(particularly the military). However, few concrete actions were taken until mid-1992. At that time,
the Government, under the leadership of a new Prime Minister, took decisive steps to stabilize the



-5-
wage bill, including a temporary reduction of nominal wages. The budget deficit burgeoned in 1991 to
about US$90.2 million (one and a half thAas larger than the 1990 deficit and roughly 7% of GDP
against a target of 1.7%), although this was mitigated somewhat by the high level of budget support
ftom external donors (US$58.7 million). In 1992, this budget support largely dried up (dropping by
balt). The current deficit fell to US$65.7 million (4.7% of GDP) due primarily to actions on the wage
bill and lack of liquidity (65%of the deficit was covered by new arrears). Under these diffiwlt
c'rcumstances, Chad has had problems meeting its relatively modest debt service obligations (4% of
export earnings, weil below the debt service ratio in most Sahelian and SSA countries) and has given
priority to repaymen t of the IMF and II)A.
12.   Paradoxically, despite the economic and financial crisis, real economic growth was high in
both 1991 and 1992 (7.6% and estimated 8.4%, respectively), as favorable weather conditions led to
strong growth in output of food crops and cotton. Inflation remained low. However, the economic
picture is less favorable than these figures indicate. Tkhough difficult to measure, a strong coraction
in monetized, economic activity seems to be occurring with the deepening of the budget crisis, decline
of the cotton sector, and a substantial drop in investment. The formal sector of the economy is
depressed. Some enterprises are in danger of collapse due to the uncertain business climate, a
deterioration in external competitiveness, withdrawal of import protection becmiseof weak customs
administration, and a build-up of public sector payment arrears to domestic suppliers (US$24 million
for 1992). Arrears in payment of civil servant wages are also expected to reduce effective demand.
The cotton sector is in the midst of a crisis (1993 deficit on the order of $US23 million), because of a
sharp decline in world market prices and weakened management in COTONTCHAD. In the face of
the downturn in cotton prices in early 1992, COTONTCHAD's second performance contract
(negotiated with donors and Government in September 1991) quickly became inadequate. Over the last
year, limited progress has been made in strengthening the program's cost-reduction measures and
securing emergency financing to prevent COTONTCHAD's collapse. The full, economic impact of
the measures to address this crisis (reduction of producer price, lower crtton production, and
reduction in COTONTCHAD's expenditures) should be felt in 1993, as will the resulting increase in
the external urrent account deficit.
B. Qgd andUth ExfnaI rn!ient
13.   Chad's economic performance and prospects are highly dependent on several specific and
important extemal factors: trade relations with Nigeria and the other members of the Central African
Customs Union (UDEAC); evolution of the world market for cotton; level of extnal aid flows; and
its ability to attract foreign investment in the energy sector. In addition, as a member of the
CFA franc zone, Chad enjoys the benefits of guanteed convertibility of its currency and a
multinational framework for reinforcing monetary discipline, but must rely on intemal adjustment
measures to increase the competitiveness of its economy.
14. Chad's economic prospects are strongly affected by its two more economically advanced
neighbors, Cameroon and Nigeria. As a landlocked country, Chad is dependent on miaining good
relations with them, particularly Cameroon (the main transport corridor), in order to ensure an
uninterrupted flow of trade and reasonable transportation costs. Nigeria also has a strong influence on
the Chadian economy in other respects: it is the principal market for livestock, Chad's second most
important export, and the source of petroleum products, one of Chad's principal imports, as well as
most manufactured consumer goods. Most trade with Nigeria is informal and escapes customs duties.



-6-
As a result, Chad's small, modem manufacturing sector In effect competes without the benefit of
economic protection; the on-going real depreciadon of the Nigerian currency accentuates these
competitive pressures.
15.   Chad has been an active participant in efforts begun in 1990 to strengthen the integration of the
UDEAC and broader efforts to improve the business climate in the CFA franc zone. Given its
dependence on neighboring countries, as well as its own lack of economic weight, Chad stands to
benefit substantially from greater integration into the regional economy and from the current Bank-
supported initiative to reform trade policies within the UDEAC countries. Chad would be a principal
beneficiary of measures to improve the efficiency of transportation and transit within the zone, a
program supported by the Bank, France and tht EEC. Chad would also benefit from efforts,
supported by France and the Bank, to help countries of the CPA iranc zone introduce reforms and
Instituions to harmonize and rationalize business practices.
16.   Chad's economic performance is strongly affected by the evolution of the world market for
cotton. its principal export and most important industry. The drop of almost a third in the world price
by early 1992 has greatly weakened the financli health of the cotton sector, thus exposing its fragility
and remaining structral wesknesses. If the current dowurn in world prices prevails for more than
two years (contrary to the pattern of price fluctuations seen over the last twenty years), the financial
viability of the sector will depend on the accelerated implementation of ongoing measures to lower
costs and on substantial fmancial inflows. Prospects for export diversification depend on rapid
improvement in competitiveness and on developments in the petroleum sector.
17.   Chad is heavily dependent on external financial assistance (22% of GDP in 1991). It has
entered a critical period where its good reputation and credibility, built up since the war, with the
international aid community are in danger of being eroded by the prolonged climate of uncerainty.
Eral financing for budgetary assistance has drastically declined in 1992, further deepening the
public sector's liquidity crisis; since donors also finance a significant part of government operating
costs (under the investment budget rubric), Chad could experience additional strain if donors scale
back investment ficing as well. On the positive side, foreign private investment in the petroleum
sector, currently under consideration, could dramatically improve Chad's economic prospects.
C. Bank's AssstnceS
18.   e u        1nd2   na Assistan. Ihe Bank has provided investment lending to Chad over the
years, in a range of sectors; this has been complemented since 1987 by technical assistance and
adjustment lending. All Bank operations in Chad were suspended between 1979 and 1985 due to the
war and Chad's ^cumulated arrears on IDA credits. Activities were fully resumed in mid-1985 and
twelve IDA credits (US$281 million equivalent) have been approved since then, of which US$51
million remains undisbursed. Chad has not borrowed from the IBRD and is not a member of IFC or
MIGA.
19.   The Bank's program shifted gears following the change of Government in late 1990 from
broad-based investment and adjustment lending to policy advice, supported by pure investment lending.
Given the tremendous ucertinty, the Bank focused on Chad's immediate development priorities:
(i) strengthening economic management through stabilization measures; and (ii) ensuring the
susinability of on-going projects/programs and contimation of sector strategy formulation. Despite a



-7.
coninug and open policy dialogue, the Govenment was unable to get the mao-economic
adustment program back on track and the outstanding balances under the adustment credit (Cr. 1945,
A-37) were canceled in late 1992. The fourth-year PFP for the period 1991-1993, whhch was under
preparation in late 1990, was put on hold. However, the Bank continues to respond positively to the
Governmet's request for policy advice and monitrs closely the economic stuation. 'e Government
Is making good progress implementing policy reforms in some areas such as transportation and has
prepared strategies for private sector development and health.
20.     lemetatign lss. The Bank's experience in Chad, including management of on-going
operations and the broader perspective gained through sector strategy formulation, points to a number
of key conclusions and operational lessons to improve implomentation of on-going activities and to
guioe strategy formulation and project design. The Bank's lending experience (which is similar to that
of other major donors) has bv"  mixed, with some marked successes and serious problems. The Bank,
Government and donor commL. y have recognized that fomlating a comprehensive, sector strategy
is a powerfil tool for building ownership and designing good projects fully integraed into a coherent
policy and investment framework. The Basic Education project has initiated a method of participatory
project design and definition of project objectives and outputs which should facilitate the Government's
capacity to monitor implementation. Finally, experlAce has shown that intensive sWpervision by the
Bank is essential and has a high payoff, particularly in the early phases of an operation.
21.   A major constraint has been weak implementation capacity in the public sector, stemming
from: inexperienced and poorly trained staff; inadequate operating budgets of the technical ministries;
and cumbersome procedures for procurement and expenditure authorization. Despite this, an
-gnbitious program for policy reform and investment in the transport sector has worked because of a
strong presence of technical assistance (with decision-making authority) and the implementation of road
rehabilitation dtrough large contracts with foreign contractors. In contast, IDA-financed operations
covering several unrelated activities executed by a variety of government agencies and overseen by
inter-ministerial committees have been unsuccessfil. The primary lesson which emerges is that Bank
straegy and project design need to explore the possibilities for redefining the role of the public sector
and developing the capacity of the private sector, voluntary and community groups as implementing
agencies; the Basic Education project embodies this approach. Since Chad is at an earlier stage of
development than many other African countries, even with simple designs and private implementng
agencies, some resident technical assistance may still be required over the next five to ten years.
SubstantW short-term technical assistance will continue to be needed, complemented by strong traing
programs.
22. The Bank's efforts-through adjustment and technical assistance lending-to help Chad Improve
budget management, resource allocation, and the overall fiscal situation have been relatively
unsuccessfil so far. The recent fiscal crisis has magnifled these problems. Under these crc ts,
the Bank may need to design special, temporary mechanisms to improve the prospects that prioriy
development expenditures will be made-for example, that teachers will be paid and roads will be
maintained-while the broader issues continue to be addressed through the policy dialogue and technical
assistance to improve budget management.



.8 -
23.   Stratc Otdon. for the Bank's Medium-term  Assistance.  Jn the face of enormous
unetainties, the Bank's medium-term assistance strategy is flexible so that it can adjust rapidly to
changig cir    ces. lree lovels of Bank response, corresponding to different country conditons,
are:
(i)    a poor economic envronment which currenty stems from political instability and poor
security, poorly functioning Government, little progress in reducing the budget deficit
and reallocating expenditures to development uses, slow lmplementatn of MDA
operations; in this case, only a core program of B.nk activities would be possible;
(ii)   somewhat Improved economic environment, imp         of stabilization meures
and reallocation of expenditures to development uses, and satisfactory implementation
of on-going IDA operations; Bank strategy would focus on an expanded program of
lend    in a wider range of sectors and economic policy advice to support the
stabilization process, but no quick-disbursing lending is envisaged; and
(iii)  subaial improvement in the economic environment, a compressed period of
economic stabilization, agreement on a medium-term macro-economic framework with
srong adjustment measures, and improved absorptive capacity for investment; Bank
support would focus on an adjustment-oriented program which could include quick-
disburing funds.
A fourth scenario woud follow for renewal of civil strife, maing progress on development Issues
impossible. In such circumstances or in the case of Chad's failure to meet its financial obligations to
IDA, the Bank would have litdt choice but to suspend most activities as it did in 1979.
24.   Planned Bank lending to Chad over the next five years could range from US$135 to US$335
million (annual average of between US$4 and US$11 per capita) depending on the country sitation.
The reestablishment of a satsfactory standard of economic management will be a key ddmint of
the speed with which the development agenda can be advanced. If the Government is able to stabilize
the public finance sihuation and turn its attention more fully to long-term development issues, the way
will be open for a much broader range of Bank support, including a relaunching of the PFP process.
While the overall political and financial picture is discouraging, there are also positive signs which
encourage us to remain poised to move forward with a more ambitious program: key economic policy
makers are firmly convinced of the need to put an appropriate package of stabilization measures in
place; reforms are moving ahead in some areas; and investment projects are being implemented
satisfactorily. For the moment, however, Bank assistance remains in a core program as defined above.
25.   Countr's deselopment obWeetives. Chad's development plan for the 1990s, endorsed by
donors at a round table meeing in July 1990, has three broad objectives: promoting humn resource
development; increasing production and modizing production structures; and restoring financial and
economic equilibria in order to promote a healthy, growing economy. The plan emphasizes
investments in human capital, basic infastructure, and improved services in the agricultura sector in
order to increase the economy's competitiveness and long-term viability. Ihe Government is strongly
committed to exploiting oil reserves for import substitution and, in the medium-term, for export. A
central development role is seen for the private sector, the subject of a recent round table meeting in
December i992. Within the broad framework of the development plan, the Government bas developed



-9-
detailed strategies for key sectors of the economy: educaion, training and employmen; health;
tansportation; and a restructuring program for the cotton sector. The Government, with donor
assistance, is curety preparing such sategies for rural development (including the environment) and
the energ sector.
26.   Tbe Balkts Assistance Strteg=. The Bank's assistance state  supports the objectves of
alleviating poverty and improving the prospect for long-term growth by: () increasing the
accessibility and quality of basic social services; (ii) increasing incomes through productivity increases
and improved services (mcluding transportation) to the agricultural sector where the majority of the
population live and work; (iii) Improving basic infrastructure which serves to increase competitiveness
and Improve welfare; (iv) promoting employment generadon and entrepreneurship by encouraging t'he
provision of services by the private sector; (v) supporting the increased allocation of public
expenditures for deNalopment purposes; and (vi) promoting a coherent approach to tap the potential of
the energy sector. The strategy builds on Chad's positive attibutes:  a relatively unregated
economy; the modest size of the public sector; high level officials' openness and thirst for technical
advice; the important role of priva- (profit and non-profit) and community organizations in the
provision, management and financing -f basic services; the established practice of cost recovery; and
the Chadian peoples' resilience In the face of difficulty.
27.   The Bank's assisnce strategy promotes a bold approach to addressing the problem of weak
capacity in the public sector by actively sunporting a redeiinition of the role i the public and private
sector. Bank lending in key sectors would combine support for restructuring of the public
administraion to hand!a oversight functions rogramming, bugeting, and superision) and to
perform more efficiently by using private management tools and methods, and support for creation and
strengthenpg of alternative institutions-community groups, voluntary organizations, and private
businessto deliver services and implement programs. This approach is well developed and beginning
to be put Into prce In the   ortation and public works sectors, where increased contracdng out
to the domestic, private sector is envisaged. In the education, health. and agriculturl sectors,
community and voluntay organizations play or could play a central role in mnagi, fianing and
providing basic services. For example, 50% of health services in southern Chad (where 70% of the
populaion live) are provided by voluntary organizations, and 40% of primary school teachers are paid
by paret associations. A major trust of the strategy is to build capacity in these instons which
have the potential to become a dynamic and sustinable base for longer-term development. A broad
civil service reform effort would be supported if country conditions improve sstantilly.
28.   The heart of the Bank's Pam  alleito efforts in Chad is human resource development: an
aggressive push to increase primy school enrollment,  uilding the rudimentary health system, and
taking the first real steps towards developing effective fair "y planning evices (virtualy non-.xstet
right now). The Bank's strategy supports the Government's objective to increase the enrollment rate in
primary education from 59% in 1990 to 65% by 1998, while improving quality and internal efficieacy.
Ite Bank will assist the Government implement its National Health Development Plan (adopted in
1992) which cas for a restructuring of health expditmes towards primary care, notably preventive
care and family plaing, and improved quality, coverage and cost-efciveness of health services.
The Government is now coming to recognize that a pro-active family planning policy is essential to
slow population growth and improve welfare; the Bank is helping with the definition and
implementation of this policy.



- 10-
29.   'he design of the Bank's poverty alleviation efforts is broad based, because of insufficient
Information and adminitrative capacity to design and implement more targeted, social safety net
programs. Few Chadians escape the shadow of poverty which is reflected in broad measures of
development such as per capita income and ".e human development index. More precise, reliable
measures of the extent, depth or concentration of poverty in Chad do not exist, and evidence Is
fragmeutary. The Bank is completing an assessment of the information requirements for addressing
poverty issues in order to develop an action plan with Government and other donors to generate such
information. IDA is supporting Chad's first ever population census (now underway), a household
survey in N'djamena, ard an assessment of the food insecure. Despite the lack of precise data, some
broad targeting is being done under the sector operations; for example, the primary school construction
program alms at regions where enrollment ratios are lowest.
30.   The Bank's strategy recognizes that improving knowledge and program design to take Into
account the role gf  mn is central to addressing poverty and welfare concerns in Chad. It supports
the Government's efforts to increase the school enrollment rate of girls, target primary health care to
women and children, ensure that women have access to agricultural extension and private sector
support activities, and promote the participation of women in community organizations.
31.   As indicated above,  ivae sector development Is a central theme of the assistance stra.
Private economic agents are the key actors in Chad's economy where the public and modem sector are
small. The private sector round table has Identified a poor business climate-including insecurity and
public sector payment arrears to suppliers-as a critical constrain.  The Bank will promote an
Increased role for private, domestic contractors (see paras. 26 and 27), by financing training, credit
and other support services which are proving successful in an on-going pilot operation. A major boost
to the private sector and the economy should also come from the program in the transport sector to
develop private contracting, reduce domestic and international transport costs, and increase competition
in the trucking industry. If the essential prerequisites for a fiul-fledged private sector assistance
program-improved security, confidence, and predictability-are met, then the Bank could support a
more ambitious program, including measures to reform the financial, legal and regulatory
environment. If major, foreign investment in the petroleum sector occurs, it could stimulate private
investment in other domains. The Bank has encouraged Chad to join IFC and MIGA.
32.   The state of knowledge about enviMnta is=  in Chad Is relatively limited, but due to
relatively low population pressure on land, environmental degradation in rural areas of Chad appears to
be less severe than in other Sahellan countries. In preparation for a donors meeting, Government Is
working on its enviromental strategy. Through its assistance program, the Bank is helping the
Government deal wit three principal entiromental concers: promotion of sustiable agricultural
and livestock production, introduction of capacity to assess the environmental impact of roads, and
promotion of a household energy strategy.
33.   The Bank's Proam of Assistance. Ihe Bank's current program of assistance supports
activities that: () address basic poverty issues; (ii) minimize the administrative and financial demands
on the Government; (ii) make matimum use of non-Government capabilities through reliance on
NGOs, local communties and the private sector as implementing agents; and (iv) improve the
prospects for long-term growth. Operatons currently under preparation are heavily oriented towards
human resource development (roughly 40% of proposed lending), agriculture, transortation, urban
Irstructure, and energy. The projects would promote an increased role for private, domesdc



-11 -
contractors in service provision; user fees, community and external financing would be needed to
sustain tbis approach. The transportation and agricultural operations would include a program of
policy reforms, but not quick-disbursing fnds. Economic and sector EV  will aim to build a stronger
base for analyzing poverty and to help the Government define sector strategies for energy and rura
development. Public expendimre issues will continue to be a priority and the policy dWogue on
macro-economic issues will remain on the front-burner. Given that Chad has the loot se share of
female enrolment (at all levels of the education system) in Africa, the Bank has included Chad as one
of tree Sahelian countries in a study on barriers to girls education. Also planned for the coming year
is an assessment of the prevalence of sexually transmitted diseases which will form the basis for
assisdng Chad to develop an aggressive AIDS prevention strategy. A poverty assessment will be
completed next year. A considerable amount of further analytic work is planned in the context of
lending operations, including the on-going technical assistance project.
34.   Portofoo Managent. Despite difficult conditions, implementation of the Bank portfolio has
advanced reasonably well with some notable successes like transportation and education (see para. 7).
The Bank has devoted substantal resources to supervision and the on-going process of restructuring
the portfolio has improved its health: cancellation of the adjustment credit in late 1992, reallocation of
funds to the investment component of the Transport Sector Adjustment Credit, and restructuring of two
of the sic remaining projects (technical assistance and social development action program) to focus on
activities that are working. A mid-term review is underway for a third project (national livestock).
The Bank is addressing the portfolio's key problem areas: inadequate counterpart funds, poor project
management, lack of knowledge of Bank procedures, and weak Government supervision. Ihe Bank is
handling the counterpart fund issue as part of the broader dialogue to stabilize the fiscal siuation; no
project is cumently blocked by this problem. A major effort was made tf is year to improve knowledge
of Bank proedures through: a country procurement assessment, local workshops on procurement and
disbursement, and several support missions to improve project accounting and auditing. Audit
compliance has been good. Government has agreed to annual joint reviews of the portfolio in order to
strngthen its supervision role; te Bank is encouraging greater participation in project preparation
which should promote ownership and better monitoring. Project launch workshops and midterm
reviews are standard practice and have proved useful.
35.   Aid coordination. Chad is heavily dependent on eal assistance and aid coordinaton has
been reasonably good. In financial terms, the Bank, European Community and France are the most
importnt donors in Chad. The definition of sector strategies has proved to be an effective
coordination mecaism which has been widely praised by donors and Government alike. The Bank
will continue to support this process and take the lead in several key sectors such as rural development
and energy. UNDP-led Round Table meetings to discuss the macro-economic and sector strategies
have been the formal aid coordination mechanism. Local aid coordination works effectively through
informal mechanisms. Donors have relied on the Bank and IB for leadership on macro-eonomic
matters.
D. &mm= Assessment
36.   Chad is an extaemely poor country which is in the midst of a difficult political transition
process and a deep economic and financial crisis. The recent completion of the National Conference is
a major step forward after a prolonged period of instability following the abrupt change in regime in
late 1990. The new Government named on April 12, 1993 includes strong representtion of the newly



-12 -
created political parties (10 parties out of 40). It needs to act decisively to define and apply a vigorous
program to redress the deWening fiscal and cotton crisis, strengthen the country's competitve position
and reate a macro-economic climate conducive to longer term growth. The payment of civil service
wages is likely to be a centr issue. While the situation is difficult, there are reasons for optimism:
major progrms In key sectors like transportation and education are moving forward well, and the
petleum sectr may open the door to a more prosperous future.
37.  MIm Bank's assistance strategy is flexible and designed to build on Chad's positve attributes,
continue the policy dialogue and adjust rapidly to an Improvement in country conditions. Under the
current circumstances, the Bank is implementing a core program of support to aleviate poverty
through activities that address basic poverty issues, place mnimal demands on Government
administration and finances, make maximum use of non-Government capabilities, and improve the
prospects for long-term growth. It emphasizes operations that can succeed now and yield benefits for
the next generation: health, education, agriculture, infrastucture and energy. The Bank is working
with Government towards a redefinition of Its role combined with a major effor to buid the capacity
of private business, community and voluntary organizations. The Bank will continue to work actively
towards establishment of a macro-economic framework that meets stabilization goals and offers light in
the medium-term unnel.
H. THE PROJECr
38.   &ctor Affkmd. Trends in Chad's education sector are encouragig. In the post-civil war
period (from 1984 to 1990), primary school enrollment increased by 5.4% per annum, resulting in an
increase in the ewnolment ratio from 51% to 59%--the fastest primary enrollment growth rate in the
Sahel. In large part this was due to the dynamism of Chadian communities, who have developed a
trdon of financing the constuction, staffing and management of local schools.  Currendy,
community-financed schools (icolk sponan&es) cover 19% of all primary school enrollment, and
parents' associations (APE) finance about 40% of all primary school teachers. The Govement has
also increased Its support for the education sector: public financing rose from 12% of the totl
recurrent budget in 1988 to 17% in 1991. In contast to most other Sahelian countries, the budgetary
allocation among prmary, secondary and university education has been well-balanced. Te share of
primary education in the sectoral budget was 51% in 1991. To promote more efficient resource use,
muldtigrade teaching is now used in 35% of rural primary schools, and double-shift teaching is being
tested in 20 urban classrooms. In addition, the Government has introduced strong admission
regulations to avoid expende distotions in higher education. As a result, the total number of
university students has remained below 3,000 since 1987, and the share of the education budget
devoted to student subsidies (10.5% in 1991) is about half the average subsidy level in the Sahel. The
Government's Education-Taining-Employment (ETE) roundtable in 1990 adopted a sound sectoral
strategy which emphaszes a substandal increase of primary enrollment by 2000 and education quality
and efficiency improvement at all levels.
39.   Despite these encouraging developments, coverage of primary educadon is low  and
ineitable. While the primary school enrollment ratio of 59% is above the Sahel average of 52%, it
Is well below the Sub-Sahara5 Africa (SSA) average of 78%. The share of total prmary enrollment
constited by girls is only 31%, the lowest in SSA, and the enrollment ratio in the 14 pVefura
ranges from 10% to above 100%. In addition, education quality is low, as evidenced by high dropout
(only 22% of the initia cohort entering primary education complete the primary cycle) and by one of



-13 -
the highest levels of primary education repetiion in the world (the repetiton rate ranges fom 30% to
36% between grades 1 and 5 and reaches 40% in grade 6).
40.   The ETE strategy and the preparadon workshops for the proposed project identified causes of
the low and inequitable access and poor quality of primary education. Inputs are insufficient the
average pupil/teacher ratio (67:1) is one of the highest in the region (38:1 on average), and the annual
goverment alocation towards instructional materials Is very low (ess than US$.50 per pupil). Pre-
service and in-service training systems do not adequately prepare teachers for real classroom situations,
and educational supervision is weak. Local initiatives by communities receive little public support
Monitoring systems to assess student achievement and to guide system development do not exst.
Management of the sector by the Ministry of Education (MEN) suffers from weak planing and
programming capacities. In addition, government recruitment for initial teacher training among
students who have completed the upper secondary cycle to become busttear bacheler (rather than
among students who have completed lower secondary education to become ntiuteur a4obw) is not
cost effective. Currently, enrollment in the teacher training program includes 54% bmsuteur
bacelirs and 46%   suteur adjoints. The average salary of an nuteur is 25% higher than at
of an  suturmr aJoint, but there is no evidence of a corresponding improvement in learning for
pupils taught by nstweurs.
41.   Prolect Obiecive. The central project objective is to improve the access, quality and
efficiency of primary education, primarily in rural areas and for girls nationwide. To this end, the
project would support the ErE stategy for primary education designed to achieve the folowing tagets
for 1998: raising overall primary enrollment ratio from 59% in 1990 to 65% and the share of femae
enrollment from 31% to 36%, and reducing the average repetition rate from 30% to 20%. Secondary
objectives are to promote a more efficient resource use in the education sector.
42.   BMW  Descrlgt. To attain these objectives, the project, within the framework of a set of
ten policy measures based upon the ETE strategy, would support three investment components. The
policy measures-detailed in the Government's Letter of Education Sector Deveopment Policy-are
designed to: (a) incmrease public expdtues on pnmaly education; (b) enhance efficiency in th use of
prinaiy school classrooms and teachers; (c) develop and implent measures to promote girs'
participation m prmary education; and (d) promote the expansion of private and communty scols.
Within the framework of these policy measures, the project would finance three invoestment
components. Imprroing the access and quality of primarv education naffonwide through: (a)
constucting 800 primary school classrooms and rehabilitating 200 classrooms; (b) purchasing and
distributing about 780,000 primary texbooks and 10,000 teacher guides; (c) restrcturng and
improving pre-service and in-service teacher training; (d) strengthening school inspection and teacher
supervision; and (e) developing and implementing a program to accelerate girls' education.
Sunortdg a pilot school imrovement progm    for primary education In three regions through:
(a) promoting locally-based pedagogic improvement projects in 90 individual schools; O) tesdng an
improved student assessment program in 100 schools; and (c) strengthening the management and
organization capacity of 100 parents' associations.  Strmgthening critical sectoral Instutionm
through: (a) firther developing the planning and management capacity of MEN; and (b) reinforcing
MEN's capacity to prepare and implement donor-financed education projects. Total project cost are
estimated at US$33.8 million. The cost estimates and disbursement plans are shown in Schedues A
and B, respectively.



-14 -
43.   ho1c   lm    tation. Coordination of each of the projects componet would be carried out
by designated units in the MEN. Three sub-components would be managed by non-public instit
under contract to the MEN: the pnmay school construction sub-comone  would be delegated to a
Contrc Managmt Ageney (CMA); monitoring and imple tinof the girs' participation sub-
compont would be delegAed to UNICEF; monitoring and provision of tecnical support for
implemetg the pilot local pogram would be delegtd to GTZ. The Project Coordiaton Unit CU)
would ensur interw-agency cooperation, fcilitate the smooth and timely implementation of the preject, and
provide the channel of commnic s with IDA. Te responsibilities for each of he major componet
would be as follows.    y   Education Nationwide would be managed by the Director of Primary
Educatio    nplmentation of designated sub-components would be under the responsibility (established
during proj  preparation) of respective MEN units: (i) Institut des Scences de I'Eduoatton and the PCU
would coordiate textbook procurement and distribution; (ii) the, Direction de la Formation et de l'Acfon
Pdagoglque would coordinate in-service and pre-serice teacher training; and (ii) the Direction de
l'Ensefgnement El4nwntaire (DEE) wodd be responsible for school inspection and teacher srvis
Pilot School nmrovm   ProaRm would be the responsibility of the DEE. GTZ would provid techical
assisace; and the Service d'Evaluation et de Suli would be responsibiy for coordinating the
tesWevaluatton sub-componn   Critical Sectoral Institutions would be under the responsibility of the
Direction Generale de ISAwcation and the PCU. The Policy Measures are integated into the various
componnt and would be implemented by the respectie units. The PCU would prvide a monoring and
advisory fion. An outline of the project implem   on manual was developed during project
appraisal and will be futher detailed-including a schedule for all project componens-for the project
launch seminar. Ihe project is expected to be completed over a five year period; the IDA credit would
be disbursed over six years. Chad's standard disbursement proffle Is eight years.
44.  ftWect Susinablit^. Five aspects of the project's design promote the sustanability of the
programs beyond project completion. First, the project would be an integra part of the Government's
ETE strategy for 1990-2000, which is being supported by other donors with the cooperation of NGOs
and communities. Second, the Government has agreed that regular salary payments for established and
newly-recruited teachers would be given high priority, through the establishment of a special payment
mechanism consisting of: (a) improved payment procedures to speed up processing of primary
teachers' salaries; and (b) a teachers' guanty fund (TGF) to cover three months of primary teachers'
salary payments for regions with chronic budget deficits. Third, cost savings resulting from efficiency
measures to be introduced under the project would correspond to as much as one-third of the
incremental recurrent expenditures (mainly teachers salaries) generated by the primary education
development program supported by the project. Fourth, the project design-based on the objectives-
oriented, partcipatory approach initiated during project preparation and to be contnued during project
implementation-will assure local ownership and support for ongoing activities of NGOs, APEs,
private contractors, and technical units of the MEN. Specifically the project was prepared at the
regional and national levels, including regional stakeholder conferences in four prfectures, a seminar
on decentralization of the education system in N'djamna , and a final six-day conference during the
pre-appraisal mission using the ZOPP methodology developed by GIZ (provided as an input by
Germany), a participatory planning tool designed to clarify project objectives and activites among
critical stakeholders and to establish monitoring indicators. Fifth, the pilot school improvement
programs in three regions would, if successful, be expanded in future operations.



-1S -
4S.   Lessons Leared from Previous MA Involvement. This would be the fifth IDA-financed
education project in Chad. The first three projects (Cr. 126-CD, US$1.8 million, 1968; Cr. 251-CD,
US$2.2 million, 1971; Cr. 811-CD, US$7.8 million, 1978) supported investments In teacher-training
and technical centers, primar education infrastructure, distribution of educational materials, and
management of the education sector. The Project Completion Reports of these three projects-all rated
unsatisfactory by OED-offer the following lessons: (a) the projects were over-ambitious, with
components in agricultural, technical and general education; (b) the Government had difficulty in
assuming recurrent costs, for which no specific financing mechanism was developed; (c) project
insttutions were inadequately staffed; (d) maintenance of physical components was sustained only
when school directors and users were held accountable; (e) IDA supervision-which relied largely on
consultants-was insufficient; and (t) donors did not provide sufficient technical assistance as the
project developed. The ongoing Education Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1950-CD, US$22 million,
1988), which has successfully supported sectoral rehabilitation, offers additional lessons: (a) education
policy must be tightly related to overaUl public resource management; (b) local stakeholders can
manage primary schools under the most adverse circumstances; (c) APE and community involvement
are critical to the success of school management and support; and (d) international and Indigenous
NGOs must be held to rigorous, quantifiable standards. These lessons-as well as lessons from similar
deentralized IDA-financed projects in education-are built into the design of the proposed project.
46.   Rationale for IMA involvement. The proposed project is a central part of IMA's country
assistance strateg and is fully consistent with the criteria for activities to be supported (para. 33). It
ao supports IDA's long-term education strategy in Chad, including possible operations in vocational
raining and in higher education. As a key partner in the development of the ETE strategy and in the
establishment of macroeconomic policy, IDA can continue to effectively promote a sustainable
education policy during the project period.
47.      .d A          As condons of effectiveness, the Govermnent would: (a) makde an iniial
deposit of CFAF 300 nillion into the teaches' guaranty fund established in a local commrcial bank; (b)
sign a contact, acceptable to IDA, with the CMA for school constuction manageme; and (c) appoint an
independent auditor under a multi-year contact acceptable to IDA. The following conditions of
disbursement would apply: (a) for the girls' education find, the Govemnt would submit a signed
contr  with UNICEF, stifctory to IDA, (b) for local pedagogic projects and APE suppot funds, the
Government would submit to IDA: (i) the manual of procedures, including evaluation crteria and allowable
expendiu  fbr these sub-components; and (ii) a signed agreement between the Govearnet and GTZ on
GTZ support both satisfictory to IDA.
48.   En*gMMta1 Asgef. This is a category C project, including components which should
have a positive impact on the environment. Most of the new clssroms would be associated with
exisng schools: there would be no displacemt of people. Classroom construction would be in
accordance with approved Bank standards which result in no adverse earonmental impact Inclusion of
enronmental education in traing progrms would have positive environmental impact.
49.   Progmm Ohmtu Catwgode. The project responds primarily to the country's antipoverty
and human resource development strategies (category education) and includes a WID dimension
because of its focus on education accessibility and quality for girls. Increasing primary enrollment,
particularly in rural areas and among girls, increases opportuties and productivity among the most



-16-
disadvantaged groups, lowers Infant mortality, improves health and nutrition, and results in higher
levels of education and improved living standards in succeeding generations.
50.            Benefts. plementation of the overall education progam supported by this project
would provide additional enrollmnt capacity for approximately 117,000 additional pupils from 1994 to
1998. The numn direct impac of the project would be to provide classrooms for 55,000 pupils, largely in
rual areas, where 84% of project financed classrooms would be constructed. It is expected that the
primary enrollment ratio in rural areas would increase from 51% to 590/, whereas that of urban areas
wouldd iprove from 91% to 95%. Since re; etition is expected to decline from 30% to 20,/ intake rates
into grade one of pnmary education would increase more rapidly (from 64% in 1990 to 75% in 1998), and
the number of school years ivested for each student who reaches grade 6 would decline from 18 to 9 by
the end of the project. In addition, project inesme  in textbooks, teacher training, girls' educaion as
well as project support for sectora policies would improve education quality and efficiency throughout te
sector. Project qualittive inputs and policy measures to limit repeition would inprove qualty throughout
the primary education system, thereby lowering the average number of years it takes to graduate. In
addition, pilot school improvement projects would further improve education quality and strengthen local
initiaves in tbree regions covering 36% of primry school enrollment in 1990. Support for institutional
levelopment would improve manageent and sustainability of the education sector, and budgetary policy
measures would prevet distortions in resource allocations within the education sector. In the long-erm,
the project would raise the productivity of the labor force and contribute to increased well-being amng the
Chadian population.
51.   RBW. Ike fragile political environment and weak implemeting capacity could jeopardize project
implementation.  To minimize th  effect of this risk, the project would promote the Govenmenes
commtment to: (a) deentalize education management; (b) reinfrce the operational respnbility and
management of schools by regional directorates; (c) rely on the private sector, NGOs, and conmmnies to
manage constuction and school improvement projects; and (d) firther develop stakeholder comniunt
through the contnued use of participatory, objective-oriented project planning and implementation methods
(ZOPP). ITe support for local school improvement projects is also designed to build on the resiien  and
excutg capacity of local comiunities. Another risk is that he Govenment may face difficulties in
regularly paying teachers salaries. MIis risk would be addressed directly by the introduction of a special
paymet mechaim to faciliate regular salar payment for prinary school teachers consitng of improved
salary payment procedumes and a teacers' guaranty fimd. In addition, this risk would be mtigated by (a)
cos     -building with the Goverment under the ETE framework; (b) prtizing this issue in
n acroeconomic dialogue among the IMF, IDA and the Govemment (c) matning close coordinato
with and support from the French and other bilateral agencies; (d) monitong  of public expenditu  for
primay education through the special payment mechanism and during annal reviews of project
implemenation; and (e) mantning high levels of community financing.
52.   R.emmOdaton. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston.
President
Attachments
Washingt. D.C.
April 16, 1993



. 17-
ScheduleA
Page 1 of 1
MSrMATED PRsoJr COMr AND FINANCING ELAN
(US$ million)1
FSTIMATE PROJECT COSS12
LOCAL        FOREIGN           IOTAL
1.  Access, Quality, and               13.9            10.7            24.6
Efficiency of Primary
Education Nationwide
2   Pilot School Improvement            0.6             2.2             2.9
Program in Three Regions
3.  Critical Sectoral                   0.4             1.8             2.2
3nstitutions
Total Base Costs                   14.9            14.7           29.7
Physical Contngencies               0.5             0.9             1.4
Price Coningencies                  0.9             1.7            2.6
TOTAL PROJECT                      16.4            17.4           33.8
cosr
Flnandng MRan (US$ million)
IDA                                                19.3
Government                                          7.9
Germany:                                            5.6
G1Z                                    (2.2)
J(W                                    (3.4)
Commuonities                                        0.9
TOTAL                                              33.8
Totals may not add up due to unding.
2     Net of taxes and duties.



- 18 -
Schetld B
Pag l of 2
Sumary of Proposed Proeurement Arrangements
(USS million eouivalent includina Contirnencies)
Procurement Nethods for IDA F-rinnena
Total
PROJECT ELEMENTS                                       tCB                 11hrN:Cost
1. CIVIL  RKS
1.1  Now primary classrooms constructfon                       2.5       1.9 al    3.8 bi      8.2
(Part A only)                                                 (2.3)     (1.7)     t--)        (4.0)
1.2  Primary classrooms rehabilitation                                  -          0.7 Ct      0.7
(Part A only)                                      .          -                       )        0.0
2. Gm
2.1  Furniture                                      -          1.9       0.2        0.5 C/     2.S
(1.9)     (0.2)     C--)        (2.0)
2.2  Office Equipment & Supplies                    0.5       -          0.1                   0.6
(0.5)               (0.1)                 (0.6)
2.3  Vehicles                                       0.3       -         -                      0.3
(0.3)     -                               (0.3)
2.4  Textbooks                                      5.1       -         -                      5.1
(5.1)     -                    -          (5.1)
2.5  Pedafogical Equipment                          -         -          0.3        1.5 cl     1.7
3- MMLTAM;IES       (0.3)      (..)       (0.3)
3. CONSULTANCIES
3.1  Design/Engineering/Supervision                 -         -          0.6        0.1 c@     0.7
-         .         (0.6)      C--)       (0.6)
3.2  Specialists Servie s (international)           -         -          2.3        0.2        2.5
-         -         (2.3)      -          (2.3)
3.3  Specialists Services (Local)                   -                    0.3        0.1 ci     0.4
-   -     (0.3)     (..)        (0.3)
3.4  Supervision of pilot projects                                                  2.0 d/     2.0
-  .     -          C-.)       ~~~~~0.0
4. tRAINING
4.1  Fellowships Abroad                             -         -          0.3       -           0.3
-         (0.3)                 (0.3)
4.2  Local Workshops                                -         -          1.1 Of                1.1
*(1.1)                     (1.1)
5. FUWDS
5.1  Funds for Pilot Projects                       -          -          0.4       -           0.4
(Part B only)                                      -          -         (0.4)      -          (0.4)
5.2  Funds for Girls' Education                      -         -          0.3 f/                0.3
(Part A only)                                      -                    (0.3)                 (0.3)
6. NISELL ANEIOU
6.1  Operation B Maintenance                        -          0.5       0.5       -           1.1
-         (0.5)     (0.5)      -          (1.1)
6.2  Salaries                                       -         -          0.6      S.1 gI       5.8
-    -         tO~~~C.6)             (0.4)
Total Costs                                      5.9        5.0       8.9       14.0       33.8
Total Financed by the IDA credit                (5.9)      (4.7)     (8.7)      t--)      (19.3)
Notes: Figures may not add up to due rounding.
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
N8F: Not Bank-Financed.
(a): Carried out by MOOs acting as contractors with community participation
(b): USS0.3 Coomunities & US$3.6 KfW                (c): Financed by Government
(d): Financed by GTZ
(e): Represents mostly pedagogic supplies and travel allowances
(f): Promotfon campaign expenditures to be inptemented by UNICEF
(g): Financed by Government and Communities
* The following capital letters show the project coap4nents:
Part A: Access and Quality of Primary Education
Part B: Pilot School Improvement Program
Part C: Critical Sectoral Institutions



-19-
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
}tEPULIC OF CHAD
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Cry of Expendituresd IDA                          % of
(US$ mU-illion       Financed byID
1.       Civil Works aJ                    3.6                   100
2.       PilotProjectFunds a               0.3                   100
3.       Funiitre, Equipment, and          2.7                   100
Vehicles
4.       Girls' Pronmtion Fund             0.3
5.       Textbooks and Pedagogic           5.0                   100
Matedals
6.       Local Tining and                  1.S                   100
Ovee  Fllowships
7.       Technical Fees and                3.2                   100
Specialist Sevices
8.       Ineta Recurnt                     1.5                   100
Costs bt
9.       Unallocated                       1.2                    -
TOTAL                                     19.3
8/ To be wpplemented by comnmity contriion in cash or in kind equivalent to 10Y of project
b/ nludidg oveme for teahers i double-shift classes.
Estimated IDA Disbursements (US$ million)
IDA FY                   2                      29 9S                  21          22
Annual                  0.1         3.9        4.4         5.5        3.6         1.3
cumulative              0.6         4.5        8.9        14.4        18.0       19.3
Economic Rate
Of Rehc:    Not Applicable
AW:          IBRD 24722



-20.
Page 1 of 1
REICQiF CAD
MEDUCA   PRO.EC
Timeable of Xg EMec EMMng S
(a)     Time taken to prepare                      About 2 yeaws
(b)     Prepared by                                Goverment with IDA assistance*
(c)     First IMA mission                          November 7, 1990
(d)     Appraisa mission deparure                  Jamuary 1993
(e)     Negotations                                March 1993
(t)     Planned date of effectiveness              October 1993
_                           .o                                                 . b.d oath _fiadlapofanappal ision tvidChaiaJanar1Ycomriin:MesrjMua. MhNb.,
Wa Leder, B_sd AbeUM,           .. _     8     ;mklia 31m B_w  Agu, Propm Oft   ;     1M_tM * oanthag JMan
C0009MM_kOWMIS4 lasln LJeygonSe,am Staff AsidSa; nd Thoma Boysn aZ                  In adloo, p0et p-
apprisa_ I ed Mnmms.. MUyon  sAwa.Pssaud ripal Opeariom Ofber; Saka Dlep, Taibook speUa; Abda
Salm Dabo, NMO advisr Mi   Ms,    da Tng Spelt; aM A     Nzayd, C                        Com
DvdWe       SpeeCIst. Mss Nbo aid MM fnazed report p sin aipr   co*.i0g, Wi al_n  rOM       . LMM gonle.
Mc Katherine Maha and Mr D.iva Pdna  the Depatme Diector ad managig Diisi  aaz reetvly, i the
-ea;        . IuaI Prada ad Mama Zymen  ar the0 pe rvews.



-21-
Schshle D
Page I of 2
REUMM OF CM
Fw  EDU-CAOl PlROJC
Status sFanuk faMgp C"perRd=
(as of Apil 8, 1993)
Qmedt No.        ERMn    burps                         IE       Undlsbursed  CWkrhg ZDMd
22 Cedits dosed                                         178.82
1872-CHD         1988   TA for Econ. & Financial        12.80   11.28         06/30194
1912-CHD         1988   Livestock                       18.60    8.39         12/31195
1950-CHD         1989   Education                      22.00    4.63          12/31194
2007-CID         1989   Transport Sector                60.00   12.27         06/30194
2156-0HD         1990   SocIal Development Program      13.40    8.33         06/30/96
2184-CHD         1991   Petroleum and Power             11.00    5.88         12/31195
Engineeing
TOTAL number                                            137.80  50.78
of credts   6
Total*                               316.62
of which repaid                      11.38
Total held by Bank and IDA           305.25
Amount sold
of which repaid
TOTA,, undisbursed                            50.78
Notes:
* Tot approved, repayments, and outsaing am represet both active and inactive credits.
(R) indica  fmally rtevised clon dat.
(S) indicates SALSECAL credits.
Tho net approved and Bank repayments are historical value; all others are market value.
The signing, effective and closing dates are based upon the Loan Department official data and are not taken fom
the Task Budget file.



-22 -
ScheduleD
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Of the six credits currently disbursing, three below have significant disbursement lags.
1.    Economic and Financial Manageen Poi   (Cr. 1872-CD). The credit became effective on
September 23, 1988, almost eight months after signing. About US$3.1 million have been disbursed.
The project was designed to improve economic and financial management in five government agencies.
Disbursements have been slow due to poor project management and the Government's difficulties in
defining Its needs. Based on the mid-term review, the project has been streamlined to focus primarily
on the Ministry of Finance, and funds were reallocated to high priority activities including training,
public enterprise reform and the National Population Census. The census was launched on April 1,
1993, for which approximately US$1.8 million equivalent (IDA and Swiss grant funds) have been
disbursed. the new project director, in place since May 1992, has made progress on several
procurement cases. As a result, disbursements are expected to Increase rapidly over the next year.
2.    Livestock Prjec (Cr. 1912-C). The credit became effective on January 27, 1989, almost
sev  moths after signing. About US$10.2 million have been disbursed. Disbursement has been
delayed by the slow start of the sub-components for extension, privatization of vetnary services, and
credit. The project has also suffered severely due to frequent changes at high levels in the Ministry of
Livestock.  Ihe extension component is now well underway, the veterinary program  is being
reorganized, and management of the credit program will be contracted to VITA, a successfil donor-
supported NGO. A mid-term review is underway which is exploring ways to restucture project
manaement in order to speed up firther implementation.
3. Social 12opment Action oMiject (Cr. 2156-CD). The credit became effective on April 17,
1991, almost ten months after signing. About US$5.6 million have been disbursed. This project was
designed to strengthen the formulation of sectoral strategies for meeting basic needs and to develop
human resources over the long term. Disbursements have been delayed by a slow start-up of the
health, policy planning, and labor sub-components. The Government has agreed in principle to the
reallocation of funds to the successfil credit and infrastructure sub-components and to the use of
project funds for preparation of projects in health and in public works and employment (ATETIP).



IBRD 247
BASIC           CHAD
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJET EDUCATION DE BASE
~Z3  E RIAAMY ClASSROOM CONSTRUCIN
PILAtOt5tNT SN'L IM NL                                                                                      I AREAS
f      I ZONES OE2tAERMNIAIIO                                                                                 LI          Y
:       I ROJE1S GlOA L 
*       IMARY tEACHRR tRAINING COtttGES
ECOlWS NORMALES O'lNSlTIWWJRS t(EN!)-
A     REGIONA IN-SERVICE TRAINING CENTeRS
CENTRES REOONAUX DE POZAWN      S                                                                             -
CONtlNUE (CA ,C)
O!F-utW E PREFECTUREATS i
PRWARY E.DUCATION INSPECTORATES|
INSPECWINS Of  LIENEGN6E1ENt 
REECURECAPITALS                 |                    BORKOU          -    ENNEDI    -    TIBESTI
CHE-Fu OfU DE tlEFES 
*NATIONAL CAPITAL
____   PREFECrURE BOUNDARIES   f                                            AROEAU
tZVtE DE PREURMW
INTERNAtIONAt OIUNDARI!SI
FRONI1ERES INtIRNATINALES
O        10O        200 KILOMETERS       |
0       50      100     150mILES
byIA  oddB.AN hM
15                                                                         G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a( ITNEE      1
K;  ~     / \ A  NEA
NIGERIAAR
MOYEN&'                                                                  *             L
,t'  CAMEROON                                                                     CENTRAL                        )CHADr   SUDAN
LOGONI      aAFRICAN                                ME[/ 
Gor                            REPUBLIC                           CENTUAi           S.~
ir   _____                                                                        * APUC~R~.~MA*CH 1993



