Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24253
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25010)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$19.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR A
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
06/11/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2001)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 756 = US$ 1
US$.0013 = CFAF 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APE          Students' Parents Association (Association des parents d'eleves)
BTOR         Back-to-Office Report
CFC          Continuous Education Centers (Centres deformation continue)
CTPSF        Technical Cellule for the Promotion of Girls' Enrolment (Cellule technique pour la
scolarisation desfilles)
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
GTZ          Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HPIC         Highly Poor Indebted Countries
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
KFW          Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau
MEN          Ministry of Education (Ministere de l 'education nationale)
MTR          Mid-Term Review
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SAP          Pedagogic Outreach Activities (Services d'animation pedagogiques)
UNICEF       United Nations' Children Fund
WFP          World Food Programme
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo, AFRVP
Country Manager/Director:  Robert Calderisi, AFC07
Sector Manager/Director:  Avril Van Adams, AFTH3
Task Teamn Leader/Task Manager:  Abdoulaye Ky, AFTH2



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
BASIC EDUCATION
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                10
6. Sustainability                                                                    11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     12
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                    14
9. Partner Comments                                                                  15
10. Additional Information                                                           16
Aniiex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                26
T[is document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
wiihout World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000517                                     Project Name: BASIC EDUCATION
Team Leader: Abdoulaye Ky                               TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: June 11, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: BASIC EDUCATION                              LICITFNumber: IDA-25010
Country/Department: CHAD                                               Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   09/03/1991                            Effective: 01/19/1994        01/19/1994
Appraisal:  12/24/1992                              MTR: 05/07/1997           05/07/1997
Approval.  05/25/1993                             Closing: 06/30/1999         06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: Govermnent/Ministry of Education
Other Partners: GTZ, KfW, UNICEF
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Robert Calderisi                         Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager:      Arvil Van Adams                          Birger J. Fredriksen
Team Leader at ICR:  Abdoulaye Ky                             Makha Ndao
ICR Primary Author:  Abdoulaye Ky
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL-Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: U                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The central objective of the Fifth Education Project was to: (a) improve the access, quality and efficiency
of primary education, primarily in rural areas and nationwide for girls; and (b) promote a more efficient
resource use in the education sector. To this end, the Project was intended to support a national
development program for primary education designed to achieve the following targets: (i) raising the
overall primary enrollment ratio from 59% in 1990 to 65%; (ii) increase the share of female enrollment
from 31% to 36%; and (iii) reducing the repetition rate from 30% to 20%.
The Project objectives were realistic and relevant given the problems plaguing the sector. They dovetailed
with the country's overall human resources development strategy and with that of the CAS. They were in
line with the World Bank's strategy of promoting quality education for all to foster social and economic
growth in order to reduce poverty. They were clearly formulated. Measurable performance indicators
were identified. However, there were no performance indicators for rural areas in particular to enable an
assessment of the progress achieved. In the case of the second objective too, there were no clearly
identified indicators to help evaluate the outcomes achieved.
The following two risks were identified in the SAR: (a) the fragile political environIent and the
Governments weak implementing capacity could jeopardize Project implementation; and (b) the
Government may face difficulties in regularly paying teachers salaries. The first risk was mitigated by a
relative amount of decentralization in education management through the creation of regional directorates,
the use of NGOs and the involvement of communities. Attempts at minimizing the second risk were less
successful due to problems in organizing payment of salaries and in the availability of funds, especially
after the close of the Project.
It should be noted that the project was implemented over a particular difficult period. The civil war that
raged in Chad for close to a decade had depleted it of its financial and human resources. The education
system was in a shambles and was characterized by: (a) a shortage of support/supervisory staff and
qualified teachers; (b) inadequate infrastructure and equipment resulting in a complete shortage of
schoolroom facilities and instructional materials and unequal access to education; (c) substantial internal
inefficiency; and (d) an unprecedented growth of community schools employing about 54% of the country's
teaching staff and functioning without any real State support. Since Chad had decided to give top priority
to human resources development and enhancement, a sector policy based on the above-mentioned facts was
developed. An Education-Training-Employment (ETE) strategy document was designed for the period
1990-2000   The Basic Education Project, the Fifth IDA-financed Education Project, was thus meant to
contribute to the implementation of the ETE strategy relating to primary education and to remedy its
shortcomings.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project objectives remained unchanged even after the Mid-Term Review (MTR) although some of the
original performance indicators were modified. For example, in the case of school infrastructure and
equipment, the number of classrooms to be constructed was increased from 800 to 1,375; the number of
benches to be purchased and distributed was increased from 20,000 to 37,880; and the figures for the
purchase and distribution of 780,000 books and 10,000 guides were altered to 1,001,646 books and 43,989
guides. The changes to the indicators have been dealt with in the section on Output by Components
(Section 4.2). These increases were made possible through a reallocation of resources.
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
Originally, the Project had nine components: (a) school infrastructure; (b) training; (c) school textbooks;
(d) improvement in support and supervision; (e) girls' education; (f) educational micro-projects; (g)
monitoring and evaluation of school outputs; (h) support to parents' associations (APEs) and their
self-advancement; and (i) institutional support.
These components corresponded to the crucial problems that were specific to Chad's education system.
Their proper implementation was expected to enable the attainment of at least objective (a). Objective (b)
seems to have been somewhat neglected, even though double-shifts, optimum classroom use, and
reduction/elimination of repetition at primary level were mentioned as examples of actions/measures aimed
at achieving this objective. It is necessary to point out that in determining these components, the Bank does
not seem to have taken into account all the lessons learned from the implementation of previous projects.
Yet, some of them appear in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) (cf. Chapter II, paragraph F. 2.35),
such as for example, the Ministry of Education's weak implementing capacity and the importance of project
size-over-ambitious projects comprising a large number of components are difficult to implement.
Furthermore, neither the Bank nor the Government had reckoned with the extreme poverty of the country,
the dearth of State resources and the weakness of the existing institutional capacities. The implementation
of these components, which had numerous sub-components, did in fact turn out to be extremely complex
and cumbersome for the Ministry to handle.
3.4 Revised Components:
The Project's first three years (1994-1997) of implementation were marked by poor performance due, inter
alia, to the lack of Government resources to support the Project, non-compliance with certain provisions of
the Credit Agreement and the weak managerial capacities of the Ministry's structures in particular.
Consequently, the dimensions of the components were "reworked" during the MTR in May 1997. Only
those that would help to achieve the Project's objectives were retained. The number of components was
reduced from nine to seven. They were: (a) support to APEs; (b) textbooks, support and supervision; (c)
school infrastructure; (d) girls' education; (e) comrnunity initiatives; (f) training; and (g) institutional
support. Two components, "School Textbooks" and "Monitoring and Evaluation," were integrated
respectively within the "Textbooks, Supervision and Support" component and the "Training" component.
In reality this was only a token reduction. In fact, the MTR was expected to change the contours of the
Project to a far greater extent than simply cutting it down to seven components. This would have brought it
down to more realistic proportions and might perhaps have facilitated its implementation. Unfortunately,
this did not happen.
3.S Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was unsatisfactory. Although many aspects of the project design were sound, some critical
ones were missing, making the overall quality at entry unsatisfactory.
(a)  The objectives of the components were realistic and achievable: (i) they were clearly formulated
with measurable performance indicators; and (ii) they fitted in with the Government's human
resources development strategy adopted in December 1990. However, the Ministry's staff
responsible for implementing this Project had not been fully involved in the preparation process.
Hence, their sense of ownership was not sufficiently high.
(b)  The Project was technically sound but was somehow extremely complex with an excessive number
- 3-



of components and sub-components. Consequently, the lessons leamed from the implementation of
earlier projects were not leveraged for this Project.
(c)  The importance of the girls' education component in the Project and the requirement to eliminate
gender bias in textbooks demonstrate clearly equity concerns and the willingness to promote
economic and social development for girls.
(d)  The aimn of the partnerships developed by the Bank with organizations like UNICEF and GTZ was
to achieve some of the development objectives with greater efficiency given the experience and
competence of these organizations in the areas targeted. These partnerships, however, led to a
financing system of these organizations' activities on the Project's funds that was deemed
inappropriate by the MEN.
(e)  A Project procedures and implementation manual approved by the Bank and the Borrower exists
and governs all aspects related to financial and accounting management, procurement and audit
(f) The roles and responsibilities of the key institutions involved in Project implementation had been
clearly specified and were stated in the terms of reference so as to allow each institution to play its
role to the full. What was missing was a real institutional assessment of the capacities of the MEN
which was in charge of supporting the Project design and preparation. This ought to have taken
place before determining the size and content of the components or the direction to be given to the
planning and implementation of certain important activities thereby allowing for an effective
achievement of the Project objectives.
(g) A procurement plan, an implementation program as well as a monitoring/ supervision program
have been prepared.
(h)  By financing the Project's recurrent costs, the Bank did not pay enough attention to the
sustainability of the Projects accomplishments.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The assessment of the outcomes achieved measured against the Project objectives is positive despite the
difficulties encountered especially during the first phase of implementation (1994-1997). The first general
objective of the Project may be regarded as achieved. Indeed, the emnollment rate rose from 46% at the
start of the Project to 71.62% in 1999-2000, as compared to 57% originally targeted. That for girls
increased from 31% to 54.62% for the same period, against 36% originally targeted. Even though the
repetition rate fell from 30% to 28% during the period under review, it did not drop to the 20% targeted
and it remains extremely high.
As regards the second objective, it did result in education policy measures relating to a more rational use of
teachers and classrooms (such as double-shifts and multi-grade classes), which had an appreciable impact
in the field - 584 cohorts of 50 students each were on double-shifts in 1997, i.e., about 200% of the schools
concemed. Automatic promotion to the next grade met with resistance not only from the teachers but also
from the parents and was only partially implemented. This was due to the fact that no efforts at explaining
or creating awareness were made prior to the ministerial decision. As a result, the main education
stakeholders were unable to understand it. Neither was any study undertaken to check if the new measures
-4 -



enforced were accompanied by an improvement in the quality of education or if the second objective had
been attained. The outputs are summarized in Table 4.1 and discussed by component in the following
paragraph.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 School lnfrastructure (US$12.8 million)
The objective of this component was to bring about a quantitative and qualitative improvement in the
infrastructure by constructing and furnishing 1,375 new classrooms (725 by IDA and 650 by KFW)
particularly in the rural areas of nine prefectures and rehabilitation by the State of 200 classrooms in urban
areas.
The rate of achievement of the objectives of this component is satisfactory. IDA constructed and furnished
725 classrooms as planned, KFW built and furnished 420 (about 65%) and was in the process of
completing the remaining 230 at the time of the Project's close. As planned, the State rehabilitated 200
classes (100%). Apart from these tangible outcomes, training was given to APEs on classroom upkeep and
maintenance.
4.2.2  Training
*  The objectives relating to this component were to raise the level of professional competence of the
teachers and to enable them to evaluate the students' learning outcomes better.
*  It contained two sub-components, one on "taining of community teachers, school directors and
heads" and another on "monitoring and evaluation" of school outputs.
(a)  The objective of the ."training of community teachers, school directors and heads"
sub-component (US$ 2.1 million) was to improve the professional skills of conmmunity teachers,
school directors and heads by providing them with in-service training. The delays and poor
performance recorded during the first phase of Project implementation (1994-1997) led to a
reorientation of objectives during the second phase. A total of 1,908 community teachers and 750
directors were trained, and 200 trainers of trainers and eight members of the national education
team received training. Two training curricula (one for community teachers and one for the school
directors and heads) and two guides (for the educational directors and motivators) were developed
under this sub-component. The quantitative outcomes obtained are satisfactory with respect to the
objectives. But it is not possible to make an objective appraisal of the real effect of these training
programs on the professional skills in the absence of a project monitoring/ evaluation mechanism.
(b)  The monitoring and evaluation sub-component (US$0.9 million) aimed at:. (i) providing the
educational staff (school administrators/teachers) and decision-makers with reliable and valid data
on the knowledge levels of students with respect to the basic education curricula; (ii) helping them
to provide the characteristics of a satisfactory school output; and (iii) making suggestions on fields
where improvements were called for. The outcomes achieved by this component with respect to the
performance indicators are satisfactory: in tandem with the University of Quebec in Montreal, a
testing system was experimented in 50 schools across three regions. Quantitative results are shown
in Table 4.1. In an educational system that is very prescriptive where evaluation practices are
rigid, the training imparted to teachers in testing certainly allowed them to discover another form of
more objective evaluation. However, there is no informnation available on the changes made to their
-5-



evaluation practices following this training and the provision of an items bank. Here again the
absence of a monitoring/ evaluation mechanism for Project outcomes makes it impossible to assess
the impact of this component.
4.2.3  Textbooks, Training and Supervision
(a)  School textbooks sub-component (US$6.6 million): The objective of this sub-component was to
improve learning conditions by providing students and teachers with textbooks and school supplies
at the rate of one French and Math book for every two students and one Science book for every
four students. By the time the Project was completed, 521,397 reading books, 369,640 Math
books, 110,609 Science books and 43,989 teacher guides had been distributed. The outcomes of
this sub-component are unsatisfactory. Due to bad planning and mistaken projections, the increase
in the number of students in the system was not provided for. As a result, the objectives of the
sub-component in ratio terms were not achieved. Where books were available, the ratio varied
from I book/3 students and I book/5 students for reading books and Mathematics and 1 book/6
students for Science books. The teachers complained that the content and teaching methods of
these textbooks were not adapted to Chad's curricula and that they lacked training. Even though
this sub-component made it possible to: (i) train motivators in the use of these textbooks; (ii)
organize 20 radio broadcasts on the correct way to use and maintain the textbooks; and (iii)
distribute 6,000 awareness-raising posters and 2,000 guides on management and maintenance of
teaching materials, what was missing was performance criteria to assess some of the actions
carried out under this sub-component. Moreover, it was found that there was no policy on books.
Several factors such as unattained book/pupil ratios, the non-adaptation of books to local ground
realities, the state of the books at the end of the Project lead one to conclude that the outcomes of
this component are unsatisfactory.
(b)  Support and Supervision sub-component - (US$0.9 million): The objective was to improve the
monitoring of teachers and to strengthen the impact of the training through frequent school visits,
facilitated by the procurement of transportation (15 vehicles, 264 motorcycles and 400 bicycles),
ensuring that all the teachers were visited at least once a year. The outcomes achieved on the basis
of the number of teacher visits are satisfactory on the whole. All the vehicles, bikes and cycles
were purchased and distributed. There were two to three visits every month to monitor the teachers
in nearby schools. For schools in remote areas, there were one to two visits organized per quarter.
However, the maintenance and condition of the means of transport leaves much to be desired and
prompts the conclusion that this sub-component is not sustainable.
4.2.4 Girls' Education (US$0.5 Million)
The objective of this component was to increase female enrollment from 31% to 36% in 1998 in rural areas
where the enrollment rate was less than or equal to 30%. This component, financed by the IDA Credit, is
being carried out in 40 schools spread out in four regions on the basis of an agreement signed between
UNICEF and the Ministry of Education.
The outcomes achieved are satisfactory. In the Batha area, where the female enrollment rate was around
8% at the start of the Project, by 1998-99 this rate had risen to about 36%. In the Kanem area, it increased
from 18.03% to 46.97% for the same period. In Mayo Kebbi, it rose from around 30% at the start of the
Project to approximately 66% in 1998-99. These outcomes can be explained by the huge amount of
resources concentrated on a small number of schools. No study was conducted to determine the
intervention's cost effectiveness. A second reason is the combined efforts of several partners-United
- 6 -



Nations' Children Fund (UNICEF), Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusanimenarbeit (GTZ), and World Food
Programme (WFP)-who are canrying out actions in the field to encourage girls' enrollment Admittedly,
the setting up of the Technical Unit for the Promotion of Girls Enrollment (Cellule Technique pour la
Scolarisation des Filles - CTPSF) has contributed to the achievement of these outcomes. But the actions
of this Unit are so closely intertwined with/dissolved in those of UNICEF in particular, that it is hard to
identify the actual impact of the Unit's efforts. It has been requested that UNICEF carry out an evaluation
of its intervention before the completion of the Project but that evaluation began only in November 2001
and did not include a cost-effectiveness assessment.
4.2.5 Support to Parents'Associations (APE) Component
*  The objective of this component was to bolster the initiatives of APEs by helping them through
training and support to organize themselves, to manage their resources better and to develop
educational activities that go beyond the usual financial contributions.
*   It comprised two sub-components: "Reimbursement of community teachers" and "Training for
APEs."
(a)  The "Reimbursement of community teachers" sub-component sought to provide financial support
to APEs enabling them to pay salaries of community teachers regularly. The 25,000 CFAF salary
per month and per teacher is composed of 20,000 CFAF subsidy from the State, and paid out of
the Project funds, and 5,000 CFAF paid by the APEs.    The specific objective of the
sub-component was to subsidize the salaries of 2,000 cormnunity teachers in eight prefectures out
of the 6,271 teachers nationwide in 1997-1998. The outcomes of this sub-component are
satisfactory despite a few glitches in the mechanisms to transfer the subsidies to the APEs.
Between 1997-1998 and 2000, 2,181 APEs were subsidized to pay for 3,197 community teachers.
To prevent teachers who have not been covered by the Government's subsidy from feeling they
have suffered an injustice, it is necessary to have objective and transparent criteria to select the
beneficiaries.
(b)  The "Training of APEs" sub-component (US$0.2 million) was designed to improve/build the
management and organizational capacities of the APEs through the training of its members. To
this end, 150 APEs were trained. The unsatisfactory outcome is due to the fact that this
sub-component was created only in 1999 during the Annual Project Review and was affected by
the lack of funds in the Special Account.
4.2.6 Community Initiatives Component (US$0.2 Million)
This component financed by the I,DA Credit and implemented with the technical and financial support of
GTZ was intended to improve basic education both quantitatively and qualitatively by paying attention
particularly to rural areas and girls. Improvement was to be brought about by: (a) supporting educational
micro-projects in schools; and (b) improving APE self-advancement. The indicators were:
(i) implementation of 104 micro-projects;
(ii) experimentation of a self-management mechanism in 75 schools;
(iii) increase in enrollment rate in pilot areas;
(iv) increase in girls' enrollment; and
(v) reduction in the repetition and drop-out rates.
- 7 -



The outcomes achieved are satisfactory in certain cases: 94 educational micro-projects in 868 schools
(90% implementation rates) with actions as varied as teaching in national languages and development of
textbooks in these languages and enrollment of girls. In the school self-management category, 55 schools
out of 75 were self-managed (73% achievement rate) with management committees that had developed a
new type of partnership between the school and the village. In the absence of clear indicators and an
evaluation methodology, it was not possible to assess the progress accomplished under this component in
relation to the original objective of improving basic education quantitatively and qualitatively.
4.2.7 Institutional Support Component (US$0.6 MiUion)
The aim was to build the planning and management capacities of the MEN through three key structures:
the Education Projects Directorate (Direction des Projets Education - DPE), the Analysis and Forecasts
Directorate (Direction de 1'Analyse et de la Prospective - DAPRO), and the Directorate of Literacy and
Promotion of National Languages (Direction de l'Alphabetisation et de la Promotion des Langues
Nationales - DAPLAN). Capacity building was to take place through: (a) recruitment of qualified staff;
(b) purchase of equipment; and (c) training of officials in service.
To this end, five consultants were recruited for the DAPRO (one architect, two engineers and two
statisticians). Fifty officials were trained in school mapping, 14 prefectoral education representatives were
also trained in school administration and management. Computing equipment and means of transport were
acquired. A national literacy plan was drawn up. Although satisfactory, these outcomes are not sufficient
to bring about changes in the day-to-day practices and running of the Ministry. It is a matter not only of
creating a "critical mass" of officials capable of changing the old management practices within the Ministry
of Education but also of maintaining and keeping all the equipment acquired by these structures in running
order.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
There was neither an economic analysis or cost-effectiveness study carried out with respect to the ICR.
For such analyses and studies to be conducted, it would have been necessary to have information and
benchmarks at the launch of the Project, which was not the case.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project's impact on institutional development, although modest, is satisfactory. The Project did indeed
contribute to the development of the capacities of the national structures through: (a) the constitution of
national teams of trainers of trainers and the organization/institutionalization of frequent school visits; (b)
the creation and building-up of core competencies in testing in textbook development; (c) the development
of pre-service and in-service training programs with teacher guides to help the support staff and teachers;
(d) the recruitment of national officials in specialized disciplines to strengthen the capacities of the MENs
structures; (e) the creation of a Technical Unit for the Promotion of Girls' Enrollment; (f) the
restructuring/reorganization of APEs and the training of its members that resulted in. greater awareness of
their roles and responsibilities and increased their responsibilities in the management and running of
schools; and (g) the development of a dynamic State-APE-NGO partnership through the payment of
community teachers.
-8 -



Summary of Project Output by Component
-Camponents          Objectives                    Indkators                      Results                Comments/ Ratings
_     nfrastructures    Construction Rehabilitationof  1,375 rooms to be constructed  IDA: 81%              139 rooms IDA, 36 State, 240           S
clasrorms                     and fumished and 200               : 70 %             KFWin the process ofconstruction
rehabilitated                  State: 100%            at the time of closure of the Project
__________        _______________              7 25 IDA- 650 KW_
2    kupport to APEs    I. Financial support to APEs  In 8 prefectures salaries of 2,000  3,197 community  The results recorded are conclusive. But  S
for reimbursement of          community teachers / 6,271     teachers were         subsidizing teachers from Project funds is
community teachers            teachers nationwide will be     subsidized by 2,181   not only unviable, it has also had an
subsidized                      APEs                  adverse effect on the management and
motivation of both APEs and teachers
This component, implemented in 1999,
2. Improving management and   600 APE members from across     Only 150 embers       has been affected by the lack of fends in
organizational capacities of  the nation will undergo training  (1/4) were trained  the Special Account                   U
APEs
3   Text books          1. Improving leaming         - I textbook for every 2 students  - I textbook/ 5    Although a large number of books were  U
conditions                    - I Math book / 2               students              procured and distributed, target ratios
- I science book / 4            - I science book/ 6   have not been reached. There is no policy
students              with respect to books
Support!          2. Improving motivation and    All teachers are visited at least  Achieved 1000/o    Number of teacher visits increased (at
Supervision       monitoring of teachers through  once a year                                          least 2 visits/ trimester) following  S
neighborhood visits                                                                  purchase and distribution of means of
transpotaion; but problems related to
the condition and maintenance of these
vehicles raises questions about the
sustainability of this s/component
4    Girl's Education   increase female enrolbnent   A 31% to 38 % increase desired  Thisrate has          Results are the outcome of the concerted  S
rate                                                          increased to          efforts ofJUNICEF, IDA, PAM, and GTZ
38.8%
5   Training            1. Improving professional    1,200 teachers, 1,000 directors  1,908 community     I training curriculum is available for each of S
skills of community teachers  will be trained                teachers and 750     the two categories of personnel involved
and school directors                                          directors trained
(159% and 75%)
2 training modules are available + I bank of
2. Improve system for       (i) An evaluation system adopted in  Achieved 100      standardized tests.                    S
assessing learning outcomes  50 schools across 3 regions                           150 teachers +250 trainers of trainers were
trained but no viable data is available on the
(ii) Results of the testing     Achieved              changes that the training has brought about
disse-minated among teachers,                         in evaluation practices followed by the
edu-cational counselors, mspectors                    teachers.
& APEs across 3 regions
(iii) Inspectors & educational  Achieved 100%
tmoivators have access to a new tool
f or leamning assessment
6   Community          Quantitative and qualitative  - 104 educational micro-projects.  94 educational micro  Remarcable commitment noticed in favor  S
initiatives        improvement of basic          - Experimentation of            projects in 868       of the school.
education with special        self-management in 75 schools   schools              C   tion of (management committees ) in
nemphasis on rural areas and  - Faster increase in enrollment  71 schools self     self-managed schools has led to a new
girls                        rate in pilot zones              managed of which 55  partnership between school and village.
- Faster decrease in rates of   were functioning well  Using national languages as the medium of
repetition                      at the close of the  instruction has helped improve the results
Project              obtained. But no clear methodology
available to better evaluate and appreciate
.__________  _____ _____ ____ __  __ ____ _____ _____ _ _the success of this component
7   Institutional      Improving magement and        - Recruiting qualified personnel  Recruits engaged as  While thew are substantial steps, they  U
support            planning capacities of the ME  - Training officials in service  planned. Personnel  remain insufficient to bring about any
through its 3 key structures  - Acquiring equipment           training carried out  visible and durable change in the
(DPE, DAPRO, DAPLAN)          - National Lit Plan drawn up    National literacy plan  management and functioning ofthe ME
- Detailed plan for training of  and Officials training
_____________      ______________________        literacy agents and officials   programs made avail.
_9 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The inadequacy of the initial deposit offunds in the Special Account and the slowness of the Bank's
reactions to Requests for Replenishment of Funds led to a liquidity crunch greatly affecting Project
performance in the fields of infrastructure, in-service teacher training and subsidization of their salaries
through support given to APEs. In the case of infrastructure, the lack of funds in the Special Account
resulted in delays in payment of expenses to the construction companies who were often forced to halt work
because of this. Teacher training was generally scheduled during the school vacation to prevent teachers
from being absent from class but it was pointed out that frequently financial resources fell short just at the
time when they were needed for carrying out the training programs. Lastly, the lack of funds caused delays
in the payment of salaries to community teachers subsidized by the State. The inadequacy of the initial
deposit in the Special Account and its sporadic replenishment due to delays in the transmission of requests
and supporting documents disrupted and delayed Project performance.
Weak technical andfinancial capacities of national companies. The poor technical abilities of the staff of
these companies, their very limited financial means and the weaknesses of the monitoring departments in
charge of school infrastructure execution delayed the work and affected quality.
The remoteness of the sites for construction of school infrastructure and the fact that they were scattered
throughout the country resulted in delays and made it difficult to ensure regular monitoring of the quality of
execution.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A lack of ownership of the Project on the part of the national staff involved in implementation. This was
due to the fact that they had not been sufficiently involved in the preparation process. For example, the
"training" component began well behind schedule because the Directorate for "Training and Pedagogic
Action" in charge of carrying it out had not clearly understood the concept of "training through integrated
workshops" that is the cornerstone of the teacher training strategy.  The lack of ownership was
compounded by staff instability in the MEN.
A lack of political commitment which became apparent in the non-compliance with certain provisions of
the Credit Agreement and which was also for a long time the reason why there were delays in disbursement
of funds. Further examples relate to the handling of initiatives like the setting up of a Guarantee Fund in
order to ensure regular payment of teacher salaries, the elimination of repetition, the increase of 280 in the
number of teachers per year, etc., (cf. DCA, Section 3.03. b) ii); Section 3.05 ii) and 3.07).
Bureaucratic procurement procedures that clashed with those of the Bank and implied extremely long
approval and visa processes (average duration of three months) and levying of taxes on procurement
contracts involving foreign funding were also factors that had a negative impact on project implementation.
Misappropriation of Project funds leading to the indictment of those in charge of the Project Management
Unit in November 1996 brought a halt to Project-related activities for several months.  The
misappropriated funds were eventually reimbursed by the Government and Project activities resumed.
Absence/lack of coordination and communication between the central and decentralized levels of the
- 10 -



Ministry. For example, the lack of coordination between the structures in charge of teacher training led to
a complete absence of synergies on the ground limiting the impact of training activities, between the
Continuous Education Centers (Centres de Formation Continue - CFCs) and the Pedagogic Outreach
Activities (Services d'Animation Pedagogiques - SAPs) who are all involved in in-service training and
come under the Basic Education!Directorate and the Training Directorate respectively.
Weak technical capacities of the MEN's structures. A delay of about 15 months took place in the school
textbooks component because the Bank had set as a precondition to non objection to the procurement of
books that an analysis/evaluation of the content of these manuals be carried out. This could not be
conducted in the requisite manner and within the necessary timeframes due to the absence of technical
competencies in this area.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
An endless change in the Bank's task managers; there were seven Project task managers in all. Indeed, the
arrival of each "task manager" was followed by a slowing down of activities for some time, often due to
differing interpretations to the texts and approaches that were not always the same as those of the previous
"task manager."
After the imprisonment of those in charge of the Project Management Unit and the halt to Project activities
for several months, a new team took over in 1997 and worked competently and professionally. With the
support of the supervisory missions, this team was able to set right the situation and to achieve reasonably
satisfactory outcomes during the second part of the implementation of the Project. Many of the new
officials, who were consultants, notably the procurement specialist, the accountant and the engineers, quit
at the end of the Project, as they had not been absorbed in the Civil Service. This calls into question the
Unit's institutional capacity.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Project financing was ensured in the following manner:
*  IDA      $19.3 million
*  KFW       $3.4 million
*  GTZ    : $2.2 million
*  State     $8.8 million
The Project was implemented between July 21, 1993, and June 30, 2001, with two 24-month long
extensions (1999-2000 and 2000-2001). An IDA credit disbursement rate of 93% was achieved, i.e., about
the equivalent of SDR 13,420,453.29. Available data dit not provide details of cofinanciers costs of
realization. However, these partners have actually carried out the operations that were planned with regard
to their financing. During the life of the Project, a new category was created, following the Credit
Agreement amendment that took place in 1997. Moreover, three categories (2, 5 and 8) in the Credit
Agreement had experienced overruns on June 30, 2001.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the Project achievements can be examined on both institutional as well as financial
grounds. On institutional grounds, there is ample evidence that the partnership between the APEs and the



State has become a fundamental component of the Chad education system. State financing mechanisms for
the APEs is being put in place after the endorsement by the government, in March 2002, of a number of
related institutional and regulatory measures. New statutes for community teachers, which include
guaranteed access to training and a motivating career framework, have also been developed and endorsed
by the government, and their implementation is scheduled to start in the beginning of the next school year.
The hiring system for the civil service, through which community teachers were denied any career progress,
has been officially dismantled and replaced by a transparent selection process, based on performance
criteria. At the central level, the Projects Implementation Unit has been siaffed in recent years by a
competent team, capable of coordinating and implementing a complex project.  Although several
professionals have left after the project close, the Unit can still be reconstituted and entrusted with the
management of a new project when need arises. Finally, the Technical Unit for the Promotion of Girls'
Enrollment is fully operational and has been integrated in the Ministry's organizational structure to ensure
its stability. While many of these policy decisions have been taken in recent months, they are a direct
consequence of the project implementation, which developed the basics for the state-NGO-Community
partnership and allowed the identification of the fundamental constituents of a sustainable institutional
envirornent.
On the financial basis, the sustainability of the Project's outcomes came sharply into focus after the
project's close. The payment of salaries to commrunity school teachers, in the form of support to the APEs,
the paymnent of double-shift allowances to teachers and the maintenance and repair costs of the means of
transportation used to facilitate school visits needed to be continued through national financing means.
Although this was not planned, the HIPIC initiative has provided funds just on time to allow the
continuation of these critical activities. For example, thanks to this debt relief initiative, the expenditure
plan for the HIPIC resources for 2002 included a credit line for the payment of 1000 community teachers.
Moreover, the government has passed a law earmarking to the education system around 20% of the oil
revenues, which are expected to start to flow in 2004. These revenues are sufficient to ensure the long term
continuity of these priority activities. Thus, it is fair to say that the financial sustainability of the Project
was initially unlikely, but has been made likely by the unexpected windfalls of the HIPIC initiative and the
upcoming oil proceeds.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government has initiated and supported a consultation process on the status of community teachers
and endorsed its conclusions. The implementation of the new teachers statutes constitutes a major
transition towards sustainability. The Govemment has started the preparation of a Sixth Education Project
along with the World Bank, in which the problem of community school teachers, especially their training
and career progress, as well as issues such as girls' education and the quality of education through curricula
and textbooks adapted to the Chadian context are major concerns that will be addressed through specific
components in this upcoming Project. Furthermore, the establishment of a budget heading in the State
budget from HIPIC resources to cover the fees of cornmunity teachers is an important transitional measure
for the establishment of regular operations, even though no payments have been made yet.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Project adequately identified the educational problems that needed to be resolved and consequently
determiined the components to be put into operation. But the time the Project took to reach maturity was
- 12-



not sufficient to allow the Ministry to truly own it. Indeed, they were not sufficiently involved in the
Project's preparatory phase.  Moreover, the Bank did not take into account the lessons from previous
projects in terms of complexity, and accepted to finance recurrent expenses, such as the salaries of
community teachers, without due consideration of financial sustainability issues.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision performance was mixed. Supervision was regular, with at least two site visits per year.
Although seven task managers were involved in the Project during its implementation, this did not affect
supervision much as it seems that adequate overlap and succession arrangements took place at every
change. In particular, supervision efficiency and client responsiveness were greatly facilitated by the fact
that a task manager was appointed in the field for the last two years of the Project's life. However,
although supervision teams managed to identify implementation problems, such as fund mismanagement
and diversion to commercial markets of project funded textbooks, and proposed appropriate solutions, the
project performance ratings did not always reflect these problems adequately. In fact, project ratings were
always satisfactory, except in one occurrence. A more rigorous rating might have drawn management
attention and set off appropriate responses earlier.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
In spite of the many positive accomplishments of its supervision, which without doubt played a significant
role in the satisfactory outcome of the project, Bank overall perforrnance was rated unsatisfactory. In fact,
it was considered that the flaws in the initial design and the understatement of the problems in the project
ratings were mistakes serious enough to outweigh the positive aspects of Bank supervision effort.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
According to official documents, the Project was prepared at regional and national levels in the framework
of a participatory approach. Two regional conferences were held in Sahr and Bongor in which inspectors,
directors, teachers, APEs, NGOs and women's groups participated. The MEN then organized two regional
conferences in Abeche and Moundou and a five-day seminar in N'Djamena, where the Project objectives
were discussed and future actions identified. All the donors were associated with this process. Thus, the
Project was based on a general consensus.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Project suffered teething problems and its implementation was fairly erratic at first. Several of the
provisions laid down in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were only respected by the Government
after several reminders by the World Bank's supervisory missions or were complied with only on the
surface. For example, the rehabilitation of 50 classrooms each year from the State budget had for long
posed a problem and, until 1997, no classroom had been built.
The DCA also provided for the establishment of a guarantee fund of 300 million CFAF to ensure that the
teachers were paid regularly. However, the fund was only provisioned once before being set aside in 1996.
Another commitment made in the framework of the DCA and which remained a dead letter for a very long
time concemed the elimination of repetition at primary level.
After the Bank's- injunctions, the Government finally took up a text in 1997 goveming attendance in
primary schools and drew up a document on promotion to higher classes. However, there was only a
- 13 -



limited application of these texts in the field.
Another provision that was not enforced even by the time the Project closed concemed the recruitment and
integration into the Civil Service of the three contract employees (one architect and two engineers) who
were paid out of Project funds.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Although the management and administration of the former Coordination Unit team was disastrous and had
resulted in a halt in all Project activities for several months, following the arrest of the top officials who had
been members of the team since 1997, the perfomnance of the new management team is satisfactory with
regard to accounting and financial management as well as the coordination of activities. The management
of the Project has, on the whole, complied with the provisions agreed upon by IDA and the Government.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower performance was uneven, but overall unsatisfactory. Once called into order on
specific issues, the Government generaUly corrected them. Nevertheless, implementation was
plagued with many problems, as pointed out in para. 7.5, and only became efficient during the last
two years. This eventually led to satisfactory results as shown in Table 4.1., but after much
unnecessary delays.
8. Lessons Learned
A.     Project Design and Management
*  With regard to the Project design, it would have been preferable if an institutional assessment of
the MEN had been included. This would have helped in better determining the dimensions of the
Project and in giving it a clearer focus.
*  It would be preferable for national agencies to be responsible for the implementation of all the
Project's components and for these agencies to be supported by need-based external technical
assistance, rather than entrusting it directly to extemal technical aid.
*  In light of the Government's recent acknowledgement of the important role the community teachers
play, a partnership should be worked out between the State and the communities to ensure that the
community teachers evolve into a professional and motivated body of workers. In the future,
however, in order to avoid the type of issues experienced by this project, this partnership should be
based on the principle that the State would provide a' supplemental compensation to the community
teachers without modifying the hiring and management arrangements in place, so that the strong
accountability ties between the conmmunity teachers and the community employing them would be
preserved. Moreover, donors should refrain from funding the State's part of the community
teachers' compensation, which should come entirely from State regular budget resources to ensure
the continuity and sustainability of this compensation system. These lessons are being applied to
the follow-up IDA operation, currently under preparation.
*  If, for reasons of force majeure, the IDA has to finance recurrent expenses, its contributions should
be made on the basis of a sliding scale, so that the State is able to gradually absorb the costs in its
own budget.
- 14 -



* All the provisions to be made and measures to be taken for the sustainability of a Project must take
place before the Project ends. Otherwise, they may never see the light of day.
B.     Sector Technical Lessons
* School textbooks. The absence of any structures within the Ministry that are responsible for the
analysis/assessment of the content of school textbooks from the viewpoint of teaching methods, or
of curricula, led to the procurement of books whose content did not correspond to the educational
level of Chad's students and failed to reflect Chad's ground realities. Furthermore, Chad's teachers
were not conversant with the teaching methods they were based upon. In order to avoid repeating
these errors, the aim should be to move toward the gradual development within the Ministry (or
any other appropriate institution) of the skills required for the development/assessment of school
textbooks and curricula contents.
* Training of Trainers. The proficiency level of community teachers (58% of primary school
teachers), and their rising numbers in the system, raises the problem of the quality of the teaching
offered. There is an urgent need to prevent the kind of damage that can be caused by the hiring of
teachers who are not prepared and trained enough to handle the requirements for teaching classes
on a daily basis. Maintaining the desired quality of education therefore calls for a better-structured
training program, based on better coordination between pre-service and in-service training, which
should be offered to all community teachers.
* National Languages. The Community Initiatives cornponent conducted several micro-project
based experiments on teaching in the national languages. Two assessments of this experience have
shown that children have a higher success rate if they begin their education in their mother tongue.
However, the success of this experiment (ike the experiment on girls' education) failed to have any
impact in terms of the definition of a policy. A pre-determined policy, with well-defined objectives
and a clear methodology, would give a better direction to the experiment and make it possible to
have some impact at policy level.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Summary of Borrower's report
There were two clear-cut stages in the Project implementation phase:
(i)  The first (1994-1997) was characterized by a low disbursement rate (12%) and some disruption
with regard to the Management Unit; and
(ii) The second (1997-2001), corresponding with the component restructuring phase and the restarting
of Project activities.
Overall satisfactory outcomes have been achieved by the Project with regard to: (a) the quantitative and
qualitative improvement of infrastructure; (b) the reorganization/ improvement of pre-service and in-service
teacher training; (c) the improvement of the school outputs monitoring system; (d) the education of girls; (e)
the reimbursement of community teachers; (f) the improvement of the managing capacities of the APEs and
- 15 -



their self-advancement; (g) the allocation of instructional material to schools; (h) the reinforcement of
teacher support and supervision; (i) the execution of educational micro-projects in schools; and (j) the
building of capacities of the MEN.
The Project has had an impact in terms of: (a) an increase in the overall enrollment rate (46.1% in 2000),
particularly in the case of girls (31% in 1994 to 54.6% in 2000); (b) better qualified community
schoolteachers; (c) the establishment of real partnership dynanucs between the MEN and the APEs; (d) the
greater involvement of APEs in the management and functioning of schools; and (e) the building of
capacities at the level of the MEN's key structures, so that they are able to provide more complete services.
Lessons learned: (a) Human resources and institutional capacities were not taken into account sufficiently
during the preparation of the Project, which initially led to major delays in the effective initiation of
activities. These factors have to be considered in advance in all future projects; (b) Field experience has
shown that project features that do not meet any real needs are considered as constraints by target groups,
thereby leading to unsustainable results. While planning any future project, it will therefore be necessary to
determine the activities to be undertaken on the basis of what the inhabitants concerned have in mind; (c)
The participatory approach developed in the framework of this Project has shown that community schools
seem to be filled with a strong desire for self-advancement and are fairly capable of managing themselves.
This is an important achievement for the Project and should be maintained and reinforced in any future
project; (d) Collaboration with other projects in the same sector was limited simply to the exchange of
information or documents, which considerably reduced the positive effect of any synergy and integration of
activities. Any future project would have a lot to gain from establishing stronger links with the educational
components of other development projects; (e) The fact that the sites selected for building schools were
very scattered made it difficult for construction companies to carry out the work and for engineering and
design departments to undertake their supervision. The non-compliance with construction deadlines by the
companies and the delays in Project execution are partly due to this fact Hence, it would be more
judicious, in the future, to group the sites together within a pre-determined geographic area; and (f) With
regard to girls' education, the activities undertaken by the CTPSF are "dissolved" (included) in those
carried out by UNICEF, which makes it impossible to measure their real impact. The implementation of
the extension strategy envisaged must necessarily be based on the re-negotiation of the terms and conditions
of the memorandum of agreement with UNICEF in order to take into account the responsibilities of each of
the parties concerned.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
\6itx. -P,r,ojecte                Iaiit PSP *-    *. | ..tti mae
Overall primary enrollment rate          65%                                     67% as of 1998-99
Govemment dassroom rehabililation program 200                                    164
Girls' enrollment (experimental zones):  Batha: 36%                              40.98%
Kanem: 46.97%                           50.91%
Mayo Kebi: 66%                          71.49%
Govemment budget 1999: It increased to
cover dassrooms rehabilitaUon and 400
additIonal teachers.
Prmary textbooks Math, Reading: 796,950  796,950 textbooks (procurement and      790,000 textbooks
textbooks (procurement and distbibution  distribuUon completed)
complete).
Output Indicators:
Female enrollment                        36%                                     46%
Average repetiton rate                   20%                                     27%
End of project
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
" ;~ Sfi7     -!Apprai-af, Actuail/fist-I oPefc-rta  -f
- ~Uffi|; r' ~  '    r        -,-     ! _      Estirnater -pEimalte    ,- Araisai -
.r.'-r Pr6J-ec Co7stB8y--Coniponent-,j- r X- --U-S$ nJSllinl -US$ mnillion  -
1. Civil works                                       2.60           6.75            260
2. Pilot schools                                     0.22           0.26            118
3. Furniture, equipment and vehicles                 1.95           3.10            159
4. Girls enrollment promotion                        0.22           0.33            150
5. Textbooks and pedagogic materials                 3.60           2.57             71
6. Training                                          1.10           0.90             82
7. Consultants' services                             2.30           1.84             80
8. Operating costs                                   1.10           2.92            265
9. Subsidy for community teachers' salaries          0.00           0.61
10. Unallocated                                      0.82           0.00
Total Baseline Cost                                 13.91           19.28
Total Project Costs             13.91          19.28
Total Financing Required             13.91           19.28
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
I- t. ;< '@t~   >                  '~' ~'~;--t--.  '   . rocurement Mpthod *- - -. -,
Expen d,tur    r         J-,CB'        1            O4 the   .   N.B.FJ '-      Cost^
1 Works                      0.00          2.50         1.90          4.50         8.90
(0.00)       (2.30)        (1.70)       (0.00)       (4.00)
2. Goods                     5.90          1.90         0.60          2.00        10.40
(5.90)       (1.90)        (0.60)       (0.00)       (8.40)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         3.20          2.40         5.60
(0.00)       (0.00)        (3.20)       (0.00)       (3.20)
4. Training                  0.00          0.00          1.40         0.00         1.40
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.40)       (0.00)       (1.40)
5. Support Fund              0.00          0.00         0.70          0.00         0.70
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.70)       (0.00)       (0.70)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.50          1.10         5.10         6.70
(0.00)       (0.50)        (1.10)       (0.00)       (1.60)
Total                      5.90         4.90          8.90         14.00        33.70
(5.90)       (4.70)        (8.70)       (0.00)       (19.30)
- 18 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
& ., _-                     .  - .  -    4'  
1. Works                        0.99           2.06           2.86          7.20          13.11
(0.99)         (2.06)        (2.86)        (0.00)        (5.91)
2. Goods                         2.66          1.65           2.29          2.98          9.58
(2.66)         (1.65)        (2.29)        (0.00)        (6.60)
3. Services                      0.00          0.24           2.20          1.99          4.43
(0.00)         (0.24)        (2.20)        (0.00)        (2.44)
4. Training                      0.00          0.00           0.72          0.00          0.72
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.72)        (0.00)        (0.72)
5. Support Fund                  0.00          0.00           1.36          2.92          4.28
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.36)         (0.00)       (1.36)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00          0.00           0.67          1.16          1.83
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.67)         (0.00)        (0.67)
Total                         3.65           3.95          10.10         16.25         33.95
(3.65)         (3.95)       (10.10)        (0.00)        (17.70)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
iIi~~~~f1VjAJII- ,       - LL*LV- ,, .-..      --~-...-I-              _____-___ -. .
'Kgg-~~~~~~~.1i -1                                                                            ' ..  s
1. Civl works            2.60       2.36      5.83      6.75      2.09      5.11    259.6   88.6   87.7
2. Ptiot schools         0.22       0.00     2.20       0.26      0.00      5.82    118.2   0.0   264.5
3. Furniture, equipment   1.95      0.43      1.19      3.10      0.38      1.00    159.0   88.4   84.0
and vehicles
4. Girls enrollment      0.22       0.00      0.00      0.33      0.00      0.00    150.0   0.0     0.0
promotion
5. Textbooks and         3.60       1.81     0.00       2.57      1.60      0.00     71.4   88.4    0.0
pedagogic materials
6. Training              1.10      0.00      0.00       0.90      0.00      0.00     81.8   0.0     0.0
7. Consultants' services  2.30     0.00      1.99       1.84      0.00      1.67     80.0   0.0    83.9
8. Operatingcosts        1.10      3.30      0.00       1.76      2.92      0.00    160.0   88.5    0.0
9. Subsidy for community  0.00                                                       0.0
schools
19-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/05/90 to              Five   F. Delaunay (Educ. Spec.), B.
11/13/90                        Abeill6 (Impl. Spec./Arch.) A.
Andrieu (VET Spec./Consult.),
B. Moll-Drucker (Gen. EducJ
Consultant), F. Orivel
(EconJConsultant)
02/24/92 to             Three   M. Plessis-Fraissard (Econ.), S.
03/06/92                        Diop (Textbook Spec.), M. Ndao
(Educ. Spec.)
06/09/92 to              Four   M. Plessis-Fraissard (Econ.), M.
06/20/92                        Ndao (Educ. Spec.), A.
Nzapayeke (Community
Approach Spec.)
Pre-appraisal           Seven   M. Ndao (Educ. Spec.), S. Diop
09/26/92 to                     (Textbook Spec.), J. Isham
10/14/92                        (Human Res. Spec./Consultant),
M. Moisau (Teacher Train.
Spec] Consultant), A. Nzapayeke
(Community Approach Spec.), J.
Waechter (Archit./Consultant),
M. Plessis-Fraissard (Econ.)
Appraisal/Negotiation
01/04/93 to               Six   M. Ndao (Educ. Spec.), B.
01/20/93                        Abeille (Impl. Spec]
Archit.), J. Leygonie (Sr.
Staff Assist.), J. Isham
(Human Res. SpecJ
Consultant), E. Alingue
(Program Officer), T. Boysen
(Consultant from GTZ)
Supervision
06/13/94 to               One   M. Ndao (Educ. Spec.)             S             S
06/23/94
11/18/94 to               Two   P. Bender (Educ. Spec.), A.       S             S
12/02/94                        Papineau (Impl. SpecJArchit.)
03/18/95 to             Three   P. Bender (Educ. Spec.), M.       S             S
04/12/95                        Ndao (Educ. Spec.), A. Papineau
(Imp]. Spec./Archit.)
06/07/95 to               Two   P. Bender (Educ. Spec.), C.       U             S
06/23/95                        Tran-Luu (VET Spec./ Econ.)
-21 -



03/28/96 to              Two   N. Bennett,(Pr. Educ. Spec.), P.  S            S
04/14/96                       Bender (Educ. Spec.)
05/19/96 to              Two   N. Bennett (Pr. Educ. Spec.), A.  S            S
05/24/96                       Papineau (Impl. Spec./Archit.)
Mid-Term Review          Four  N. Bennett (Pr. Educ. Spec.), J.  S            S
04/21/97 to                    Waechter (Archit./Consultant),
05/07/97                       M. Carnoy (Educ. Econ.), I.
Njifakue (Seminar Facilitator)
10/22/97 to              Two   N. Bennett (Pr. Educ. Spec.), J.  S            S
11/01/97                       Tokindang (Econ.)
10/28/98 to              Five  A. Dock (Educ. Spec./             S            S
11/09/98                       Consultant), B. Abeille (Impl.
Spec] Archit.), N. Bennett (Pr.
Educ. Spec.), J. Tokindang
(Econ.), D. Rouag (Educ. Spec.)
04/27/99 to               Two   A. Dock (Educ. Spec./            S            S
05/06/99                        Consultant), J. Tokindang
(Econ.)
01/15/01 to             Seven   A. Maiga-Toure (Educ. Spec.), L.  S            S
01/24/01                        M'Baipor (NGO Spec.), E.
Adotevi-Dia (Girls' Educ. Spec./
Consultant), A. Dock (Educ.
Spec./ Consultant), G-J.
Malembeti (Proc. Spec.), K.
Edoh (Sr. Educ. Spec.), M. Gaye
(Fin. Mgt SpecJ Consultant)
07/22/01 to              Five   A. Maiga-Toure (Educ. Spec.),    HS           HS
07/31/01                        B. Moll (Educ. Spec./
Consultant), S-H Frances Lee
(School Health Spec.), G-J.
Malembeti (Proc. Spec.), D.
Lehman (School Map
Spec]Consultant)
ICR
10/15/01 TO             Three   A. Ky (Educ. Spec.), G-J.        S             S
10/25/01                        Malembeti (Proc. Spec.), K.
Edoh (Educ. Spec.)
- 22 -



(b) Staff7
Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                 US$ c('0)
Identification/Preparation                     48                           144
Appraisal/Negotiation                          19                            57
Supervision                                    91                           273
ICR                                             6                            18
Total                                         164                           492
Note: Data above for Supervision do not take into account the Task Team Leader based in Chad for the last two years of the
Project.
-23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Ol Macro policies                    O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Sector Policies                    O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Physical                           O H OSUOM       O N O NA
F Financial                          O H OSUOM       ON   O NA
O Institutional Development          0 H O SU *M 0 N 0 NA
Environmental                       O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM O N O NA
3 Gender                       O H *SUOM O N O NA
l Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N O NA
OI Private sector development        0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
OI Public sector management          0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)             O H OSUOM O N O NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
2I Lending                                         OHS OS      *U    OHU
L Supervision                                      OHS OS      * U   O HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS      *U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
OI Preparation                                     OHS OS      OU    O HU
LI Government implementation performance           0 HS 0 s    * U   0 HU
LO Implementation agency performance               O HS OS     0 U    0 HU
[1 Overall                                         OHS OS      * U   O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Chad Fifth Education Project (Basic Education Project)
*   Staff Appraisal Report No. 11680-CD, dated April 16, 1993
*   Memorandumn and Recommendation of the President No. P6023, dated April 16, 1993
*   Development Credit Agreement dated July 21, 1993
*   Aide-memoires from 1990 to 2001
*   Final Evaluation prepared by the Project Unit
Chad Fourth Education Project (Education Rehabilitation Project)
*   Staff Appraisal Report No. 7244-CD, dated July 14, 1988
* Memorandum and Recommendations of the President No. P-4810-CD, dated July 14, 1988
*   Implementation Completion Report No. 15009, dated September 28, 1995
- 26 -






Report No.:        24253
Type:    ICR



