Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2501 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(Basic Education Project - Education V)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 21, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2501 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated April 9, 1993, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the management and
operation of the Borrower's education sector (hereinafter called the Program), and 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Federal Republic of Germany 
acting through Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) a grant (the KfW Grant), in an 
amount of approximately DM 5,000,000 to assist in financing the Project, on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the KfW Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and KfW; and
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from Deutsche Gesellschaft fur 
Page  2
Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) a grant (the GTZ Grant), in an amount of approximately 
DM 4,000,000 to assist in financing the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement (the GTZ Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
GTZ; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"APE" means the associations of parents of students (Association des 
Parents des Eleves), registered with MEN;
(b)
"CFA Franc" and "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"CMA" means the construction management agency or firm employed by the 
Borrower to carry out the construction and rehabilitation of schools under Part A.1 of 
the Project and acceptable to the Association;
(d)
"CPSF" means the Cellule de Promotion de la Scolarisation des Filles to 
be established within MEN under Part A.4 of the Project;
(e)
"DPE" means Direction des Projets Education, the coordination and 
management unit within MEN responsible for implementation of education sector 
projects;
(f)
"DPEC" means MEN's Direction de la Planification, des Examens et 
Concours;
(g)
"DPEN" means MEN's Delegations Prefectoraux de l'Education Nationale;
 
(h)
"ENI" means MEN's Ecoles Normales d'Instituteurs;
 
(i)
"MEN" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education (the Ministere de 
l'Education Nationale);
(j)
"MF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance (Ministere des Finances);
 
(k)
"MPC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and Cooperation 
(Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation);
(l)
"Special Funding Mechanism" means the mechanism for paying and financing 
the salaries of primary education teachers described in Section 3.04(b) of this 
Agreement;
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(n)
"Teachers' Guaranty Fund" means the account, described in Section 
3.04(b)(ii) of this Agreement, established to guarantee the payment of salaries to 
primary education teachers; and
Page  3
(o)
"UNICEF" means the United Nations Children's Fund.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies
equivalent to thirteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
13,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15
commencing November 15, 2003 and ending May 15, 2033. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on May 15, 2013, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
Page  4
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MEN with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative and educational practices, and with due regard 
to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall (following the annual review provided for in 
Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement) adopt, not later than December 31 of each year, 
and thereafter implement in a timely manner:
(a)
a rolling three-year public investment program for the education sector 
for the succeeding three fiscal years satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
a budget for recurrent expenditures for the education sector for the 
succeeding fiscal year satisfactory to the Association, which shall include the 
following: (i) for the budget
for each fiscal year from 1994 through 1998, an increase of at least 280 in the number 
of positions for primary education teachers; (ii) for the budget for each fiscal year 
from 1995 through 1998, the rehabilitation of at least 50 classrooms; (iii) a detailed 
school construction program for purposes of carrying out Part A.1(a) of the Project; 
and (iv) a specific line item for primary education training materials providing for 
at least: (A) CFAF 40,000,000 for the budget for fiscal year 1994; (B) CFAF 80,000,000 
for the budget for fiscal year 1995; (C) CFAF 120,000,000 for the budget for fiscal 
year 1996; (D) CFAF 160,000,000 for the budget for fiscal year 1997; and (E) CFAF 
200,000,000 for the budgets for fiscal years 1998 and 1999.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the salaries of all primary 
education teachers are paid on a monthly basis and not later than 30 days after their 
due date.
Page  5
(b)
In carrying out paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall 
implement the Special Funding Mechanism under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall include provision for the following:
(i)
payment procedures which shall provide, among other things, for:
 
(A)
establishment of the primary teachers' payroll list on a 
monthly basis 
in N'Djamena and on a quarterly basis for 
other areas (with interim 
updating at the Borrower's 
discretion); and
(B)
appointment of a special ordonnateur delegue to process 
teachers' salaries;
 
(ii)
establishment and maintenance of an account (the Teachers' 
Guaranty Fund) in a 
commercial bank from which withdrawals shall 
be made exclusively for the 
payment of salaries of primary 
education teachers incurred after the Effective 
Date, and in which 
the Borrower shall maintain a balance of at least CFAF 
300,000,000 by depositing into such account an amount equal to any amount 
withdrawn therefrom within 15 days of such withdrawal; and
(iii)
procedures for recordkeeping, reporting and auditing  which shall 
provide, 
among other things, for the following: (A) monthly 
reports to the Association 
regarding the status of payments of 
salaries of primary education teachers for 
the preceding month, 
including samples from various regions; (B) extensive 
quarterly reports to the Association regarding such payments for all regions, 
to be provided to the Association within 45 days of the end of each quarter; 
(C) records of all deposits and withdrawals from the Teachers' Guaranty 
Fund; 
(D) monthly reports to the Association of the Teachers' Guaranty 
Fund activity 
for the preceding month; and (E) quarterly 
independent audits of the Teachers' 
Guaranty Fund (in scope and 
detail, and by independent auditors, satisfactory 
to the Association), 
to be provided to the Association within thirty days of 
the end of 
each quarter.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall implement, beginning with the 1993-1994 
academic year, a program, satisfactory to the Association, for training and deploying 
on an annual basis a sufficient number of primary education teachers to attain a gross 
primary enrollment rate of 65% by the 1998-1999 academic year, which program shall 
include provision for: (i) the recruitment and training of teacher-trainees by the 
ENIs at a ratio of instituteurs-adjoints to instituteurs bacheliers of 4 to 1, and 
(ii) annual increases in the number of primary education teachers of at least 280.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall implement the program of double-shift teaching 
in urban classrooms agreed upon with the Association, which program shall provide, 
among other things, for
two cohorts of about 55 pupils per teacher and 1200 participating cohorts by the 
1998-1999 academic year.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall implement, beginning with the 1994-1995 
academic year, a program to reduce repetition of students in primary education, 
satisfactory to the Association, which shall provide, among other things, for the 
abolition of repetition in grades 1, 3 and 5, and reduced repetition in grades 2, 4 
and 6.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, 
not earlier than October 1 and not later than November 30 of each year, a review of 
(i) the progress made in
carrying out the Project and the Program, (ii) the budget for education for the 
succeeding fiscal year, including for recurrent expenditures, (iii) the number of 
additional positions for primary
education teachers provided therein, (iv) the MEN action fixing the number of 
candidates for the instituteurs-adjoints and instituteurs bacheliers degrees for the 
following academic year, (v) the proposed rolling three-year public investment program 
Page  6
for the education sector for the succeeding three fiscal years, and (vi) the 
monitoring indicators agreed upon with the Association. Such review shall be carried 
out at the central and regional levels in accordance with terms of reference agreed 
upon with the Association.
(b)
MEN, with the support of MPC and MF, shall transmit to the Association, 
at least 30 days prior to the review described in paragraph (a) above, a report, in 
scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, describing the status of the items 
listed in such paragraph.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, 
not earlier than April 1, 1996 and not later than May 31, 1996, a mid-term review of 
the progress made in carrying out the Project and the Program. This review shall 
cover, among other things: (i) the impact of the Project and Program and other related 
policy measures on the staffing, cost and efficiency of primary education, (ii) the 
efficiency of classroom construction under the Project as compared to other possible 
implementation modalities, and the financing provided therefor by communities, (iii) 
the effectiveness of the Special Funding Mechanism (including the Teachers'
Guaranty Fund), (iv) progress in implementing the pilot school improvement program 
under Part B.2 of the Project, (v) the operation of the girls' enrollment programs 
under Part A.4 of the Project,
(vi) the monitoring indicators agreed upon with the Association, and (vii) status of 
implementation of donor-financed projects relating to the Program and the Project.
(b)
MEN shall transmit to the Association, at least 90 days prior to the 
mid-term review described in paragraph (a) above, a report, in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Association,
describing the status of the items listed in such paragraph and of Project and Program 
implementation generally.
(c)
Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare an action plan, 
acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project and the 
Program, and shall thereafter implement such action plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  7
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
the KfW Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
September 30, 1994, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, 
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement; and
(c)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms thereof, or
 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed 
maturity thereof; and
 
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the  
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in paragraph 
(c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
Page  8
(a)
the Borrower shall have entered into a management agreement with a CMA 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall include the 
obligations of the CMA (i) to implement the school construction and rehabilitation 
program, and (ii) to provide adequate records and audits for all expenditures made by 
the CMA or any organization sub-contracted by the CMA;
(b)
the Borrower shall have established the Teachers' Guaranty Fund with a 
balance of CFAF 300,000,000; and
(c)
the Borrower shall have employed an independent auditor satisfactory to 
the Association, under terms and conditions (including a multi-year period of service) 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.03 through 3.08 
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date seven years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall 
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Cooperation of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
BP 286
N'Djamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLAN
5329 KD
N'Djamena
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Page  9
By /s/ K. L. Mekonyo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works under          2,600,000      100%
      Part A.1(a)
      of the Project
(2)   Pilot School                 215,000      100%
      Improvement Fund
(3)   Furniture,                 1,950,000      100%
      Equipment and
      Vehicles
(4)   Girls' Enrollment            215,000      100%
      Promotion
(5)   Textbooks and              3,600,000      100%
      Pedagogic Materials
(6)   Training                   1,100,000      100%
(7)   Consultants' Ser-          2,300,000      100%
      vices and CMA Fees
(8)   Incremental Operating      1,100,000      100%
      Costs
(9)   Unallocated                  820,000
                                __________
      TOTAL                     13,900,000
                                __________
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "pilot school improvement fund" means expenditures for school 
furniture, books and other goods or services made for schools or APE's in carrying out 
Parts B.2(a) and (c) of
the Project;
(b)
the term "training" means expenditures for fellowships, study tours, 
Page  10
conferences, workshops, courses and other forms of training, each as are approved by 
the Association;
(c)
the term "girls' enrollment promotion" means expenditures for books, 
transportation and other goods or services made in carrying out Part A.4 of the 
Project; and
(d)
the term "incremental operating costs" means expenditures for: (i) office 
supplies, vehicle and machinery operation and maintenance, field allowances, and 
salaries of DPE and CPSF contract staff, made in carrying out the Project, and (ii) 
compensation for overtime for teachers participating in the double-shift teaching 
program referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement;
(b)
under Category (2) until the Borrower shall have (i) entered into an 
agreement with GTZ, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, for 
carrying out Parts B.2(a) and (c) of the Project, and (ii) adopted manuals of 
procedures, satisfactory to the Association, for the programs under such Parts, 
including evaluation criteria and lists of permitted expenditures; and
(c)
under Category (4) until the Borrower shall have entered into an 
agreement with UNICEF, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, for 
carrying out Part A.4 of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to (i) improve the quality and efficiency of, 
and increase access to, primary education, particularly in rural areas and for girls, 
and (ii) increase the Borrower's capacity to manage the primary education sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Primary Education Access, Quality and Efficiency
 
1.
Increasing the number of student places in primary education, primarily in rural 
areas, through (a) the construction of about 800 classrooms, and (b) the 
rehabilitation of about 200 classrooms.
2.
Increasing the availability and effectiveness of primary education textbooks and 
school materials through (a) the acquisition and distribution of about 780,000 new 
textbooks, about 10,000
teachers' guides, and about 6,000 metal book containers, and (b) the training of 
teachers regarding the use of such books and guides.
3.
Increasing the expertise of primary education teachers through strengthened 
pre-service training at the ENIs and in-service training.
4.
Promoting increased girls' enrollment in primary education through:
 
(a)
the establishment and operation of the CPSF to manage an information and 
analysis system and a national information campaign regarding girls' enrollment;
(b)
the implementation of programs to promote such enrollment, including the 
inclusion of incentives in school construction and improvement programs; and
(c)
the training of teachers and the execution of other measures.
 
5.
Promoting private provision of education.
Page  11
Part B:
Management of Primary Education
 
1.
Improving the institutional capacity of MEN to manage the education sector 
through:
(a)
strengthening the operational capacity of DPEC and DPE;
 
(b)
staff training and acquisition of equipment; and
 
(c)
preparation of a MEN management study.
 
2.
Strengthening the capacity of MEN and communities to manage primary education 
through the implementation of a pilot school improvement program in support of 
decentralized school management,
which shall consist of:
(a)
a program to support community-based pedagogic improvements covering 
about 90 schools;
(b)
a student evaluation program in about 100 schools; and
 
(c)
a program to support about 100 APEs to improve their effectiveness.
 
3.
Improving the effectiveness of primary school inspection and monitoring, in 
particular with respect to teacher supervision, girl's enrollment, double-shift and 
multi-grade teaching, student
repetition, school maintenance and school/community collaboration, including the 
training of inspectors and the acquisition of equipment.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in  Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to 
bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract 
award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid 
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors 
acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components 
and the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall 
not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for pedagogic materials, equipment, office 
supplies and vehicles shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more.
3.
Goods shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection by a third party 
inspection firm.
4.
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower shall 
use the relevant sample bidding documents issued by the Association, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. When no relevant sample bidding documents have been issued by 
the Association, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Page  12
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Chad may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items for (a) works under Part A.1 (a) of the Project, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,300,000, (b) primary school furniture, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,900,000, and (c) other goods (excluding textbooks), 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Items or groups of items for:
 
(a)
works under Part A.1 (a) of the Project using non-governmental 
organizations, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,700,000,
(b)
office supplies and spare parts estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$30,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,100,000, and
(c)
goods under Parts A.4, B.2 (a) and B.2 (c) of the Project estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $3,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
Page  13
"Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Association review or 
approval requirements shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor 
to the employment of individuals, to single-source hiring of firms, to assignments of 
a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Association, and to amendments of 
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
General Project Implementation
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall operate the DPE under terms of reference, and with 
staffing (including their qualifications and experience) acceptable to the 
Association, and no staff shall be replaced without the prior consent of the 
Association.
(b)
MEN shall implement the Project under terms of reference agreed upon with 
the Association, which shall provide, among other things, for a decentralized 
management system.
2.
The Borrower shall adopt not later than July 31 of each year, and thereafter 
implement, a training program for the subsequent academic year, satisfactory to the 
Association.
Part A of the Project
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall carry out Part A.1 of the Project through a CMA. The 
Borrower shall comply with, and shall cause the CMA to comply with, the terms of the 
management agreement entered into in accordance with Section 6.01(a) of this Agreement 
(or any successor agreement satisfactory to the Association), and shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive such agreement or any provision thereof without the consent 
of the Association.
(b)
As a precondition for the construction of any classroom under Part A.1(a) 
of the Project, the CMA shall ensure that at least 10% of the cost of such 
construction shall be financed from community-based resources (whether in cash or in 
kind).
(c)
The classrooms to be constructed under Part A.1(a) of the Project shall 
be located in the following regions: Biltine, Chari-Baguirmi, Mayo-Kebbi, Moyen Chari, 
Ouaddai, Salamat and
Tandjile. Schools to be constructed shall be selected in accordance with criteria and 
procedures agreed upon with the Association, including: (i) emphasis on rural areas 
with low access to schools, (ii) evaluation of the extent of local community 
financing, (iii) emphasis on APE participation, and (iv) evaluation of the efforts to 
increase girls' enrollment.
(d)
Classrooms to be rehabilitated under Part A.1(b) of the Project shall be 
selected in accordance with criteria agreed upon with the Association, including 
emphasis on urban areas with double-shift teaching.
4.
In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project: (a) DPEC shall, in accordance with an 
operational plan satisfactory to the Association, prepare consolidated construction, 
rehabilitation and maintenance budgets, establish and operate a data base to monitor 
and manage school construction activities, ensure adequate construction coverage for 
poorer communities, and organize local information campaigns regarding the school 
construction program; and (b) MEN's Inspections and Directions Regionales shall, in 
accordance with an operational plan satisfactory to the Association, prepare regional 
Page  14
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance programs, and survey
school facilities.
5.
In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
 
(a)
establish and operate a system for textbook acquisition and distribution 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, which shall provide, among 
other things: (i) for the
acquisition of about 780,000 textbooks by December 31, 1995, and (ii) the use of 
private contractors for the delivery to schools of textbooks; and
(b)
conduct a program for the related training of teachers satisfactory to 
the Association.
6.
The Borrower shall implement the in-service and pre-service training under Part 
A.3 of the Project under terms of reference agreed upon with the Association, which 
shall provide, among other
things:
(a)
for in-service training to be conducted in three phases with (i) a first 
and second phase consisting of about 63 workshops focusing on MEN training 
programmers, regional staff and school directors, and (ii) a third phase, consisting 
of about 1,400 workshops for local teachers, including untrained community teachers 
(numbering about 3,700), semi-qualified and qualified civil-servant teachers 
(numbering about 3,900), and new community and private school teachers (numbering 
about 300); and
(b)
for strengthening the capacity of the ENIs to train teachers through the 
acquisition of teaching guides, other pedagogic materials and equipment, staff 
training and other measures.
7.
In carrying out Part A.4 of the Project:
 
(a)
MEN shall establish, not later than December 31, 1993, and thereafter 
operate the CPSF under terms of reference and with staffing (including their 
qualifications and experience)
satisfactory to the Association, which terms of reference shall provide for the 
operation of a detailed and systematic data collection and analysis system for 
gender-specific issues in primary
education;
(b)
MEN shall: (i) complete, not later than May 31, 1994, a study, conducted 
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, regarding economic factors and 
demand issues affecting
girls' enrollment and school attendance, (ii) consult with the Association, not later 
than June 30, 1994, regarding the recommendations of such study, and (iii) implement, 
beginning not later
than October 31, 1995, an action program, satisfactory to the Association, to increase 
girl's enrollment, which shall include a national information campaign regarding the 
importance of such
enrollment;
(c)
MEN shall target districts where girls' enrollment in primary education 
is less than 30%; and
(d)
MEN shall employ, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, the services of UNICEF to manage implementation of said Part A.4, and the 
Borrower shall comply with
its related obligations to such organization.
8.
In carrying out Part A.5 of the Project, MEN shall prepare a study on promoting 
private provision of education, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and shall review with the Association, not later than April 30, 1994, the 
results of such study, and, not later than October 31, 1994, shall begin to implement 
an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to this
effect.
Page  15
Part B of the Project
9.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall acquire the list of 
equipment agreed upon with the Association.
10.
In carrying out Part B.1(c) of the Project, MEN shall prepare the management 
study under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
11.
(a)
MEN shall carry out Part B.2 of the Project under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, which shall provide, among other things for the 
following:
(i)
the participation of about 25 schools in the evaluation, pedagogic 
improvement, and APE support programs, the 
participation of about 25 in only 
the evaluation and pedagogic 
improvement programs, the participation of about 
25 in only the 
evaluation and APE support programs, and the participation of 
about 
25 in only the evaluation program;
(ii)
the selection of schools in accordance with criteria: (A) that 
include the 
extent of local demand and support, and (B) that 
focus on schools in the 
Mayo-Kebbi, Moyen Chari and Ouaddai 
regions;
(iii)
implementation of the procedures manuals referred to in paragraph 
3(b)(ii) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
 
(iv)
annual audits of the use of grants provided under the pedagogic 
improvement 
and APE support programs;
 
(v)
in the case of the pedagogic improvement program under Part B.2(a) 
of the 
Project: (A) eligibility criteria that include: (1) a 
requirement that the 
school have established a program to 
promote girls' enrollment and have 
mobilized at least 10% of 
the sub-project costs, and (2) a preference for 
troubled 
schools; (B) funds provided to support pedagogic improvements in
any school shall not exceed CFAF 500,000; (C) a campaign to 
advertise the 
program; and (D) financing of about 25 
sub-projects per year;
(vi)
in the case of the evaluation program under Part B.2(b) of the 
Project: (A) 
use of standardized evaluation tests in grades 2, 4 and 6 in 
French, 
mathematics and social sciences, and (B) use of a 
twinning arrangement with a 
specialized institution, satisfactory to 
the Association, to support program 
design, monitoring and 
evaluation; and
(vii)
in the case of the APE support program under Part B.2(c) of the 
Project: (A) 
provision to APEs of technical assistance by MEN staff and 
from 
non-governmental organizations, and (B) funds 
provided for any APE shall not 
exceed CFAF 700,000.
 
(b)
MEN shall, through DPEN, employ, under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, the services of GTZ to manage implementation of the pedagogic 
improvement and APE support programs under Parts B.2 (a) and (c) of the Project, and 
the Borrower shall comply with its related obligations to such organization.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (8) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  16
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
150,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
Page  17
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
