Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H335 - LBR 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Reengagement and Reform Support Program) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 5, 2007 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H335 - LBR 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 5, 2007, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF 
LIBERIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in 
the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and 
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.   
WHEREAS, the Recipient has cleared its arrears to the Association; and 
WHEREAS, the Recipient and the Association have agreed to resume the Association’s 
activities in favor of the Recipient;  
NOW THEREFORE, the Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to two hundred and 
seventy-seven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 277,000,000
)
(the “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are
 
May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Page  3
-
-
2
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension is when a situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Broad Street 
Monrovia  
Republic of Liberia 
Page  4
-
-
3
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA 
 
By: /s/ Charles A. Minor 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: /s/ Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-
-
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions already taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following: 
1. 
The Recipient has adopted administrative measures to ensure that the Cash Management 
Committee at the MOF is fully operational and effective.  
2. 
The Recipient has submitted to the Recipient’s Legislature, on May 17, 2007, a bill of 
law for the approval of its 2007-2008 budget. 
3. 
The Recipient has increased its government’s revenues by 16% for the period February 1, 
2006 through June 30, 2006, and 74% for the entire fiscal year starting on July 1, 2006 
and ending on June 30, 2007, relative to the same periods in the previous fiscal year.  
4. 
The Recipient has met the official criteria to become a candidate country for the 
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative.      
5. 
The Contracts and Concessions Review Committee has submitted to the Recipient’s 
President and Chair of EGSC a report on the legality, transparency and public benefit of 
all concessions and contracts signed under the period of the NTGL.  
 
6. 
The Recipient has increased tax revenues on international trade by at least 35% for the 
period February 1, 2006 through June 30, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, 
through improved enforcement of pre-shipment inspection and custom regulations.  
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may specify 
by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts 
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a Single Tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of 
the Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
Page  6
-
-
5
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Single Tranche: 
Part (A)  
Part (B)  
 
271,000,000 
 
6,000,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
277,000,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
The Recipient shall open and thereafter maintain in Dollars a deposit account:
 (“Deposit 
Account B”) designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the Association for the 
withdrawal of the funds of Part B of the Financing.   
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing into 
Deposit Account B, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association.
 
D. Audit 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the Deposit Account B audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months 
after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; 
and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit Account B and 
their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be used to finance 
Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the 
Page  7
-
-
6
Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is 
September 30, 2008. 
Page  8
-
-
7
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“Cash Management Committee” means the inter-ministerial committee chaired by the 
Recipient’s Minister of Finance that regularly approves expenditures for each Recipient’s 
ministry, agency and office as well as the legislature and judiciary, according to the 
Recipient’s budget and the sum of cash available for allocation at that moment in the 
Recipient's account in the Recipient’s Central Bank of Liberia.  
2. 
“Contracts and Concessions Review Committee” means the Recipient’s Committee, 
established by EGSC (as hereinafter defined) for reviewing all contracts and concessions 
entered into by the NTGL (as hereinafter defined) in the period October 15, 2003 to 
January 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Deposit Account B” means the separate special deposit account in Dollars that the 
Recipient shall open and maintain in a bank, acceptable to the Association,  and on terms 
and conditions also acceptable to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and/or attachment.  
4. 
“EGSC” means the Recipient’s Economic Governance and Steering Committee.  
5. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Page  9
-
-
8
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds during the procurement 
or execution of such contract, without the Recipient (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
6. 
“Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative” means a coalition of governments, 
companies, civil society groups, investors and international organizations engaged in a 
voluntary global compact for improving transparency in countries that are dependent on 
extractive industries. 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 
2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
Page  10
-
-
9
8. 
“NTGL” means the National Transitional Government of Liberia as established by the 
Accra Comprehensive Peace Agreements of 2003, with a tenure from October 14, 2003 
to January 16, 2006. 
9. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated November 8, 2007 from the Recipient to the Association (Letter of 
Development Policy) declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during its execution. 
10. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
Page  11
-
-
10
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
