             Document of
          The World Bank




                                     Report No: 29032

 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
          (TF-24832 TF-24253)

                ON A

         TRUST FUND GRANT

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION

               TO THE

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND, KOSOVO

                FOR A

  COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




             June 14, 2004

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective June 14, 2004)

                  Currency Unit = EURO
                       1 EURO = US$ 1.23
                         US$ 1 = EURO 0.81

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



                 Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu
              Country Director     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
               Sector Manager      Hermann von Gersdorff
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Caroline Mascarell

                                           KOSOVO
                            Community Development Fund Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27
Annex 8: List of Completed Works and Social Services Projects                    28

Project ID: P072814                                                  Project Name: Community Development Fund Project
Team Leader: Caroline Mascarell                                      TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 17, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Community Development Fund Project                       L/C/TF Number: TF-24832; TF-24253
   Country/Department: KOSOVO                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (26%); Health
                            (25%); Roads and highways (25%); Other social services (24%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Conflict prevention and
                            post-conflict reconstruction (P); Other social protection and risk
                            management (S); Participation and civic engagement (S); Social risk
                            reduction (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/11/2000                                     Effective: 02/08/2001                02/08/2001
     Appraisal: 10/16/2000                                         MTR: 10/14/2002                  10/25/2002
      Approval: 12/06/2000                                      Closing:                            12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Community Development Fund, Kosovo
                      Other Partners:      Netherlands Government

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager:                 Hermann A. Von Gersdorff                       Michal Rutkowski
Team Leader at ICR:             Caroline Mascarell                             Sarah Forster
ICR Primary Author:             Herman Nissenbaum


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

In December 2000, the International Development Association (IDA, or the Association), acting as
Administrator for the Trust Fund for Kosovo, entered into a Trust Fund Grant Agreement with the
Community Development Fund (CDF) of Kosovo in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. This
was part of the special IDA support for Kosovo's reconstruction and recovery, which was mobilized in
response to its emergency conditions after the internal conflict in 1998-99. The Association provided $5
million for the CDF Project under this arrangement, drawing on the IDA net income set aside for this
assistance. (It used trust fund resources since the Bank could not provide regular IBRD/IDA assistance
because of Kosovo's non-membership status.) The Government of Netherlands also contributed $4 million
to the trust fund for cofinancing the Project in a separate trust fund. Local communities were projected to
provide $1.3 million for the balance of the Project's $10.3 million financing plan.

The Project was processed under the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo for FYs 2000-01.
This was aimed at assisting in the implementation of the UN resolution which established an international
Kosovo recovery operation. The Bank's strategy called for selective financial support for reconstruction
and rehabilitation, in addition to the formulation of a framework for these activities and economic policy
advice. As part of that support, this Project was preceded by Post-Conflict Facility (PCF) assistance that
began in 1999. This helped to establish and launch the Development Fund, as well as initiate its operations.
This earlier assistance thus effectively constituted a "pilot phase" for the CDF Project (which is not
covered in this ICR).

The objectives set for the Project were to: (a) improve the access and quality of infrastructure and services
in the poor, conflict-affected communities; and (b) support institutional capacity-building at municipal and
community levels to improve the quality and sustainability of service delivery and public participation in
local development. The scheme called for channeling this assistance through the Bank's community-based,
demand-driven social fund approach. The CDF was to furnish primary financing for small-scale social and
economic infrastructure, as well as social service projects which Kosovars identified as priorities. These
objectives remained unchanged over the life of the Project.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:

(a)      Promotion, appraisal, design, carrying out, supervision and evaluation of small-scale
micro-projects, including integrated programs of infrastructure investment combined with programs that
would contribute to improved service delivery, community services for capacity building, as well as
training in operations and maintenance, and management, and provision of sub-grants for their financing.

(b)      Strengthening the operational capacity of the beneficiaries through the provision of technical
advisory services and training to build capacity to (i) plan, manage, operate and maintain investments and
improve the quality and availability of service provision; (ii) increase the professionalism and capacity of
private contractors; and (iii) expand linkages and partnerships among communities, municipalities and
other key partners in order to improve service delivery




                                                     - 2 -

(c)      Financing of salaries and operating costs, provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition
of equipment and material for the CDF.

3.4 Revised Components:

Not applicable.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The Project's quality at entry was Highly Satisfactory.

Project objectives were clearly articulated and consistent with the Bank's assistance program for Kosovo.
The Grant addressed its goals to "restart public administration and establish transparent, effective and
sustainable institutions; and mitigate the impact of the conflict...with a focus on restoring adequate living
conditions." They were also consistent with the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy, as well as local and
other donors' authorities' interests. The Project objectives drew as well on the lessons learned from the
assistance previously provided for CDF's creation, staffing, installation of policies and procedures etc.

The defined objectives were directly relevant to local conditions. Despite its rich resource base, Kosovo had
traditionally been the poorest, least developed province of the former Yugoslav Republic. Its GDP had
remained far below the average in the country. Already in deep economic decline and social stress before
the conflict, conditions afterwards became even more severe. Unemployment had been high before but
worsened as industrial activity collapsed and agricultural production plummeted. Private housing and some
infrastructure were especially badly hit. In their wake, health and education services (which were located in
homes) deteriorated. During the conflict too, it is reported that over 800,000 Albanians (80-90 percent of
their previous part of the entire population) had fled. Many of them soon returned but then over 100,000
Serbs (the vast majority of those living in Kosovo before the conflict) subsequently left. Therefore, the
project design had to focus on mitigating the conflict's widespread physical damage, as well as the
attendant substantial displacement and uprooting of communities.

Project objectives were also sensitive to, and realistic about, the tensions between the majority Albanian
population and Serb minorities. These had been worsened by such actions as the banning of the use of the
Albanian language in schools. After the conflict, there were inter-ethnic disputes following the return of a
relatively small number of Serbs. In an effort to mitigate these problems and avert their expansion, the
Project provided a special fund for helping minority and mixed communities and targeted other preferential
measures for them.

In addition, following 1989-90 constitutional changes, Serb officials reduced local authorities' autonomy,
removed 150,000 Albanians from the civil service and denied the infrastructure badly needed funds These
restrictions needed to be undone in order to meet the UN resolution's call for Kosovo's "substantial
autonomy and meaningful self-administration." Therefore, the project design opted for channeling IDA
assistance through a community-based vehicle for public services, responsive to citizens' priorities and
aimed at strengthening local institutions. This choice was particularly apt. Kosovo's governance had been
effectively decentralized for some time with many municipalities handling service delivery responsibilities.
Moreover, in response to the aforementioned restrictions, Kosovar Albanians had created a parallel
network of services (especially in health and education) which became relatively well developed.

There were also important constraints at the time that affected the Project's design. Its goals were
determined when there was no government in place. They were agreed on with a transitional international



                                                     - 3 -

authority which was focused on post-conflict stability. The objectives were rapidly cast and, therefore,
defined somewhat generally. At the same time, the project designers recognized the necessity to balance
needy Kosovars' excessive expectations from public institutions with their historic distrust of the state
(exacerbated by repressive government actions just before the conflict erupted). Moreover, the complex
governing arrangements in place provided no links between local governments and their communities.

But despite the problems and the urgency of the situation, the Project's objectives proved to be quite
realistic and robust. There was immediate, strong demand for the planned infrastructure rehabilitation and
improvements, and a buildup of interest in service and other social activities. Communities wishing to
participate readily accepted the requirements for their cash contributions.

In addition, the Community Development Fund developed as envisaged. In this connection, the project
designers had rejected the idea of employing an international agency for carrying out the operation (the
typical pattern in other IDA activities in Kosovo). They opted instead for a local NGO in order to promote
reliance on indigenous "ownership" and self-help. As such, they recognized that the planned activities might
proceed less rapidly or well without a more experienced institution. Nevertheless, they vested the
responsibility for project execution in the CDF. The latter had been established by a foreign organization
(the Soros-sponsored "Fund for Open Society") with the expectation of eventually being spun off as an
independent institution. After its examination during project appraisal, the Bank and others agreed that
CDF had developed the capacity to carry out the Project. In the event, CDF's successful performance
proved that this quite risky decision was a wise one.

In another design decision, the Project's scheme called for its evaluation based on increases in quality and
availability of services, outputs of capacity building efforts, and client satisfaction with the outcomes and
their impacts. These performance indicators were later augmented for more extensive coverage of the last
two criteria. Given the local conditions at the time, the initial indicators are considered to have been
adequately oriented and to have had acceptable coverage, besides being properly scaled.

In retrospect, a question may be posed regarding the targeting of the Grant's intended beneficiaries. The
designers solely chose indices of conflict damage (number of houses destroyed) and the number of persons
qualifying for World Food Program aid. These might not have served to identify the most vulnerable
groups very precisely. However, the vulnerability and conflict damage indices were justifiable given the
absence of any census at the time, the paucity of institutions and suitable data, and the deplorable local
conditions. Subsequently though, after a poverty assessment, the Fund undertook to refine the targeting
methodology in the follow-up CDF II project.

The record, therefore, indicates that the designers confronted unusual challenges, which they met with a
high level of professional and forward looking judgments. The project scheme they elaborated was
ambitious but designed with sufficient flexibility to adjust to the uncertainties of the environment.
Significantly too, the scheme was also achievable. Moreover, it adroitly balanced the promise of early
material gains with goals for long term institutional development. And the considerable project risks were
overcome.

There was no Quality Assessment Group assessment of the Project's preparation.




                                                     - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Actions were begun to achieve the Project's goals even before its Grant was approved. As noted, the CDF
had already been established. It was impressively launched just some five months after the end of the
conflict, and its good results made it a successful "pilot project." After the Fund's first year's work, Bank
staff judged it to be essentially operational. It already had accepted 35 micro- projects which were then
being prepared or had been initiated. (It may be noted that the PCF's Grant is reported to have been its first
operation which subsequently qualified for mainstream IDA support. It provided an effective test run for
adapting the social fund model to Kosovo-type conditions.)

The CDF Project Grant became effective in February 2001 and closed on schedule (December 2003). As
this Report documents, it met the goals set out in the Bank's guideline for emergency recovery-type
assistance of helping to restore assets and production in disrupted economies, rather than simply providing
immediate relief or consumption. It facilitated, for example, the reinvigoration of Kosovar communities
re-invigorated and also met longer term objectives. Among others, the Project introduced elements of a
more representative and accountable public service delivery system. It also enhanced Kosovo's local
autonomy, further expanding its move away from past Yugoslav central resource allocations and functions.


4.2 Outputs by components:

During the Project's execution period, the Fund had received 795 investment proposals ( (562 for
infrastructure works and 233 for social services). It had approved 182 projects, including 115 for works
(including 23 in mixed and minority communities) and 67 social services, which were completed. Their
results were generally achieved as planned. Project reports also indicate that the activities were by and
large effectively executed. Independent technical consultants' assessments concluded that, in the main, there
had been good quality design and execution work performed.

These activities fulfilled the Grant's aim of meeting priority needs of Kosovo's poor. Also, beneficiary
assessments reported significantly positive citizen satisfaction with and impacts of the work done. There
was commendation of the Project for increasing residents' sense of "ownership" of the new and improved
facilities. The latest assessment, completed in July 2003, found that 77 percent of the respondents reported
improved living conditions, particularly complimenting the school construction and rebuilding works. They
also expressed satisfaction with the cooperation among the CDF, communities and the municipalities. But
the respondents also expressed a variety of dissatisfactions, which are elaborated in other sections of this
ICR. These concerned, among others, the nature and extent of community participation, how it should be
organized, the availability of information about the projects, the quality of the contractors' work, how the
projects would be maintained.

The Project stimulated community investments in infrastructure improvements. CDF originally sought
beneficiaries' contributions to them of a minimum of 15 percent of project costs, at least half in cash and
the rest in kind. This formula appeared to be demanding, particularly for the poor under the post-conflict
conditions. (During the "pilot" phase, some communities had been unable to meet the earlier minimum 7.5
percent requirement). And initially under this Project, the labor or other in-kind contributions fell so short
of the goal that this requirement had to be abandoned. But this was more than balanced by the surprising



                                                     - 5 -

level of cash contributions. They far exceeded the target, averaging 22.69 percent of costs. This was
probably enhanced by the Fund's insistence on the deposit of 100 percent of the cash in its bank account
prior to any tender contracting, and its allowance of greater flexibility on payment due dates. Besides,
Kosovars had already been paying "informal" levies on domestic economic activity and diaspora
remittances for funding the aforementioned parallel service network, in what were considered to be
demonstrations of "solidarity" sentiments.

Works

The communities primarily opted for water and school projects (which comprised almost half of those
approved), followed by roads, sewerage systems and cultural centers in the infrastructure component.
Water and sanitation projects topped the list of the parallel Dutch-financed activities (40%), followed by
road and bridge works.

In these activities, the Fund encountered the unsurprising problems of a demand-driven enterprise It was
confronted by pressures for non-priority works, as well as improvement proposals from persons who may
not always have reflected community-wide sentiment. In addition, the potential beneficiaries and
contractors commonly disputed the manner of execution of these activities, their quality, inputs,
responsibilities, completion and other aspects. And the Fund itself was criticized about, among others, its
supervision of works and the extent of community involvement in this area.

The ethnic differences created special challenges too. Reportedly, it took twice (perhaps three times) as
long to do projects in Serb communities as elsewhere. Their residents were said to be mistrustful of the
Project, even reluctant to submit proposals for it despite the special incentives offered for works in minority
or mixed communities. Activities in these areas also required extra coordination arrangements. For
example, Albanian contractors were hesitant to work there because of security concerns (which still
obstruct CDF site visits to these areas). And Serb firms said they could not access bank accounts in
Albanian areas. Other operating problems included the limited supply of experienced engineers and
contractors, compounded by unclear technical standards for certain activities. In addition, there were the
unfulfilled commitments of community manpower for works execution. Further, some villages did not
properly maintain completed projects, especially roads.

Water sector projects proved to be difficult, attributed in part due to their relative complexity and high
costs (though the Fund notes that all but one are functioning and considers that they were the most
successful ones). There were problems in connecting the primary lines CDF and other donors executed to
sewerage networks, with secondary connections left to the utilities or villages. This resulted in the flow of
"black water" into the system from neighborhoods not linked to the networks, creating health hazards.
Also, CDF was apparently obliged to undertake some large, costly projects (e.g., rehabilitation of large
water networks, repairing sewerage systems in the capital) outside the bounds of the criteria agreed on for
works under the Grant. These projects were reported to have not previously met the selection requirements
of other development agencies.




                                                     - 6 -

Social Services and TA

The Project funded 67 requests for social service and TA activities, including 9 in mixed and minority
communities. (This total was supplemented by 10 cultural center infrastructure works projects.) These
services operations covered a wide range of functions: 18 for youth, 14 for women and 11 each for the
handicapped and TA operations. Womens' activities are tentatively estimated to have engaged 1,806
persons; health education, 20,089; environmental awareness, 25,200; youth programs, 28,268; and
programs for the persons with disabilities, 1,488. Some particularly innovative ones included traffic sign
training for pupils, civic education for minority children, multi-ethnic camps, computer courses for the
handicapped, and bee-keeping and flower cultivation for widows. Some activities for the handicapped were
commended in the beneficiary assessments on the assumptions that they would facilitate these persons'
greater integration into society.

Further, IDA and Dutch funded TA activities dealt mainly with maintaining road, water supply and
sewerage improvements.       The Project also supported institution capacity-building at community and
municipal levels for improvement of service delivery and increased civic participation in local development.
In addition, CDF provided on-the-job training for community project committee members and contractors.
It helped them prepare project proposals, calculate their costs, develop business plans, follow contracting
processes, monitor activities, and partner with local governments and NGOs.

However, the CDF did not provide capacity-building support to local governments (which other donors
furnished). This probably contributed to the municipalities' relatively minor roles in the Project's
accomplishments. But this deficiency needs to be judged in its context. Throughout the Project execution
period, Kosovo's governance arrangements tended to ignore the municipalities (as they had historically).
Their residents, for example, were not drawn on to participate in government development plans or activity.
At the same time, the CDF helped some municipalities improve their service facilities by cofinancing local
investments. It also sought to make these governments more accountable by encouraging communities to be
more proactive in seeking better services.

Outcomes

The Fund reached poor communities and began to redress conflict-related damage in mainly isolated,
remote rural areas. Its activities were reported       to have helped stabilize their quality of life and
environments, at least partly and in the short run. Kosovars began to obtain better access to, and quality
and availability of, local infrastructure. They were reported to be enjoying potable water in their homes,
rehabilitated and warmer schools for their children, cleaner and safer sewerage systems, better access to
adjacent communities, multi-purpose community centers and marketplaces, besides useful incentives for
youths. As such, important social capital was created. In all, the Project's infrastructure activities are
estimated to have directly benefited over 345,000 persons and over 33,805 indirectly. Its social sector
beneficiaries were estimated to have exceeded 93,000.

As with social funds generally, this Project's demand-driven character precluded a rigorous determination
of the works' efficiencies and cost effectiveness. CDF-type activities are considered to present particular
challenges for impact evaluation, partly because of the nonrandom placement of the investments and their
self-selection by the communities. These could possibly bias results.

In the Kosovo case, though, there was an analysis in 2003 of the Fund's project costs compared to those of
local government and NGO programs. (The average for CDF works projects was calculated at $71,780 and
social service projects, $7,584). Their average costs per beneficiary were 22.41 and 4.28 EURO


                                                     - 7 -

respectively.) The study covered a representative sample of 50 projects in 30 municipalities, which
amounted to 77 percent of the number of CDF's recently completed projects and 80 percent of their values.
School rehabilitation and construction costs were found to be 19 percent lower than those under NGO
programs. The average cost of road projects was 34 percent lower than projects under those programs.
Water supply and sewerage project costs were only 2 percent lower, which was considered to be due to
their relatively more complex nature. And CDF-funded construction was faster on the whole than the
others. However, in gauging CDF's efficiency from these and other Project numbers, one should factor in
the fact that the Fund offered its proposed beneficiaries a menu of projects. There was not, therefore, an
explicitly designed plan for specified, pre-selected investments, against which relative cost considerations
might carry predominant weight.

The "Outcome" record is considered to justify a " Satisfactory" rating.

Impacts

The Project usefully financed basic service delivery functions when government provision was weak. This
helped put in place some ingredients for decentralized management of basic infrastructure and social
services. It can be credited with advancing development processes at local levels involving citizen
participation in decision-making and community-based schemes. This had special value since Kosovo's
governance had long been characterized by a lack of popular participation and transparency in public
programs.

Also, by facilitating residents' access to training and new or refurbished sources of livelihood, the Project
also advanced some prerequisites for more comprehensive activities and progress. Community members
progressively engaged in self-generated development work. They also took part in activities intended to
having citizens appreciate and be involved in furthering the quality and sustainability of service delivery. In
addition, the Project contributed to the advancement of self-help mechanisms, "community
ownership"sentiments and stimuli for more effective local government. These could make for future
broader-based community development. The Project also helped to activate a sizeable number of local
contractors (calculated at 75) and consultants (190), enhancing the development of Kosovo's construction
and services sector.

Furthermore, communities became actively involved in various stages of the project cycle. They
participated in identifying investment solutions to their problems. Residents were consulted during CDF's
project screening, including reviews of environmental assessments and management plans. The Fund also
had some limited success in obtaining the inclusion of women, youth and other groups in project
identification.

On the other hand, some elements of the Project had less success. Some of the beneficiary assessments
showed dissatisfaction with the ways in which citizen participation had been organized and conducted.
They were judged to have demonstrated that community project committees needed strengthening. This was
considered important for increasing the commitment and accountability of the local governments,
community-based associations and community members. In this connection, though, the aforementioned
necessity to ease the Project's "self-help" contribution requirement may have meant that residents'
"solidarity" sentiments waned over time.

These shortfalls were more than balanced, however, by valuable economic and social benefits. Apart from
raising the living standards of the poor through improved social and economic infrastructure, project
activities helped alleviate poverty in several other respects. They improved community inhabitants'


                                                     - 8 -

accessibility to markets, while also contributing to the reported trends of reduced emigration to cities. The
Project is even credited with stimulating some migrated families' preparedness to return to their original
areas. School construction improvements were reported to have upgraded teaching quality, boosted
attendance, facilitated a better distribution of pupils among different schools, and helped to ease pupils'
travel problems. Significantly, these developments and other outputs of the frequently labor-intensive
activities usefully stimulated demand during a period of depressed economic activity. Project activities did
provide some temporary employment, which CDF estimated to total 72,342 job/days. But, as some
beneficiaries understandably complained, the Fund's investments were not considered to have generated
significant permanent employment increases. Also, while the CDF did not approve grants for pure income
generation purposes, some social sector projects effectively served this end.

With regard to poverty targeting, the Project's funds were distributed broadly in line with Kosovo's
population distribution. But, at least at the outset, a midterm review showed a relatively low coefficient of
correlation between allocations to different districts and their poverty indices (0.502). This indication of a
somewhat weak link between the two served a useful purpose, demonstrating a need to improve the regional
allocation formula. It led to the Fund adopting the study's recommendation of a remedial poverty targeting
strategy, which was expanded on under the subsequent CDF II project.

Based on this overall assessment, the Project's impact is rated " Satisfactory" in view of the major
objectives having been achieved. There are also reasonably good possibilities of the activities funded being
sustained (ref, para. 6.1).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The demand-driven nature of CDF operations (where community proposals are not known ex-ante) and the
technical assistance character of the Project, preclude the calculation of a Net Present Value or an
Economic Rate of Return for it. However, as indicated above, there is little doubt that the Project created
valuable economic and social benefits. These included the improved conditions of roads, water and
sewerage systems, and schools, as well as the reduced costs of related services from their upgrading and
better accessibility - - all of which have improved the living standards of the poor.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

No financial rate of return (FRR) or other financial indicator was calculated for the Project either. The
planned Fund investments concerned improvements in or creation of civic infrastructure and services, with
priority given to projects with high social impacts. Many of the investments were non-revenue generating.
But for those which were revenue-generating, the CDF recognized the need for cost recovery mechanisms
for their operation and maintenance requirements. It also guided communities on how to establish the
organizational capabilities to operate and maintain their systems. These early emphases on cost recovery
should help build local awareness of the need to pay for such services, as well possibly as a revenue base
for ensuring their sustenance. They might also curb demands for their subsidies. Similarly, the requirements
for community cost sharing could conceivably motivate their inhabitants to restrain projects to economic
sizes and in line with local maintenance capacities.

In addition, a financial rate of return calculation is considered inapplicable for a project of this type.
However, it is evident that the Project imposed no fiscal burden on the Government as its financing was
grant-based and provided directly to a non-government organization. With the strong cost recovery focus,
the fiscal impact should not be significant either. In fact, the Project could actually produce fiscal benefits
ultimately to the extent that it generates savings in government expenditures that could have been necessary



                                                       - 9 -

for these kinds of investments. It also bears noting that the CDF assistance was targeted towards
low-income communities that largely had to rely on their own limited resources to improve services
previously.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact of the Project was Substantial.

Considering the situation prevailing at the end of the Kosovo conflict, the extent of subsequent institutional
change attributable to the Project was very commendable. The public service delivery function was
transformed constructively. Notable progress was achieved in establishing an exemplar for bringing greater
direction of, accountability for, and transparency in the governance of social protection programs. The
same can be said for promoting popular participation in their design, and facilitating monitoring and
feedback regarding the implementation of these programs. In the process, the strengthening of the social
safety network and better targeting of important social expenditures were enhanced as public policies.

Clearly, the Project's most direct institutional impact was on introducing a more effective agent for
achieving these objectives. Its effects on the capability of the CDF was very considerable, taking into
account its successful accomplishments in a timely and efficient manner, together with its limited
experience and competence at the outset. However, its staffing remained small, its contracts were short
term in nature, and its existence remained dependent on external grant funding.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

There were no important measures or steps in the implementation process that required Government action.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

None

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

As soon as the conflict ceased, the "pilot phase" of the Project began preparing the way for full-scale
operations. These activities began in November 1999, well before the Project Grant Agreement became
effective (February 2001). But in the interim, its activities drew on considerable support from the
co-financing donors (based on a decision to first use their resources). After that, CDF activities gathered
momentum largely in response to the demand for its products (by September 2002, it had received 685
community proposals). By December 2002, less than two years after effectiveness, the CDF had disbursed
72 % of IDA resources. The level of IDA disbursements rose to 87 % by end September 2003, along with
the full disbursement of $4 million equivalent from the Dutch fund.

As indicated in para 4.2, analysis indicated that CDF's work constituted a cost-effective means of meeting
the social infrastructure needs of the poor. However, the analysis exposed its requirement for improved cost
accounting (which was subsequently called for under the CDF II Project). In addition, the analysis
highlighted the Fund's need for greater caution in dealing with technically complex activities (mainly in
rural areas) and large integrated and technically complex urban water supply and sewerage works.




                                                     - 10 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

Actual project costs were within the original estimates and no additional financing or sizeable reallocations
were required.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Project's sustainability is rated "Likely" on the basis of the following factors:


l Kosovar communities were shown to be interested in, willing to, and well prepared to participate in
    CDF activities. Their substantial "self-help" contributions demonstrated the importance they attached
    to CDF's products and other

l The CDF has been successful in actively engaging community members in self-generated development
    activities. The latter have been combined with training activities aimed at having communities better
    appreciate and take part in ensuring the quality, effectiveness and sustainability of infrastructural and
    service improvements.

l Municipal governments have been made more conscious of their residents' desires for infrastructure
    and service improvements. CDF's functioning set a model for municipal officials of greater openness,
    transparency and responsiveness to poverty and social protection concerns which may induce increased
    appreciation of their electorate's expectations and priorities. Local governments have been made more
    sensitive also to operations and maintenance issues, as well as the importance of ensuring the
    sustainability of the facilities rehabilitated or constructed, and new or upgraded services.

l The selection of CDF's staff on the basis of competence and its high professional standards also bode
    well for the probability of the maintenance of the achievements generated. Similarly, the CDF's
    institutional and management arrangements are very likely to be sustainable for the examples that they
    have set and results produced.

l The fact that the follow-on CDF II project has already been undertaken effectively ensures the
    continuation and expansion of this Project's works.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

There is no issue regarding transition to regular operations since, at least under existing country conditions,
the continuation of CDF's existence and functioning is considered to be firm. Notwithstanding the evolving
role of government, the transitional officials and their plans remain committed to promoting sustainable
economic growth and employment, which these activities serve.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance during the design phase was particularly commendable (ref. para. 3.1). It
demonstrated a strong ability to fashion a flexible approach for a somewhat unclear "reality on the ground"
while simultaneously addressing the need for a high quality project design aimed at netting important
results. It facilitated the mobilization of PCF resources that helped support initial IDA engagement and
preliminary activities so that the Project was ready to get off to a fast start as soon as the situation allowed.



                                                       - 11 -

To this end, the IDA Grant's processing was carried out in less than 6 months from project conception to
Board presentation. (The overall cost of preparation incidentally, US$68,450, was considerably below the
Bank's average.) In addition, the Bank carefully screened the Fund at the outset to determine if it was
realistically capable of project direction, and oversaw its capacity building during the start-up phase.

In all these elements, the quality and commitment level of the Bank's efforts were high. This led to a strong
partnership with the CDF, and to winning the trust of both local and international stakeholders. The latter
had particular importance in the light of the Bank's role as co-chair of the High Level Steering Group of
external donors. For these purposes, the Bank staff was quick to make use of the availability and flexibility
of trust fund instruments. Throughout these processes, the Bank staff gauged the numerous risks of this
"emergency" situation perceptively. It undertook them realistically but also somewhat boldly, and then
successfully managed them in a capable professional manner.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's worldwide experience was successfully brought into play in this operation, especially as the
task team staff was familiar with similar public sector issues in other countries. This factor contributed
successfully to the Project's smooth, early take-off and accomplished performance during implementation.
In this connection, however, the CDF felt that greater use of local consultants would have been preferable
for the Project, both for better understanding of the local context and less costly services (ref. Section 9).

There was, at the same time, an exception to the Bank's successful execution experience. The PAD had
noted that a Bank consultant had established management information and financial management systems
for the CDF. These were forecast to be "capable of providing accurate and timely information regarding
project resources and expenditures," adequate for accounting, reporting and auditing. But this MIS system
floundered from the start and ultimately had to be replaced. This impeded the delivery of financial and
progress data (although the CDF submitted quarterly and annual project reports on a timely basis). The
problems of the MIS were attributed to a failure to engage CDF staff sufficiently in the system's design,
and an attempt to transplant a system developed for another project.

The Bank staff had a good working relationship with the CDF officials and its project unit. This appeared
to have permitted constructive resolutions of the issues that arose. Bank supervision responsibilities appear
to have been effectively discharged. These were reflected in the quality of project status reports, the early
detection and elimination of important bottlenecks to progress, and the positive feedback from CDF on the
support it had received. Careful, detailed attention to beneficiary assessments also figured into the Bank's
supervision, whose costs incidentally (US$148,650) were considered low.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's overall performance is rated "Satisfactory" on the basis of the aforementioned factors and the
other elements of the Bank's work described elsewhere in this Report.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Kosovar representatives contributed effectively to the formulation and design of the Project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Effectively, no Kosovo government entity participated in the Project's implementation. In addition, CDF's
performance was fortunately unencumbered by Government fiscal constraints thanks to the trust fund



                                                     - 12 -

grants. This was helpful for dealing with start-up costs and sustaining the CDF's initial operations on a
steady basis.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The CDF staff performed particularly well for a neophyte organization assuming demanding
responsibilities under trying circumstances. It merits particular praise for being reportedly the only local
agency that tackled infrastructure and service improvements for poor              residents, and for its useful
institution-building initiatives. Moreover, it produced the quick, tangible results needed.

The Fund did well in project selection, operating procedures, technical design and community involvement
in its activities. It largely followed faithfully the agreed typology of, and criteria for, projects to be funded,
e.g., permitting no power or telecommunications types of activities. It was also quite disciplined about, and
tightened, contracting (particularly tendering) appropriately, while simultaneously obtaining broad
contractor participation (e.g., qualifying 1,354 firms for 2,714 bid packages).             It monitored project
execution systematically and had it periodically evaluated.

Bank staff towards the Project's conclusion judged that the CDF developed sufficient capability for
ensuring proper financial management. Earlier, the CDF was found to need better cost accounting (ref.
para. 5.3) and so began to assemble substantial cost data. An independent assessment of the quality of the
community works commended the Fund for its "very careful" evaluation of each request it received. It also
credited CDF with ensuring that project implementation faithfully followed the defined specifications and
design. Beneficiary assessments noted community commendations of CDF's performance with only
relatively modest reservations.

These achievements were supported by CDF's recruitment and maintenance of professionally competent,
hard working and committed personnel. The Bank staff judged them to have gained valuable experience in
all aspects of project management and administration.              This was a significant capacity-building
accomplishment since the CDF only became independent in November 2000. With these assets, the CDF
took effective measures to overcome some initial problems. It expanded the Project's coverage throughout
Kosovo. It moved quickly to upgrade the management information system after its troubled start,
improving it to be ultimately considered as working very satisfactorily. Similarly, it made headway in
improving project processing and bid evaluations. The CDF also successfully concluded a major "problem
project" (the Decan water supply network). In this regard, CDF determined that the problems that emerged
(mainly with the water/sewerage projects) partly derived from its lack of engagement with line ministries
and utility companies. So it became more alert to these other agencies' needs to participate in project
aspects early on, particularly regarding works maintenance. It responded equally promptly to the problems
of dealing with inexperienced (and not always collaborative) contractors, for example in obtaining suitable
bid estimate prices and proper supervision of construction.

In summary, this review indicates that the Fund was very effective in carrying out the Project's activities. It
established itself as a credible, independent entity with demonstrated competence in the delivery of
technical, managerial and organizational support to Kosovar communities. It also became a cost-effective
instrument for meeting social infrastructure and services needs of the poor (ref. para. 4.2).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The recipient's overall performance in the Project is rated "Highly Satisfactory" on the basis of its highly
creditable performance, as described above and in other portions of this report.




                                                       - 13 -

8. Lessons Learned

The Project experience confirmed that social fund activities can provide a better quality of life for the poor,
can be efficient mechanisms for constructing small-scale infrastructure, and can build social capital.

It also confirmed that trust fund grants can serve as entry points in jurisdictions which are not Bank
members, where the IBRD/IDA cannot deploy its standard resources. They can set the stage for follow-ups
by helping set the institutional capabilities and rules which activities would need to qualify for greater
funding. In this fashion, relatively small grants can assume the front-end risk in uncertain circumstances, as
well as provide bridge funds until larger support can be obtained.

The Kosovo Project was a good model for post-conflict development related interventions. The activities it
supported responded to immediate needs within a broader framework. The investment projects implemented
are reported to have had a visible, inclusive development impact. The CDF's promotion of self-help
mechanisms increased community "ownership" and its focus on service delivery set salutary examples.

The Kosovo experience demonstrated the benefits of having a community-based project serve as a catalyst
for a process in which citizens (including residents of minority communities) come together over time and
participate jointly in designing, implementing and monitoring activities for their common good. But,
particularly important, the Project showed, is the need for allowing sufficient time for such interaction to
take hold and evolve. Thus, it follows, participatory mechanisms need to build on incremental, progressive
and flexible mechanisms. The Project likewise illustrated the value of special funding for vulnerable
communities. To the same ends, the Project illustrated the merits of community outreach, promotion and
participatory efforts by social fund organizations to complement the aforementioned mechanisms.

The CDF's problems in the water supply and sewerage sector suggest a need for particular provisions for
social fund activity in areas where special expertise may be needed for successful project implementation
and sustainability. For complex works which require long-term surveillance and maintenance, it may be
important to vest these responsibilities with perhaps more specialized institutions. Issues of sector policies
and strategies might also necessitate similar arrangements. The same problems underscore the need to
ensure coverage of operational and maintenance plans at the project design stage, in the interests of the
interest of improving the sustainability of facilities constructed or rehabilitated. It might also be useful to
consider restricting the funding of large network-type projects in social fund activities.

Another point for Bank project design concerns CDF's belief that its operating manual proved to be
somewhat ineffective and therefore had to be revised. The CDF attributed this to its insufficient
participation in the manual's preparation, as well as some insufficient Bank understanding at the outset of
the Kosovar setting. On this, the Bank's requirement for such manuals (as conditions of Board Presentation,
loan effectiveness, etc. as indicators of "operational readiness.") is probably unlikely to be readily set aside.
Some consideration might be given, though, to the CDF's suggestion that the presentation of the operational
manuals to the Bank should be done in two stages. The first stage would be to present a working draft of
the manual setting out key guidelines and procedures. The second stage would be to learn from and
incorporate the results of actual operating experience into the manual to be presented to the Bank during
implementation. This appears to be especially pertinent for brand new institutions in "rapid response"
circumstances. It might also be useful to treat the manuals explicitly as "provisional" until they are
adequately tested.

In addition, the Project experience prompts some questions which may be useful in the planning of other
social fund activities:



                                                     - 14 -

In the Bank's dealings with these agencies, there often appears to be some uncertainty about their futures.
Are they supposed to have a relatively limited existence? Is this to be solely for the duration of the
"emergency" conditions, after which more permanent government agencies might discharge its functions?
Alternatively, are the institutions to be set up on a trial basis for an undefined period, perhaps to see if they
perform better than older agencies?

In the Kosovo case, the Project goal was defined as building the CDF to be "an effective local institution
that can play a role in community development." Thus, there was a substantial achievement scored in
establishing and launching the CDF under the exigencies of post-conflict "emergency" conditions. Priority
was given to providing rapid and visible assistance at community levels in the interests of meeting the main
aim of improving their conditions. Accordingly, the project plan focused attention on seeking to ensure
sustaining the impact of the investments to be made. There was therefore relatively little need for a decision
at that time about what to do for the long-term. Moreover, there was then considerable uncertainty about
the roles of different government institutions in Kosovo.

However, to their credit, the project designers signaled the need for a future decision on the long-term
designation of responsibilities for these community development-type functions. But this was not to be
taken soon afterwards. The Bank project document for the CDF II operation called for the effective
continuation of the CDF's role, even though Kosovo was judged to be out of "emergency" condition.
(Much of the needed reconstruction had been completed.) Midway through the Project, there was agreement
during discussions with the Ministry of Finance and Economy, and other ministries that the CDF should
evolve an integral part of Kosovo's medium-term development program, with greater focus on "sustainable
development activities." Also, it was then judged to be premature to consider depending on sector ministries
and local governments to effectively administer the follow-up project and manage a community-driven
operation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                      - 15 -

- 16 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
    The co-financing agencies did not provide any comments.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
    Not applicable




                                                  - 17 -

10. Additional Information

                            CDD and Conflict Affected Societies - Kosova case
                                    Presentation by Flaka Surroi, CDF
                                        Washington, 3 March 2004

Situation in 1999
       High level of destruction
       Massive emergency operation  not always coordinated
       A compound governmental structure
       Communities not in the picture

Situation in 2000
       First regulations adopted
       First local elections celebrated
       Local communities not in the picture
       CDF starts operations in the field

Situation in 2001
       Constitutional framework adopted
       Central elections take place
       Grass-root levels ignored again
       CDF continues implementation of projects with and for local communities

Situation in 2002
       Central government established with quite restricted powers
       Local elections take place in November 2002  no changes with regard to local communities.

Situation in 2003
       No elections
       Central government adopts political program  no input from municipalities
       Municipalities draft development plans  no input from local communities
       Council of Europe drafts a recommendation on reform of local government  refused by all and
        accused of being "ethnically guided"

Situation in 2004
       UNMIK and PISG share power disproportionately
       Local governments formally functioning in all 30 municipalities
       Serb municipalities nominally supervised by UNMIK, however, under direct support and
supervision of the Government of Serbia

CDD in Kosova  problems encountered
1. Highly politicized environment
2. Ambiguous governing structure
3. Incomplete legal framework



                                                  - 18 -

 4. No decentralization of power
 5. Strong partisan influence
 6. No top-down/bottom-up communication mechanism
 7. Corruption

CDD in Kosova  CDF approach
 1. Pilot projects
 2. Identification of neediest communities
 3. Going through the decision-making process with the communities
 4. Obliging communities to approach municipalities for permits and support
 5. Obliging municipalities to respect communities' choices
 6. Respect own rules and procedures
 7. Be transparent
 8. Be credible
 9. Respect agreements with communities
10. Not subjugate to any outside pressure
11. Be cost-effective

CDD in Kosova  characteristics
 1. Common interest
 2. Hierarchy of responsibilities within the community
 3. Growing persistence of the community
 4. Replication of approach
 5. Tool for voicing discontent

CDD in Kosova  effects
 1. Empowerment of community
 2. Increased sense of ownership
 3. Responsibility for further maintenance of projects
 4. Down to earth requests
 5. Communication between community and local government
 6. Not much effect on central government

CDD in Kosova  preconditions
 1. Political will
 2. Laws need to be drafted and adopted
 3. Mechanisms to enforce law
 4. Charismatic and authoritative leaders
 5. Strong civil society
 6. Funding

CDD in Kosova  how do we see it
       CDF has the capacity and credibility
       CDF fully autonomous
       Legal framework to be established
       Specialized agency of the central government at a later stage
       Still largely dependent on donor funding




                                                   - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                               Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate


A. (i) Increases in quality and availability of A. (i) 182 infrastructure construction            A.  100 %.
community infrastructure and services                 and improvement projects
                                                      28% of population benefited
                                                      cost per beneficiary EURO 22.41

                                                 (ii) 66 social service projects
                                                      8% of population benefited
                                                      cost per beneficiary EURO 4.28

B. Client satisfaction with projects and their  B. Beneficiary assessments conducted.              B.   100 %
impacts                                         Their findings and recommendations applied
                                                in revised CDF policies and procedures
                                                (some set as CDF II assistanec conditions) (




Output Indicators:
                                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                               Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate


Capacity building of commmunities and           Technical assistance and training :
municipalities to improve public service              (a) to improve quality and sustainability     (a) 100%
delivery and residents' involvement in          of service provision
infrastructure and social sector
improvements                                          (b) to increase civic participation in local  (b) 100%
                                                developmesnt

                                                      (c) to upgrade provisions for satisfactory    (c)  100%
                                                maintenance of investments

                                                      (d) to expand links among communities,       (d)    90 %
                                                municipalities and other partners

                                                      (e) to increase professionalism and
                                                capabilities of privarte contractors               (e)   100%




)

1End of project




                                                                    - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Community Investment Projects                             8.52             9.33             109
2. Support for Institutional Capacity Building               0.21             0.18              85
3. Project Management/CDF/Institutional Support              1.59             1.35              85

Total Baseline Cost                                         10.32           10.86
                          Total Project Costs               10.32           10.86
                   Total Financing Required                 10.32           10.86


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB          NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00           1.70         0.71          4.61         7.02
                                    (0.00)         (1.70)      (0.71)          (0.00)       (2.41)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.00         0.27          0.06         0.33
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.27)          (0.00)       (0.27)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00         1.33          0.27         1.60
Consultant Services and             (0.00)         (0.00)      (1.33)          (0.00)       (1.33)
Training
4. Miscellaneous:                    0.00           0.00         0.99          0.38         1.37
Operating Costs                     (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.99)          (0.00)       (0.99)
   Total                             0.00           1.70         3.30          5.32         10.32
                                    (0.00)         (1.70)      (3.30)          (0.00)       (5.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB          NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00          3.13         0.00           5.13        8.26
                                    (0.00)        (3.13)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (3.13)
2. Goods                             0.00          0.00         0.09           0.09        0.18
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.09)         (0.00)       (0.09)
3. Services                          0.00          0.00         0.86           0.26        1.12
Consultant Services and             (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.86)         (0.00)       (0.86)
Training
4. Miscellaneous:                    0.00          0.00         0.92           0.38        1.30
Operating Costs                     (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.92)         (0.00)       (0.92)
   Total                             0.00          3.13         1.87           5.86        10.86
                                    (0.00)        (3.13)       (1.87)         (0.00)       (5.00)




                                                - 21 -

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Expenditure Categories (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
 Expenditure Categories            Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
(1) Sub-Grants for             3.08         1.60         3.36        3.24         1.86       3.50       105.2    116.3    104.2
subprojects
(2) Consultant Services,       1.00                      0.26        0.94                    0.27       94.0              103.8
including training
(3) Operating Costs            0.92                      0.38        0.81                    0.25       88.0               65.8




                                                          - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not required (ref. para. 4.3)




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               10/26/2000                6     1 Team Leader, 1 Co-Team
                                               Leader, 1 Social Fund Specialist,
                                               1 FMS, 1 Procurement Specialist,
                                               1 Disbursement Officer


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               11/21/2000


 Supervision
               11/10/2000                 2    1 Team Leader, 1 FMS                  S               S
               11/10/2001                 3    1 Team Leader, 1 FMS, 1               S               S
                                               Engineer
               10/15/2002                 4    1 Team Leader, 1 FMS, 1               S               S
                                               Procurement Specialist, 1 Social
                                               Economist


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   8                              23
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        7                              20
  Supervision                                 30                              91
  ICR                                        2.5                              15
  Total                                    47.5                              149




                                               - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Cost Effectiveness Report, January, 31 2003

Beneficiary Assessment Report, June, 28 2003

Beneficiary Assessment - Social Services, December, 20 2003

Quality of Works Report, December,19 2003

CDF Annual Report, January, 16 2004




                                                - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. : List of Completed Works and Social Services Projects

                                 WORLD BANK
                       IMPLEMENTED WORKS PROJECTS
         Nov-01
  1 Vushtrri     Dumnic e Poshtme      annex-school
         Dec-01
  2 Rahovec      Reti                   annex-school
  3 Istog        Lluga e Drinit         bridge
         Feb-02
  4 Prishtin    Prishtin (all)        cleanup of sewers
         Mar-02
  5 Vushtrri     Vushtrri               cultural center rehab
  6 Lipjan       Gllanic               school
  7 Kaanik      Koxhaj                 school
  8 Lipjan       Klek                 road reconstruction
  9 Podujev     Metehi                 annex-school
  10 Podujev    Podujev II            sewerage
         Apr-02
  11 Gjakov     Korenic               kindergarten
  12 Gjakov     Shishman               kindergarten
  13 Ferizaj     Crnill               water supply
  14 Ferizaj     Komogllav             school
  15 Gllogovc    Gllanasell            school
         Aug-02
  16 Prishtin   Dardania               sports field
         Oct-02
  17 Prizren     Lybeqev               health clinic
  18 Leposaviq   Graniqan (Serb)        road
  19 Leposaviq   Vu (Serb)            road
  20 Leposaviq   Bistrica (Serb)        road
  21 Viti        Pozharan               school toilets




                                         - 28 -

       Nov-02
22 Leposaviq      Jarin e Eprme (Serb)  water supply
23 Novobrd      Novobrd               water supply
24 Mitrovic      Rahov                  water supply
25 Fush Kosov Grabovc i Ult            bridge
26 Kaanik        Biec                   water supply
27 Kaanik        Goranc                 water supply
28 Klin          Arbria                 water supply
29 Kamenic       Domorovc (Serb)         cultural center
30 Istog          Prigod                 water supply
31 Prishtin      Graanica (Serb)        sewerage
32 Ferizaj        Ferizaj                 park
       Dec-02
33 Lipjan         Gushterica e P. (Serb)  cultural center rehab
34 Malishev      Kravasari               water supply
35 Kaanik        Hani i Elezit           cultural center rehab
       Apr-03
36 Obiliq         Obiliq (Alb/Roma/Serb)  health house
       May-03
37 Vushtrri       Sllatin                school
38 Gjilan         Lloc                   sewerage
39 Gjilan         Llashtic               school rehab
40 Fush Kosov Henc                      school
41 Prizren        Tupec                   school
42 Prizren        Gjonaj                  cultural center
       Jun-03
43 Mitrovic      Stan Trg               sewerage
44 Shterpc       Vrbestica (Serb)        cultural center
45 Viti           Viti                    river bank reconstruction
46 Prishtin      Badovc i Ri (Serb)      sports field
47 Zvean         Zherovnica (Serb)       cultural center rehab
48 Klin          Qeskov                 water supply
49 Klin          Kpuz                   water supply
       Jul-03
50 Prishtin      Hajkobill              road reconstruction
       Aug-03
51 Mitrovic      Mitrovic (Serb)        kindergarten
       Dec-03
52 Brod           Shterpc                Water supply
53 Matian        Prishtin               Health facility
54 Kabash i Hasit Prizren                 School




                                           - 29 -

                                   DUTCH II
                     IMPLEMENTED WORKS PROJECTS

       Dec-01
55 Vushtrri     Vushtrri                road reconstruction
       Mar-02
56 Rahovec      Brestovc                road reconstruction
57 Obiliq       Brezhnic               road reconstruction
58 Viti         Ramjan                  completion - school
59 Novobrd    Llabjan (Alb/Serb)      sports field
60 Malishev    Fshati i Ri             road reconstruction
61 Mitrovic    Vinarc i Ult           bridge
       Apr-02
62 Gllogovc     Poklek i Vjeter         sewerage
63 Rahovec      Krush e Madhe          cultural center -rehabilitation
64 Gllogovc     Gllabar                 water supply
65 Gllogovc     Trstenik               water supply
       May-02
66 Gjakov      Shqiponj               road reconstruction
67 Kamenic     Kranidell               road reconstruction
68 Lipjan       Smallush               annex-school
69 Rahovec      Polluzh                irrigation canal
70 Fush Kosov Vllezrit Grvalla     sewerage
71 Fush Kosov Bresje (Alb/Serb)       market
72 Fush Kosov Vragoli                 annex-school
       Jun-02
73 Istog        Orrobrd               road reconstruction
74 Gjilan       Selami Hallai          rehabilitation school
75 Prishtin    Prroni i Zatriqit       storm water drainage
76 Kamenic     Karaev                water supply
77 Mitrovic    Vllahi                  road reconstruction




                                         - 30 -

        Jul-02
 78 Malishev    Marali                   school
 79 Malishev    Berish                  road reconstruction
 80 Mitrovic    Vaganic e Ult          water supply
 81 Kamenic     Krilev                  bridge
 82 Podujev     Shakovic                sewerage
 83 Prizren      Jabllanic (Bosniac)     cultural center
 84 Viti         Bin (Alb/Croat)        water supply
 85 Viti         Kabash                   water supply
 86 Gjakov      Ujz                      school
 87 Kamenic     Leshtar (Alb/Serb)       road reconstruction
 88 Gllogovc     Krajkov                 water supply
        Aug-02
 89 Novobrd    Izvor (Serb)             road reconstruction
 90 Kamenic     Desivojc                school
 91 Gjilan       Zhegr                   cultural center rehab
 92 Sknderaj    Tic                     road reconstruction
 93 Sknderaj    Plluzhin                road reconstruction
 94 Pej         Zatra                    water supply
 95 Prishtin    Shkabaj                  water supply
        Sep-02
 96 Dragash      Zym                      water supply
 97 Leposaviq    Leposaviq (Serb)         sewerage
 98 Dragash      Lagjja Baxhaku           water supply
 99 Suharek     Mohlan                   water supply
100 Malishev    Banj                    water supply
101 Obiliq       Hamidi                   water supply
102 Klin        Zllakuqan                kindergarten
103 Zubin Potok  Prelez-Jagnjenica (Serb) water supply
104 Zubin Potok  Oklace (Serb)            road reconstruction
        Oct-02
105 Gjakov      Qerimi (Alb/Roma)        kindergarten reconstrc
106 Prizren      Struzh                  road
        Nov-02
107 Istog        Lubozhd                 water supply
108 Istog        Jonuzaj                  water supply
109 Istog        Crrc                   water supply
110 Podujev     Lladovc                  school
111 Lipjan       Risinovc                 water supply
112 Ferizaj      Vezir Jashari            sewerage
113 Vushtrri     Dumnic e Eprme         school
        May-03
114 Fush Kosov Bardhi i Madh            library
115 Sknderaj    Shpat                    water supply




                                            - 31 -

               COMPLETED SOCIAL SERVICES PROJECTS  CYCLE 2001-2003

   WORLD BANK

                 Jan-02
 1 Handikos-Dean                  Dean            Fund raising campaign
                 Feb-02
 2 Vizioni drejt ardhmris        Shtime           Youth education
                 Mar-02
 3 Iniciativa pr veprim pragmatik 3 villages       Health education
                 Apr-02
 4 Dodona                          15 villages      Health education-puppet show
 5 Shoqata e gruas                 Shqiponj        sewing course for women
 6 Handikos-Lipjan                 Lipjan           Computer course for handicapped
                 May-02
 7 GAK                             Prishtin        Literacy course for handicapped
 8 Handikos-Dean                  Dean            sewing course for handicapped
 9 Shpresa                         Gllogovc         Health and sexual education
10 Family advocacy                 Prishtin        Health education
11 Future, Graanica               Graanica        Anti drug campaign
                 Jul-02
12 Shqiponjat e Dardans           Desivojc        Bee keeping training for women
13 Makrame                                          Preschool and women activities
14 Galabria                       Keqekoll        Bee keeping training for women
                 Aug-02
15 Besa                            Dean            Preschool activities
                 Sep-02
16 MCYPC                           Mitrovic        Summer multi- ethnic camp
                 Oct-02
17 Future, Graanica               Graanica        Sunday - day for children activities
18 Flaka                           Lipjan           Education campaign




                                              - 32 -

                Nov-02
19 Pes Dshmort                Rep            Health education & women activities
20 Femra bashkkohore            Nagavc          Sewing course

                Jan-03
21 Aksioni I mediave kosovare    Prishtin       Radio broadcast for handicapped
22 Balthazar                     Rahovec         Day care for children
23 Prijateljstvo                 Leposavic       Youth and sport
24 Rimkmbja e bujqsis        Suharek        Greenhouses

                Feb-03
25 Rreze drite                   Vushtrri        Pre-school activities
26 Kalabria                     Fush Kosov    Chicken farming
27 Biofruti                      Besi            Greenhouses
                Mar-03
28 KCHECHR                       Prizren         Campaign against violence
                Apr-03
29 Ekolosko Drustvo "Sara"       Shtrpce        Environment protection awareness
                May-03
30 Aksioni Kosovar i prbashkt  Klin           Internet connection for schools
                Jul-03
31 KPAF                          Ferizaj         Anti-drug campaign
32 Gjelbrimi i natyrs          Vushtrri        Environment clean-up
                Nov-03
33 Femrat e Llapushs            Malishev       Washing and ironing
                Dec-03
34 Elita                         Viti            Health education
35 Shrbimet rinore t Ferizajt  Ferizaj         Anti AIDS campaign
36 Handikos                      Shtime          Arts program for children w/disabilities
37 Shpresa                       Sknderaj       Sexual education in high schools
38 Dshira                       Prishtin       Literacy course for adults w/disabilities
39 Me dor n zemr              Mitrovic       Health education in collective centers
40 Handikos                      Kaanik         Sports activities for persons w/disabilities
41 ASD                           Zubin Potok     Health education
42 Dora ngrit dorn              Klin           Youth activities
43 Love Bridge                   Prishtin       Activities for children w/disabilities




                                           - 33 -

   DUTCH GOVERNMENT
                 Apr-02
44 Handikos                       Prizren          sewing course for women
45 Agimi                          Isniq            Ecological training
                 Jul-02
46 Liria                          15 villages      Health education
                 Aug-02
47 Forumi demokratik I gruas      Pej             Literacy course for women
48 Iniciativa e femrs kosovare   Gjakov          Albanian course for minorities
                 Sep-02
49 Informativni demokratski forum Zherovnica, ZveanMulthietnic youth radio
50 Handikos                       Dragash          Computers course
51 Org.za osobe sa nedostatcima   Graanica        Sport activities for handicapped
52 Grinbok, Pej                  Pej             Albanian course for minorities
                 Oct-02
53 Ardhmria e Llapit             Shajkovc         Health education
54 Teatri i qytetit               Obiliq           Environmental awareness
                 Nov-02
55 Forumi demokratik i gruas      Pej             Establishment of puppet theatre
56 Femrat n veprim               Podujev         Greenhouses



                                TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE WB

                 Mar-02
57 Drini I bardh                 Pej             Training on irrigation water usage
                 Jun-02
58 CDA-Shoq. koop. pr zhvillim   Sknderaj        TA for contractors
                 Oct-02
59 TA-Esat Gashi                  6 villages       TA for road maintenance
                 Dec-02
60 TA-Xhafer Mulliqi              Dean            TA for riverbank protection
                 Jun-03
61 TA-Merita Kasapolli            7 villages       TA on water supply maint
                 Jul-03
62 TA- Alaudin Behluli            9 villages       Ta on road maintenance
63 TA-Merita Kasapolli            5 villages       TA on sewerage main
                 Nov-03
64 TA-Shpresa Kastrati            9 villages       TA for water supply maintenance
65 TA- Alaudin Behluli            3 villages       Ta on road maintenance
66 TA-Shpresa Kastrati            13 villages      TA for water supply maintenance
                               TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE DUTCH

                 Oct-02
67 TA-Merita Kaspolli             6 villages       TA for water supply maintenance




                                             - 34 -

- 35 -

