Report No. PID9608
Project Name                     Kosovo-Kosovo: Community Development Fund
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Social Funds
Project ID                       KVPE72814
Implementing Agency
Address
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
Rruga Dukagjin 68, Prishtina, Kosovo
Contact Person: Flaka Surroi
Tel: +381-38-549677
Email: flakasurroi@yahoo.com
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                October 04, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         October 16, 2000
Projected Board Date             December 15, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Transition from war to peace. The recent conflict in Kosovo has imposed
widespread damage to housing and community infrastructure and led to
significant internal displacement and uprooting of communities,
particularly in the north and west of the province. Rural, remote areas
in Kosovo experienced the heaviest fighting during the conflict; in many
cases critical community assets, such as schools and health clinics, were
completely destroyed. In the post-war recovery period, a large share of
families' resources is devoted to rebuilding family homes. Communities
will clearly need external assistance to restore essential services and
infrastructure. Reconstruction of schools, clinics, and roads also acts
as a "magnet" for entire communities to return to villages that have been
abandoned and start rebuilding their homes, thereby helping to reverse
some the most dramatic flights to the cities and larger towns caused by
the violent upheavals and internal displacements of the war. According to
IOM estimates, 61% of the population was temporarily displaced and 14.5%
of the population have not returned to their place of origin.     Many
minorities have no immediate prospect of returning. Primarily for
security reasons, they have been forced to relocate and currently live in
"enclaves" protected by NATO forces. While some are long-established
communities, others are a consequence of the war and the challenge in this
case is to build communities, not rebuild them.Pre-war Legacies. Kosovo
was traditionally the poorest province and least developed of the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY). During the ten years
prior to the war, FRY authorities progressively revoked autonomy of the
Kosovo province. Albanians were removed from public sector positions,
unemployment increased tremendously, and infrastructure throughout Kosovo
experienced several years of neglect and underfinancing by central
authorities. Parallel, informal services in health, education and other
areas developed in many Albanian communities during this period.
Performance of many of these functions now needs to return to government
institutions. In addition, a longer-term structural transition is under
way from a Yugoslav model to a more open, market-oriented political and



economic model. Communities are facing great uncertainties in the future
related to the status of Kosovo, their own economic security and new
emerging institutions in Kosovo. These legacies have important and
conflicting implications for local governance. The socialist legacy
engenders a heavy reliance on the state but more recent history has
inspired deep distrust of state structures and it is unclear which, if
either, will dominate in the post-war period.Government Structure. On
June 10, 1999, U. N. Security Council Resolution 1244 (1999) announced a
cessation of hostilities and placed Kosovo under international civilian
administration. Clearly, uncertainties about the future status of Kosovo
create significant challenges for national and local institutional
development and reform. Kosovo is currently administered at the central,
regional and municipal level by the United Nations Mission in Kosovo
(UNMIK). After initial delays, UNMIK Civil Administrators were appointed
in all 29 municipalities and local Municipal Councils were restructured
and endorsed by UNMIK on a case-by-case basis. UNMIK's Department of
Local Administration oversees municipal affairs (UNMIK Reg. 2000/9). On
October 28, 2000, the first post-war municipal elections will be held and
locally-elected mayors and municipal councils will take over day-to-day
administration with key personnel and budget decisions still reviewed by
UNMIK administrators. This will be an important step toward local
self-government in Kosovo. Sector Issues and Government Strategy. The
main sector issues relevant to the project include (i) a weak formal
economy and widespread unemployment; (ii) poverty and lack of access to
basic services, particularly in the rural areas, due to ten years of
under-investment and recent war damage; (iii) a loss decade of civic
exclusion of the majority population, and now social exclusion of
minorities; and (iv) lack of accountable, functioning public institutions.
2. Objectives
1. To improve access and quality of community infrastructure and services
in poor and war-affected communities, including minority communities. 2.
To support local institutional capacity building at CDF, municipal and
community level through introduction and promotion of principles of public
participation, sound resource management, client satisfaction with service
delivery, cost recovery, transparency and accountability.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Local capacity-building and supporting community initiative are at the
heart of the World Bank's strategy in Kosovo. Kosovo-wide efforts to
support community development have focused narrowly on quick impact
interventions to achieve rapid, visible results. Municipal development
programs are currently focused largely at the center of government on the
development of an institutional and procedural framework for municipal
government. Both of these efforts are led and primarily staffed by
internationals. The Community Development Fund offers a cost-effective
mechanism to mobilize community initiative, improve living conditions and
empower communities to address their own problems. It does this largely
by drawing on existing professional capacity within Kosovo and building a
mechanism whereby Kosovars help and set a positive example for each
other.
4. Description
Component 1: Community Investment Projects (US$12.75 million)The CDF will
finance, on a grant basis, small-scale projects identified as priorities
-2 -



by communities themselves. Eligible projects include:Community Works (up
to 150,000 DEM)social infrastructureeconomic infrastructuresanitation and
environmentCommunity Services (up to 50,000 DEM)programs targeted to
vulnerable groupscapacity-building and training programsinitiatives to
improve the environmentIntegrated Projects (up to 200,000
DEM)infrastructure investments and complementary programs that contribute
to improved service delivery or environmentinfrastructure investments
combined with community training in operations and maintenance, management
aspects Communities must provide cofinancing of at least 15% of total
project cost; at least half in cash and the remainder in-kind (labor,
materials). Component 2: Support for Institutional Capacity Building
(US$500,000)This component will finance institutional development focused
primarily on: building capacity within communities;expanding links
between communities and key partners; and developing the CDF itself as an
effective, viable local institution.Component 3: Project Management
(US$1.5 million)This component will finance CDF operational costs,
including staff salaries, vehicles, equipment and operational costs.
1. Community Investment Projects
2. Support for Institutional Capacity-Building
3. Project Management/CDF Operations
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                       0
IBRD
IDA
SPECIAL FINANCING                5.0
SWISS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION    -
GOVERNMENT OF THE NETHERLANDS    4.0
FINANCING GAP                    6.0
Total Project Cost               15.0
6. Implementation
Community Development Fund. The project is currently managed by the
Community Development Fund which operates under the auspices of the Kosovo
Fund for Open Society (KFOS), a member of the Soros/OSI network. All
financing is channeled via BHB Foundation, an affiliate of the Open
Society Institute (OSI) network. This partnership with KFOS has worked
extremely well. KFOS provided institutional support to the CDF which
enabled them to get off to a rapid start and the CDF benefited from
association with KFOS which has had a long-term presence and has a good
reputation in Kosovo. At CDF inception, it was agreed with KFOS that the
CDF should be spun-off as an independent institution once it had developed
sufficient institutional capacity and a funding base to operate
independently. The World Bank considers that the CDF is now ready for
such a spin-off. It is proposed that this spin-off take place such that
the CDF can be the direct implementing partner for this new financing.
Already, the CDF is a well-functioning institution and has full
responsibility for project management, procurement and financial
management for the current funding. The CDF has its own Board of
Directors composed of prominent members of Kosovar society selected for
their professional expertise and their understanding of community
development in Kosovo. Staff now total 11, comprising an Executive
Director, Promotions Officer, two Operations Officers, Social Services
- 3 -



Officer, Finance Manager, Procurement Specialist, MIS Specialist, and
three support staff.    The Executive Director has broad experience in
community development and has demonstrated strong leadership and project
management skills. To strengthen CDF capacity, specialized training and
study visits to other social funds are being organized for CDF staff, and
international consultants are providing technical assistance and advice in
key areas, including MIS development and rural water sector investment
policy and practice. Relationship with UNMIK Administration. The initial
PCF-funded project was endorsed by UNMIK, and UNMIK authorities are
important partners during implementation at the local level. During
appraisal, the role and relationship of the CDF and UNMIK will need to be
decided. The likely preferred option will be to establish the CDF as an
independent NGO, possibly with UNMIK representation on the Board, and
channel financing directly to the CDF with UNMIK endorsement. However,
this does raise public finance issues which need to be discussed e.g. the
appropriateness of off-budget capital grant programs supported by the
Bank.Local Partners. Community project committees and municipal
authorities are the main implementing partners at the local level. The
CDF works mainly in rural communities where municipal authorities provide
little in the way of services. Hence, projects are based on community
initiative. Communities are responsible for project identification,
cofinancing, procurement oversight, supervision and operations and
maintenance of investments.    In areas where municipal authorities provide
services, they play a more direct role in project preparation, supervision
and operations and maintenance. Otherwise, municipalities are mainly
involved in identification of target communities and providing necessary
permits and clearances for the projects.
7. Sustainability
Despite the requirements, in a post-conflict transition, to provide rapid
and visible assistance to communities, attention has been paid throughout
project design and during early implementation by CDF staff to steps to
ensure the impact of these projects will be sustained. Clearly this is a
learning process but the results will improve steadily as the experience
of project management staff increases and the capacities of key
counterparts are more fully understood. The project seeks to address
sustainability objectives by requiring co-financing from communities,
involving them in every step of the process, providing training for them
in contracting, management and project O&M. Many Kosovar communities have
clearly expressed their interest, not in emergency aid, but in development
assistance. The Community Development Fund will require co-investments
and participation on the part of communities and will provide training in
operations, maintenance and management aspects; the emphasis is on
building a base for development rather than on "quick impact"
interventions. Communities will prepare an O&M plan as part of the
application process. The goal of the project is also to build the CDF as
an effective, local institution. Whether the CDF will aim have a
long-term role is uncertain. If the CDF is established outside of
government as an independent institution it's long-term sustainability
will in large part depend on demand for CDF services and its' ability to
raise long-term financing from sources other than the World Bank. If
within Government a clear exit strategy may need to be developed. One
possibility would be that the CDF ultimately transforms towards some form
of municipal/community on-lending institution. During the appraisal
mission, the team will brainstorm on a future vision with the CDF and
- 4 -



develop a clearer medium-term strategy.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Social funds are a relatively new development tool. The first social fund
was developed in Bolivia in 1987. Social funds are currently active in
more than 50 countries and have organized more than 100,000 subprojects
worldwide. SIFs allow poor people and communities to become actively
involved in their own development. They work by supporting small projects--
from infrastructure and social services to training and micro-enterprise
development--identified by communities. Social funds appraise, finance, and
supervise these grants, which then may be managed by either local
governments, NGOs, line ministries, community groups, or local project
committees.Preliminary findings from an impact assessment study of six
social fund programs suggests that social funds, when compared with other
projects, effectively target poor people, maintain infrastructure better,
and deliver long-term improvements. But there was a need identified for
greater integration of social funds with national economic and
administrative policies, more fruitful collaboration with local
governments, improved targeting mechanisms to reach vulnerable groups, and
a shift in assessment to focus on development outcomes rather than mere
infrastructure provision. Experiences with social funds in neighboring
countries suggest that microlending and grantmaking operations should not
be combined in the same social fund. These lessons are reflected in CDF
design in the following ways:provision of financing for capacity-building
programs to effectively reach vulnerable groupsinclusion of services
projects as well as infrastructure projects to reach vulnerable
groupsdecision to have local project committees manage projects to better
promote development outcomesstrong focus on institutional and financial
sustainability of investmentsparticipation of CDF in national coordination
fora to improve integration with sector-wide policiesconsultation with
municipal authorities on village-level targeting and project
implementationdecision to exclude microcredit operations
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Through the CDF, the project would finance rural
infrastructure sub-projects in water and sanitation, rural roads, school
construction, landfill construction and solid waste management, up to
DM200,000 (less than US$100,000). Some of these sub-projects have clearly
beneficial environmental impacts (waste water, solid waste etc.) but they
may have negative impacts as well if they are not designed and implemented
correctly. They may impact human health for example, from discharges in
water bodies, contamination of wells, hazardous waste, or threaten
biodiversity. Rural roads rehabilitation may cause environmental damages
such as soil erosion and safety hazards, and school construction may - if
not adequately monitored - make use of dangerous materials such as
asbestos. All proposals for community projects are reviewed against a set
of criteria, including environmental criteria. These criteria will be
reviewed during appraisal. The mission will also evaluate the technical
capacity to perform environmental reviews at the local level, and assess
the existing EIA legislation and mechanisms for environmental review at
government and local level. If necessary, in-house environmental
assessment capacity will be built-up within the CDF.
- 5 -



11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Sarah J. Forster
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (9-0ll)-(44-207)-688-1451
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October
20, 2000.
-6-



