Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21238-KOS
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION
TO THE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
FORA
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
KOSOVO, FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
(SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO) (KOSOVO)
December 6, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 5, 2000)
Currency Unit = DEM
DEM 1 = US$0.46548
US$1 = DEM2.1989
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  -   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDF          Community Development Fund
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
EC           European Commission
JIAS         Joint Interim Administrative Structure
KFOS         Kosovo Foundation for Open Society
NGO          Non-Govermnental Organization
OSI          Open Society Institute
SFRY         Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
TSS          Transitional Support Strategy
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
UNHCR        United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
UNMIK        United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WHO          World Health Organization
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Manager:    Michal J. Rutkowski, ECSHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Sarah Forster, ECSHD



KOSOVO
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        8
3. Benefits and target population                                                       8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            13
2. Financial                                                                           13
3. Technical                                                                           14
4. Institutional                                                                       14
5. Environmental                                                                       16
6. Social                                                                              17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      20
2. Critical risks                                                                      21
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      21



G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             21
2. Other                                                                               22
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          22
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           23
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          32
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                              33
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                34
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        35
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      48
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    49
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   50
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             51
Annex 11: Environmental Screening: Project Appraisal                                      52
Annex 12: Community Project Typology                                                      59
Annex 13: Pilot Phase: Achievements and Lessons Learned                                   61
Annex 14: CDF Organizational Structure and Statutes                                       67
Annex 15: CDF Policies for Water Sector Projects                                          72
MAP(S)
Not required



KOSOVO
Community Development Fund Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: December 6, 2000                            Team Leader: Sarah J. Forster
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman  Sector Manager: Michal J. Rutkowski
Project ID: P072814                               Sector(s): SF - Social Funds
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
1 ] Loan    1 ] Credit    [X] Grant    [1 Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $5.00
Financing Plan:    Source                                   ILocal       0Foreign        ,Totat
BORROWER                                                       0.00           0.00          0.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                              1.32           0.00          1.32
MIN. OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS  MIN. OF DEV. COOP. -                  3.80           0.20          4.00
NETHERLANDS
SPECIAL FINANCING                                              5.00           0.00          5.00
Total:                                                        10.12           0.20         10.32
Borrower:
Responsible agency:
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
Address: Rruga Dukagjin 68, Prishtina, Kosovo
Contact Person: Flaka Surroi
Tel: +381-38-549677                Fax: +381-38-549-842                Email: flakasurroi@yahoo.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUSSM):
_022Y220011_2002 1                                                                         :2003-1  .
Annual    3.00        4.90       2.40 
Cumulative    3.00       7.90      10.30
Project implementation period: January 2001 - December 2003
(C  PW F- Ft. Mad. S~(



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
1. To improve the quality and availability of community infrastructure and services in poor and
conflict-affected communities, and for vulnerable groups.
2. To support institutional capacity-building at the community and municipal level so as to improve the
quality and sustainability of service delivery and increase civic participation in local development.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
1. Measurable improvements related to increases in quality and availability of services e.g. % incr. in
access to clean water, no. and % of community projects of high technical quality and cost effectiveness;
no. of community programs, services, special training and initiatives for target groups; no. and % of
projects in mixed and minority communities.
2. Measurable outputs relating to capacity building efforts benefiting communities, NGOs, local
governments, contractors and CDF staff e.g. no. of training programs by type carried out for each
category of participants; no. of quality follow-up capacity-building projects proposed by communities.
3. Qualitative assessments to measure levels of client satisfaction with regard to project outcomes and
impact e.g. % of beneficiaries expressing satisfaction with quality of works, service improvements,
capacity building efforts, and performance and management of CDF.
See Annex I for more comprehensive list of indicators.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R99-178           Date of latest CAS discussion: July 25, 2000
The Transitional Support Strategy (TSS, document number: R99-178) substitutes for the CAS in the case
of Kosovo and was endorsed by the Board on October 7, 1999. A Progress Report on the Transitional
Support Strategy (document number: R2000-130 dated 6/27/000) was reviewed and endorsed by the Board
on July 25, 2000. The TSS supports the overall Kosovo Reconstruction and Recovery Program which has
three main goals: (i) to develop a thriving, open and transparent market economy which can quickly
provide jobs; (ii) to restart public administration and establish transparent, effective and sustainable
institutions; and (iii) to mitigate the impact of the conflict and start addressing the legacy of the 1990s, with
a focus on restoring adequate living conditions. The World Bank's role in supporting this program is
relatively limited given the non-availability of regular World Bank financing. The Bank's program focuses
on: (i) aid coordination, (ii) policy and technical advice, particularly on macroeconomic management; and
(iii) limited financial assistance to help ensure the sustainability of the reconstruction and recovery effort.
The Community Development Fund is one element of the Bank's financial assistance. It provides a key
instrument for achieving the objective of improving living conditions, particularly for the poorest. It will
also assist in institution-building efforts at the local level to increase the sustainability and development
impact of investments, and will support increased civic participation in local development.
The Community Development Fund (CDF) was established with the support of the World Bank's Post
Conflict Fund in November 1999 after a rapid identification and preparation process starting in July 1999
- 2 -



-- one month after the end of the conflict. The first year of CDF's operations, from November 1999 until
December 2000, is characterized as the "pilot phase" for the proposed project. Project financing for the
pilot phase totals US$4.2 million, comprising US$1 million financing from the World Bank's Post Conflict
Fund, US$1.2 million equivalent from the Government of Switzerland and US$2 million from the
Government of the Netherlands.
As of October 30, 2000, the CDF has approved a total of 35 projects worth DEM 4.5 million
(approximately US$ 2 million). These projects are at various stages of preparation/implementation: 5
have been completed; 8 are under implementation; 2 are in the contracting process; and the remaining 20
are approved and under preparation. By sector, 60% of the projects are for water supply and sanitation,
12% are for school reconstruction, 9% for road/bridge repairs, and 6% are for cultural centers, solid
waste/war damage clean-up, and youth education respectively. Six projects (18%) are in mixed or minority
communities. See Annex 13 for a detailed description of the achievements of the pilot phase and lessons
leamed which have been incorporated into the design of the proposed project.
2. IMVain sector issues and Government strategy:
Transition from conflict to peace. The recent conflict in Kosovo has imposed widespread damage to
housing and community infrastructure and led to significant internal displacement and uprooting of
communities, particularly in the north and west of the province. Rural, remote areas in Kosovo
experienced the heaviest fighting during the conflict; in many cases critical community assets, such as
schools and health clinics, were completely destroyed. In the post-conflict recovery period, a large share of
families' resources is devoted to rebuilding family homes. Communities clearly need extemal assistance to
restore essential services and infrastructure. Reconstruction of schools, clinics, and roads can act as a
"magnet" for entire communities to return to villages that have been abandoned and start rebuilding homes,
thereby helping to reverse some the most dramatic flights to the cities and larger towns caused by the
violent upheavals and intemal displacements of the conflict. According to IOM estimates, 61% of the
population was temporarily displaced and, by February 2000, 14.5% of the population still had not
returned to their place of origin. Many minorities have no immediate prospect of returning. Primarily for
security reasons, they have been forced to relocate and currently live in "enclaves" protected by KFOR
forces. In this case, these are not long-standing communities but rather a consequence of the conflict and
the challenge here is to build communities, not rebuild them.
Pre-conflict Legacies. Kosovo was traditionally the poorest province and least developed region of the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY). During the ten years prior to the conflict, FRY
authorities progressively revoked autonomy of the Kosovo province. Approximately 150,000 Albanians
were removed from public sector positions, unemployment increased tremendously, and infrastructure
throughout Kosovo experienced several years of neglect and underfinancing by central authorities.
Albanian communities developed parallel, informal services during this period, primarily in education but
also in health and other areas to serve needs that were no longer met by the government sector.
Performance of many of these functions now should return to govemment institutions. In addition, a
longer-term structural transition is under way from a Yugoslav model to a more open, market-oriented
political and economic model. These legacies have important and conflicting implications for local
governance. The socialist legacy engenders a heavy reliance on the state but more recent history has
inspired deep distrust of state structures and it is unclear which, if either, will dominate in the post-conflict
period. These combine legacies lead to great uncertainties for communities in Kosovo today --
uncertainties regarding the status of Kosovo, their own economic security and new emerging institutions in
Kosovo.
-3 -



Government Structure. On June 10, 1999, the United Nations announced a cessation of hostilities and
placed Kosovo under international civilian administration according to U. N. Security Council Resolution
1244 (1999). Uncertainties about the future status of Kosovo create significant challenges for national and
local institutional development and reform. Kosovo is currently administered by the United Nations Interim
Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK). Mechanisms have been established to increase local
participation in Kosovo's governing institutions and decision-making structures, with a view to eventual
hand over of authority. These institutional structures include the Kosovo Transitional Council, the highest
political consultative body with representation from all ethnicities, and a Joint Interim Administrative
Structure (JIAS), including 20 govenmment departments, with joint representation of UNMIIK and local
representatives. On October 28, 2000, the first post-conflict municipal elections were held and
locally-elected mayors and municipal councils will soon take over day-to-day administration with key
personnel and budget decisions still reviewed by UNMIK administrators (UNMIK Reg. 2000/45). This
will be an important step toward local self-government in Kosovo.
Government Strategy. Policy priorities in Kosovo focus on building the institutions for local
self-governance and effective public service delivery, stabilizing macroeconomic conditions, and setting the
stage for private sector-led recovery and long-term growth. Efforts are being made to establish a
government budget that can be fully financed by local resources by 2003. This objective is being achieved
with donors currently financing only 50% of the recurrent budget, with the remainder financed by local
taxes and customs duties. On the investment side, UNMIK is leading the development of a Public
Reconstruction and Investment Program (PRIP) for 2001-2003. This program is being developed with the
assistance of the World Bank, using a Comprehensive Development Framework approach and is expected
to be fully donor-financed.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Community Development Fund will address issues of local infrastructure improvements and service
delivery, capacity-building and civic participation. A strategic choice was made early on in project design
to follow a community-based, demand-driven financing social fund model. This is considered well suited to
Kosovo's post-conflict needs for three reasons. First, it provides an instrunent to have a direct impact on
the lives of the poorest communities. By working directly with communities, the CDF is well-placed to
improve service delivery in a way that is responsive to citizens' priorities. Second, it builds on community
initiative and local organizational capacity thereby strengthening local institutional capacity and
empowering Kosovars to improve their own living conditions. Third, it is a flexible instrument that can
respond to local needs in a demand-driven manner and respond to a rapidly changing institutional
environment. The goal is to develop a Fund that supports institutional development but, while that
framework is under definition, can still provide effective support directly to communities that urgently need
it.
Balancing Sector Issues with Cross-Sectoral Approach. One risk of a cross-sectoral social fund
approach is that sectoral issues are not dealt with adequately. Project design has taken this concern into
account by placing a major emphasis on designing adequate sector policies and procedures for the main
areas of CDF investment. A particular focus has been placed on developing policies for investments in the
rural water and sanitation sector, which currently comprises 60% of CDF investment. With the assistance
of an international consultant, the CDF has developed guidelines for water projects that are in line with
international best practice and the ECA Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy (see Annex 15). Sectoral
guidelines are also being developed for investments in education, health and social services in consultation
with the World Bank sector staff, UNMIK departments and other relevant agencies, such as UNICEF and
- 4 -



WHO.
Building Local Institutions: The CDF works in partnership with communities, municipal authorities and
local associations and non-governmental organizations in support of improving the living conditions of the
poorest communities. From an institutional perspective, the CDF is largely focused on facilitating
partnerships and supporting civic initiative and informal community-based organizations that seek to
improve local living conditions. The CDF uses infrastructure investments as a means to improve local
institutional capacity to manage such investments and to improve the quality of service delivery over the
long-term. The CDF will finance capacity-building initiatives that improve the quality and sustainability of
their investments and build local institutional capacity. So, for example, investments in rural water supply
will be combined with investments in training local users in water system management. Or, school
reconstruction projects are complemented by investments in facilitating the creation of parent-teacher
associations to increase parental involvement in school management.
Social Sectors: Sound social sector policy and investment is crucial to the future of Kosovo. Critical to
addressing the denuding of human capital and loss of technical skills among the population is education
policy and institutions. Without an educated population, it will be hard for Kosovo to build effective
institutions as well as compete in a global market economy and achieve prosperity. Moreover, the neglect
of health services and policies over the past decade and the need to catch up as well as address the effects
of recent social traumas places health policy as a key agenda item in social reforms. Finally, Kosovo
needs to develop a viable system of social protection for those vulnerable groups without incomes and
means of earning a living. The World Bank is involved in the development of overall social sector policies
and strategies. The CDF can support these efforts through direct investments at the local level. CDF
investments include investments in reconstruction of war-damaged school and health facilities as well as
development of new facilities within the framework of education and health sector plans. In the area of
social protection, the CDF can assist the development of community-based services in partnership with
Centers for Social Work (CSWs) and local associations.
Ensuring Sustainability: Ensuring sustainability of investments is a key objective of the CDF. By
requiring co-financing from communities, involving them in every step of the project cycle, providing
training for them in contracting, management, financing and O&M, it is expected that the CDF can achieve
robust, sustainable impacts. Many Kosovar communities have clearly expressed their interest, not in
emergency aid, but in development assistance. The CDF will require co-financing and participation on the
part of communities -- despite the resource constraints they are facing -- and provide training in operations,
maintenance and management; the emphasis is on building a base for development rather than on "quick
impact" interventions. The operations of the Fund will be greatly assisted by the strong tradition of
self-help and social cohesion that, despite the new pressures and cleavages of the post-conflict environment,
persist in Kosovo.
-5 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. Community Investment Projects  Social Investrnent  8.52       82.6      3.80      76.0
2. Support for Institutional      Intiutinal          0.21        2.0      0.20       4.0
Capacity-Building                 Development
3. Project Management/CDF         Institutional        1.59      15.4      1.00      20.0
Institutional Support             Development
Total Project Costs                   10.32     100.0      5.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                   10.32      100.0      5.00     100.0
Cgomponent 1: Community Investment Projects (US$8.52 million)
The CDF will provide financing, on a grant basis, for small-scale projects identified as priorities by
communities themselves. Communities must finance at least 15% of project costs. Eligible projects
include:
Community Works (up to $85,000)
*  social infrastructure;
*  economic infrastructure; and
= sanitation and environment.
Community and Social Services (up to $25,000)
* small grants programs targeted to addressing the needs of vulnerable groups;
* follow-up programs for Community Works that contribute to improved service delivery, including
health and hygiene education, training in cost recovery, operations and maintenance, establishment of
parent-teacher associations in schools; and
*  initiatives to improve the environment.
See Annex 12 for a full Project Typology.
The component budget includes financing for: (i) community projects in target communities (US$6.7
million), (ii) community projects in mixed/minority communites (US$0.84 million special reserve
fund); (iii) financing for procurement of goods/equipment for groupings of community projects, e.g.
water pumps for water supply projects or furniture for schools (US$0.27 million); and (iv) financing
for promotion campaigns and for feasibility studies, project design and supervision services (US$0.71
million).
-6 -



Eligible applicants to the CDF include local communities, municipalities and Centres for Social Work,
local associations or NGOs (in the case of services programs). Interested applicants apply to the CDF
for financing according to clear policies and procedures defined in the Operational Manual. CDF
promoters encourage communities to take an "integrated" approach, combining Community Works
with follow-on Community Services activities that can increase the impact and sustainability of the
investment, e.g. training in water supply management combined with water investments. The CDF is
responsible for screening, appraising, approving and contracting the projects in partnership with the
applicant. The CDF Director and staff liaise closely with UNMIK at the municipal, regional and
central level to share information on local priorities, ensure that CDF investments have municipal
approval and develop effective communication and coordination between the CDF, municipal
authorities and communities. See Annex 2 for a full description of CDF investment activities and
project cycle.
Component 2: Support for Institutional Capacity Building (US$2 10.000)
This component will finance institutional capacity-building activities focused primarily on:
*  building capacity within communities to plan, manage, operate and maintain investments and improve
the quality and availability of local service provision;
*  increasing the professionalism and capacity of private contractors; and
-   expanding links between communities and key partners.
In year one, it is planned that the CDF will provide training to interested communities in the following
areas: project preparation and management, procurement, cost recovery, operations and maintenance and
community participation. The CDF will also provide training to local contractors on competitive bidding
procedures. In year two, a capacity-building program will be developed based on a needs assessment at the
end of year one. The project will also build partnerships between communities and municipal authorities,
utility companies, local NGOs and neighboring communities that in themselves will help strengthen local
institutions, build relationships of trust and accountability, and increase citizen participation in local
development.
Component 3: Project Management and CDF Institution Building (US$1.59 million
This component will finance:
*  CDF operational costs, including staff salaries, rent, utilities, office supplies and other operational
costs (US$1.29 million);
* CDF equipment and furniture (US$0.06 million);
* staff training and study tours to build the skills of CDF staff (US$0. 11 million); and
*  technical and financial audits, beneficiary and stakeholder assessments, and other monitoring and
evaluation studies (US$0.12 million).
-7 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Frameworkfor municipal and community development. The CDF will support municipal and community
development through direct cofmancing of local investment priorities and capacity-building activities.
UNMIK has recently passed a "Regulation on Self-Government of Municipalities in Kosovo" (Reg. No.
2000/45, 11 August 2000) which sets out the roles and responsibilities of municipal govermments. Pending
a determination of the future status of Kosovo, establishing provisional institutions "for democratic and
autonomous self-government at the municipal level" is seen as a step in the progressive transfer of
administrative responsibilities from UNMIK.
This regulation provides municipalities with responsibilities for local public services, including "urban and
rural planning and land use; local environmental protection; service provision in relation to local public
utilitites and infrastructure, including water supply, sewers and drains, sewage treatment, waste
management, local roads, local transport and local heating schemes; pre-primary, primary and secondary
education; primary health care; and social services". The regulation also states that all municipalities shall
"make arrangements with villages, settlements and urban quarters within its territory to ensure that the
needs of all inhabitants in the municipality are met" and that "with the approval of the municipality,
villages, settlements and urban quarters, singly or in combination, may carry out activities that are within
the responsibilities and powers of the municipality" (Reg. No. 2000/45, Section 5).
The CDF will help municipalities to fulfill their responsibilities either by directly supporting municipal
investment projects, or supporting the initiative of "villages, settlements and urban quarters". In all cases,
the CDF will take a community-driven approach ensuring that investments are real priorities for the entire
community concerned and that there is strong local ownership of the investment. By working with
communities, the CDF will also help facilitate the development of relations between the new municipal
authorities and communities and encourage municipal accountability and responsiveness to the needs of the
poorest. By financing training and technical assistance initiatives, the CDF also aims to build local
capacity to provide services in a sustainable and client-responsive manner.
Development of sector guidelines in areas of CDF involvement. CDF operations cut across a wide range
of sectors, including water, sanitation, education, health, social services and transport. A key challenge
facing the CDF is to respond to community priorities while still ensuring that interventions fit within a
larger Kosovo-wide sectoral framework which, in most sectors, is still under development. Currently, CDF
is participating in various sector coordination fora at the center and is actively involved in promoting clear
guidelines for school mapping, school construction, and rural water policy. In the latter case, an
international consultant assisted the CDF develop policy guidelines for water sector projects (see Annex 15
for summary).
3. Benefits and target population:
Expected benefits of the project include: i) improved living conditions in poor communities, through
improved access and quality of community infrastructure and services; ii) improved local capacity to plan,
manage, operate and maintain community investments; iii) increased civic participation in local
development; iv) increased communication and partnership between communities and municipal authorities;
and v) short-term job creation. CDF investments are also expected to help build the capacity and
professionalism of private contractors and providers of community services. The CDF will also seek out
innovative ways of improving service delivery and pilot approaches for replication in partnership with
communities, local governments and non-government organizations.
For community projects in target communities (US$6.7 million), CDF targets communities based on two
- 8 -



criteria -- poverty and conflict damage. The CDF currently uses World Food Programme (WFP) data --
percentage of the population qualifying for food aid - as an indicator of poverty. This data is means-tested
and is the best data available given the current lack of poverty assessment data. As an indicator of conflict
damage, the CDF uses destruction of houses, as measured by the IMG Housing Damage Assessment. This
survey covers at least 95 percent of villages and is the most comprehensive available. In year one, sixteen
municipalities are being targeted and regional budget allocations have been defined based on the criteria
above. In addition, a special allocation has been earrnarked for investments in mixed and minority
communities that have been affected by the conflict, and for particularly vulnerable groups, such as widows
and the disabled. A Bank-financed poverty assessment in Kosovo will be completed in early 2001. The
assessment will include: (i) measurement and analysis of poverty; (ii) development of a strategy for
poverty alleviation; and (iii) simulations of the medium-term impact of growth and social transfers on
poverty. Data from this poverty assessment will be used for targeting purposes if appropriate, when
available.
For community projects in mixed/minority communites (US$0.84 million special reserve fund), CDF
targets communities based largely on recommendations from UNMIK municipal administrators who have
been closely involved with ensuring these sometimes isolated communities receive proper services and
assistance. Data is also available from WFP related to food distributions, as mentioned above, but since
many food distributions within minority areas are not means-tested (i.e., all residents may receive
assistance) additional, case-by-case recommendations from municipal authorities are sought.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Community Development Fund. The proposed project will be managed by the Community Development
Fund, which was recently (November 8, 2000) registered as a local foundation. Previously, during the pilot
phase, the CDF operated under the legal auspices of the Kosovo Fund for Open Society (KFOS), a member
of the Open Society Institute (OSI)/Soros network. The local Soros Foundation provided vital institutional
support in enabling the CDF to get off to a rapid start of operations (see Annex 13 on Pilot Phase). During
appraisal, it was agreed that the CDF had developed the capacity to become a local institution. All agreed
that the most appropriate form of institution, given the CDF's mission, would be a local non-govemmental
organization. Hence, the move to register the CDF as a local foundation. The World Bank will provide
grant financing directly to the CDF, with the endorsement of UJNMIK.
The CDF is a well-functioning institution, which already has full responsibility for project management,
procurement and financial management of the current pilot funding. The CDF has its own Board of
Directors composed of prominent members of Kosovar society, selected for their professional expertise,
their understanding of community development in Kosovo and their representation of the different
ethnicities of Kosovo. To date, given the security situation, it has not been possible to have a Serb Board
member participate in Board meetings. However, a prominent Serb representative has agreed to act as an
advisor through on-line communication with the Executive Director. As soon as the security situation
allows, the CDF would seek to have a full-time Serb Board member.
CDF staff now total 12, comprising an Executive Director, Operations Manager, two Project
Officers/Engineers, Social Services Officer, Promotions Officer, Finance Manager, Procurement
Specialist, MIS Specialist, and three support staff. The Executive Director has broad experience in
community development and has demonstrated strong leadership and project management skills. To
strengthen CDF capacity, specialized training and study visits to other social funds are being organized for
CDF staff, and intemational consultants are providing technical assistance and advice in key areas,
including MIS development and rural water sector investment policy.
-9-



Relationship with UNMIKAdministration. The initial PCF-funded project was endorsed by UNMIK, and
UNMIK regional and municipal authorities have been important partners during pilot-phase
implementation at the local level. During appraisal, the role and relationship of the CDF and UNMIK was
discussed. It was agreed that the CDF would be an important partner in cofinancing priority investment
needs at the local level, as well as supporting municipalities and communities in improving local living
conditions and increasing civic participation in local development.
Local Partners. Community project committees and municipal authorities are the main implementing
partners at the local level. The CDF works mainly in rural communities where municipal authorities
provide little in the way of services. Hence, projects are based on community initiative and self-help.
Communities are responsible for project identification, cofmancing, procurement oversight, supervision and
operations and maintenance of investments. In a small number of cases, CDF directly supports municipal
investment; in these cases municipal govemments would undertake these same responsibilities.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Two altemative models were considered:
1. Subcontracting of project management to an international nongovernmental organization. Other
operations under way in Kosovo draw on international contractors or NGOs as a means to get the operation
up and operating quickly in a post-conflict enviromnent. This was rejected because of the negative impact
on sustainability and local ownership and the decision to draw on existing local professional capacity.
2. Creation of a Municipal Development Fund rather than a Community Development Fund. An
alternative approach would have been to establish a Municipal Development Fund that was implemented
through municipal governments rather than through project committees established at the
village/neighbourhood level. This approach was rejected in favor of working directly with local
communities for two main reasons. First, the main objective of the project is to improve living conditions
in poor communities. The most effective means to achieve this objective is considered to be reaching out to
and working directly with poor communities rather than relying entirely on municipal governments, which
are currently focused on building their own capacity and restoring levels of existing services within main
municipal centres and have very limited resources and capacity to increase service provision in poorer
areas. Further, experience elsewhere has shown that communities are best-placed to identify their
development needs and have the capacity to organize to address those needs if empowered to do so.
Second, other donors, particularly the EU, UNDP, Habitat, OSCE are working directly to build the
capacity of municipal governments through provision of technical assistance and training, and in the case
of the EU, channel funding through municipalities for capital investment purposes.
This project is seen to complement the more municipally-driven approach of other donors. That said, the
CDF coordinates closely with municipalities and ensures that all projects receive municipal approval.
Some investments are made in direct partnership with the municipality with a focus on improving service
delivery, responding to the needs of poor, under-served areas, and ensuring sustainability of investments.
The project design provides for flexibility to allow the role of the CDF to evolve over time with changing
institutional responsibilities and organizational capacities on the ground. During the mid-term review of
the project, the project design will be reviewed and reevaluated. Adjustments will be made as appropriate.
- 10 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Projet                   (PSR) Rafings
(Bank-financ:ed projets only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Water Supply                       Kosovo Water Supply Project
Rural Development                  Emergency Farm
Reconstruction Project
Other development agencies
European Agency for Reconstruction   Municipal and Local
Investment Fund
HABITAT/UNDP/UNMIK                 Kosovo Municipal
Administration Project
USAID                              Community Infrastructure and
Services Program
UNDP                               Village Employment and
Rehabilitation Program
CIDA                               Kosovo Local Initiatives
Program
UNHCR                              Kosovo Women's Initiative
1P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
In designing this operation, the Bank and CDF staff have drawn from two main sources: (i) World Bank
experience with social funds in more than 95 countries since 1987; and (ii) CDF operational experience
during the 13-month pilot phase under financing from the Post-Conflict Fund. The lessons and experience
of municipal development funds and relevant sector investment operations have also been taken into
account.
Social Funds: Social funds are a relatively new development tool which allow poor people and
communities to become actively involved in their own development. They work by supporting small
projects-from infrastructure and social services to training and micro-enterprise development-identified
by communities. Social funds appraise, finance, and supervise these grants, which then may be managed by
either local govermments, NGOs, line ministries, community groups, or local project committees.
Preliminary findings from an impact assessment study of six social fund programs suggests that social
funds, when compared with other projects, effectively target poor people, maintain infrastructure better,
and deliver long-term improvements. But there was a need identified for greater integration of social funds
with national economic and administrative policies, more fruitful collaboration with local govemments,
improved targeting mechanisms to reach vulnerable groups, and a shift in assessment to focus on
development outcomes rather than mere infrastructure provision. Experiences with social funds in
neighboring countries suggest that microlending and grantmaking operations should not be combined in the
same social fund.
- 11 -



These lessons are reflected in CDF design in the following ways:
* provision of financing for capacity-building programs to effectively reach vulnerable groups;
* inclusion of services projects as well as infrastructure projects to reach vulnerable groups;
* decision to have local project committees manage projects to better promote development outcomes;
* partnership with municipal authorities on village-level targeting, project selection, implementation and
operations and maintenance;
* strong focus on the institutional and financial viability and sustainability of investments;
* participation of CDF in national coordination fora to improve integration with sector-wide policies; and
*   decision to exclude microcredit operations.
Lessons from CDF Pilot Phase: The pilot phase provided an opportunity to adapt the social fund model to
the specific context of Kosovo. Some key lessons reflected in project design are identified here and
described in greater detail in Annex 13:
* Sufficient capacity clearly exists to have the social fund operated by a local institution; the Community
Development Fund has been able to recruit qualified staff and establish itself as a credible, independent
operational entity under a local board of directors;
- Greater technical assistance needs to be provided to communities in making informed choices,
understanding both the costs and benefits of investments, and developing the organizational and
financial capacity to manage investments over the long-term;
- Most poor communities in Kosovo are able to meet CDF community contribution requirements of 15%
but a limited number of very poor or sparsely populated communities are not and, in these cases, a
sliding scale with objective criteria has been developed which allows for a lower contribution;
* A reserve fund and targeted promotion efforts in mixed and minority communities, begun under the
pilot phase, should continue to ensure equal access to project resources;
*   Effective coordination with local authorities and intemational organizations is essential since the CDF
will operate across a range of sectors and all municipalities; guidelines have been developed in this
area.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Local communities and municipalities have shown clear commitment to the project through their high
demand for financing and their willingness to provide cofinancing and to be actively involved in all stages
of the project cycle. Central, regional and municipal UNMIK authorities have welcomed the CDF and are
actively involved in its operations. Local NGOs and associations are showing interest in the CDF and
increasing numbers of service programs are being submitted to the CDF.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Kosovo-wide efforts to support community development have focused narrowly on quick impact
interventions to achieve rapid, visible results. Municipal development programs are currently focused
largely at the center of government on the development of an institutional and procedural framework for
municipal government and larger-scale municipal investments. Both of these efforts are led and primarily
staffed by internationals. The Community Development Fund, in contrast, offers a cost-effective
mechanism to mobilize community initiative, improve living conditions and empower communities to
address their own problems. It does this largely by drawing on existing professional capacity within
Kosovo and building a mechanism whereby Kosovars help and set a positive example for each other.
- 12-



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Given the demand-driven nature of CDF operations, traditional cost-benefit analysis cannot be completed
ex ante. Also, the lack of data at the present time on pilot community projects, as well as the
inaccessibility of data from comparators such as traditional government programs, NGOs , private
construction companies, and donor agencies in Kosovo, precludes the carrying out of full-scale cost
effectiveness study at this stage. However, during implementation, all community projects will be subject
to a simple cost-effectiveness analysis based on the size of the project, financing mechanism, cost per
beneficiary, local capacity, and physical output on microprojects. The CDF will also help communities to
use least-cost analysis in comparing various technical solutions, including the future expected costs of
operations and maintenance, in their project decision-making. The Operational Manual provides
procedures for carrying out cost-effectiveness analysis during the selection and preparation of projects.
During the Mid-Term Review of the CDF Project, the timing of a full scale cost-effectiveness review will
be discussed, based on the status of implementation of community projects. The analysis will examine: (i)
the project rationale within the broader economic context of the Transitional Support Strategy and the
Public Investment Program; and (ii) the cost-effectiveness in the use of funds for CDF community projects
compared with funds provided by NGOs and other donors working in Kosovo who are willing to provide
cost information. A detailed analysis will be carried out covering: (a) direct costs (capital costs covering
labor, materials and services costs at project site) and indirect costs (overhead costs covering transport and
travel costs and office overheads); (b) the employment effect and the demand for materials and services
based on the analysis in (a); and (c) cost effectiveness indicators (measurable physical outputs for each
type of project e.g. cost per unit of pipeline, or cost per unit of school rehabilitation). The analysis will
also examine the socio-economic background of the population affected by the projects, drawing from
information available in the LSMS study, currently being carried out in Kosovo, and from a Poverty
Assessment planned for next year. Data on community projects maintained and updated in the MIS will be
used and made available for carrying out the cost effectiveness exercise.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Cost Recovery. CDF investments include investments in social and economic infrastructure, community
services and environmental improvements. Priority will be given to projects with high social, economic
and environmental impacts. Many investments will be non-revenue generating. However, for
revenue-generating investments, such as water projects and solid waste disposal, the CDF will ensure that
cost recovery mechanisms are established to ensure user fees are raised to cover operations and
maintenance costs. For village-based water investments, which form the bulk of CDF investment currently,
cost recovery guidelines have been drafted. These provide guidance to communities on how to establish the
organizational capacity to operate and maintain their system, as well as how to determine the level of user
fees. The focus on cost recovery should build local awareness of the need to pay for such services and help
build the local revenue base to ensure the sustainability of investments and reduce the demand for future
subsidies.
Cost Sharing. Communities are required to finance up to 15% of the project cost. At least half of this
amount must be in cash and the remainder may be in kind (parts or labor). The contribution may come
from the community itself and/or from the local municipal authority. The cash contribution must be
- 13 -



provided to CDF in full before contracting. Communities determine their own means of collecting the
contribution. (In some communities, better-off households subsidize lesser-off ones; others spread costs
evenly.) This cost sharing between CDF and project beneficiaries is considered essential to: (i) get
community "buy-in" to the project; (ii) ensure the proposed project addresses a legitimate need; and (iii)
give communities an incentive to keep projects no larger than needed and in line with the local capacity to
sustain them. The CDF recognizes that the poorest communities may not have the means to make a 15%
contribution. Hence, they have developed criteria on which basis a community may be eligible to provide a
lower contribution, with no cash involvement. See Annex 13 for more discussion.
Fiscal Impact:
There will be no fiscal burden on the govemment from this project, as financing is grant-based and
provided directly to the CDF, a non-govermmental organization. Project financing will contribute to
meeting the vast financial requirements necessary to develop local infrastructure and services to a
reasonable level. Local govemment resources to meet such investment requirements are limited.
Municipalities have only been recently established and have insufficient funds to cover recurrent
expenditures, let alone capital investment. CDF investment will be targeted towards low-income
communities that largely have to rely on their own limited resources to improve services. Such capital
grant financing is justified in this context. Care will be taken to ensure that project appraisal takes into
account the level of recurrent expenditures necessary to operate and maintain the investments. Combined
with a strong focus on cost recovery. investments should be made that are in line with the local capacity to
sustain them.
3. Technical:
Community projects financed by this operation will cut across a range of sectors. In each sector, CDF will
comply with Kosovo-wide standards, where available, and will apply international best practices. Due to
the high demand for projects related to water and sanitation, the lack of policy guidelines or technical
standards in Kosovo, and the important environmental aspects, a consultant was hired to advise CDF on
water sector policies. The consultant's findings and recommendations largely relate to ensuring that
communities are sufficiently informed to make appropriate choices about water and sanitation investments,
and developing programs to assist beneficiaries develop the institutional capacity to manage, operate and
maintain the investments over the long-temn. The CDF is committed to following-up on the
recommendations. Key policy guidelines adopted by the CDF are provided in Annex 15.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The CDF will be the executing agency for the project in partnership with local communities. The CDF was
established under the auspices of the Kosovo Fund for Open Society (KFOS) with the expectation that it
would eventually be spun-off as an independent institution. During appraisal, the World Bank, OSI/Soros
Foundation, KFOS and CDF agreed that CDF had developed the capacity to operate independently and
should become independent. It was further agreed that registration as a local foundation under the NIvNIK
NGO Regulation (Reg. No. 1999/22 on the "Registration and Operation of NGOs in Kosovo") would be
most appropriate. An application for registration was submitted to UNMIK on October 24, 1999 and was
approved. The CDF became legally registered as an non-govemmental foundation on November 8, 2000.
- 14 -



The CDF will be the legal beneficiary of new World Bank financing and have direct responsibility for fund
management. The U.N. Mission in Kosovo has been consulted and supports these institutional
arrangements. The Grant Agreement between the World Bank and the CDF will be endorsed by UNMIK.
4.2 Project management:
The CDF has established strong project management capacity during the pilot phase that provides the
foundation for implementation of the proposed project. However, further development of the CDF's
institutional capacity will be required to manage the operations as they expand. The World Bank and CDF
agreed on the following steps to strengthen the CDF's institutional capacity:
Technical/operational: (i) the CDF will arrange a study tour to the Romania Social Fund and
explore hiring the Fund's Director for Promotion to assist in improving CDF promotion and
community development activities; (ii) the CDF will follow-up on the recommendations made by
the international water sector expert and request further technical assistance in this and other
sectors if necessary; (iii) the CDF will visit selected social funds in Latin America to learn from
their experience.
Finance: The Finance Manager will visit Bosnia-Herzegovina to receive training from the
Sarajevo-based World Bank Financial Management Specialist and Disbursement Officer and to
gain hands-on experience by working with the finance managers of two Project Implementing
Units.
Procurement: The CDF will explore possible training opportunities for the CDF Procurement
Officer, in collaboration with the WB.
MIS: Consultant services in further MIS development will be provided by an MIS Specialist and
from the Armenia Social Fund MIS Specialist.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The CDF has one Procurement Officer on staff who has had gained substantial experience during the pilot
project. To date, the CDF has handled more than 10 national competitive bidding (NCB), one national
shopping (NS), and several individual consultant contracts. The procurement capacity has been assessed
and found to be satisfactory. Recomendations have been made to provide futher intensive training to the
procurement officer so as to strengthen her capacity. The CDF has also agreed to hire an additional person
as a procurement assistant as the workload is anticipated to increase under the new project and is likely to
be unmanageable for one person.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A Bank financed consultant has established a management information system and a financial management
system at the CDF. This system is capable of providing accurate and timely information regarding project
resources and expenditures, including planning, intemal controls, accounting and financial reporting and
audit arrangements relating to the project. The project chart of accounts will be incorporated into the
system. The Project Management Reporting (PMRs) formats were discussed and agreed with the CDF.
The CDF Finance Manager visited Bosnia-Herzegovina in early November and received training from the
Sarajevo-based World Bank Financial Management Specialist and Disbursement Officer, as well as four
days training from two implementing agencies with well-functioning financial management systems. The
CDF will engage external private auditors acceptable to the Bank to conduct the audit of the project
accounts, including an entity audit that will cover the CDF's Financial Statements, Special Account,
Statements of Expenditures and PMRs, and assessment of the adequacy of the CDF's accounting and
internal control systems, in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. The terms of reference
- 15 -



for the audit will be agreed with the Bank.
Disbursement arrangements have been developed based on the experience and lessons leamed under the
Post Conflict Fund and Swiss grants. Disbursement arrangements under the project will commence on the
basis of traditional disbursement methods (i.e., direct payments, replenishments of the Special Account on
the basis of SOEs and full documentation). Once the CDF capacity and experience has improved with
regard to intemal controls, implementation, budgeting and forecasting, the CDF, in consultation with the
Bank, will decide on the timing and transition of the use of the quarterly PMRs for disbursement purposes.
It is expected that CDF will have the capacity to prepare the first full set of PMRs by September 30, 2001.
The CDF will open and maintain the Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank for
disbursement of Grant funds. The CDF will open and maintain a local transit account for local
expenditures and a community cofmancing account for receipt of community cash contributions. An
independent accredited auditing firm will audit these accounts annually. Detailed disbursement and
financial arrangements are outlined in Annex 6.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Through the CDF, the project would finance small-scale social and economic infrastructure projects, such
as water and sanitation, rural roads, school construction, and solid waste management up to US$85,000, as
well as social services programs and environmental projects. Some of these projects clearly have beneficial
environmental impacts (reforestation, waste clean-ups, etc.) but others may have negative impacts if they
are not designed and implemented correctly. These negative impacts are, however, generally remediable or
can be mitigated.
The Project Team has reviewed the legal framework and central and local capacity to conduct
environmental assessments and reviews. The UN Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) has not yet clarified the
legal situation for environmental issues in Kosovo. There is practically no existing effective environmental
legal framework and the capacity of environmental institutions to follow up and enforce legislation is
limited. Former monitoring institutions and their networks were linked to Belgrade and are not currently
operating in Kosovo. Some local expertise on environmental issues does exist but is limited, mainly
comprising individuals with some environmental expertise.
The CDF will review all proposals for community projects against a set of eligibility criteria, including
environmental criteria, which are specified in the Operational Manual. During project appraisal, the CDF
screen projects for environmental impacts according to a screening checklist included in the Operational
Manual. At this time, the need for an in-house environmental review (ER) or a limited environmental
assessment (LEA) conducted by local consultants is determined. In the case of negative impacts, the OM
includes recommended mitigation measures of various project types which are in accordance with
environmental guidelines generally approved by the World Bank for social funds (see Annex 1 1). All
project appraisal data will be tracked through the Management Information System (MIS) and available for
post review.
Local capacity, while limited, is considered sufficient for case-by-case review and assessment of
environmental impacts and recommended mitigation measures (ER) by CDF staff and limited
environmental assessments (LEA) by outside local consultants. Projects requiring a full environmental
impact assessment would not meet cost effectiveness criteria for CDF funding and would not be eligible for
financing. During the pilot phase, CDF staff successfully identified, jointly with the community, mitigation
measures and monitored their implementation (e.g., traffic safety training and signage accompanied a road
- 16-



rehabilitation project). To build CDF capacity further, the Project will finance training for CDF technical
staff in environmental assessment procedures.
At the initiative of CDF staff, project eligibility criteria applied during the pilot phase have now been
modified to provide additional incentives for communities to propose environmental improvement projects.
Communities already benefiting from one project (usually infrastructure) may qualify for a second project
if the project: (i) provides a social service or (ii) benefits the environment. This is explained to
communities during the promotion phase. The expectation is that this will result in a larger number of
environmental improvement projects.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Key stakeholders include the applicant community and municipal government. Stakeholders will be
consulted on a case-by-case basis, depending upon the nature of the proposed project, during the screening
process and during development of plans to address potential environmental impacts. Typically, CDF
promotion staff and appraisal engineers will hold discussions on-site with the community during screening
and with both the community and the municipality in preparing and reviewing environmental assessments
and environment management plans if and when required. When possible, experts within the municipality
participate directly in preparation of the environmental assessment and plan. Communities must obtain all
necessary permits and clearances from the municipality before final approval by CDF of any project
proposal.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The Community Development Fund has developed several performance indicators that will monitor the
impacts of CDF interventions, such as number and type of environmental improvement projects and
indicators of water quality (see Annex I). In addition, the Project will finance beneficiary assessments that
will include assessments of environmental, quality of life and health impacts.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Three social development outcomes are sought in the project. First, advancing community development in
the poorest and most conflict-affected communities. Second, promoting participatory, inclusive processes
in communities that identify common goals and priorities cutting across subsets of the community. Third,
building bridges between communities and local govenmment institutions.
The first objective is to help empower communities to examine their common needs, set priorities and
cooperate together and with CDF in achieving improvements in the quality of life and prospects for the
future. In many parts of Kosovo, the strong cohesion of communities, despite the battering of conflict and
- 17 -



the material losses, remains their biggest strength. This project will build on that asset. Each project is a
clear demonstration of something the community has achieved by identifying a shared priority, co-financing
CDF investments, participating in contracting and works supervision and, finally, undertaking full or joint
responsibility for operations and maintenance.
How is "community" defined? For the purposes of this project, it is generally defined as a village in rural
areas and as a neighborhood in urban areas. What are referred to as villages in Kosovo may have
populations ranging anywhere from 150 to 5,000 inhabitants. CDF does not always accept
"self-definitions" of what a community is. For example, the residents of an ethnically or nationally mixed
village might define themselves as two or more communities but CDF would, during project appraisal,
consider social aspects and identify whether all potential project beneficiaries (and contributors to the
project) had participated in project identification.
This relates to the second objective of promoting participatory, inclusive processes in communities. There
are very few ethnically mixed communities left in Kosovo today but special efforts are being made by CDF
to reach out and support those that remain. Antagonism and distrust between different national
communities runs very deep. Although the conflict has ended, the violence continues daily, engendering
renewed hostility, insecurity and antagonism between Albanians, Serbs, Roma, Turks, and other groups.
The CDF will operate on the principle of ensuring equitable access, on the part of all national communities
in Kosovo, to CDF resources. But steps toward actual reconciliation will come slowly and only once
groups feels some basic measure of security exists. The demand-driven nature of CDF operations raises
difficult issues because, in some instances, communities will be seeking resources to finance additional
separation and exclusion. Projects in mixed areas must be considered on a case-by-case basis after a
careful assessment of local needs and dynamics.
In a similar way, CDF staff would work with communities to encourage inclusion of women, youth and
other groups. Having an impact in this area requires CDF to develop an effective and intensive promotion
capacity. CDF requires evidence of the inclusion of women, youth and other groups in community project
identification processes, as do several intemational NGOs working in communities. Community leaders
are familiar with this requirement and it leads to some change in their behavior but not necessarily in
attitudes. In addition, CDF promotion staff "take the pulse" of the larger community by holding one-on-one
or sidebar discussions with women, youth and others. Changes in gender roles face tremendous obstacles
in Kosovo, as confirmed by the Social Assessment recently completed in Kosovo, and will be achieved only
gradually. In the interim, distinct, targeted mechanisms are needed to reach groups whose needs are not
given sufficient priority by the community or village as a whole. For that reason, the project includes a
Small Grants Program for national NGOs and community-based groups targeting women, youth, and
disabled (including war disabled).
The third social objective is to build links between communities and local government institutions,
primarily municipal government but also utility companies and Centers for Social Work. Communities
have excessive expectations from public institutions (a legacy from the socialist system) at the same time
they are excessively distrustful (a legacy of the past ten years of repression). CDF staff make conscious
efforts not to come between communities and local government; all communities are responsible for
applying directly to the municipality for necessary pernits and clearances. Capacity-building programs,
where appropriate, will provide training for both communities and local govemnment officials. For water
supply and sewerage connections to existing networks, communities and utilities must agree on rates and
methods of cost recovery and operations and maintenance arrangements. Finally, CDF has completed an
assessment of ways in which CDF operations might assist in the development of Centers for Social Work
which are being reconstituted across Kosovo and improve their outreach to under-served communities in
- 18-



Kosovo.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Key stakeholders include communities, municipalities, and local nongovernmental organizations.
Communities. The CDF requires that all project-related decisions are made in a transparent and
participatory manner. It is up to the community to organize the process but generally it comprises public
meetings and election of a project committee to be responsible for managing the project and relations with
the CDF. Minutes of all meetings are prepared, noting who participated. Attention is given to the
participation of women. CDF staff meet separately with women if necessary to ensure that they were
involved in and support the choice of project. One-on-one visits with other members of the community are
also held by CDF staff to "feel the pulse" of communities, survey awareness and attitudes toward the recent
meetings and the process as a whole. Communities also participate by cofinancing the investment and are
involved in the bid evaluation and supervision of the project.
Municipalities. The first visit made in most municipalities, before village-level promotion efforts begin, is
to the municipal administrator. CDF staff explain CDF methodology, discuss communities identified for
targeting by the CDF within that municipality, and seek input on whether these communities do in fact meet
the criteria and are not sufficiently served but public or non-governmental resources. During the course of
project identification and implementation, CDF tries to encourage communities to work directly with
municipal administration rather than acting as a go-between. Nonetheless, discussions are held with
municipal administrators, particularly on sensitive social aspects, where the municipality would assume
responsibility for maintenance of investments, or where the proposed project has implications beyond the
community, for example rural roads. At this point, municipalities have almost no investment budget but,
once available, cofinancing from municipal government would be very important in financing community
projects.
Community Organizations. Local NGOs are usually the second visit when promoters travel for the first
time to a targeted municipality. They are a valuable source of information on the real needs in communities
across the municipality and the current activities already under way to address those needs. The Mother
Theresa Society is one important partner in many communities. Religious leaders serve a key coordinating
role in some communities. NGOs are also direct applicants and implementation partners for services and
environmental programs.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs are direct beneficiaries of the CDF Project as implementing partners for services and environmental
improvement programs.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The institutional arrangements have been designed with social development outcomes in mind.
Communities, the ultimate intended beneficiaries, are the direct implementing partners of the CDF and are
involved in every step of project identification and decision-making so as to empower them and build local
capacity. The CDF also facilitates the building of relations between municipal authorities and
communities and between neighboring communities.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The performance monitoring indicators include social indicators that will be evaluated. The MIS will track
- 19 -



percentage and types of beneficiaries within communities as an indicator of inclusiveness. Beneficiary and
stakeholder assessments will examine community views on inclusion, attitudes and modes of cooperation
between communities and local government institutions and mobilization strategies within communities.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See section 5 above for environmental assessment procedures.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Despite the requirements, in a post-conflict transition, to provide rapid and visible assistance to
communities, attention has been paid throughout project design and during early implementation by CDF
staff to steps to ensure the impact of these projects will be sustained. Clearly this is a learning process but
the results will improve steadily as the experience of project management staff increases and the capacities
of key counterparts are more fully understood.
The project seeks to address sustainability objectives by requiring co-financing from communities,
involving them in every step of the process, providing training for them in contracting, management and
project O&M. Many Kosovar communities have clearly expressed their interest, not in emergency aid, but
in development assistance. The Community Development Fund will require co-investments and
participation on the part of communities and will provide training in operations, maintenance, cost recovery
and management aspects; the emphasis is on building a base for development rather than on "quick impact"
interventions.
The goal of the project is also to build the CDF as an effective, local institution that can play a role in
community development. Whether the CDF will have a long-term role is uncertain at this stage. If the
CDF proves itself to be an effective institution that can deliver results on the ground, the likelihood is that it
will attract financing and survive beyond the lifetime of the project and continue to support community
development over the longer term.
- 20 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Significant amounts of grant resources,    M          Reallocate resources where demand exists (i.e.,
with no community contribution                        works in communities with limited other donor
requirement will crowd out CDF                        funding available) and provide incentives to
financing.                                            communities to develop services by offering
follow-on projects. Encourage other donors to
adopt a similar cofinancing policy.
Unclear or shifting institutional           M         Track in technical audits and beneficiary
responsibilities will impact operations and           assessments and assist communities and
maintenance of investments.                           municipalities to develop revised operations and
maintenance strategies.
Lack of qualified trainers will reduce     M          Use local capacity where it exists and call on
quality (and demand) for capacity                    intemational expertise where needed; resources
building programs and lowering of                     budgeted for this purpose.
priority of this component.
High levels of tension and conflict         H         Identify credible intermediaries who can act as
between ethnic communities block efforts              agents for CDF and operate in minority areas,
to support mixed community projects or                such as UNMIK and other intemational
ensure equitable access for minority                  organizations.
communities.
From Components to Outputs
Inability of some communities (no           M         Vulnerability scale has been developed to reduce
available cash resources or very low                  community contribution in these cases.
population makes per family contribution
prohibitively costly) leads to exclusion of
some portion of poor and conflict-affected
population.
Strong job market for qualified            M         Ensure that CDF staff understand work of all
professionals in Kosovo, fueled by                    other departments so that personnel changes are
intemational donor-financed programs,                 less disruptive and general institutional
will make it difficult to retain CDF staff            knowledge is preserved. Provide incentives to
once trained.                                        motivate and retain high-performing staff.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1.    The CDF will submit a revised Operational Manual that is acceptable to the Bank.
- 21 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
fO 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
ER 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Ol 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval.   e project complies with
al] other applicable Bank policies.
.Forsterp                #ROicewshW                         Christ/
Team Leader                               anager                    Country Manager
-22-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
KOSOVO: Community Development Fund Project
Hierarchy of Ob1qtves  .   . .,                                                         As. Monoj _  X     r<arAsumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Restore adequate living   Improvements in community  Periodic donor reports, ESW   Political, public security,
conditions and ensure     services and supporting                               economic aspects of transition
sustainability of the     infrastructure targeted to poor                       advance.
reconstruction and recovery   and conflict-affected
effort.                   communities
- 23 -



mKy PXif tma nce
Hierarchy of Objectives   d          Icaps            Monitoring & Evaluation    CerltI Ass          o
Project Development        Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
1. To improve access and   1. Improvement of quality    1. CDF progress reports   1. Community demand exists
quality of community       and availability of community 2. MIS-generated reports  for CDF assistance.
infrastructure and services in  infrastructure and services.   3. Beneficiary assessments    2. Communities are willing
poor and conflict-affected  Impact Indicators:         4. Consultant reports      and able to contribute,
communities.               - Total number and type of    5. Technical Reviews     participate and help sustain
projects.                                              facilities.
- Percentage of population                             3. Assurance of good quality
benefiting from improved                               of works financed under the
community infrastructure and                           project.
services.                                              4. Projects approved are
- Average cost per beneficiary                         cost-effective.
for completed projects.                                5. Poverty targeting is
- Feedback from communities                            adhered to.
on: (i) levels of satisfaction                         6. Moderate levels of tension
regarding their participation                          and conflict between ethnic
in project cycle; and (ii) levels                      communities ensuring
of satisfaction regarding                              equitable access for minority
access and quality of                                  communities.
community infrastructure and
services.
2. To support institutional    1. Improved capacity within  1. Technical assessments of   1. Communities and
capacity-building at the   communities to identify     benefits and improved      contractors are interested in
community and municipal    priorities, manage, operate    performance resulting from    participating in training
level so as to improve the  and maintain investments.   training programs.        activities.
quality and sustainability of   Impact Indicators:     2. Post evaluation of the  2. Timely and effective
service delivery and increase  - Number of training    maintenance of facilities  implementation of training
civic participation in local    programs and trained  financed under the project.   programs.
development.               beneficiaries in the        3. CDF progress reports    3. Skilled trainers are
communities.               4. MIS-generated reports    available.
- Feedback from community  5. Beneficiary assessments    4. Coordination of activities
members on the training    6. Consultant reports       with other agencies and
received.                                              donors on capacity building
- Number of community                                  activities in Kosovo.
projects carried out which are
operated and maintained one,
two and three years after
implementation.
2. Changes in perceptions
and modes of cooperation
between communities and
local governments.
Impact Indicators:         1. Beneficiary and
-- Attitudes of communities   stakeholder assessments
toward municipal
governments and/or public
utilities
-- Attitudes of municipal
authorities/utilities toward
CDF beneficiary communities
- 24 -



Key P"fon*ance,
Hierarchy of Objectives                trs            Monitoring & E.aluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Rehabilitated and       1. # and types of community  1. CDF progress reports   1. Community demand exists
maintained infrastructure  projects.                   2. MIS-generated reports   for CDF assistance.
facilities in poor and     2. # and types of beneficiaries 3. Beneficiary assessments    2. Communities maintain
war-affected communities.   for each community project.  4. Technical reviews     investments.
3. % of population benefiting  5. Bank supervision reports.  3. Supply of qualified
from projects to total     6. Consultant reports.     contractors willing to
population targeted regions.  7. Special studies      participate.
4. # of job days created at the                       4. Supply of competent
community level.                                       consultants can be identified
5. Level of community                                 (technical design, supervision,
contributions to project                              trained social and institutional
financing.                                            specialists, local promoters)
6. Client satisfaction with the                       5. Infrastructure facilities are
quality of infrastructure                             maintained.
facilities and works.                                 6. Projects approved are
7. Output indicators in                               cost-effective.
communities receiving
investments related to project
type in terms of quality and
availability:
a) Water projects:
- Percentage of population
having access to water.
- Percentage of population
having access to sewerage,
latrines.
- Number of sewage units
served by the repair.
- Number of latrine
improvements.
b) Irrigation projects:
- % increase in Ha. of
irrigated land
% increase agricultural
production
c) School projects
- Percentage of children who
have access to schools as a
result of the project, compared
to percentage of students who
had access to school prior to
project.
- 25 -



d) Transport projects:
- Distance/time to nearest
town, major road as a result of
the project, compared to
distance/time to nearest town
prior to project.
e) Health projects
- Number of patients using the
health facility as a result of
the project, compared to the
number of patients using the
facility prior to the project.
2. Community programs and  1. Number and types of      Same as above               1. Community demand exists
services, capacity building    community services projects.                       for CDF assistance.
and special initiatives targeted 2. Number and types of                           2. Supply of competent
to disabled, single heads of   beneficiaries of community                         consultants to provide TA and
households and youth in poor services projects.                                   training required for
and conflict affected      3. Number of trained                                   community services projects.
communities, as well as    communities for managing                                3. Communities are willing
communities that need special and administering community                         and able to provide required
attention.                 services.                                              contribution for the financing
4. Number of follow-up                                 of the project.
community services projects.                           4. Timely and effective
5. Percentage of mixed                                 implementation of training
minorities participating in                            programs.
community services projects.                           5. Moderate levels of tension
and conflict between ethnic
communities ensuring
equitable access to minority
communities.
3. Improved capacity to plan,  1. Number of community  Same as above               1. Communities and
finance, implement, manage   projects operational and                              contractors are interested in
and sustain community      maintained one and two years                           participating in training
investments, deliver       after investment completed.                             activities.
community social services,   2. Number of training                                 2. Skilled trainers are
and improved capacity of key  programs implemented.                                available and training is
partners, such as          2. Number of communities                               timely and effective in
communities, local         receiving training.                                     capacity-building.
government, utilities,     3. Number of contractors                                3. Coordination of activities
contractors, CBOs and others receiving training.                                   with other agencies and
4. Number of NGOs receiving                            donors on capacity-building
training.                                              activities in Kosovo.
- 26 -



6. Number of local residents
trained in community
promotion activities.
7. Percentage of bids
qualified/not qualified.
8. MIS generated reports
providing information on the
project's training activities,
including training
expenditures, profiles on
participation and trainers.
9. Feedback from participants
on the effectiveness of the
training programs.
4. Development of CDF as an 1. Ratio of operating costs to  1. MIS-generated reports  1. CDF staff turnover is kept
efficient, transparent and  value of projects implemented CDF staff reports       to a minimum.
accountable local institution   2. Feedback from audit,  2. Beneficiary and stakeholder 2. Sufficient priority is given
that supports community    procurement and technical    assessments              to training CDF staff.
development throughout     reports on CDF's management 3. Annual staff performance   3. Willingness of CDF staff to
Kosovo.                    of community projects, project evaluation records      participate in training.
finances, procurement and the prior and post procurement   4. Communities are willing
services CDF provides to the  reviews                 and able to provide their
clients.                   4. Annual financial audits.   contributions.
3. Feedback from CDF staff   Cost effectiveness analysis
on their professional      5. Bank supervision reports
satisfaction in terms of   6. Bank mid-term report
productivity, satisfaction and
growth.
4. Number of community
projects appraised, under
implementation and
completed by year, as
compared to the first stage of
implementation under the
pilot project.
5. Number of CDF staff who
have participated in training
6. Level of community
contributions to community
project financing.
- 27 -



Hieraib  of OW   va;      IF dIca0         s          Mionito ring8E &     lation   Citical A~ sMptjons
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
Community Investment       US$8.52 million              *  MIS-generated project  Community demand for
Projects                                                   implementation report  CDF-financed projects.
* MIS-generated financial
reports               Community capacity to
*  CDF staff reports     finance investment share and
*  Audits                meet other eligibility
*  Beneficiary assessments requirements
Support for Institutional  US$ 0.21 million           Same as above              Qualified trainers are
Capacity-building (includes                             *  Associated            available
efforts involving                                          implementing partners
implementing partners,                                     and consultants       Demand for training exists
contractors, municipal
governments
Project managementlCDF     US$ 1.59 million           Same as above              Minimal staff turnover
Institutional Support                                   *  Annual staff
performance evaluation  Sufficient investment in
records              training for staff
- 28 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
KOSOVO: Community Development Fund Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$8.52 million
Community Investment Projects
The CDF will provide primary financing, on a grant basis, for small-scale projects identified as priorities
by communities themselves. Communities will provide cofinancing. Eligible projects include:
Community Works (up to $85,000)
*   social infrastructure
*   economic infrastructure
*   sanitation and environment
Community and Social Services (up to $25,000)
*   small grants programs targeted to addressing the needs of vulnerable groups
*   follow-up programs for Community Works, including health and hygiene education, solid waste
management, operations and maintenance planning, establishment of parent-teacher activities in
schools
*   initiatives to improve the environment
See Project Typology in Annex 12.
Communities must provide cofinancing of at least 15% of total project cost; at least half in cash and
the remainder in-kind (labor, materials). The CDF has introduced a vulnerability index based on which
they will reduce the investment share for extremely poor communities. This "community investment
share" has, in some communities, reduced the demand for CDF resources since many intemational
organizations operating in Kosovo require no community contribution at all. However, demand still
exceeds CDF funding and in all cornmunities where the CDF has operated to date the investment share
has been mobilized willingly. Such cofmancing increases the communities' stake in the project and
their sense of ownership and commitment to operations and maintenance. It is expected that the CDF
will also form partnerships with other organizations to leverage its' financing and improve the impact
and sustainability of community projects. One sewerage project currently under way in Shtime, for
example, is cofmanced directly by the municipality with related works financed by other donors.
Local communities apply to the CDF for financing according to clear policies and procedures defined
in the Operational Manual. The CDF screens the proposals to ensure their eligibility. Eligible
proposals are subject to a detailed social, technical, economic, environmental, and institutional
appraisal and forwarded to a project approval committee for final approval. Approved projects are
implemented by local private contractors selected through a competitive bidding process in the case of
infrastructure projects and through service providers, such as NGOs and consultants, in the case of
services projects. Communities are full participants in the contracting process; they receive bids and
participate with CDF staff in Bid Evaluation Committees. Project quality is assured by independent
project supervisors contracted by the CDF. Project management and operations are monitored after the
- 29 -



completion of works to ensure the facilities are properly operated and maintained. The CDF
encourages communities to apply for supplementary financing for services projects to increase the
impact of their investments. Stand-alone services programs for targeted groups are also eligible for
financing.
Project Component 2 - US$0.21 million
Support for Capacity Building
This component will finance institutional development focused primarily on:
* building capacity within communities;
* expanding links between communities and key partners.
Communities. Communities in targeted areas will receive technical assistance from CDF staff and
promoters in preparing community applications, participatory approaches to identifying community needs,
operations and maintenance, community contracting and project supervision, and other areas identified as
priorities by communities or CDF. Leadership from the CDF staff will be important in shaping and
developing this component to reflect needs expressed on the ground. The CDF will also build the capacity
and professionalism of local contractors through training on competitive bidding processes, and the
capacity of technical design and supervision consultants through expecting high standards of work and
training in project supervision. In year one, the CDF plans to provide extemal training to interested
communities in a range of areas: procurement, operations and maintenance, community participation,
proposal preparation and project implementation. It will also provide training to local contractors on
competitive bidding procedures. In year two, a capacity-building program will be developed based on a
needs assessment at the end of year one.
Partnerships. The project will build partnerships between communities and municipal authorities, utility
companies, local NGOs and neighboring communities. Building relationships between communities and
municipal-level government will be important both for improving community access to public resources
and improving local government accountability and service orientation. The CDF has not been involved
in direct capacity-building support to municipal governments, as this is well covered by other
donors. But CDF efforts are complementary to these programs. The CDF seeks to make local
governments more accountable, by encouraging communities to be proactive in asking for
improvements in basic services. CDF has also brokered discussions between communities and utility
companies regarding connections to existing networks and methods of cost recovery consistent with
community needs and priorities. Links between neighboring communities are also being formed. In one
project two communities have come forward to request construction of a shared reservoir for two village
water supply systems. In another example, one community is constructing a landfill and has requests from
neighboring villages to pay for access and help to finance maintenance costs. CDF is also looking to
support partnerships between national associations, Centres for Social Work and local communities that
can improve services for handicapped, elderly and other vulnerable groups within communities.
- 30 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 1.59 million
Project Management
This component will finance:
*   CDF operational costs, including staff salaries, vehicles, equipment and operational costs
*   Institutional development programs for CDF such as staff training and study tours
*   Evaluation and monitoring, audits, beneficiary and stakeholder assessments
Significant professional capacity exists within Kosovo to operate and manage this operation. The first nine
months of operation of the CDF have demonstrated this. Program management, project appraisal, project
supervision, procurement, financial management and community outreach capacities exist but need
strengthening as CDF operations and responsibilities expand to cover all municipalities. Agreement has
been reached with CDF to hire four additional professional staff and two additional vehicles.
In an environment such as Kosovo where the entire public sector is under international administration, it is
even more important to find opportunities to put Kosovars at the forefront of rebuilding their society and
their communities. The goal is for CDF to develop a network across Kosovo that will help it to play a
strategic role in bringing communities and municipal governments together around participatory planning
processes that address long-term needs of the communities. CDF, as a local institution, is committed to
ensuring that all communities in Kosovo have access to its resources and its Board of Directors contains
representatives from different national communities.
- 31 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
KOSOVO: Community Development Fund Project
Lo~cai   ForeignToa
.~~~rj,.i   i.ec CostBy C  ! ...          .       ................ ocaF.  U$iUi<V  WUS $milIio  S$mBon
Community Investment Projects                             8.52          0.00         8.52
Local Institutional Capacity-Building                     0.20          0.01         0.21
Project ManagementlCDF Institutional Support (incl.       1.39          0.20         1.59
Monitoring, Audits and Evaluation)
Total Baseline Cost                                       10.11         0.21        10.32
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs             10.11          0.21        10.32
Total Financing Required              10.11         0.21         10.32
L~caI  Foreign      Total
0o ^ct : Cost  8 SCategq o              US $m,l o    US *io        USimilton
Community Projects                                          7.81          0.00          7.81
Goods                                                       0.02          0.04          0.06
Technical Assistance and Training                           1.30          0.00          1.30
Operating Costs                                             0.99          0.16          1.15
Total Project Costs    10.12           0.20        10.32
Total Financing Required     10.12          0.20         10.32
- 32 -



Annex 4
KOSOVO: Community Development Fund Project
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
NOT APPLICABLE
- 33 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
KOSOVO: Community Development Fund Project
Years Ending
31 December
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3    Year 4     Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           3.4        3.5        2.1        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.5        0.5        0.3       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          3.9        4.0        2.4        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing              3.9        4.0        2.4        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   2.0        2.0        1.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              1.5        1.5        1.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Community Contribution     0.4        0.5        0.4        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      3.9       4.0        2.4        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 34 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
KOSOVO: Community Development Fund Project
Procurement
The procurement of goods, works and services will be done in accordance with the World Bank's
Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, Revised January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999) and the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of
Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, Revised September 1997 and January 1999).
The World Bank's standard bidding documents for goods, and the standard forms of contract and request
for proposals will be used under the Project.
Procurement Management: The Community Development Fund (CDF) will be responsible for overall
project implementation and progress monitoring. The CDF will ensure that the procurement procedures,
criteria, and documentation agreed with IDA, are complied with satisfactorily. The procurement
management responsibilities and procedures are described in further detail in the Operational Manual. The
CDF will oversee the procurement award of contracts under the subproject grants which will be
implemented by the project beneficiaries, namely the various participating communities and municipalities,
following appraisal and approval of the subproject by CDF. In addition, the CDF will provide
procurement training to the beneficiary communities and municipalities. The CDF will also have
responsibility for carrying out procurement intended for CDF operations (incremental operating costs) and
the capacity building component. To carry out its procurement responsibilities, CDF has recruited a
full-time, in-house procurement officer (whose procurement qualifications were reviewed by the Bank
during project appraisal and found to be satisfactory). The procurement capacity of CDF will be
strengthened through the employment of an additional procurement assistant and formal training of the
procurement officer during the first six months of project implementation.
Procurement Arrangements
The procurement methods and arrangements applicable to the various expenditure categories under the
Project are summarized below in Table A, and described in more detail in the CDF Operational Manual.
Model bidding documents were prepared by CDF for use under the CDF Pilot Project which was financed
with grant funding from the Post Conflict Trust Fund. These documents, which are based on Bank ECA
Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) were again reviewed at appraisal and found to be suitable for use
under the project. A general procurement notice will be published in the United Nations' Development
Business by December 30, 2000. The GPN will be updated annually for all outstanding procurement.
Procurement under the project would be undertaken in accordance with the procurement arrangements
shown in Table A and Al. The procurement schedule for the project is presented in Table Bl.
The main procurement methods are highlighted below. However, some procurement under this project will
be carried out in accordance with Clause 3.15 of the Guidelines, detailed procedures for which are
described in the CDF Operational Manual. Such procedures will apply to activities not covered under these
methods, such as procurement carried out by communities themselves or where there are no contractors or
suppliers interested in participating in a bid except one in the local community. After establishing that
there will not be any competition, works and services may be procured from such sources in accordance
with the CDF's operational guidelines and subject to the non-objection of the World Bank.
- 35 -



Works
Small works: Small works contracts would be procured using National Competitive Bidding procedures
under lump-sum, fixed price contracts. There will be an estimated total of 85 demand driven NCB
contracts which have a ceiling of US$85,000 each in value. ECA sample bidding documents were adopted
for the CDF use and approved by the RPA under the Pilot Project. The same format of these bidding
documents would be used under the project. Invitation for bids would be advertised in local newspapers.
Minor works: Works contacts that are simple in design and small in value (under US$35,000) would be
procured according to Minor Works procedures. Such works contracts that are labor intensive,
geographically scattered and spread over time, due, in part to climatic conditions, would be procured under
lump-sum fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least 3 (three) qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation and according to Bank guidelines. CDF would use
sample bidding documents developed in the ECA region. The invitation shall include a detailed description
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, and relevant drawings where
applicable. The award would be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract. The aggregate value
under minor works contract is estimated to be US$715,000.
Goods
All goods procurement will be carried out using National Shopping (NS) procedures. No procurement
through international competitive bidding is expected because of the small value of goods packages and low
overall aggregate value (US$329,000) of these goods. Up to nine equipment packages for sub-projects
would also be procured using NS procedures, for equipment such as school furniture and water pumps, for
an estimated aggregate value of US$270,000 with the value of each contract below US$40,000. The
overall aggregate value of all goods contracts under IS and NS is estimated at US$270,000.
Consultant Services and Training
Except for a few consulting services that would require individual international consultants (each contract
not to exceed US$20,000 and an aggregate value of US$100,000), aLnost all of the consultants would be
hired from the local market.
Consultant Qualification (CQ) procedures would be used for contracting furms and /or NGOs for the
following assignments: (a) project design and supervision services; (b) technical assistance and training for
sub-project beneficiaries; (c) Beneficiary Assessments; and (d) Technical Reviews. Design and supervision
services may be contracted using procedures whereby the client would prepare the TOR and request
expressions of interest and information on the consultants' experience and competence relevant to the types
of services required in order to form a short list of qualified firms. When the need for the service arises, the
client would approach any one of the short listed firms to submit a combined technical-financial proposal
and then be invited for contract negotiations. A total of seven such contracts are anticipated under this
procedure with contract values not exceeding US$40,000 and an estimated aggregate value of
US$295,000. Consultant Qualification (CQ) will also be used for community service projects. Up to 78
such contracts, not to exceed US$25,000 each (with an aggregate value estimated at US$390,000) will be
financed by CDF. Communities could apply to CDF for financing specific service activities. Based on
invitations for expressions of interest from the CDF, potential service providers (primarily NGOs and local
associations) would submit proposals to the CDF in accordance with agreed proposal guidelines.
- 36 -



Proposals would be evaluated by CDF and contracts awarded based on the quality of the proposal as
evaluated according to indicators agreed with World Bank. The overall aggregate value of all contracts
under the CQ method of procurement is estimated at US$685,000.
Individual Consultants (IC) would be used for the following assignments: (a) subproject design studies; (b)
subproject supervision; (c) special studies; (d) training on subproject management, operations and
maintenance; (e) capacity building assessment; and (f) community training. The aggregate value under this
procedure is estimated at US$633,000.
Incremental Operating costs
The CDF will finance incremental operating costs of about $992,000 consisting of salaries and operation
costs of CDF to oversee and manage the project including: (a) CDF staff salaries (excluding those for civil
servants); (b) communications, maintenance and operation of equipment procured or used under the
project; (c) training and study tours for CDF staff; and (d) office supplies. Incremental operating costs will
be procured on the basis of an annual agreed budget.
Bank Prior Review
Prior Bank review would be required before final decisions on contract awards are taken on Bank fnanced
items for the types of procurement action described below. Prior review for works and goods contracts
would be conducted in accordance with the provisions described in Appendix 1 of the Procurement
Guidelines, and those described under Appendix 1 of the Consultant Guidelines for consultant services and
training contracts.
(a) Works:   Prior review of the bidding documents, scope of works, minutes of bid opening,
bid evaluation report, recommendation for award, as well as draft contract for the:
(i)    first three contract awards through NCB;
(ii)   first five minor works;
(b) Goods:   Prior review of the bidding documents (including invitation to quote and technical
specifications) and recommendation of awards for:
(i)    first three goods contracts under NS.
(c) Consultant services and training: Prior review of Terms of Reference (TOR), letter of
invitation, request for proposal, consultant short lists, terms and conditions of contract, evaluation
reports, recommendation for award and draft contract for:
(i)    the first three CQ contracts;
(ii)   the first three IC contracts: and
(iii)   TORs for all beneficiary assessment, technical reviews and audits.
- 37 -



All other contracts shall be subject to ex-post review by Bank supervision missions or by focused
procurement review or audit missions. The Bank mission will review at least one out of every five
contracts which are subject to post review.
- 38 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
. . .. . ;mf . ~~Proeurement Meihod 4............ ' A;,... 
Expenditure Cateoory           .i0                                                     Total Cost
1. Works                                           1.70           0.71          4.61           7.02
(1.70)        (0.71)         (0.00)        (2.41)
2. Goods                                                          0.27          0.06           0.33
()            ()           (0.27)         (0.00)        (0.27)
3. Services                                                       1.33          0.27           1.60
Consultant Services and              0              0            (1.33)        (0.00)         (1.33)
Training
4. Miscellaneous                                   0.00           0.99          0.38           1.37
Operating Costs                      0            (0.00)         (0.99)         (0.00)        (0.99)
Total                            0.00           1.70           3.30          5.32          10.32
(0.00)         (1.70)        (3.30)         (0.00)        (5.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through Invitation to Quote, National Shopping,
Consulting Services, services of contracted staff of the CDF, training, technical assistance services, and
incremental operating costs related to managing the project.
N.B.F. = Non Bank Financing - refers to US$1.32 estimated local community contribution and US$4.0
million cofinancing from the Government of the Netherlands.
- 39 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.68      0.00      0.20      0.88
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.68)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.68)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.63      0.07      0.70
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.63)    (0.00)    (0.63)
Total   0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.68      0.63      0.27      1.58
_  (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.68)    (0.63)    (0.00)    (1.31)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 40 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Cor    Value                                   Contracts. Subi?ctt
.  Th;ntiol4            Procurement-            P     1rbr Review 
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                         <85                     NCB               First three contracts
<85                     MW                 First five contracts
2. Goods                         <50                      NS               First three contracts
3. Services                      <50                      CQ              All TORs and first five
contracts
<10                     IC                First three contracts
4. Incremental                   NA                      SOE                      NA
Operating Cost                                . _                       _I
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: 15%-20% of the Grant.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
-41 -



Table B1: Summary of Procurement Activities, Methods and Schedules
Activities                Type Method      No. of Estimated  Preparation of Invitation/   Evaluation/ Contract    Contract
Contracts   Contract BD/RFP/TOR       GPN/  Recommen-  Signing Completion
Value     /Shortlist     SPN  dation Award
Civil Works
1.1   Community Projects        CW    NCB           81  4,785,000        2/1/01   Ongoing      Ongoing  Ongoing      9/18/03
1.2   Community Projects        CW      MW          20   935,000         2/1/01   Ongoing      Ongoing  Ongoing      9/18/03
=   Sub-total                    =                       5,720,000
__ _ Goods__ _                                                  __   _ _ _ _
2.1   Vehicles                    G       IS          1    40,000         5/1/01    5/29/01    07/23/01  08/06/01    10/08/01
2.2   Computers                   G      NS          1    16,500          5/1/01    5/29/01      7/3/01   7/17/01     9/3/01
2.3   Office fumiture             G      NS          1      2,500         5/1/01    5/29/01      7/3/01   7/17/01     9/3/01
2.4   Equipment packages for sub-    G   NS          9   270,000          6/4/01   Ongoing     Ongoing  Ongoing      7/25/03
projects
Sub-total                                           329,0001
Consultant Services and
Training
3.1   Contracts for Design and   CS      CQ          7   280,000        2/15/01   Ongoing      Ongoing  Ongoing      6/27/03
Supervision Services
3.2   Technical Assistance and   CS      CQ          11   110,000        2/15/01   Ongoing     Ongoing  Ongoing      9/18/03
Training for Sub-projects
3.2   Beneficiary Assessment     CS      CQ          3      15,000        7/2/01    8/6/01      9/10/01   10/1/01    11/30/03
3.4   Technical Audit            CS      CQ          2    40,000          7/2/01    8/6/01      9/10/01   10/1/01    11/30/03
3.5  Financial Audit             CS      LC           1    45,000       11/01/01   12/20/01      2/5/02   2/19/02    12/5/03
3.6  Individual consultants for  Cs       IC       215   430,000        02/01/01   Ongoing     Ongoing  Ongoing      9/18/03
-  design and supervision      l    l        l_l
3.7   Community training on      CS       IC6    68,000                   4/2/01   Ongoing     Ongoing  Ongoing      9/18/03
subproject preparation,
operations and management                         ____C.
3.8  Technical experts for CDF   CS       IC         8    70,000         3/15/01   Ongoing     Ongoing  Ongoing      6/15/03
3.9   Capacity-building          CS       IC         2     15,000        9/17/01    10/1/01     11/5/01  11/19/01    3/31/02
assessment data collection
and study
3.10  Intenational and local TA  CS       IC        10   100,000         2/15/02     TBD          TBD       TBD      12/5/03
for capacity-building
activities - yr. 2
3.10  Special studies            CS       IC         4    20,000         9/17/01     TBD          TBD       TBD      12/5/03
3.11  Community Services         Cs      CQ         78   390,000          2/1/01   Ongoing     Ongoing  Ongoing      9/18/03
Projects
Sub-total
1.583.,())000____
4.1  Incremental Operating           SOE                 1,368,000
I     Costs                   I     I       I          I         I
l _____l _____I_________         Total  _  _  _    9,000,000  l
Note:
(a): The generic Procurement Plan requires that at a minimum, bid closing will have the following schedule:
for Small Works = 30 days; Minor Works = 21 days; IS and NS = 15 days; CQ = 15 days after the
issuance of the bidding documents and RFPs.
(b): The values indicated in the procurement plan include the co-financing contribution of the Government
of the Netherlands.
- 42 -



Section 1: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance
requirements:
Brief statement
Overall responsibility for project management and coordination will rest with the Community Development
Fund established as an autonomous foundation in Kosovo. The CDF will be supported by Technical
Assistance consisting of: Procurement Specialist and Financial Management Specialist. CDF has already
acquired substantial experience while managing and administering the Pilot Program which was funded by
grants from the Post Conflict Fund (US$1 million), the Government of Switzerland (US$2.1 million) and
the Govenmment of Netherlands (US$2 million).
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status
A CPAR for Kosovo has not been done.
Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year ready by negotiations
Yes: X
RFPs and bidding documents for the first year of project implementation are being prepared and will be
ready by grant effectiveness.
Section 2: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop:   1/2000
Estimated date of publication of General Procurement Notice: 12/31/2000
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business: No.
Domestic Preference for Goods: No
Retroactive financing: No
Advance Procurement: No
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
All procurement related documentation that requires Bank's prior review will be cleared by
Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and relevant technical staff. No packages above mandatory
review thresholds by RPA are anticipated. The CDF will maintain complete procurement files
which will be reviewed by Bank's supervision missions. The Procurement Plan will be updated
annually. Procurement information will be recorded by the CDF and submitted to the Bank as
part of the quarterly and annual progress reports. This information will include: revised cost
estimates for the different contracts; revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising,
bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts; as well as compliance with
aggregate limits (within 15%) on specific methods of procurement. A Management Information
System (MIS), with a procurement module will help the CDF monitor all procurement
information.
- 43 -



Co-financing: Yes - The Government of the Netherlands.
Indicate the name of Procurement staff or Bank's part of the Task Team responsible for the
procurement in the Project:
Kosovo: Community Development Fund    Name: Seyoum Solomon   (ECSHD)
Ext:32393
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:
There is no procurement capacity at the Bank Liaison Office in Prishtina. CDF will complement
its procurement capacity by hiring a procurement assistant. The Procurement Officer will receive
intensive procurement training either in Washington, Turin or any of the regional centers that do
offer scheduled procurement training with in six months of project effectiveness.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-44 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Catgr           Amount in US$millon           F
Community Projects                         3.08                    100% net of taxes
Goods                                      0.00                         100%
Consultants' services, including training   1.00                        100%
eratin Costs                             0.92                         100%
Total Project Costs                         5.00
Total                                       5.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The proceeds of the Grant (see Table C for disbursement categories, amounts and percentages to be
financed under each category) would be disbursed in accordance to Bank procedures. Disbursement
arrangements have been developed based on the experience and lessons learned under the Post Conflict
Fund and Swiss grants. Disbursement arrangements under the project will commence on the basis of
traditional disbursement methods (e.g., direct payments, replenishments of the Special Account on the basis
of SOEs and full documentation). Once the CDF capacity and experience has improved with regard to
internal controls, implementation, budgeting and forecasting, the CDF, in consultation with the Bank, will
decide on the timing and transition of the use of the quarterly PMRs for disbursement purposes. The
project has been designed to be carried out over a period of three years. 76 percent of Grant proceeds will
be disbursed against sub-grants. The CDF will be permitted to commit sub-grants until August 31, 2003.
All sub-grants that have been committed are expected to be fully disbursed by the Grant closing date of
December 31, 2003. Once registered, CDF will seek tax exemption status from UNMIK as a non-profit
organization. If approved, it is expected that the CDF will be able to provide contractors an exemption
from taxes for the purchase of goods and services that are provided to CDF. If this tax exemption status is
not possible, the CDF will inform the Bank and the Grant agreement will be modified as needed.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation and disbursements against eligible expenditures, a Special
Account (SA) denominated in DEM will be established by CDF in a commercial bank acceptable to the
Bank. CDF would submit replenishment applications for the SA on a monthly basis or when one third of
the funds of the SA have been withdrawn, whichever occurs first. The authorized allocation of the SA is
DEM 1,100,000. At the outset of the project, the initial deposit into the SA will be limited to DEM
800,000, until the aggregate amount withdrawn from the Grant Account shall exceed US$ 1,000,000.
Replenishment applications will be accompanied by full documentation, including bank statement and
reconciliation, for all items except those eligible for disbursement on the basis of SOEs. Additionally, the
CDF will also open a project account into which the community's share of cofinancing will be deposited. If
necessary, the CDF will also open a local transit account to make small payments locally.
All replenishment applications would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure for expenditures
under: (a) contracts for works costing less than $85,000 equivalent each, with the exception of the first 3
- 45 -



contracts awarded on the basis of national competitive bidding procedures, and the first 5 contracts
awarded on the basis of small works procedures; (b) contracts for goods costing less than $40,000, with the
exception of the first 3 contracts awarded on the basis of intemational shopping procedures and the first 3
contracts for goods awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures; (c) payments made by CDF on
account of Sub-Grants, each not exceeding $85,000; (d) contracts for services of consulting firms costing
less than $50,000 equivalent; (e) contracts for services of individual consultants costing less than $25,000
equivalent; and (f) Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify. All
supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by CDF for review by periodic Bank supervision
missions and the extemal auditor. The CDF would retain supporting documentation for at least one year
after the receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made.
Expenditures under sub-grants will be paid by the CDF to the commercial bank accounts of suppliers and
contractors upon the presentation of invoices that goods and services have been provided.
Financial Management:
A financial management system in compliance with Bank requirements has been established at the CDF.
The system is capable of providing accurate and timely information regarding project resources and
expenditures, including planning, intemal controls, accounting and financial reporting and audit
arrangements relating to the project. The project chart of accounts will be incorporated into the system.
The Project Management Reporting (PMRs) formats were discussed and agreed with the CDF during
appraisal. The CDF Finance Manager visited Bosnia-Herzegovina in early November and received
training from the Sarajevo-based World Bank Financial Management Specialist and Disbursement Officer,
as well as four days training from two implementing agencies with well-functioning financial management
systems. An Operational Manual has been prepared. This manual has been reviewed and commented on
by the Bank. These comments will be incorporated and the Manual finalized prior to effectiveness.
Intemal controls and procedures established for the pilot phase were found to be satisfactory and will be
adopted for the main project. A time bound action plan to strengthen financial management at the CDF is
shown in Table 1.
The CDF will engage private extemal auditors acceptable to the Bank to conduct the audit of the project
accounts, including an entity audit that will cover the CDF's Financial Statements, Special Account,
Statements of Expenditures and PMRs, and assessment of the adequacy of the CDF's accounting and
intemal control systems, in accordance with Intemational Standards on Auditing. The terms of reference
for the audit will be agreed with the Bank. The audits of the CDF's Financial Statements, and a separate
opinion on the Special Account, and disbursements made against SOEs, will be submitted to the Bank with
the audit report six months after the end of each year audited. The cost of the audit will be financed
through the Grant.
Table 1
Financial Management Action Plan
CDF and the Bank have reviewed the feasibility of adopting the Bank's Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI) procedures for the proposed Community Development Fund Project. LACI procedures
require that the Borrower use an integrated project monitoring system to bring together all relevant aspects
of project implementation, including financial management, disbursement, procurement and contract
management and physical progress. The use of simplified disbursement procedures under LACI requires
that the project implementing agency establishes and maintains a sound financial management and
- 46 -



reporting system, acceptable to the Bank
An assessment of the financial management system of the CDF was carried out during project preparation.
The CDF will be responsible for project accounting, administration of the Special Account, loan
disbursements, procurement and project supervision. The CDF has established a financial management
system that meets Bank requirements. The CDF's accountant has several years of accounting experience,
including maintaining the accounts for the pilot phase, but would require training in meeting Bank's
procedures and reporting requirements.
CDF and the Bank have therefore agreed on the following time bound action plan regarding the
strengthening of project Financial Management to meet bank accounting and financial reporting
requirements under OP/BP 10.02:
By. or around, early November, 2000: The CDF accountant will visit a Bank-financed project
implementation unit in Bosnia-Herzegovina to receive training in operation of the FMS and reporting
requirements as required by the Bank;
By. November 15. 2000:     Incorporate the project chart of accounts into the CDF's newly established
fmancial management system;
By, December 15, 2000:   The CDF will submit for review to the Bank, PMRs IA-ID, with data from
the pilot phase, including the operational manual. A Bank FMS will review the reports and the manual and
issue a 4-B certification ensuring that the Project meets the minimum Bank requirements.
Prior to Grant Effectiveness:   A short list of audit firms, acceptable to the Bank, to audit the project
accounts will be submitted to the Bank, with the TOR for this assignment.
Proiect Management Reports: The CDF will start to prepare PMRs (Reports 1,2 and 3), starting from
the first quarter of 2001. It is expected that, the CDE will be able to produce full PMRs, by quarter
ending, September 30, 2001.
Disbursements:      The Borrower will utilize the Bank's traditional disbursement method at the start
of the Project and have the option to move to a PMR based disbursement method after the Bank has issued
a 4A certification. The PIU is expected to achieve this by September 30, 2001.
-47 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
KOSOVO: Community Development Fund Project
Pt~~je~t~~he~d,4e                          ?la neF          \C- =\5d ACtu.a=l W 
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       5
First Bank mission (identification)              06/26/2000                   06/26/2000
Appraisal mission departure                      10/16/2000                   10/16/2000
Negotiations                                     11/22/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    02/15/2001
Prepared by:
Community Development Fund staff and World Bank team.
Preparation assistance:
Pilot phase financing from Post Conflict Fund (PCF) Government of Switzerland and Government of
Netherlands.
PCF funds use to finance consultants to assist with preparation of MIS and financial management system,
and water sector investment policies.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Sarah Forster                     Team Leader/Sr. Economist
Madalene O'Donnell                Deputy Team Leader/Post Conflict Specialist
Anush Bezhanyan                   Operations Officer/Social Fund Specialist
Caroline Mascarell                Social Fund Specialist
Hiran Herat                       Financial Management Specialist
Seyoum Solomon                    Procurement Specialist
Joseph Formoso                    Disbursement Officer
Kishor Uprety                     Legal Counsel
-48 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
KOSOVO: Community Development Fund Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Community Development Fund, "Assessment of the Centers for Social Work," October 2000.
Don Cullivan, "Evaluation of Water Sector Aspects of the Kosovo Community Development Fund
Program," June 4, 2000.
*Including electronic files
-49 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
KOSOVO: Community Development Fund Project
1 5-Oct-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions   disbursements
Project ID    FY  Borrower               Purpose                              IBRD    IDA      Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig  Frm Revrd
NOT
APPLICABLE
Total:     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    o.0o     0.00
KOSOVO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
1 5-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                            Disbursed
IFC                                 IFC
FY Approval           Company                           Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:            0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.0(
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval          Company                               Loan     Equity      Quasi      Partic
Total Pending Commitment:             0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
- 50 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
KOSOVO: Community Development Fund Project
NOT APPLICABLE
- 51 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING: PROJECT APPRAISAL
1. Check the possible environmental impact that the project can have (according to project type) and
classify as follows:
*   Positive or neutral impact
* Environmental Review (ER) needed
*   Limited Environmental Assessment (LEA) needed
*   Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) needed
2. For positive impacts, check if they are fully maxinmized.
3. For neutral impacts, find out if there are any possibilities for converting these into positive impacts.
4. If ER is required, identify needed mitigation measures using checklist and guidelines below.
5. If LEA is required, prepare terms of reference for local consultant.
6. If EIA is required, factor into cost effectiveness considerations.
7. For infrastructure projects, verify from contractor where construction debris will be transported and if
permission has been given to use this dumpsite.
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW (ER) CHECKLIST
Type          List positive impacts    List negative impacts    Necessary mitigation measures
S o il__                                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Water
Flora and fauna
Landscape
Human health      |
Human settlements   I
- 52 -



SUGGESTED MITIGATION MEASURES FOR TYPICAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
I. WATER SUPPLY PROJECTS
Components                       Impacts                              Mitigation Measures
Physical Environment
Soils                   *Degradation of soil cover             *Protection during construction; re-vegetation or
physical stabilization services
Water Resources         *Contamination of water resources      *Adequate protection for livestock; minimal
*Over-exploitation of aquifers          distance from human settlements and agricultural
*Inadequate wastewater disposal        areas; regional water use planning; proper
*Introduction of hazardous wastes      drainage near pumping stations; community
*Creation of stagnant water pools      participation; link to sanitation micro-projects
Acoustic Environment    *Noise disturbance from pump near a    *Siting studies
home
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats                                               *Siting studies
eDisturbance of natural habitats
Fauna and Flora                                                *Siting studies; protection of vegetation during
*Loss or degradation of vegetation     construction
Social Environment      eDisruption or destruction of wildlife
Aesthetics and Landscape                                       *Cleaning-up of construction sites
*Marred landscapes
oDebris
Human Health                                                   eCorrect design and adequate training; testing
*Waterborne diseases                   procedures
*Chemical imbalances in delivery system
Human Communities                                              *Compensation per OD 4.20
*Involuntary resettlement
oLoss of buildings or property
- 53 -



II. SCHOOLS, HEALTH POSTS, AND OTHER MINOR CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
Components                   Typical Impacts                        Mitigation Measures
Phvsical Environment
Soils                  *Contamination from waste materials    *Protection of soil surfaces during construction;
(construction and/or medical)         control and daily cleaning of construction sites;
provision of adequate waste disposal services
Water Resources        *Clogging of drainage works            *Special attention to drainage; proper disposal of
*Decline in water quality due to       oil and other hazardous materials; adequate
contamination                         sanitation and disposal system for waste
*Introduction of hazardous wastes      (especially markets, schools)
Air Quality            oDust during construction              oDust control by water or other means; appropriate
oDegraded interior air quality (caused by  design and siting of subproject
construction works, evaporation from
medicines and chemical substances, stoves)
*Odor problems (e.g., markets)
Acoustic Environment    oNoise disturbance during construction or   oRestrict construction/operation to certain hours
operation
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats       oDisturbance of natural habitats       oConsideration of alternative alignments or sites
Fauna and Flora        oLoss or degradation of vegetation     eMinimize loss of natural vegetation during
eDisruption or destruction of wildlife  construction; consideration of alternative sites;
various special measures for sensitive species
Social Environment
Aesthetics and Landscape oDebris                              oCleaning-up of construction sites; provision of
adequate solid waste disposal systems
Historical/Cultural Sites   *Degradation of sites             oConsideration of alternative sites; special
oDisturbance to structures              measures to project buildings and other cultural
resources/areas
Human Health           oConstruction accidents                *Specify designed systems for disposal of medical
*Medical wastes from health posts       waste
Human Communities      olnvoluntary resettlement              oCompensation per OD 4.20; good siting;
*Losses of buildings, property, or economic   community participation in environmental
livelihood                            assessment
oDisruption due to greater traffic flows
- 54 -



III. RURAL ROAD PROJECTS
Components                        Impacts                              Mitigation Measures
Physical Environment
Soils                    *Erosion of lands downshope from       *Construction in dry season; protection of soil
roadbed or borrow areas                surfaces during construction; revegetation or
*Landslides, slips, and slumps          physical stabilization of erodible surfaces
Water Resources          *Creation of stagnant water pools      *Special attention to drainage; prevention of
*Increased sediments into streams       erosion; consideration of alternative alignments;
:Clogging of drainage works             retention ponds; proper disposal of oil and other
*Decline in water quality               harzardous materials
:Increase in runoff and flooding
conditions
*Introduction of hazardous wastes
Air Quality                                                     *Dust control by water or other means
*Dust during construction
Acoustic Environment                                            *Restrict construction to certain hours
*Noise disturbance
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats                                                *Consideration of alternative alignments or sites
*Disturbance of natural habitats        (especially for new roads)
eDisturbance of protected areas
Fauna and Flora                                                 *Minimize loss of natural vegetation during
*Disruption or destruction of wildlife  construction; alternative alignments; various
*Threats to rare and endangered species  special measures for alternative sites;
*Increased road kills because of higher
Social Environment        speeds and traffic volune
Aesthetics and Landscape                                        *Restoration of vegetation; clean-up of construction
*Marred landscapes                      sites
*Debris
Historical/Cultural Sites                                       *Alternative alignments and/or sites
*Degradation of sites                  *Special measures to protect cultural heritage sites
*Disturbance to structures
Human Health                                                    *Regulation of transport of materials
*Transport of hazardous substances     *Safety designs (signage)
*Traffic accidents
*Pedestrian accidents
Human Communities                                               eCompensation per OD 4.20; good siting;
*Involuntary resettlement               community participation in environmental
*Social change (new roads)              assessment
*Loss of buildings, property, or economic
livelihood
- 55 -



IV. SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECTS
Components                       Impacts                              Mitigation Measures
Physical Environment
Soils                    *Increase of soil erosion             *Proper siting of irrigation suprojects; extension
*Soil water-logging as a result of improper  and training in crop selection and agricultural
drainage                              technology; careful design and appropriate
*Increased salinization                 selection of irrigation systems; adequate drainage
Water Resources          *Water quality degradation in ponds and   *Control of agrochemical use; proper design of
reservoirs                             canals; monitoring of water quality; operation and
*Deoxygenation of receiving water       maintenance plan; regional water use plans
sClogging of canals from weeds
*Inefficient water flow due to heavy
sedimentation
*Degradation of water systems receiving
irrigation waters by nutrients,
agrochemicals and salts
*Depletion of aquifers, over-exploitation
*Disturbances to flow regimes
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats         *Disturbance of natural habitats       eConsideration of alternative sites; select
eDisturbance of protected areas         appropriate design and crops
Fauna and Flora          *Algal blooms, proliferation aquatic weeds *Provision of corridors of habitat for movement of
eDisruption or destruction of wildlife  animals
Social Environment
Human Health             *Risk of waterbome diseases from       *Education in proper sanitation and health
artificial water flows (schistosomiasis,  practices; avoidance of stagnant waters; adequate
malaria, etc.)                        treatment of irrigation waters; careful
*Disease transmission from human and    management of pesticides; integrated pest
animal waste deposits in irrigation waters   management (IPM) programs; protection of canals
used on agriculture                   from livestock
*Toxicity of pesticides
Human Communities
*Involuntary resettlement loss of property  *Adequate compensation as per OD 4.20; good
eConflicts over water use rights        consultation and participation with affected
eMultiple land use demands on restricted    communities; consideration of cumulative impacts
water sources
*Political and social problems associated
with upstream land use and pollutant
discharges
- 56 -



V. DOMESTIC WASTEWATER SEWERAGE PROJECTS
Components                     Impacts                             Mitigation Measures
Physical Environment
Soils                  *Degradation of soil cover            *Erosion control during construction
Water Resources        *Point soil pollution at discharge of pipe   *Select appropriate technology for wastewater
*Water quality degradation            treatment; settling pond, screens, or aeration
(Deoxygenation) in receiving surface  systems; siting studies; incorporation into larger
waters                               wastewater systems; adequate training in
eContamination of subsurface water    maintenance of latrines or disposal systems;
resources                            alternative siting; monitoring programs
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats        *Disturbance of natural habitats     *Alternative site
Fauna and Flora        *Loss or degradation of vegetation    eAlternative site
*Disruption or destruction of wildlife
Social Environment
Aesthetics and Landscape  *Unpleasant odors                  *Include odor-control technology in design
Human Health           *Disease transmission                 *Select appropriate technology; training and
*Accident risk during construction    monitoring programs, community participation,
*Sewer gas leaks                      operation and maintenance plans
*Improper use of night soil from
composting toilets
Human Communities      *Impacts may be concentrated downstream  *Adequate consultation and participation of all
in other communities                 potentially affected communities
- 57 -



VI. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECTS
Components                      Impacts                             Mitigation Measures
Physical Environment
Soils                   *Point-source pollution from landfill  *Adequate siting studies; good design standards;
* Seepage of contaminants into aquifers  consideration of alternative sites; ensure adequate
*Contamination from clandestine dumping   drainage; community participation; training
Air Quality             *Particulate contamination from burning   *Spread and cover garbage at landfill site; prohibit
garbage                              or minimize burning design and siting subproject
*Increase in haze and smog
Biolojeical Environment
Natural Habitats        eDisturbance or loss of natural habitats    *Adequate siting studies
Fauna and Flora         *Loss or degradation of vegetation    *Adequate siting studies
*Disruption or destruction of wildlife
Social Environment
Aesthetics and Landscape  *Unpleasant odors                   *Provide complete collection and disposal service;
*Marred landscapes near landfill site  pilot collection systems; cost recuperation; proper
eGarbage littered about in towns from  design of collection or disposal systems; recycling
inefficient collection services      programs; community participation
Human Health            eMethane and noxious chemicals emitted   *Separate disposal system for medical or hazardous
*Disease transmission from animal and  wastes; gas recovery systems; safety procedures
insect vectors                       implemented; training of workers and
eHazardous particulates emitted during  beneficiaries; operation and maintenance plans
burning
*Safety and health hazard from medical
and industrial wastes
*Involuntary resettlement            *Compensation as per OD 4.20; control of zoning;
Human Communities       *Unpleasant living conditions adjacent to   attention to route selection for waste transfer
site (e.g., frequent movement of trucks)    vehicles
- 58 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
COMMUNITY PROJECT TYPOLOGY
The types of community projects to be financed by the CDF may include the following:
(i) Community Works Proiects (CWPs) that may be financed up to a total value of 170,000 DM (less
than $85,000):
1.    Social Infrastructure:
a.    primary health facilities;
b.     kindergartens and primary schools;
c.    community-based day care centers for disabled, elderly and other marginalized and
vulnerable groups of the population;
d.    community centers, such as cultural houses and libraries.
2. Economic Infrastructure:
a.    local/community level potable water networks: supply lines, distribution  networks,
source development, construction of new artesian wells and pumping stations, rehabilitation of
public shallow wells and measures to improve water quality (e.g. cleaning wells, installation of
pumps);
b.     community-based irrigation networks;
c.    village or neighborhood roads, public access roads to isolated villages, public access roads
to agricultural lands and farms (including bridges, drainage, culverts, retaining walls, pathways
and development of public squares, etc.);
d.    energy-generating facilities for small and isolated communities, including electrical lines,
energy conservation measures and local (water pipeline-based) hydro-power generators;
e.    rehabilitation of public market places.
3. Sanitation and Environment:
a.    local/community level sewage networks, and sewage purnping stations;
b.     disposal and treatment of solid and liquid waste in the communities;
c.    enviromnental improvement and rehabilitation of degraded towns and villages through tree
planting and clean up;
d.    erosion control activities (tree planting, terracing, drainage canals) on public lands.
Works may include building repairs and rehabilitation, new construction and reconstruction including,
hygiene facilities, sanitation, cold and/or hot water supply, winterization (insulation), roof
repairs/impermeability, ventilation, energy conservation, space consolidation and minor equipment and
supplies, as well as works on surrounding grounds protecting the facilities from surface water, etc.
(ii) Community Services Projects (CSPs) that the CDF may finance up to a total of 50,000 DM (less
than $25,000) directly or in partnership that will, whenever possible, be linked to the CWPs described
above, but may also be free-standing:
- 59 -



a.     child education programs and activities for pre-schools and primary schools
b.     community based day care centers for disabled, elderly and other marginalized and
vulnerable groups of the population;
c.     commnunity health information/education prograrns, including workshops on safe
motherhood, nutrition, information on/treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, water and
sanitation, etc.;
d.     programs such as legal advice on women's rights, information access, skills training,
literacy programs, psychological assistance, seminars, cultural/entertaimnent events, etc.;
e.     programs for youth such as youth centers providing information access, language and
computer courses, quality entertaimnent and cultural events, information on sexually transmitted
diseases and drug addiction, school outreach programs on peace education and conflict resolution,
etc.;
f.     programs for the elderly such as home care services, cultural/entertainment programs in
commnunity centers
g.    training and institutional capacity building programs for contractors, implementing
partners, communities, local authorities in operations and maintenance, contracting, cost recovery
and other topics.
h.    furniture and equipment as a component of CWP and CSP.
- 60 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Pilot Phase: Achievements and Lessons Learned
Kosovo Community Development Fund
Background
The Kosovo Community Development Fund was established with the support of the World Bank's Post
Conflict Fund. The project was identified in July 1999, one month after the end of the conflict, and became
operational in November 1999 with US$1 million financing from the Post Conflict Fund, an additional
US$1.2 million from the Government of Switzerland, and a further US$2 million from the Dutch
Government in September 2000.
The aim of the operation was to improve the living conditions of poor and conflict-affected communities.
The project was designed to build on local initiative and capacity. It uses a demand-driven social fund
model to achieve this, with a strong emphasis on community participation and ensuring the quality and
sustainability of investments.
Pilot Phase Achievementsl
The first objective of the pilot project was to establish the Community Development Fund (CDF) as an
effective, transparent and accountable local institution. This goal has been achieved ahead of schedule.
The CDF was established in partnership with the Soros Foundation/Open Society Institute, through their
local affiliate - the Kosovo Foundation for Open Society (KFOS). The World Bank and the Soros
Foundation agreed to consider spin-off of the CDF as an independent institution by mid-2001, provided it
had demonstrated the institutional capacity to become independent. By October 2000, the World Bank and
the Soros Foundation agreed that the CDF had developed this capacity.
The CDF has good govemance and staffing structures and sound management systems and procedures.
The Board of Directors is composed of seven well-respected Kosovars of mixed backgrounds and
ethnicities who provide oversight and policy guidance. An dynamic Executive Director with strong
leadership and management skills manages the operations. The CDF's institutional capacity is considered
sufficient for its current scale of operations, with a total of 11 well-skilled and committed professional
staff. The World Bank provided technical assistance and advice throughout the pilot phase in the design of
operational policies and procedures and sound and the establishment of reliable management systems,
including both project and financial management systems. During appraisal, the World Bank carried out
an assessment of both the financial management and procurement capacity of the CDF and judged these to
be entirely satisfactory for this level of operations. Further development of the CDF's institutional capacity
will be supported throughout the duration of the proposed project.
The second objective of the pilot phase was to invest in basic infrastructure and services so as to improve
the living conditions of poor communities. During the pilot phase the CDF targeted its activities towards 16
out of 30 municipalities, based on poverty and war-damage criteria. In addition, a "reserve fund" of 10%
of overall project funding was set aside for investments in mixed and minority communities.
The pilot phase is considered to be the period from November 1999 until Dec 2000.
- 61 -



As of October 30, 2000, seven months after the start of investment operations, CDF has approved 34
projects for a total value of DEM 4.1 million (approximately US$ 2 million). Of these, 5 projects have
been completed, 8 are ongoing, 2 are in the contracting process and the remaining 19 are at various stages
of preparation and design. By sector, 60% of the projects are for water supply and sanitation, 12% for
school reconstruction, 9% for road/bridge repairs, and 6% for cultural centers, solid waste/war damage
clean-up, and youth education respectively.
Table 1: Pilot Projects - Status as of October 30, 2000
Community             Municipality    Project Type              Amount (DEM)  Status
1 Vojnovc                Shtime          Road repair                  203,000      Completed
2  Sofali                Prishtine       Rubble Collection             34,000      Completed
3  Studencan             Suhareke        Sewerage                      146,000     Completed
4  Ismail Dumoshi        Prishtine       Storm-water drainage          33,000      Completed
5 Vojnovc                Shtime          Traffic safety training        6,000      Completed
6 Arllat                 Gllogovc        School construction           97,000      Ongoing
7 Korishe                Prizren         Dumpsite/garbarge             151,000     Ongoing
collection
8 Kodra e Trimave I      Prishtine       Sewerage connection           120,000     Ongoing
9 Kodra e Trimave II     Prishtine       Sewerage connection           96,000      Ongoing
10 Kodra e Trimave III   Prishtine       Sewerage connection           81,000      Ongoing
11 Palabardh             Gjakove         School construction           198,000     Ongoing
12 Mollig                Gjakove         Water supply                  160,000     Ongoing
13 Brovine               Gjakove         Water supply                  157,000     Ongoing
14 "Rinia"               Gjakove         Youth education               49,200      Ongoing
15 Shtime                Shtime          Storm-water drainage          131,000     Ongoing
16 Ortakoll              Prizren         Sewerage connection           40,000      Under tender
17 Peje                  Peje            Sewerage                      16,000      Under tender
18 Peje/Trebeviq         Peje            Irrigation                    160,000     Preparation
19 Kishnarake            Gllogovc        Water supply                  160,000     Preparation
20 Bardhosh              Prishtine       Sewerage                      160,000     Preparation
21 Besi                  Prishtine       Water supply                  160,000     Preparation
22 Shipol                Mitrovice       Sewerage                      160,000     Preparation
23 Strellc I Poshtem     Decan           School                        160,000     Preparation
24 Obrance               Podujeve        School reconstruction         160,000     Preparation
25 Prekaz-Lagjja Jasharaj   Skenderaj    Water supply                  160,000     Preparation
26 Terpeze e Eperme      Malisheve       Water supply                  140,000     Preparation
27 Izbice                Skenderaj       Road repair                   160,000     Approved
28 Gegaj                 Podujeve        School reconstruction         160,000     Approved
29 Rashig                Peje            Sewerage                      160,000     Approved
30 Or1lan                Podujeve        Water supply                  160,000     Approved
31 Gullboc               Malisheve       Water supply                  160,000     Approved
32 Shtitarice            Vushtrri        Cultural Center               160,000     Approved
33 Podujeve              Podujeve        Sewerage                      160,000     Approved
34 Rogove                Gjakove         Cultural Center               160,000     Approved
35 Kovrage               Istog           Water supply                  160,000     Approved
_ TOTAL VALUE                                                        4,578,200
The CDF has achieved good outreach to mixed and minority communities given the realities of the security
and political situation. A total of six (18%) of the projects are in either mixed or minority communities. In
addition, the CDF is currently considering two projects in Gjilan municipality - both school reconstruction
- 62 -



projects, one in a mixed Serb/Albanian community and one in an entirely Serb community.
As well as improving local living conditions, the CDF has contributed to short-term job creation. An
estimated total of 1507 job-days have been created by the works already ongoing. A further 8215
jobs-days are projected to be created by the remaining projects currently approved to date and under
preparation.
The pilot project also had an objective of supporting develop transparent, accountable and efficient local
govemance structures. Practically what this has meant in a context of the local municipal govemments
being in a state of establishment and election, is helping facilitate relations between communities and
municipal authorities. Communities must approach municipalities directly for all necessary permits and
clearances. In a smaller number of cases, the CDF helps municipal governments to increase their capacity
to provide services by directly cofinancing local municipal investments. It also seeks to make local
governments more accountable, by encouraging communities to be proactive in asking for improvements in
basic services and demanding that local governments respond to their requests. The CDF has not been
involved in direct capacity-building support to municipal governments, as this is well covered by other
donors.
Lessons Learned
The first year of operations has been a good learning experience and has enabled the CDF to develop the
capacity to function as a fully independent institution. Many lessons have been learned, of which a few are
summarized below. These have been integrated into the design of the proposed project. These lessons are
based on a review of the pilot phase carried out by a World Bank mission in May 2000, as well as the
lessons drawn by the CDF Executive Director, staff and Bank team during appraisal.
From PCF Grant to Mainstream Financing
The Community Development Fund is the first operation financed by a Post-Conflict Fund grant which will
qualify for mainstream Bank financing. The experience from the pilot phase suggests that: (i) the PCF
grant was an excellent vehicle for launching operations quickly; project identification began in July 1999,
grant approval in October 1999 and CDF was operational with an office and director in November 1999;
(ii) it was also an effective vehicle for leveraging Bank resources; (iii) the 13-month pilot period financed
by the PCF provided a unique opportunity to adapt a general social fund model to the specific context of
Kosovo thereby contributing to the quality of the follow-on operation; (iv) a strong emphasis on
accountability and transparency in procurement and financial management, although not required, was
essential for a smooth transition to mainstream financing; and (v) PCF financing provided the flexibility to
develop and test simplified procurement documents for community contracting which will continue to be
used under the new project.
Partnerships
Immediately following the conflict, there was not yet legislation in place to register new local organizations
in Kosovo; the World Bank sought a partner to provide an institutional "home" for the CDF and reached
agreement with KFOS to do so. But during the course of creating and building CDF, additional benefits
and synergies emerged from this partnership. The World Bank had experience in designing and developing
over 100 social funds -- but this was its first operation in Kosovo. KFOS and the Soros Network,
however, had experience operating within Kosovo, were already active in education and other sectors, and
provided administrative and logistics support for a rapid start-up. Once agreement was reached to spin-off
- 63 -



CDF in October 2000, KFOS and Soros staff were again helpful in assisting CDF in preparing the statutes
and other documentation to register itself as a local foundation; these same Soros staff had provided
assistance to UNMIK months earlier in preparation the NGO registration law itself.
Promotion/Capacity-Building
Initial promotion activities focused mainly on providing information to municipalities and commnunities on
CDF financing criteria and procedures. Experience has shown that promotion activities could usefully be
expanded to include technical assistance and advice to communities in prioritizing projects and preparing
applications for financing. One key area of future CDF work is to provide more guidance to communities
in making project choices, to ensure that they take into account not only the benefits but also the costs and
commitments of investments. Communities do not always take into account the organization and financing
required to operate and maintain investments, such as water supply. Hence, in its future operations the
CDF will work to ensure that communities make fully informed choices, and support the development of
local capacity to manage and operate investments over the long-tern. In the social services area, initial
experience suggests more technical assistance will be required to assist the applicants think through and
design viable programs.
Hence, it was agreed during project preparation that promotion activities would be expanded to include
outreach, promotions and capacity-building. A capacity-building component has been designed and budget
allocated for technical assistance and training activities related to project design and management for all
CDF partners, including communities, municipalities and contractors. The first training for contractors
was held in October 2000.
Poverty Targeting
There was considerable debate during CDF start-up whether requiring matching grants from communities
was appropriate in a post-conflict emergency and compatible with poverty targeting. Experience during the
pilot phase demonstrated that a "development" approach was appropriate, that most targeted communities
were able to meet cofmancing requirements, and that these requirements contributed to strong commnitment
to and ownership of the investment by communities. Implementation experience demonstrated, however,
that a small number of exceptionally poor communities could not meet the 15% community contribution
requirement, of which 7.5% was required in cash. In order not to exclude these communities, the CDF will
apply a scoring system based on simple, practical indicators that demonstrate the access to basic services
and levels of population vulnerability (e.g. % of widows, elderly, children). For communities with very
limited services and high levels of vulnerability, a sliding scale will be applied to determine their minimum
cash contribution, which could range from 0-7.5%. This methodology will be applied as of January 1,
2001.
Community Contribution
Implementation experience showed that contracting could be delayed if the full community contribution is
not collected early on. Hence, the CDF has adopted a policy of making sure 100% of the community
investment share (cash portion) is deposited in the CDF's bank account prior to tender. During appraisal,
it was also recommended that they continue the practice of maintaining separate accounts for these funds
for transparency purposes.
-64 -



Technical Quality and Design
In Kosovo, a limited supply of experienced engineers and unclear technical standards or guidelines create a
difficult operating environment for the CDF. The tender procedures for two of the first five projects were
canceled as fundamental problems were discovered in the quality and appropriate scope of designs. This
decision to annul procedures, despite pressure from communities and contractors, demonstrated an
important commitment to quality that will be essential to CDF's success over the long term. Now, after
several months of operational experience, CDF is developing a roster of qualified consultants and
exchanging information with donors on contractor performance. It has developed, with outside consultants,
its own policy guidelines for investments in water and sanitation, improved standard terms of reference for
design and supervision, modified payment schedules for consultants to encourage appropriate scope of
design, and has participated in development of sector-wide guidelines for school (re)construction.
Project Management Capacity
In order to enhance the sustainability of investments, it was agreed that particular attention should be paid
to whether the community has the institutional capacity to manage the investment. The CDF will require
communities to enter into a written obligation to establish the capacity to manage the investment if this does
not already exist. Technical assistance will be provided, as appropriate, to improve project management
capacity.
Services Projects
Services are a relatively new area for social funds. When coupled with infrastructure, they contribute
greatly to overall improvements in service delivery and, when standing alone, they are often the best means
to address the needs of marginalized groups within society. For a variety of reasons, CDF discovered
strong demand for infrastructure projects and much more limited demand for services projects during the
pilot phase. There appears to be considerable grant funds available, at least in the immediate future, for
services projects and community organizations need assistance in identifying needs and developing
proposals in this area. CDF has taken several steps to develop to refine its services programs. First, more
assistance will be provided in developing proposals. Second, communities already benefiting from an
infrastructure project will have access to CDF resources if these are used for a services project, including
projects to improve the environment. Third, CDF will take a more strategic approach by prioritizing
services proposals targeted to key groups, such as youth at risk, female heads of households and disabled.
Finally, CDF staff will visit the Romania Social Fund which has a strong services program to leam from
their experiences.
Mixed and Minority Communities
Some 18% of CDF projects during the pilot phase are in mixed or minority communities. During the pilot
phase, CDF maintained a "reserve fund" for mixed and mninority communities that were not located in
priority areas according to the main CDF criteria of poverty and war damage. It also conducted separate
promotion programs for these communities. CDF plans to continue both these practices under the project
in order to have flexibility to support sound projects in mixed and minority areas that fall outside
geographic target areas.
- 65 -



Municipal/Donor Coordination
Key donor coordination mechanisms and sector policies, largely absent at the start-up of CDF operations,
have emerged gradually during the pilot phase. To ensure the CDF investments are well-coordinated with
municipal investment plans and with other donors programs, the CDF has adopted a policy that no project
will be approved unless the following conditions have been met:
* the municipality has been informed of and approves the project;
* the CDF has double checked with the relevant UNMIK sector departments to ensure the project fits
within overall sector policies;
* the project design has been submitted for technical approval by the competent municipal body;
* all necessary permits have been obtained; and
* the CDF has double checked with other donors to ensure no one else is considering financing the same
project.
Experience during the pilot phase suggests that the Community Development Fund can directly empower
communities to irnprove their access to basic services and actively promote cooperation and coordination
with local govermment institutions. Communities themselves, rather than CDF officials, must obtain all
necessary permits from the municipality. Under the guidelines above, CDF will encourage communities
and municipal government to address common concerns and reach agreement on key issues.
- 66 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
CDF ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE AND STATUTES
Kosovo Community Development Fund
Organization Chart
aobw, 2000
Board of Director r
I   E.WiWd
2.|Vcehas GretandAdin. P Manalerlenta ika" Elmnay
4.eM A              SyBacm ManaTer
5  Project ImpUementation                                 c
I    Manager 
7  PromoMeon r  | SocCal Service     A
Officr     ProJect Officer
E ....uv r mdic. C.  Project  L |   ProJec67 |
11-6e Direao        Engineer      Egne
Finw & Adn M-
pn,jea: wnolion M-er
C'ommuniity Development Fund
Board of Directors
1.      Chairman, Mr. Gani Demolli, Head of Medical Section, "Mother Teresa Association"
2.      Vice Chairman, Mrs. Greta Kat;inari, Principal, "Elena Gjika" Elementary School
3.      Ms. Igballe Rogova, "Motrat Qiriazi" - Rural women's network
4.      Mr. Arif Bozaci, Turkish writer
5.      Mr. Becir Softic, Architect, former Lecturer, University of Prishtina, Department of Architecture
6.      Mr. Muhamet Mustafa, Economist and Vice Chairman, Riinvest Institute
7.      Mrs. Nekibe Kelmendi, Co-Head, Departrnent for Judicial Affairs, UNMIK, former Supreme
Court Justice
- 67 -



In accordance with United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo (UNMIK) Regulation No. 1999/22 of
November 15, 1999 (the "Regulation"), and according to the Founding Act of "Community Development
Fund," the Founder of the Foundation, on the 20th day of October, 2000 adopted these,
S T A T U T E S
of
the Foundation
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.1   "Community Development Fund" (hereinafter the "Foundation") is founded and registered in
Kosova in accordance with United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo (UNMIK) Regulation No.
1999/22 of November 15, 1999 (the "Regulation").
The founder of the Foundation is the Kosova Foundation for Open Society, a foundation registered in
Kosova in accordance with UNMIK Regulation No. 1999/22, located at Aktas II, 38, 38000, Prishtina,
Kosova (hereinafter the 'Founder").
1.2   The name of the Foundation in Albanian is:
"Fondi per Zhvillimin Komunitar"
The name of the Foundation in English is:
"Community Development Fund."
1.3   The seat of the Foundation is located at rr. e Dukagjinit 68, 38000 Prishtina, Kosova. The
Foundation may change its seat with the consent of the Board of Directors.
1.4   The Foundation shall have the status of a legal person as of the date it is registered by UNMIK in
accordance with the Regulation.
1.5   The Foundation is a not-for-profit, non-governmental organization, within the meaning of the
Regulation.
1.6   The Foundation is established for an unlimited period of time.
1.7   The Foundation shall operate within Kosova and abroad.
OBJECTIVES OF THE FOUNDATION
2.1   The objectives of the Foundation are to support community development in Kosova by
improving the living conditions of poorer communities seeking to upgrade basic social and economic
infrastructure and services, and by supporting institutional capacity-building at the local level so as to
improve the quality and sustainability of service delivery.
2.2   The Foundation shall fulfill its public benefit goals by providing grants in support of small-scale
projects identified as priorities by target communities. Such projects shall include but not be limited to
community works, services and the provision of equipment and fumiture when related to a works or
services project.
- 68 -



2.2.1  The Foundation shall engage in other public benefit activities that the Board of Directors
may find adequate for fulfilling the objectives of the Foundation in accordance with these
Statutes.
FOUNDER OF THE FOUNDATION
3.1    The Founder shall have the following authority:
3.1.1  to adopt the initial Statutes of the Foundation; and
3.1.2  to appoint the initial members of the Board of Directors, including the Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson of the Board of Directors.
ORGANS OF THE FOUNDATION
Board of Directors
3.2    The highest goveming body of the Foundation, having ultimate responsibility for the policies and
financial affairs of the Foundation, shall be its Board of Directors (the "Board").
3.3     The Founder shall appoint the initial members of the Board and its Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson in accordance with Article 3.1.2 of these Statutes. Thereafter, the Board may elect, re-elect,
remove or accept the resignation of a member or members of the Board in accordance with Article 3.9.8
of these Statutes.
3.4   The Board (including the initial Board) shall consist of no fewer than five members, one of whom
shall be appointed its Chairperson and another its Vice Chairperson. The initial Board (including the
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson) shall be appointed for a period of two years, with a majority of these
being eligible for one additional two-year term and the balance being eligible for an additional one-year
term. The Board shall thereafter stagger the terms of new and re-elected Board members so as to ensure
periodic changes in Board composition. The Board may, in accordance with Article 3.9.8 of these
Statutes, re-elect a Board member beyond the term limits described above if it determines that it would
be in the best interests of the Foundation.
3.5   The Board shall convene at least once a year. The meetings of the Board are called by the
Chairperson or the Vice Chairperson in the latter's absence, in consultation with the Executive Director,
or upon a request of no fewer than four members of the Board, provided that a written announcement
has been provided to all Board members one week prior to the meeting. Every member of the Board
may propose a new agenda item prior to adoption of the agenda. The final agenda shall be adopted as
the first action taken at the meeting of the Board. The Chairperson of the Board presides over the Board'
s meetings.
3.6   In the event of absence or illness of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson or, in the absence of
the latter, another Board member selected by those in attendance, shall preside over the meeting of the
Board, in which case the Vice Chairperson or that other member of the Board shall have the same rights
and powers as the Chairperson with respect to that meeting.
3.7    The members of the Board may participate in and vote at meetings of the Board by
teleconference or videoconference. Any member of the Board shall decline to participate in the
consideration or decision of any matter in which he or she has a personal or economic interest.
3.8   The Board shall take decisions on all matters within its mandate by simple majority vote at a
meeting at which a quorum is present, unless a supermajority vote of 2/3 of all Board members is
otherwise required by these Statutes in relation to specified actions. A quorum shall exist when a simple
majority of all Board members are present at the meeting. The decisions of the Board shall be
- 69 -



memorialized in writing and shall be duly signed by the Chairperson or Vice Chairperson of the Board, or
another member of the Board chosen to preside over a meeting of the Board in accordance with Article
3.6 of these Statutes.
3.9    The Board of Directors:
3.9.1  defines the fundamental policies and activities of the Foundation;
3.9.2    reviews and approves annually the assets, liabilities, income, expenditures and
programs of the Foundation for the immediately preceding year;
3.9.3    reviews and approves annually the assets, liabilities, income, expenditures and
programs of the Foundation for the next year;
3.9.4    directs audits of the Foundation's finances;
3.9.5   supervises, monitors and controls the work and activities of the Foundation, especially
the use of assets designated for financial assistance to third parties;
3.9.6   approves or disapproves budgets, including administrative and grantmaking budgets
and budgets for projects conducted by the Foundation;
3.9.7  approves and disapproves financial and other reports;
3.9.8 elects, re-elects or removes members of the Board by a 2/3 majority vote of all Board
members or otherwise accepts the resignation of Board members;
3.9.9 appoints or removes the Executive Director by a 2/3 majority vote of all Board members;
3.9.10 takes decisions with respect to the dissolution of the Foundation in accordance with Article
5.1 of these Statutes; and
3.9.11  takes other decisions conceming the policies and activities of the Foundation, with the
exception of decisions in the exclusive mandate of the Founder.
3.10   The members of the Board may receive reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with
the normal performance of their activities and functions as members of the Board.
3.11   Any transaction between the Foundation and members of the Board, officers or employees must
be concluded at fair market value or on terms more favorable to the Foundation.
3.12   The Board may delegate part of its rights and powers to the Chairperson or Vice Chairperson of
the Board and/or to the Executive Director.
Executive Director
3.13   The Executive Director shall be appointed or removed by the Board of Directors in accordance
with Article 3.9.9 of these Statutes. The Executive Director shall be appointed for a period of five years,
renewable based on performance and subject to the decision of the Board.
3.14   The Executive Director shall take decisions concerning matters arising from the day-to-day
activities of the Foundation, with the exception of decisions on issues and matters within the mandate of
the Founders or the Board.
3.15   The Executive Director shall be the authorized representative of the Foundation and shall be
authorized to represent the Foundation before both physical and legal persons.
- 70 -



3.16   The Executive Director:
3.16.1   proposes the internal organizational plan and the employment policies of the
Foundation to the Board for approval;
3.16.2 employs and dismisses members of the staff; and
3.16.3 delegates within his or her discretion, in writing, portions of his or her powers to other
employees on a temporary or permanent basis.
3.17   The Executive Director shall inform UNMIK within thirty (30) days of any material change with
respect to documents submitted for registration in accordance with the Regulation.
FINANCIAL RESOURCES, UTILIZATION OF FUNDS AND ASSETS
4.1   For the purpose of fulfilling the objectives and the tasks of the Foundation, assets, moneys and
property rights may be acquired from the following sources: donations from donors, including from
individuals, international financial institutions and governmental and non-governmental organizations;
contributions, donations, gifts, inheritances, legacies, charitable campaigns, auctions, sales of assets, net
earnings or profits from economic activities undertaken by the Foundation for the purpose of supporting
its not-for-profit activities in accordance with the Regulation; and other sources of finance consistent with
the Regulation and applicable laws.
4.2   The assets acquired according to Article 4.1 of these Statutes are the property of the Foundation.
4.3   The Foundation shall utilize its assets and income for the sole purpose of accomplishing the
objectives and tasks stated in these Statutes and no part thereof shall be used to provide benefits,
directly or indirectly, to any Founder, Board member, officer, employee or donor of the Foundation. This
Article 4.3 does not preclude payment of reasonable compensation to such persons for work performed
for the Foundation.
DISSOLUTION OF THE FOUNDATION
5.1    The Foundation may be dissolved by a 2/3 majority vote of all Board members. The decision to
dissolve the Foundation shall be accompanied by a decision to distribute all remaining assets of the
Foundation, following fulfillment of any obligations to creditors, to other not-for-profit, non-governmental
organizations in Kosova and/or abroad having similar goals or objectives.
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
6.1    A decision to amend these Statutes requires a 2/3 majority vote of all Board members.
F 0 U N D E R:
Kosova Foundation for Open Society
By: Luan Shllaku
- 71 -



Additional
Annex No.: 15
CDF Policies for Water Sector Projects
1.     Preferred Priorities Among Water Sector Projects
CDF encourages applicants to select water sector projects that are likely to provide a combination of
providing significant benefits at reasonable costs, and which minimize the need for operation and
maintenance of the facilities once constructed. CDF prioritizes water sector projects as follows, from
highest to lowest. This assumes that any project meets CDF's requirements for funding limitations and
the community counterpart participation.
(1) Water supply improvements
(2) Sanitation or on-site excreta disposal
(3) Storm water drainage
(4) Piped wastewater collection and treatment
2.     Water Supply Projects
CDF will consider funding projects for improving water supply, provided that the applicant is willing to
meet the requirements of Policies 6 and 7.
3.    Sanitation or On-Site Excreta Disposal Projects
CDF will consider funding projects for improving on-site excreta disposal, provided that the applicant
is willing to meet the requirements of Policies 6 and 7.
4.     Storm Water Drainage
CDF will consider funding projects for the construction of facilities (pipes or ditches) to remove storm
water, but only if these facilities are solely for the purpose of removing storm water. CDF will not
consider funding projects for facilities to remove both storm water and wastewater (combined systems).
CDF's willingness to fund storm water drainage projects is dependent upon the applicant's willingness
to meet the requirements of Policies 6 and 7. CDF will consider exceptions in cases where combined
systems in neighborhoods of cities obtain permission to discharge such combined flows into the city
system, and where those systems have adequate capacity to accept such flows.
5.     Piped Wastewater Collection, Treatmnent and Disposal Projects
CDF will consider funding projects for the construction of facilities to remove wastewater (piped
sewers), but only if these facilities are solely for the purpose of removing wastewater, and only if
adequate treatment and disposal of the collected wastewater is provided as part of the project. CDF
will not consider funding projects for facilities to remove both wastewater and storm water (combined
systems). CDF's willingness to fund wastewater collection and treatment projects is dependent upon the
applicant's willingness to meet the requirements of Policies 6 and 7. CDF will consider exceptions in
cases where combined systems in neighborhoods of cities obtain permission to discharge such combined
flows into the city system, and where those systems have adequate capacity to accept such flows.
- 72 -



6.     Development of Institutional Capacity
CDF will require, as a condition precedent to an agreement on funding any water sector project, that the
applicant agree to develop the institutional capacity to operate and maintain the facilities on a sustained
basis. The requirements for developing adequate institutional capacity will be developed for the
conditions appropriate for each applicant, but generally will conform to CDF's "Guidelines for
Development of an Institutional Capacity" which are included in the Operational Manual. CDF will
consider exceptions in cases where water sector projects in neighborhoods of cities/towns are connected
to facilities owned and operated by the city system, and where the city agrees to operate and maintain
the newly constructed facilities.
7.     Requirement for User Payment for Services
CDF will require, as a condition precedent to an agreement on funding any water sector project, that the
applicant agree to enact regulations requiring those who benefit from a water sector project (the users)
to reimburse the applicant for the costs of operating and maintaining the system facilities on a sustained
basis. The requirements for developing an adequate system of user charges will be developed for the
conditions appropriate for each applicant, but generally will conform to CDF's "Guidelines for
Adoption of User Charges" included in the Operational Manual. CDF will consider exceptions in cases
where water sector projects in neighborhoods of cities are connected to facilities owned and operated by
the city utility system, and where the city agrees to operate and maintain the newly constructed
facilities. In such cases, the city utility may levy user charges for the use of its services, and the
applicant's residents connected to or served by such systems shall be obligated to pay the city utility for
the services received.
Water Sector projects include water supply, on-site excreta disposal (latrines), storm water drainage, and wastewater
collection, treatment and disposal.
- 73 -



- 74 -



