Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF024832
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Community Development Fund Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting as Administrator for the Trust Fund for Kosovo)
and
COMMUNITY  DEVELOPMENT FUND
Dated December 21, 2000
TF024832
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of December 21, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Administrator) and COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND (the Recipient).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (Bank) and the International Development Association, acting on the 
recommendation of its Board of Executive Directors, decided on September 30, 1999, to 
transfer from Bank surplus, by way of grant, $25,000,000 to a trust fund (the Trust 
Fund) for Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo), 
established by Resolutions of the Executive Directors of the Bank (Resolution No. 
99-7) and the International Development Association (Resolution No. IDA 99-4), to be 
administered by the Administrator, to be used for financing an emergency 
reconstruction program in the territory of Kosovo; 
(B)
the Board of Governors of the Bank further decided on September 27, 2000, 
to transfer from Bank surplus, an additional amount of $35,000,000 (Additional 
Contribution) to the Trust Fund;
(C) 
the Recipient, having demonstrated the capacity to implement the project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Administrator to assist, from the Additional Contribution, in the financing of the 
Project; 
Page  2
(D)  the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo, a transitional  
administration established pursuant to the United Nations Security Council Resolution 
1244 on June 10, 1999, (UNMIK),  has endorsed  the Project;
(E)
the Recipient intends to obtain from the government of the Netherlands a 
grant in an amount approximately equivalent to four million Dollars ($4,000,000) (the 
Netherlands Grant), to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in a grant agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and the 
Netherlands (the Netherlands Grant Agreement); and 
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions (the General Conditions) set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions, have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means an individual, or a group of individuals, to whom, or 
for whose benefit, a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) is being implemented or 
proposed to be implemented; 
(b)
“CDF” means Community Development Fund, an autonomous non-governmental 
organization,  established in November 8, 2000,  to carry out the activities under the 
Project, and governed by the Statutes of  the Community Development Fund (the 
Statutes) registered in Kosovo in accordance with the UNMIK Regulation No. 1999/22 
dated November 15, 1999;
(c)
“DEM” means  Deutsche Marks;
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means the categories set forth in the table in Part 
A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, services 
and Sub-Grant (as hereinafter defined) under the Project;
(f)   “Operational Manual” means the Project implementation and operation  
manual to be adopted by the Recipient, pursuant to Section 6.01 of this Agreement, 
setting forth the procedures governing the operation of the Project,  to be used by 
the Recipient to govern the Project operations, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Operational  Manual;  
(g)
“Project Management Report” or “PMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02.(b) of this Agreement; 
(h)
“Sub-Grant” means a sub-grant made, or proposed to be made, to finance a 
Sub-Project (as hereinafter defined);
(i)
“Subproject” means a specific development project financed, or proposed 
to be financed, through grants extended under Part A of the Project; 
(j)
“Subproject Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and a Beneficiary for the execution of a Subproject; and
Page  3
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on a 
grant basis and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement, a grant in DEM in an  amount equivalent to  five million Dollars 
($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made), in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, services and works required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement (other than Part A thereof), and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and amounts paid (or if the Administrator shall so agree, to be paid) by the 
Recipient on account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Subproject to meet 
the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for a Subproject and in 
respect of which the withdrawals from the Grant Account are requested.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall implement the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project, in accordance with this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 1.23 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with the indicators 
agreed upon from time to time between the Recipient and the Administrator, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(ii)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator, on 
or about March 30, 
2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to subparagraph (i) above, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(iii)
review with the Administrator, by June 30, 2002, or such later 
date as the Administrator shall request, the 
report referred to in 
subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
Page  4
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on the matter.
(b)
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator not 
later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Recipient and the Administrator, a plan designed 
to ensure the continued achievement of the 
Project’s objectives; and
(ii)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Recipient on said plan.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in the carrying 
out of the Project, the Recipient shall: (i) apply the criteria, policies, procedures 
and guidelines set out in the Operational Manual; and (ii) not amend, waive, abrogate, 
or permit to be amended or abrogated, the Operational Manual or any provision thereof, 
in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provision of Section 3.04 above, in 
carrying out the Subprojects under Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall (i) 
ensure that every Subproject is fully consistent with environmental criteria set out 
in the Operational Manual, and where appropriate, mitigation measures designed to 
minimize adverse effects of proposed Subprojects are identified and incorporated in 
the Subprojects design; (ii) mobilize financial resources required to ensure that 
beneficiary communities continue to meet their  obligations to provide an adequate, 
regular and sustainable maintenance of the infrastructure developed by the Beneficiary 
with the proceeds of the Sub-Grant;  and (iii) appraise Subprojects and supervise, 
monitor and report on the carrying out Subprojects, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Administrator. 
Section. 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of section 3.04 above, the 
Recipient shall submit to the Association, for their review or approval, as the case 
may be:
(a)   not later than January 31 of each year, a proposed annual work program, in 
respect of Part A of the Project, including a proposed budget and financing plan, for 
the forthcoming fiscal year; and
(b)   semiannual and annual progress reports on the status of Part A of the 
Project, including regular Beneficiary feedback reports and Subproject completion 
reports.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance 
with accounting standards acceptable to the Administrator, consistently applied, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b) 
The Recipient shall:
(i)
ensure that the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account, for each fiscal year are audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Administrator consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the 
end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts, and 
report of such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
Page  5
reasonably requested by the Administrator; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall ensure that:
(i)
in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures are 
maintained;
(ii)
until at least one (1) year after the Administrator has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained; 
(iii)
the Administrator’s representatives are able to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their preparation, can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Administrator for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Recipient, not later than 
September 30, 2001, or such later date as the Administrator shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Administrator, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report; 
and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant during the period covered by said report;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Grant, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Administrator and furnish to the Administrator not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03 (a) CDF shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
CDF shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts, and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for 
each fiscal year  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent, internationally recognized 
auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the 
end of each such year: (A) 
Page  6
certified copies of its financial statements for such year so audited; and (B) 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator, under a confidentiality agreement, 
such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial 
statements and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 1.15 (c) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that the Statutes shall have been amended, abrogated, repealed or waived 
so as to affect materially and adversely the operation of the Recipient,  and which 
shall make it improbable that the Recipient will be able be able to perform its 
obligations under this Agreement; 
(b)
that the Operational Manual shall have been amended, abrogated or waived; 
and
(c)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the 
Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Netherlands Grant shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the Netherlands Grant Agreement; and  
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Administrator that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by the failure of the 
Recipient to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; 
and (B) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Recipient 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations 
of the Recipient under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until CDF has  adopted  
an Operational Manual  in  form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator.
Section 6.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties have fulfilled their obligations thereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Executive Director is designated as representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of any modification or amplification or any other actions 
referred to in Section 1.28 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
1.25 of the General Conditions:
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Page  7
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Recipient:
Community Development Fund
Rruga Dukagjin 68, 
Prishtina
Kosovo
Facsimile:
(381-38) 
549-842
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names, as 
of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting as Administrator for the Trust Fund for Kosovo)
By /s/ Christiaan Poortman                                            
Authorized Representative
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
By /s/ Flaka Surroi        
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-Grants for Subprojects   3,080,000
100%
(2)
Consultants’ services 
    999,800
100%
including training
(3)
Operating Costs
920,200
100%
Page  8
TOTAL                    5,000,000
For the purpose of the table above, the term “Operating Costs” means the 
incremental expenses incurred by CDF on account of Project implementation, management 
and monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision 
costs. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;  
and (b) in respect of a Sub-Grant unless the Sub-Grant has been made in accordance 
with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual and on terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement. 
3. 
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for works 
costing less than $85,000 equivalent each, with the exception of the first 3 contracts 
awarded on the basis of national competitive bidding procedures described in Part C.1 
of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and the first 5 contracts awarded on the 
basis of minor works procedures described in Part C.3 of Section I of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; (b) contracts for goods costing less than $40,000 equivalent each, 
with the exception of the first 3 contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures described in Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (c) 
payments made by CDF on account of Sub-Grants, not exceeding $85,000 equivalent each; 
(d) contracts for services of consulting firms costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
each (e) contracts for services of individual consultants costing less than $25,000 
equivalent each; and (f) Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Recipient shall open and maintain in DEM a special deposit account, in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Administrator shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Recipient for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this  
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Administrator of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Recipient for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex  B  to  this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Administrator 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Administrator determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Administrator determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; or
Page  9
(c)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said 
Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special 
Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at 
any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account pursuant to Section 1.15 of the General Conditions. Upon such 
notification, the Administrator shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether 
further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Recipient of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Administrator, provide such additional evidence as the 
Administrator may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Administrator determines at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or 
(c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to DEM 1,100,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, 
unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to DEM 800,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Grant Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 1.07 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of  $1,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as 
Page  10
the Administrator shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account under one or 
more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant, minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator 
pursuant to Section 1.07 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures 
as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account 
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Administrator may otherwise specify by notice to the Recipient, 
all withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Administrator into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Administrator 
from the Grant Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Grant Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Administrator has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of  DEM1,300,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The  objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the access and quality of 
community infrastructure and services  in selected poor and war-affected communities 
in Kosovo; and (b) support institutional capacity-building at the municipal and 
community level  through the promotion of  public participation and sound resource 
management. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Community Investment Sub-projects
Promotion, appraisal, design, carrying out, supervision and evaluation of 
Page  11
small-scale Subprojects, including integrated  programs of infrastructure investment 
combined with programs that contribute to improve service delivery, community services 
for  capacity building, as well as training in operation and maintenance, and 
management, and provision of sub-Grants for the financing thereof.
Part B: 
Institutional Capacity Building
Strengthening the operational capacity of the Beneficiaries through the 
provision of technical advisory services  and  training  to  build capacity to (a) 
plan, manage, operate and maintain investments and improve the quality and 
availability of service provision; (b) increase the professionalism and capacity of 
private contractors; and (c) expand linkages and partnerships between communities, 
municipalities and other key partners in order to improve service delivery. 
Part C:
Project Management
Financing of salaries and operating costs,  provision of technical advisory 
services,  and acquisition of equipment and material for  the benefit of the Recipient 
for the overall implementation of the Project. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods, and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Small works estimated to cost $85,000 equivalent or less per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $270,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Minor Works
Minor works estimated to cost less than $35,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $715,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
Page  12
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project which cannot be procured 
under the methods referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above,  shall be procured in 
accordance with the method described in paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Administrator and specified in the 
Operational Manual
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (i) all contracts for Part B of this Section, (ii) the first 3 
contracts under Part C.1 of this Section, (iii) the first 3 contracts under Part C.2 
of this Section, (iv) the first 5 contracts under Part C.3 of this Section, and (iv) 
all contracts under Part C.4 of this Section,  the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Administrator in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for project design and supervision, beneficiary assessments, technical 
reviews, and community services projects, estimated to cost less than $685,000 
equivalent in the aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Page  13
Services for Subproject design, studies and supervision, special studies, 
training on Subproject management and operation, capacity building, community 
training, and tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, estimated to cost less than $633,000 in the aggregate, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above, with 
respect to the first 3 contracts for the employment of consulting firms,  and the 
first three contracts for the employment of individual consultants, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
General Conditions
Section 1.01.  Application of General Conditions
Without limitation or restriction upon the scope of any other provisions of this 
Agreement, these General Conditions set forth certain basic terms and conditions 
applicable to this Agreement.
Section 1.02.  Definitions
The following terms have the following meanings wherever used in these General 
Conditions:
(a)
“Administrator” means the International Development Association, acting 
as administrator of the Trust Fund.
(b)
“Grant” means the grant provided for in this Agreement.
(c)
“Dollars” and the sign “$” mean dollars in the currency of the United 
States of America.
Page  14
(d) 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is credited.
(e)
“Project” means the project for which the Grant is made, as described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and as the description thereof may be amended from time 
to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator.
(f)
“Taxes” includes imposts, levies, fees and duties of any nature, whether 
in effect at the date of this Agreement or thereafter imposed.
(g)
“Closing Date” means the date specified in Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
after which the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of 
the Recipient to withdraw from the Grant Account.
Section 1.03. Grant Account
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant Account and may be 
withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient as provided in this Agreement and in these 
General Conditions.
Section 1.04. Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be Made
Except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Grant Account shall be made in the respective currencies in which the 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are 
payable. 
Section 1.05.  Valuation of Currencies 
Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of this Agreement to determine 
the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably 
determined by the Administrator.
Section 1.06.  Withdrawal from the Grant Account
The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account amounts 
expended or, if the Administrator shall so agree, amounts to be expended for the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and of these General 
Conditions. Except as the Administrator and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of the Administrator, or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
Section 1.07.  Special Commitments by the Administrator
Upon the Recipient’s request and upon such terms and conditions as shall be 
agreed upon between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Administrator may enter 
into special commitments in writing to pay amounts to the Recipient or others in 
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation by the Administrator or the 
Recipient.
Section 1.08.  Applications for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account or 
to request the Administrator to enter into a special commitment pursuant to Section 
1.06 of the General Conditions, the Recipient, or the person designated under Section 
2.04 of this Agreement, shall deliver to the Administrator a written application in 
such form, and containing such statements and agreements, as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal, including the documentation required 
therefor, shall be made promptly in relation to expenditures for the Project.
Section 1.09.  Reallocation
Page  15
Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Grant or the percentages for 
withdrawal set forth or referred to in this Agreement, if the Administrator has 
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Grant then allocated to any withdrawal 
category set forth in this Agreement or added thereto by amendment will be 
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that category, 
the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient:
(a)
reallocate to such category, to the extent required to meet the estimated 
shortfall, proceeds of the Grant which are then allocated to another category and 
which in the opinion of the Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; 
and
(b)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce 
the percentage for withdrawal then applicable to such expenditures in order that 
further withdrawals under such category may continue until all expenditures thereunder 
shall have been made.
Section 1.10.  Evidence of Authority to Sign Applications for Withdrawal
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator evidence of the authority of 
the person or persons authorized to sign applications for withdrawal and the 
authenticated specimen signature of any such person.
Section 1.11.  Supporting Evidence
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator such documents and other 
evidence in support of the application as the Administrator shall reasonably request, 
whether before or after the Administrator shall have permitted any withdrawal 
requested in the application.
Section 1.12.  Sufficiency of Applications and Documents
Each application and the accompanying documents and other evidence must be 
sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Administrator that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account the amount applied for and that the amount 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account is to be used only for the purposes specified 
in this Agreement.
Section 1.13.  Treatment of Taxes
It is the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds of the Grant shall be 
withdrawn on account of payments for any taxes levied in the territory in which the 
Recipient is located on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, 
procurement or supply thereof. To that end, if the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant decreases or 
increases, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, increase or decrease the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in this 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Administrator.
Section 1.14.  Payment by the Administrator
The Administrator shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the 
Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
Section 1.15.  Suspension by the Administrator
If any of the following events of suspension shall have occurred and be 
continuing, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any obligation under this 
Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Project can be carried out or that the Recipient will be able to perform its 
obligations under this Agreement.
Page  16
(c)
Any other event specified in this Agreement for the purposes of this 
Section shall have occurred. 
The right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall continue 
to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be, until the event or events 
which gave rise to suspension shall have ceased to exist, unless the Administrator 
shall have notified the Recipient that the right to make withdrawals has been restored 
in whole or in part, as the case may be.
Section 1.16.  Cancellation by the Administrator
If (a) the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account 
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Grant for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Administrator determines, after 
consultation with the Recipient, that an amount of the Grant will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, or (c) at 
any time, the Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in 
by representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Recipient having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the procurement of any 
item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement 
and establishes the amount of the expenditures in respect of such item which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant or, (e) 
after the Closing Date, an amount of the Grant shall remain unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Grant shall be cancelled.
Section 1.17.  Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by 
Cancellation or Suspension by the Administrator
No cancellation or suspension by the Administrator shall apply to amounts 
subject to any special commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 1.07 of the General Conditions except as expressly provided in such 
commitment.
Section 1.18.  Effectiveness of Provisions after Suspension or Cancellation
Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension, all the provisions of this 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as specifically provided in 
this Agreement.
Section 1.19.  Cooperation and Information
The Recipient and the Administrator shall cooperate fully to assure that the 
purposes of the Grant will be accomplished. To that end, the Recipient and the 
Administrator shall:
(i)
from time to time, at the request of any one of them, exchange 
views with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the purposes of 
the Grant, and the performance of their respective obligations under this 
Agreement; and furnish to the other party all such information 
related thereto as it shall reasonably 
request; and
(ii)
promptly inform each other of any condition which interferes with, 
or threatens to interfere with, the 
matters referred to in paragraph 
(i) above.
Section 1.20.  Insurance
The Recipient shall insure or cause to be insured, or make adequate provision 
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Page  17
Grant against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation. Any indemnity for such insurance shall be payable 
in a freely usable currency to replace or repair such goods.
Section 1.21.  Use of Goods, Works and Services
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall cause all 
goods, works and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used 
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 1.22.  Plans and Schedules
The Recipient shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Administrator 
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract 
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material 
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request.
Section 1.23.  Records and Reports
(a)
The Recipient shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to 
record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to 
be derived from it), to identify the goods, works or services financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the 
Administrator’s representatives to visit any facilities and construction sites 
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant and any plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property, equipment, 
records and documents relevant to the performance of the obligations of the Recipient 
under this Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator at regular intervals all 
such information as the Administrator shall reasonably request concerning the Project, 
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure 
of the proceeds of the Grant and the goods, works and services financed out of such 
proceeds.
(b)
Upon the award of any contract for goods, works or services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, the Administrator may publish a description 
thereof, the name and nationality of the party to which the contract was awarded and 
the contract price.
(c) 
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than 
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish 
to the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator 
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its 
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the 
Recipient and the Administrator of their respective obligations under this Agreement 
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.
Section 1.24.  Maintenance
The Recipient shall at all times operate and maintain, or cause to be operated 
and maintained, any facilities relevant to the Project, and promptly as needed, make 
or cause to be made all necessary repairs and renewals thereof.
Section 1.25.  Land Acquisition
The Recipient shall cause to be taken all such action as shall be necessary to 
acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be 
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Administrator, promptly 
upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that such land and rights 
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 1.26.  Notices and Requests
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any other agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement 
shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or 
Page  18
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at 
such party’s address specified in this Agreement, or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. Delivery made by facsimile transmission shall be confirmed by mail.
Section 1.27.  Evidence of Authority
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator sufficient evidence of the 
authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the Recipient, take any 
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the 
Recipient under this Agreement, and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 1.28.  Action on Behalf of the Recipient
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient may be taken 
or executed by the representative of the Recipient designated in this Agreement for 
the purposes of this Section or any person thereunto authorized in writing by such 
representative. Any modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement 
may be agreed to on behalf of the Recipient by written instrument executed on behalf 
of the Recipient by the representative so designated or any person thereunto 
authorized in writing by such representative, provided that, in the opinion of such 
representative, such modification or amplification is reasonable in the circumstances 
and will not substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient under this 
Agreement. The Administrator may accept the execution by such representative or other 
person of any such instrument as conclusive evidence that in the opinion of such 
representative any modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement 
effected by such instrument is reasonable in the circumstances and will not 
substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient thereunder.
Section 1.29.  Settlement of Disputes
Any dispute arising out of, or relating to, this Agreement, which is not settled 
by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in accordance with 
the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules as at present in force.
Section 1.30.  Execution in Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be 
an original.
