C    -- "--IC -'_ L VFILE  COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 87a-IND
INDONESIA
PErJSAHAAN UMUM L'STRIK NEGARA
APPRAISAL OF THE
WEST JAVA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
May 10, 1973
Public Utilities Division
Asla Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
er cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                 -  Indonesia Rupees (Rp) 415
Rp 100               -  US$ 0.241
Rp 1 million         -  US$2,410
UXIITS AND EOUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)          -  0.6214 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (kmn2) -  0.3861 square miles (sq mi)
I pound per square inch  -  0.070 kilograms I'er square
(psi)                     centimeter (kg/cm2)
1 kilovolt (kV)           -  1,000 volts (V)
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)  -  1,^00 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)  -  1,000 volt-amperes
1 megawatt (1W)           -  1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)    -  1 million kilowatt hours (klth)
1 British thermal unit
(Btu)                =  0.252 kilo-calories (kcal)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONY?S
BAPPENAS        -  National Planning Agency
Exploitasi      -  District of Operations
GNP             -  Gross National Product
IGCI           -  Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia
OPJEC           -  Organization of Petroleum L.-porting Countrles
PERTA-INA       -  National Oil Company
SOFPELEC        -  SOFRELEC of France, Engineering and
,tanagement Consultants
PLN's FISCAL YEARS
1971-1973      -  January 1 - December 31
1974/75 onward - April 1 - March 31



iNDONESIA
PERUSAIAAN  U%W11 LISTRIK NEGARA
APPRAISAL OF 'TE
WEST JAVA THERIMAL PO0ER PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUWAURY AND  CONCLUSIOJS  ..............................    i-il
I.     rITRODUCTION  .........................................                              1
II.     TIEE POWFR SECTOR  .....................................                              2
Economic Background ............ ................    2
Sector Organization  .......                  ......................          2
Existing Public  Power Facilities  ....                    ............       3
Sector Planning and  'nvestme.:. .....                    .............       3
Tne Power H{arket  ........               ........................            4
III.    THE  BENEFICIARY ......................................                                6
Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara  (PL14)  ....                   ........       6
Organization ... ..................................    6
Management Consultants  ......                   ....................         7
Insurance ...................8- ............                                  8
IV.  THE PROJECT ...................8 ............                                           8
Description of  the Project  .....                   .................        8
Project Cost Estimate   ......                   .....................        9
Amount  of the Proposed  Credit  .....                   ..............      10
Engineering  ..........              ...........................             10
Procurement  and Disbursementt  .....                   ...............      10
Ecology .........................................                            11
V.     JUSTIFICATION  OF THE PROJECT  .........................                            11
West Java Power Market Projections  ....                      ..........     11
Power  Balance  ...................................                          12
Least-Cost  Solution  .............................                          12
Return on  Investment  ............................                          12
This report was prepared by Messrs. K. Stichenwirth and H. Maeda and is based
on information obtained with the cooperation of Mr. D. King and the Resident
Staff during missions to Indonesia in November/December 1972 and April 1973.



-2-
Page No.
VI.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS ....................................    13
General ............. n............................    13
Past Record and Prenent  ostion ....           ............    14
Accouaiting, Bi'Lling and Collection ....       ..........   14
Transfer of Assets ..............................    15
Financial Recovery Plan .......................             15
Government Contributions ........................    17
Tariffs .........................................    17
Audi; ...........................................    17
Future Financial Position .......................    18
VII.   ACR1TqtNITS RUACHED X.D RECOM'ENDATIONS ....          ...........    19
XNNEXES
1.   Installed Generating Capacity by Exoloitasi
2.   P'ublic Generation and Sales by Exploitasi (1967/71)
3.   Energy Sales by Consumer Categories (1967/71)
4.   Projert Cost Ertimate
5.   Return on Investment
6.   fOutline of Terms of Reference for Jav. Systet Development Plai
7.   Summary of PLN's Charter
3.   Foreign Aid Commitments
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10.   Actual and Forecast Income Statements (1971 - 1978/79)
11.   Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds (1972 - 1978/79)
12.   Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets (1971 - 1978/79)
13.   Management Services for Perusahaan UTmum Listrik Negara -
Terms of Reference
MAPS
1.   IBRD-3912R       Location of Main Public Generation Facilities
2.   IBRD-10304       Power Systems in Java



INDONESIA
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NFCARA
APPRAISAL OF THE
WEST JAVA THFRM.L POWER PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project consisting of the construction of
the 2 x 100 MW 'Muara Karang oil-fired generating station, the implementation
of a "financial recovery plan" for PLN, a Power System D.velopment Plan for
the whole of the island of Java, and a study investigating the feasibility
of tt ? Citarum Hydroelectric Project located about 100 km from Jakarta.
ii.       The total cost of the Proiect is escimated at US$54.6 million
£qu.va..nt out of which US$46 million or 84s repr-sent the foreign exchange
component. The proposed Credit would cover the Project's foreign exchange
cost.
iii.      Growth of consumption of electricity in Inidonesia over the past
five years has shown a steadily rising trend from aboet 4% in 1)68 to around
12%. in 1971 giving rise to expectations of an average annual 14% increase
over the projected period up to 1978/79. The pattern of sales increases in
the public power sector, however, varied considerably among the various
supply regions, the largest being Ln the West Java region where the proposed
Project is located. Growth in that region increased from about 2% to about
16% between 1967 and 1971, supporting the assumption of an average annual
increase of about 17% during the forecast period.
iv.       The Project is ani essentiaL element in the provtsion of new gen-
erating facilities required and is particularly necessary to cover a serious
shortage of base load capacity which will prevail until its commissioning.
It represents the only realistic solution for base load requirements arid
the development scheme starting with the 100 MW unit size is the least-cost
solution for discount rates from about 10% -30%. The economic return of the
Project plus the additional trainsmission and distribution investments
required to market the station's output is estimated at about 20% based on
benefits valued at tariffs expected tn be in force at the time of plant
commissioning.
v.        Sector planning in Indonesia in the past was based on the a"ailability
of foreign aid rather than sector requirements. This approach, though having
the advantage of securing the necessary funds before embarking on projects,
led to lack of coordination in the sector and even within regions. Conse-
quently, the proposed Credit includes funds for a power system development
study for the whole island of Java. This study would aim at creating an
oserall Java system development plan and form the basis for establishing
investment priorities. It would also assure standardization of system design
and operation required for future interconncction in the island.



vi.       Pl.N's managerial, financial and staffing weaknesses have been and
stiLl remain the major obstacles to development of the power sector. To
overcome theem, the first two Credits (165 and 334-IND), which were basically
nade to strengthen and expand the Jakarta distribution system, included 'unds
for extensive management and accounting consultant services. SOFRELEC, a
French consulting firm, was retained to review operating and financial
pr.icticLs, as well as tthe organizational and legal framework of thc public
power sector.
vii.      The consultants' involvement has already yielded positive results
in various areas such as tariff review, asset revaluation and design of a new
ClaWLter, which, with sone modifications, was implemented with the Association's
concurrence.  It is furthermore establishing the institutional and orga-
nizational basis on wihich futur development can be built. What remains to
be dlone is essentially implementation of the consultants' propoEals and a
very intensive training effort, comprising all professional levels, and day
to day ass,stance.  This will require a number of years.
viii.        's financial situation is very weak.  Revenues did not meet
Ope.atillr    2l5C ~, excluding depreciation in 1972 and even a 30%, tariff
increase. ,        e July 1, 1973, w,ll nut provide full coverage.  In the
circum-stanc,      id financial recovery cannot be expected.  Consequently,
thY. Liriff cove-....,ts inciuded in earlier Credit documents cannot be comlvied
wit: in the neatr future 0ich is due both to high costs and insufficient
revenues. It is therefore proposed to approach gradually a financial
'recovery point" (revenues covering operating expenses) by means of
comprehetnsive cost luanagement improvement and appropriate tariff increases.
From that point onward, progress toward establishing a sound financial base
should !>e possible.
ix.       T'he proposed Credit would assist in financing a badly needed
expansion iri generating capacity. The financial situation and the quality
ot manantemenL are expected to gradually improve along the lines of the
financial recovery plan through *oeasures initiated under the past two credits.
rhereforc. with the agreements reaclhed during negotiations, a credit of
US$46 millioni equivalent is recommeg.ded.



INDONESIA
PERUSAHAAN UMUThI LISTRIK NECARA
APPRAISAL OF THE
WEST JAVA ThkRMAL POWER PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.G1      The Government of Indonesia has requested financial assistance for
a Project consisting of the 200 MW ol. iired Muara Karang station, located
in Jakarta, together with associated substation and transmission equipment,
the implementation of a "financial recovery plan" for PLN, the engineering
for a power de"elopment plan for tne 'wnole of Java, and a feasibility study
for the Citarum hydroelectric project. The beneficiary of this Credit would
be Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN), the state-owned electricity
corporation.
1.02      The Credit would be the twenty-sixth to Indonesia (total commit-
inents US$341.5 equivalent) and the third for the power sector (total com-
mitments US$55 million equivalent). The first two power Credits were also
for the bennefit of PLN, made to help finance the rehabilitatic. and expansti_n
of the Jakarta electricity distribution system.
1.03      Difficulties were experienced in starting work under the first
Credit (165-IND). This was due to initial delays of about six months in
selecting engineering and management consultants and, subsequently, greater
difficulties than anticipated in processing bidding documents prepared by
the consultants and in the evaluation of bids, and in reaching agreement on
contract awards. Bid processing should improve, however, since the new
Charter of 1972 has given to PLN the total responsibility for procurement,
which, under the old regulation, was exercised by the Government.
1.04      The second Credit (334-IND), signed in September 1972; coirtinues
the first. It is based on SOFRELEC's complete revie. of the tota2. require-
ments for the Jakarta distribution rehabilitation program. It war made only
after the Government had agreed in June 1972 to issue a new charter to
provide PLN with reasonable autonomy in conducting its day ta day business.
1.05      Both credits include funds for comprehensive management and ac-
counting consulting services aimed at establishing a sou.ad public utility
organization. The consultants' assistance has already yielded positive
results, most notably in completed asset revaluation and tariff studies, in
the new PLN charter, and the introduction of a modern accounting system and
central cash control procedures. Nevertheless, it will take several more
years, with the consultants' focussing more than in the past on intensive
training efforts designed to reach all sectors and professional levels of
PL1's staff, before PLN becomes an efficiently managed public utility.



- 2 -
1.06      This report was prepared by Messrs. K. Stichenwirth and h. Maeda
and is based on information obtained with the cooperation of Mr. D. King and
the Resident Staff during missions to Indonesia in November/Decemnber 1972
a.id April 1973.
II. THE POWER SECTOR
EconoMic Backiround
2.101     Indonesia consists of about 3,000 islands with a total land area
of .ipMroXiMarely 1.9 million km2.  Due to the large are;a over which the
archipelago uxtends, distances are much longer than the country's size
suggests:  about 5,000 kr% east-west and 2,000 km north-souLh.  The population,
estimated at 119 million and growing at an annual rate of about 2.5Z, Is
distributed rather unevenly.  Almost two-thirds live on the island of Java
which represents only 7% of the total land area and where the population
density is about 60U inhabitants per kn2, one of the highest in the world.
2.02      With an estimated annual US$73 per capita GNP (19  ), Indonesia
ranks among the poorest countries in the world. Its economy is generally
based on agriculture (about half of the national product) which provides
emptovment and income Lo- riore than 70%. of the population.  Oil and gas
are indoniesia's mo3t imnportant natural resources.  The power sector is in
its earlv stage of development, with unreliable supply in the maljor population
cente-r. dnd nbu n-'pl  at all in vast rural areas. Installed capacity is
univ about 9 WilLtS ..er inhabitant, and per capita annual sales amounted to
about 15 k'h in 1971 ranking the country among the lowest in the world.
2.313     indonesia's economic cliriate hes changed over the past five to
six years, from zhaotic conditions and economic decline to a promising
start on developmaent. This optimism is reflected in the Government's
Second Five-Year P]an 1974/75 through 1978/79, presently in .in advanced
st;*,e of pr-paration, which is being built on an estimated growth of the
econo.,y of 7%-8% per year.  liis econonic improvement, should it materialize,
would accelerate the pace of po*,er Cemand increase and, consequently, create
heavy pressure on PI'N's investmenL n,ogram.  PLN is unlikely to be able to
cope witli this burden effectively vnless its overall capabilities and
especially its financial basis are improved rapidly.
Se;-,or Organization
2.!4     During the period 1953-1957 the three Dutch owned electricity
uti. it.  ompanies pro'Ading power in Indonesia were inationalized.  The
transition was abrupt and did not leave time for instruction or training of
the JrnJone-.an staff. In addit'.on, civil. unrest and polil±cal instability
in t-ne mi.:-sixt'es precluded improvements in the sector. Furthermore,
practic.i!iv all records were destroyed leaving the power utilities without the
basi  li.ormation required for efficient operation and accounting.  This
situat ir. remained without major improvement until the first results of the
Association financed management consultant study (para. 3.09) became avail-
able in 1)72.



2.05      In 1961 the three nationalized utilities were consolidated into a
single entity, PLN's predecessor, which was made responsible for all public
elect:icity supply in the country. In 1965, PLN was created as the state
elee,tricity authority responsible for generation, transmission and distri-
h'-:on of electricity throughout the country. In the early years it was only
responsible for operation but not for construction of major power stations
which was carried out under the authority of the Ministry of Public Works
and Power. Recognizing that this situation was undesirable in view of the
need for coordinated manaZement in the sector, the new charter tr3nsferred
responsibility for future construction to PLN. To ensure that PLN will
ultimately also have the ownership, and respcns.bility for plant presently
under construction by the Covernmeat, *he transfer of such assets to PLN
was agreed under the earlier Credits (para 6.09).
2.06      PLN has the exclusive right and responsibility for generating,
transmitting and distributing electric power throughout Indonesia. However,
companies or individual persons are allowed to build and operate generating
stations for their own purpose if FLN is unable to supply electric power and,
ixt special cases, distribute electricity to consumers in the surrounding
areas. In the case of generating plant, a certain capacity limit, established
by the Minister of Public Works and Power in consultation with PLN (presently
25 kVA), must be observed. If such installaticn exceeds the limit or if
distribution is involved, a special permit from the Minister, given upon
PLN's recommendation, must be obtained. Due to unreliable power supply,
comparatively large industrial captive plant estimated at about 37X of the
total installed capacity in Indonesia is presently in operation. With the
expected improvement of the reliability of electricity supply by PLN, this
figure should decline in future.
Existing Public Power Facilities
2.07       Installations are scattered all over the country in fairly small
uniEs and stations. On December 31, 1971, the total installed generating
capacity of PLN amounted to 557 MW (Annex 1), not counting 125 MW of the
Jatiluhur multi-purpose project which is owned and operated by the Jatiluhur
Authority; PLN purchases energy from this station. Total capacity comprised
33% hydro, 23% steam and 44% diesel and gas turbine. In 1972, two adc!itional
50 '1W units were installed in Tanjung Priok (Jakarta), raising the station's
capacity to 150 MW, now the largest in PL's system.
2.08      PLN's transmission facilities comprise about 3,000 km of lines
ranging from 25 kV to 150 kV, and an aggregate transformer capacity of
about 1,350 MVA.  Except for a 150 kV link between the areas of Jakarta
and Bandung (Java), even major communities on the various islands are not
interconnected and the small systems operate on an isolated basis.
Sector Planning and Investment
2.09      Sector planning efforts were first made in connection with the
Government's First Five-Year Plan which will end in FY1973/74. However, these
plans were largely based on foreign aid thought to be available rather than



-4-
on technical cr economic considerations.  The country was divider into various
regions, for instance East, Central and West Java on that is1and, for which
BAPP'NAS, the national nlinning agency, made proposals for project aid and
technical assistance to the, Irter-Governmental Group for Indonesia (IGGI).
In response, donor countries or national or international lending agencies
offered technical assistance f'.r system planning and project feasibility
studies for specific project areas with the expectation that they would pro-
vide project financing as welt. f_.r such areas. These efforts so far have been
quite successful in raising funds. As can be seen from Annex No. 7, the com-
mitted - or about to be committed -- funds not yet withdrawn anDunted to
Us$320 million equivalent as of September 1972 for a total investment program
FY1973/74-1977/78 of about tiS$470 million equivalent.
2. 1      These arrangerients, although successful in securing fund:,,
resulted in increasing depeadency of pro-jecz realization (in the availability
of forei;n aid, and contributed to a lack of coordinated developnent of, so
far, independfnt  svstems.  This situat40on, together with rather slow process-
Ing of projects, lo4 to severe power shortages and bls.ckouts in the Jakarta
and !'esL J.ava areas during the dry season ot 1972.  Tnese are expected to
continue to some degree until tthe proposed 1-:olect is .omrnissioned in about
1977, unles-i emergency installation of a series of gas turbinus, for wlaich
bilateral finanzicn; is being arranged, is mane in a timely inanner.
2.11      To correct thi,~ situation the proposed Creclit ln:ludeo  fin&  for a
power systom development study for the whole of Java.  As cv& !)e -een fror;
Annex 6, the plan .ncorporates as much as possible the resilts !  .;tudtfes
executce<  t> various agencies for selectedt areas In Java: it is ai.:cd at
estab i iaiiing an overall Java system deve]opmTent plan -,wh Ch will forn the
guidelLne for fuzure power development in the island anu vii] ewtah1As'1 in-
vestment priorities in tthe sertor.  Considering the importance c,f .'tie plan
as outlined, Covernr.en_ and PLN have agreed during negotiations to irnitiate
such study in 1973.
a ..e i'ower 'I l rket
2.12      Over the past 5 years (1967-1971), the growth of power consumption
in Indonesia shows a stcadily increasing trend (Annex 2), starting with a
4% increase in 1168 and rising to about 12X ir 1971.  Although PH.,'s hIs-
torical recerds cannot be completely relied upon, which may account for somL
of the iniconsistencies in the detailed figures, and also bearing irn mind
that trhe restrictea availability of electric service in Indonesia certainly
has a retarding effect on the electricity growth, they, nevertheless, seen
to indicate an upward tendency in line with Indonesia's overall economic
recovery.  Devetlopment cr power sales in the public power sector varied
consid lrably am.-iong the various stupply regions, with larger increases in thle
West Java supply region than in other areas; the West .Java region, where
tke  Provcs.' 1ro;ect is located, accounts for roug,hly 50% of the tota,l nar-
r I;:o 1,K,Llowing table .:ows the relevant figures for the paat 5 years:



-5-
TOTAL INDONESJA                           WEST JAVA_
Losses
Annual  and                             Annual
Gen-              Sales   Auxi-       Gen-                 Sales
eration   Sales       In-   liary    eratioa    Sales        In-
(GWh)     (GWh)   crease  Power    (.Wh)          (GWh)    crease
1967            1,607      1,:58      -      28%       789        529         -
1968            1,766      i,?04      4%     32%       846        537         2%
1969            1,872      1,454    21%      22%       895        695        '9%
1970            2,084      1,589      9%     24%    1,014         773        11%
1971            2,354      1,7P6    12%      24%    1,175         898        16%
2.13      Based on tne assumption of a continuing strong growth potential
of the Indonesian economy and a low existing consuM'Lion base, an annual
increase in power demand of 17% to 20% could be anticipated over the ne:ct 7
to 10 years. However, this incr(ase is expected to materialize on:Ly in the
island of Java, particularly in Jakarta, where PLN with the assistai,ce of
SOFRELEC is undertaking an extensive distribution rehabilitation progran,
financed under Credits 165 and 334-IND, which will improve cot siderably the
power market condit-40ns in that area. American, German and Japanese agencies
are concentrating on othet .'v.aneqe regions.  The rest of the sistem, however,
appears too weak to justify the assumption of similar load projections. There-
fore an overall sales increase of only 14% per year has been assumed. This
assessment has been used as the basis for estimating PLN's revemues during
the period 1973//4 through 1978/79 (Annex 10).
2.14      The total number of customers amcunts to about 950,000 of which
about 90% ar* residential. The breakdown of sales by consumer classes, of
which Annex 3 provides more Information on earlier years, was as follows
in 1971:
Sales
Residential                            56%
Commercial                              8%
ladustrial and others /1               36%
total                      100%
/1   Street lighting, public buildings, et^.
The relatively low industrial component is partly due to the fact that much
of the industry provides its own power supply.



6 -
III. 7TE RF.N'FFTCIARY
Per'zsahaan Unum Listrik Negara kPLN)
i.(1      F!.N's corporate existence is based on the 1972 Charter (for a
s nrrarv see Annex 7) whi:h was issued as a Covernmer.t decree within the
tramework of various existing laws. This charter was drafted with the
assistance of SOFREIEC, PE:,s managemenL consultants (paras. 3.08-3,10), and
reviewed in detail by thc1t !ssociatlon.  It was announced with the undorstanding
t'.at, sihould practical exnerience indi.'ate the advisability of changes.
ec.ssary amendments would he made in cue course Withl the concurrence of
the AssociatiP -   In order to continue Association involvenent in this
importnnt matter, the 334-1I D covenant requiring As,ociation concurrence to
matertal chan_es in "overning laws affecting PLN has been repeated in the
documents of the oroposed Credit.
3.n2      The char.er under which PLN will operate In future fo'es not give
the Qomnan.v all C,e aLuthoritv nornally expected with an inOerendent entity.
Covornnent conitrol in eviercisel over the activities of the en.ernrin;e in
such important ,-tters as author-ity to borrow, investre   polla, setting of
tariffn. and a'pointment of the President Director.  This is In l.ine withi
Government policy for eontrolling imnortant sectors of the economy.
r n i zation
3.03        I      n' s p.nanement - calledi Board of Directors - consists of the
Preslclciit Director and at. lcast two ')irectors.  At present five Directors
in addition to t,ic Presi'ent Director are appointed.  They are resnonslble,
rcne(-7-ivey for  llanni r., construction, operation, finances and accounting,
aad ad;inistration an(o  ersonnel.  The nembers of the Board are appointed
and disniissed by tine Presiuent of Indonesia upon recommendation of tue
linister of Tublic .or:.s and Power.  They normally serve for a five-year term,
but may be re-appo inted.
3."4       .he President Director Is responsible to the 'iinister ard the
Directors are resnonsible in their respecti"e field to the President Di-
rector.  This would suggest a normal line of responsibility, but in
practice dtcisions are only made unanimously which makes the dlecision process
a slow one.
3.0!      The linister sets PLN 's general policy an. exercises general
control over the activities of the company.  In this he is advised in all
att- rs of major Linortance by an Advis-orv Board consisting  of the Minister
of  lilau-e, the ¶inister of Industry and the Minister of National Developnent
Plannini wto is the Cl:lirman of BAPPENAS, the Government planning agency.
Since its formacion in 3972, the Advisory Board has proven to be useful;
it provid-i*  the onport'laitv for high ranking off Lcials concerne'i with econom,e
matters *. i!eet on problems of develo.,nent in the power sectfsr.



-7-
3.06      PLN's regional organization comprises 15 districts of operation,
called Fxploitasi.  These regions have their own construction, operation,
and billing and accounting divisions, and are responsible for the proper
functioning of operations in the region   11owever, weak central management,
the large distances involved and poor means of cormunication have led in the
past to exaggerated decentralization. In the course of its involvement in
PLN, SOFRELEC has made important recommendations aimed at correcting the
situation by dividing in a well-balanced manner the various responsibilities
between headquarters and Exploitasis. These recommendations - for instance
concerning central cash control and pla:&niiig and construction supervision
for large projects from headquarters - willl bc implemented according to the
time schedule given in Annex 13.
3.07      PT.,; has a total permanetit staff of 15,600 employees; in addition,
up to about /,0O0 casual laborers are employed increasing the actual average
labor force to ahoui; 19,000-20,000. Although the company's activities cover
all aspects of power generation, transnission and distribution, and the area
served is very large, the number of employees is high by riormal standards.
In the course of its management improvement activities, SOFRELEC has embarked
on an extensive personnel and job evaluation study, the purpose of which,
among others, Is to define more normal levels of staffing (Annex 13).
Manaeent Consultants
3.08      From the beginring of Association involvemenit with PLU  in 19' , it
was evident that the company's managerent and general standards of operatiorn 
were extremel.y weak.  There was no reason to exPect meaningful improvemcnts
without outside advice and assistance.
3.09      Financed by funds of Credit 165, PL. employed SOFRELEC as its gen-
eral management consultants, charged with tLle responsibility ef raking recom-
mendations for and assisting in improving .all of PLT's act'vities, in parti-
cular organization and rianagement.  Since 1970, when the consultants commenced
their assignment, they have been successful in various fields such as d-awing
up a comprehensive tariff study, on which the July 1973 taiiff incrEal
(para 6.17) is based, establishing a new code of accounts, revaluing P121's
assets and initiating a comprehensive staff training program.  Furthermore,
they laid the basis for an implementation program, for which SOFRELEC is requir'
to provide day-to-day assistance.
'.10      The first managenent consulting contract financed under Credit 165-
IND is due to expire by June 1973. Credit 334-IND, which was recently
declared effective, provides funds for continuation of consulting services,
for which, however, contractual arrangements between PLJ and its consultants
still have to be made. During negotiations detailed terms of reference and
an implementation schedule for a considerable number of specific activities
were agreed upon by the Government, PLN and TDA (Annex 13) and will form the
basis for the "second phase" of the managemert consulting contract.  Since
the services to be provided are vital, conclusion of all pertinent contractual
arrangements is a condition of eff`ctiveners of the proposed Credit.



-8-
Insuirance
'.11      PLN doas not insure Its property in operation nor Is self-insurance
possible considering its critical financial situation. Moreover, no insurance
company has yet been willing to insure the risks involved at reasonable
premiums. The question of insurance recently became particularly crucial
;,iwn the 25 MrW thermal station iTI Makassar suffered extensive dan3ge from
fire; at the time of ttme appraisal It was not clear where PLN would get the
funds for reconstructioni. It was therefore agreed during negotiations that,
until insurance arrangenents satisfactory to the Association will have been
made, t1;e Government will provide PLN with the funds required to cover
nornally insurable damage minus an amount equivalent to US$100,000.
IV. THIE PROJECT
''escription of the Project
4.01      The proposed Projict -would comprise the following:
(a)  the 200 MW Muara Karang thermil station (pora 4.02);
(b)  the implerentat:on of a "financial recovery plan" for
PL' (paras 6.10-6.15);
(e)  tic .Java Systen Development Stuily (paras 2.09-2.11); anrd
(d)  the Cir..irur. Hydroelectric Feasihility Study (para 4.03).
4.02     TIle Muara Karang thermal station w%,uld be located In the northwest
nutsklrts of Jakarta; under the Project, the first two 100 :rw units of a
total capacity of about 4-500 MW would be installed. The units would be
of non-rehleat tv?e at stear conditions of 1,450 psi and 1,000°F.  The oil-
firci l)oiler would include burners adjustable for future gas-fueled operation,
should natural ,as become econormically available.  Each generator would be
linkedi tihrough a 115 'VA transformer to a 150 kV switchyard.  The station's
output would be transmitted to PLN's grid over about 30 km of 150 kV double
circuit lines to three -xisting substations in the area around Jakarta.  The
construction of the transmission line and reinforcements (300 MVA) in the
substations, including upgrading to 150/70 kV, are included in the Project.
4.03      The purpose and background of the Java System Development Plan
are *lescribed in paragraphs 2.09-2.11.  The Citarum project feasibility study
is aimed at investigat';g an apparently attractive hydro power site, located
about 100 k,n from Jakarta and about 40 km upstream of the existing 125 MW
Jatiluliur multi-purpose project on the Cltarum river.  Preliminary surveys
made by soveral agencies indicate that about 2,500 GWh could be generated
annually, with an installed capacity of 500-600 MN. The first stage of the
study "-uld examine the findings of preliminary surveys and determine the
scope ot the project on the basis of overall system economny; the followiig



-9-
stages, depending on the findings of the first stage, would be physical
investigations and the preliminary design of the Citarum project.
Project Cost Estimate
4.04      The detailed cost estimate of the Project over the period of
construction 1973 through 1977 is given in Annex 4 and summarized below:
Billions of Rupiahs    Millions of USZ Dollars
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
I)  Muara Karang Thermal Plant
(2 x 100 M.')
Land and Civil Works        0.80    1.04    1.84    1.92    2.51    4.43
Plant and Equipment         0.93    9.34   10.27    2.24   22.51   24.75
Switchyard and Electri-
cal Works                 0.20    1.64    1.84       .1,9    3.95    4.44
Transmission Lines and
Substations               0.16    1.53    1.69    0.39    3.67    4.06
Engineering and Adninis-
tration                   0.55    1.12    1.67    1.32    2.70    4.02
Contingencies - Physical  0.27    1.46    1.73    0.64    3.53    4.17
- Price      0.41    2.13    2.54    1.00    5.13          '
Sub-total                  3.32   18.26   21.58    8.00   44.00   52.00
II) Studies
Java System Development
Plan                      0.12    0.42    0.54    0.30    1.00    1.30
Citarum }1ydroelectric
Feasibility Study         0.12    0.42    0.54    0.3r0    1.00    1.30
Totai                      3.56   19.10   22.66    8.60   46.00   54.6P
4.05      The cost estimate for the power station was prepared on the basis
of a feasibility study carried out by the engineering firn of C. T. Main.
It reflects the recent price increases for thermal equipment experienced
over the past two years. It also includes provisions for increases in the
foreign exchange component due to the recent devaluation of the US dollar.
The estimates represent the expected cost for the two initial 100 MW units
and include in som.e items (land, civil works, transmission lines) provisions
for the station's ultimate capacity. In order to allow for possible cost
changes arising from the detailed station design and unexpected events during
project execution, a physical contingency allowance of 10% has been included
in the estimate.  Also included is a price contingency of 5' per year to
reflect the effects of foreign and local inflation. No allowance for customs
duties had to be made since capital works undertaken by Government departments
or agencies and financed by budgetary provisions or through foreign aid
assistance are exempt from such levies. The cost estimates for the studies
are based on estimated time and manpower required for such assignments.



- 10 -
4.0(      The estimated total cost of the Muara Karang thermal station
includ(lng transmission lines and substation extensions amounts to US$52
million equivaler:. This represents an estimated unit cost of USS260/kW
installed. Deducting price contingencies of about US$6 million in order
to discount the cost to comparable levels of today's plants, the unit cost
drops to US5233/kW installed (US$205/kW, excluding associated transmission
sy:iLens).  These figures are reasonable considering the comparatively
small unit size.
Amount of the Proposed Credit
4.07      Tie foreign exchange component of the Project, amounting to US$46
million equivalent represents about 84% of the total of US$54.6 million
equivalent.  The proposed Credit would cover the above foreign currency cost.
Engeerin
4.08      As indicated in paragraph 4.05, the feasibility study for the thermal
power station was prepared by the engineering firm of C. T. Main and financed
by Credit 135-1ND, the First Technical Assistance Credit.  For detailed
design and construiction supervision, including training of plant operational
staff, PI.-; will retain qualified consultants.  For this purpose, PLN has
inv!ted engineering proposals from a numbcr of qualified firms.  One will
be seltcted after consult ng the Association.  A covenant requiring PLN to
emplov conisultants satisfactory to the Association for design and corstruction
supervision of tile Project is included in the Credit docunWnts.
4.()9     A constructLon office for the Project will be established withiir
Pl.1's headquarters.  The schetduled commissioning dates are April 1977 for
the first unit and July 1q77 .or the second unit.
4.10      The Java system developmetit studty and the Citarum hydroelectric
feasibility stuly will be carried out by engineering consultants satisfactory
to the Association under separate contracts and will utilize as much as
possible PLN's staff for training purposes.  Each study is estimated to take
about two years; they will be carried out concurrently.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.11      ihe goods and services financed by the proposed Credit, including
civil worEs contracts, will he procured through internatiotial competitive
bid0in6 in accordance with th.: Associition's Guidelines.  PLN plans to include
in the bids for major electro-nechanical equipment an option for one additional
uitiL tn he inctalled later.  Equipment financed by the proposed Credit is
prcserclv ro. manufact.-ed In Indonesia.  1'owever, in case local industries
would lie estatlisied and became competitive with respecL to some of the
Projcet iten.s, the Credit documents inclucde the usual margin of preference for
local mianufa,eturers.
4.12      Disbursements will be inade for the full foreign exchange cost *,
Imported equipment, material, and services, and the foreign exchange component



- 1.1 -
of civil works, estimated at 61%. Should local manufacturers win contracts
for equipment and materials, disbursements would be iade against 95%' of th(
ex-factory cost only, the remaining 5% representing the estimated average of
local taxes.  With the exception of engineering services for the Muara Karang
project, no disbursements would be made for expenditures prior to signing of
the Credit.  It is anticipated that the Government would advance the funds
for covering such engineering expenditures, for which it would be reimbursed
after credit effectiveness.  Any surplus remaining after completion of the
Project will be cancelled, unless there are good reasons for applying savirgs
tt' related works.
E~cology
4.13      No major ecological problem's are expected.  Cooling water from the
condensers will be discharged directly into the Java Sea where there is amrle
cooling water available.  Indonesia has not yet established standards for
environmental quality, in particular for permissible concentratior. of sulphur
dioxide and other contaninants emitted by industrial plants.  llowevcr,
electrostatic precipitators and the use of low-sulphur Indonesian oil will
maintain atmospheric contamination within acceptable levels whiclh Is parti-
cularly important since the plant is located close to highly populated areas.
The terns of reference for the engineering consultants explicitly stipulate
t'iat ecological investigations will be undertaken and recommendations mna'e
regarding the necessary prever.tive measures required; the Association will
discuss the reconmendations with the Government, PLN and the consultants.
V.  JUSTIFICATION or TiTr PRfOJECT
West Java Power Market Proiections
5.01      Reliable and adequate supply of electricity by PL: in the '.;esz
Java area, the center of Indonesia's economic activities, is essential for
the expansion of the economy, and will also help prevent further e:. ensive
investment in captive plant. As outlined in paragraph 2.12, power sales
in the Jakarta and West Java area, in which the Muara Karang thermal station
will be located, increased faster over the past five years than the sales
in the rest of the country. Starting at the low annual increase of about 2%
in 196a, the annual growth rate increased to dbout 16% in 1971; this was
achieved even without major improvements in the West Java distribution system.
5.02       Financed by funds of Credit Nos. 165 and 334-IND, PLN is
undertaking in the Jakarta region a large distribution rehabilitation
and expansion program aimed at raising supply standards of presently
connected consumers to acceptable Levels and at enabling new consumers to
be connected (para 2.13). According to information obtained from Exploitasi
XII (West Java), applications for new connections of the order of 300 MIA
have been filed in Jakarta out of which only a part can be accepted in the
near future. This distribution improvement program, gradual completion of
which is phased over the period up to about 1977 when the Project is



- 12 -
schedulecl for completion, is bound to encourage higher consumption and
con.iequently further increases in power demand.
5.03       In discussions with PLN and its consultants, these factors werL
thoroughly investigated in preparing the following market forecasts for
Vest Java:
1972        1977       Rate of Growth
p.a.
uergy requirements (MGTh)                    1,212       2,706           17.4%
Peak DeTrand (MW)                              235         508           16.6%
It is evident that forecasts for this market, with a low consumption base
and erratic supplies in the past, are subject to substantial uncertainties;
however, for the period covered, the above forecast can be considered a
reasonable basis for investment planning.
Power !Salance
5.04      The installed capacity in West Java at the end of 1972 was 382 MW,
of whiich only 262 ":!' could be considered firn during the drv season.
Considering the expecte' increase in demand (para 5.03), about 150-200 MW
of additional generating capacity is required before commissioning of the
Project in 1977.  Because of the limited time available, gas turbines are the
only solution to meet this requirement and PLN intends to obtain necessary
fulnds for this purpose fion bilateral aid; five units of 20-24 MW each have
alreadly been comnmitted.  As a result, installed generating capacity at the
ennd of 1n76 will consist of 37% hydro, 37%. gas turbine and 26% steam power.
i(sre %will be a severe shortage in base load capacity.  tlowever, with the
con,lettion of the Muara Karang thermal station, sufficient base load zapacity
wil l be rconomically available, and the gas turbines would either serve as
peakinp or reserve capacity or would be transferred to other isolated small
svs tens.
Least-Cost Solution
5.05      Thermal power developments represent the only realistic solution
available for providing the base load capacity in 1977. Among several
generation development schemes, the one starting with a unit size of 100 MW
proved to be the least cost solution for discount rates from about 10% - 30Z.
Teviinically, this unit size, twice as big as the largest existing unit, would
al,o be most suitable for PLN, as it represents the upper size limit of
non-rehcat units whicih PLN could operate without difficulty.
Return on Investment
5.06      The value to Indonesia of removing the constraint to growth of
uncc-!ain and inadequate public power supply in West Java by investing in
the proposed Project is not readily estimated and is thus not reflected in
any estimate of return on investment. Nevertheless, the return 's expected



- 13 -
to be at least 24% on the basis of (i) revenues realized from electricity
tariffs expected to be in effect when the project is completed and (ii) fuel
costs expected at that time (Annex 5); these tariffs, about 45Y, higher than
the present level, are not expected to materially slow down the growth of the
severely repressed electricity demand and are lower than the cost of
electricity from private generating installations which have mushroomed in
the country mainly because of unreliability or unavailability of public
power supply. Should the load growth prove to be lower than the estimated
level, the only effect would be the reduction of investments for gas turbines.
The return would become about 20% if ahout one-third of the total cost of the
on-going US$75 million distribution reliabilitation program should be
attributed to the cost of the proposed Project; the output of the Muara
karang plant could not satisfactorily be supplied to ultimate customers
without inprovement of existing distribution systers.
VI. FINAICIAL ASPECTS
General
6.01      At the time of the Association's first involvement with PLU
(Credit 165-IN;) in 1969,, meaningful in:ormation about the company's
financial posit'on was not available. Records either did not- exist
or were unreliable. Billing and collection procedures were inadequate and
inefficient; management and staff were untrained and unable to cope
effectively witlh even day-to-day assignments. Since then, the management
and accounting consultants (para 3.09) have developed the basis (code of
accounts and accounting practices, revaluation of assets, central cash
collection procedures) for future effective financial management. Furthermore,
training of PLN's top management and key financial personnel at headouarters
and in important Java Exploitasi has created a nucleus of people who are
capable of ensuring future improvement of operations.  What remains to
he done is to extend the training program to all the Exploitasi througihout
Indonesia and to include additional groups of PLN's financial staff in this
program.
6.02      With the completion of revalued 1971 accounts and the analysis
of the preliminary budgeted 1972 figures, it became apparent that PLN's
financial situation was even worse than was anticipated at the time of
appraisal for the previous Credits. The company is not in a position to
cover its expenses, even before depreciation. Consequently, the tariff
covenants included in earlier Credit documents, requiring cost coverage and
a reasonable contribution to investment from internal cash generation
cannot be complied with in the near future. Therefore, the cxLsting tariff
covenants will be supplemented by a comprehensive financial recovery plan,
wlhich will govern until 1979, when the existing tariff covenant will become
operative (paras 6.10-6.15).



- 14 -
Past Record and Present Position
6.03      As agreed under Credit 165-IND, rLN has undertaken a comprehensive
anset revaluation srudy, the results of which first became available in
1972 and have been incorporated in the 1971 accounts. These figures
accurately reflect, for the first time, PLNl's financial situation and have
been used as the basis for the financial projections.
6.04      Revenues in 1971 were insufficient to cover operating costs
including full depreciation. The rate of return was negative. In order
to have achieved a reasonable return of, say, 8%, raising revenues by about
Rp 13.5 billion, equivalent to an 889 tariff increase, would 'have been re-
quiretd.
6.ns;     The company's present situation as illustrated by the preliminary
1972 figures (Annex 10-12) has further deteriorated.  Revenues did not cover
caslh operating costs, i.e. operating loss exceeded depreciation. Among
other reasons this was due to a 60% salary an;i wage increase in 1972 which
was made to raise the PlNl employees' income to levels of comparable civil
servants in Indonesia. For FY 1973/74 another 155' is included in the budget
for the same purpose. In order to break-even after these cost increases,
an overall tariff increase of almost 807 would be required. With the 30%
tariff increase (para 6.1') to be in effect on July 1, 1973, expenses,
including depreciation, are likely to he covered by revenues only to the
extent of ahout 73%.
AccountinjL, BiliBg and Collection
6.00      The consultants have practically completed the design for a modern
accounting systemn and have laid the ground rules for PLN's accounting proce-
dures.  The system includes the whole range of financial activities, such
as fixed assets administration, depreciation, payroll accounting, inventory
control, management reporting, etc. Particular progress has been made
in the field of central cash control for all the Exploitasi. At the
moment this control covers only the important districts located in Java,
but it will be introduced in due course throughout the country.
6.07      At the time of previous appraisals the Association was particularly
concerned with large arrears of accounts receivable, especially those due
from various Government agencies which accounted for Rp 7.1 billion out
of total of Rp 10.9 billion at the end of 1971. In the course of the nego-
tiations for Credit 334-I.D, the Government apreed to settle its debt and
has since done so as follows:
(a)  debt up to 'March 1971    Rp 3.4 billion  compensation with Govern-
ment contributions 1971/72
(b)  debt of Government FY
1971/72 (April-March)    Rp 2.4 billion  paid in cash in 1972
(c)  debt accumulated April
through June 1972          Rp 1.3 billion  paid in cash in 1972



- 15 -
The above figures were verified by a special audit. Since June 1972 the
Government has been paying its accounts regularly as agreed under Credit
334-IND. In order to assure that the Government will continue to pay promptly
the amounts owed to PLN for services provided, the respective covenant
included in the Development Credit Agreement 334-IND (Section 3.02) has been
repeated for the proposed Credit.
6.08      Collection of other arrears is being handled effectively in
Jakarta and West Java but still takes longer than desirable in other areas.
The situation has however improved aid is expected to improve further with
the neasures taken in the context of the "financial recovery plan" (paras
6.10-6.15) so chat provisions for bad debts have not been forecasL in thc
financial projections.
Transfer of Assets
6.09      The Directorate General of El6ctric Fe.:er in the Ministry of
Public Works had parallel to PLN a number of responsibilities in the power
sector such as the cnnstruction cf generating facilities. When it was
abolished in 1970, it was understood that, together with the transfer of
all responsibilities, ownership of public power assets would alsc be vested
in PL'.. As agreed under Credit 165-IND, the Government has approved the
transfer to Pl.N of all assets in operation listed in the balance sheet as
of December 31, 1970 and advised that assets financed by it and under
construction at that date would be transferred to PLN upon completion; it
also agreed, not to start further new construction.
Financial Recovry Plan
6.10      Due to lack of adequate information on which reasonably reliable
projections could have been based, and the need for prior inprover-ent in
management and accounting, specific financial targets - for instance a
certain rate of return or contributior to investment - did not form par. of
the earlier power credits. However, in anticipation of the completion of
the tariff study (para 6.17) carried out by SOFRELEC, provision for agreement
on a future specific earnings test was included in Credit 334-I;1D.
6.11      During appraisal, it became clear that due to PLN's extremely
unfavorable financial situation a conventional performance test such as rate
of return on assets or internal cash contribution to investments could not
reasonably be applied in the near future (paras. 6.04 and 6.05). It also
became apparent that PLII's critical financial situation results from high
onerating costs caused by excessive personnel, inadequate cost management,
high system losses, as much as from insufficient revenues. A recovery plan
aimed at improving both costs and revenues is therefore proposed, as
described below.
6.12      The "rrcovery plan", as agreed with Government and PLN (assisted
by its management consultants) is designed te gradually improve PiN's
f'nancial situation through comprehensive Tnanagement inprcvement efforts,
involving not only PL'1 but also the Government as and when required (for



- 16
tns-tance roncerning timely znrl adequateeta-iff a"14ustments).  In implementing
th- "plan", PL'N will have to depend heavily on continuing advice, on the
jot) training and supervision from its management consultants. Accordingly,
the conclusion of all contractual acranigements with its consultants is a
condition of Credit effectiveness (para 3.10).
6.13      The financial recovery plan consists of a series of measures com-
prising all managerial aspects (planning, personnel, finance, construction,
t,peration and maintenance of the syster), including a conprehensive training
prog,ram, and the timely planning and implementation of adequate tariff ad-
justments. Agreement has been reached that the measures will be designed to
enable PN: by FY 1Q78/79 to fully cover from revenues its operating costs,
including adequate depreciation, and provision for bad debts, interest and
taxes, if any; furthermore, as an indication of due diligence exercised in
acihieving full financial recovery, it has been agreed that PLN will make all
efforts, to achieve as intermediate targets 80% cost coverage by revenues in
FY 1974/75 and 90% in FY 1l76/77.  Details of the measures envisaged together
with a schedule of their implementation can be seen in Annex 13 which shows
the agreed Terms of Reference for thle second phase of the management consulting
services.
(h.14     Agreement was reacheo on the following activities to supervise
p'rogress of the financial recovery plan:
(a)  Before the end of the third quarter of each fiscal year PLN
would prepare with the assistance of its consultants a detailed
annual progran of measures to be implemented by realistic
target dates in PEZ's subsequent fiscal year.  In implementing
the program, the Association's comments would be taken into
account. The first such progran covering the period from
.January 1, 1974 until the end of PLN's fiscal year 1974/75
will describe the measures envisaged to achieve the first
interim target of 80% in FY 1974/75.
(b)  PLN will submit to the Association not later than 3 months
after the middle of ally fiscal year, the income statement
and sources and application of funds statement covering the
first semester of that fiscal year. At the end of any fiscal
year the above statements and, in addition, the balance sheet,
covering the preceding fiscal year, will be submitted before
their audit to the Association at the time of their submission
to the Government and the auditor, but not later than 3 months
after the close of each fiscal year.
The information outlined above will not only provide the data required
to maintain close and frequent supervision by the Association but will also
signal trends threatening to jeopardize PLN's recovery.
6.15      Dur-ng the early years of the recovery period, PLN nay not cover
its cash operating costs by revenues. This would lead to immediate cash
shortage and Ply] would be unable to meet its operating obligations. The



- 17 -
Government has Lherefore agreed during neootiations to rake arrangements
which provide Plu: promptly with the funds required to cover operating cash
d-"ficits.
Government Contributions
6.16      Early in 1972 the Government indicated to the Association that
as a matter of general policy it was considering transferring funds derived
from foreign loans and credits to beneficiaries as loans rather than as
contributions as it had been doing before. However, as long as PLN operates
at a loss, Government funding on other than an equity basis would not be
appropriate since PLN would not be in a position to service the debt thus
created without impairing its ability to finance plant replacement or to make
a reasonable contribution to investments. The same aF?lies, of course, to
Government financing of local currency requirements. The Government has
therefore agreed during negotiations that all funds uhich it makes availabl,
for PUT's capital investments, including the proceeds of the proposed Credit,
will he provided as equity contribution until PL>I will have achieved financial
recovery in FY 1978/79 (paras 6.10-6.15).
Tariffs
6.17      Under Credit 334-IND, PIN undertook to introduce by January 1, 1973,
or such later date as agreed with the Association, such tariffs aq the
Association and PlN agreed to be anpropriate. In 1972 SOFRELEC prepared a
tariff study which recomnended that a 25" increase be implemented in January
1973. However, the Government, for various reasons, was not in a position
to make the new tariff effective on January 1.  To make up in part for the
delay, a 30% increase will now he made effective 3iuly 1, 1973.  lTis increase
is considered by the (Government to be the maximum feasible in the present
circumsta ces.
6.18      The present basic tariff structure is not cost related; industrial
consumers, for example, are charged almost the rates of domestic ctustomers,
although the cost of service to industry is considerably Xuwer than the
cost to households.  SOFPELEC's tariff study (para. 6.17), ¶lhich has been
adopted as a guideline, introduces the principle of cost related schedules.
As opposed to the present tariff structure, it also introduces decreasing
charges with increasing consumptio.n.  Furthermore, peak load tariffs are
applied to a larger number of consumer classes than before.
6.19       Tariff schedules. which are uniform throughout the country, are
adjusted only for the cost of fuel transportation. This varies from about
1/10 of a cent to as high as 1-1/2 cents p-r kWh. For the country as a
whole, tarlffs, including surcharges, presently average about 2.14/kWh.
This uill increase to about 2.7/kkWh after the 30,; tariff increase.
Audit
6.20      Under Crelit 334-IN'D PLN agreed to have its accounts auidited
annnually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, commencifig



- 18 -
1973, and to furnish not later than 6 months after each fiscal year copies
of the certified accounts and the auditor's report. These stipulations
have been repeated for the proposed Credit.
Future Financial Position
6.21      The financial projections, attached as Annexes 10-12 are based
on revalued 1971 accounts and P12l's investment program compiled for inclusion
in the second Government F.'ve-Year Plan (FY 1974/75-1978/79) corLected to take
into account the local financia. constraints prevailing. As outlined in
paragraph 2.13, sales of power have been assumed to increase by 14% per
year though a larger annual increase could develop. Government contributions
have been assumed on an equity basis.
6.22      The financing plan for the project construction period FY 1973-
1977/78, as prepared in con_ultation with PLN and its consultants, is
summarized below:
Rp billion       US$ million
________      Equivalent   %
SOURCES
tnternal Sources
Operating income                           (28.6)           (68.9)     -
Depreciation                                70.8            170.6      -
Total Internal Sources                   42.2            101.7       20
External Sources
Consumers' Contributions                    15.0            36.1        7
Government Contributions                   151.0            363.9      73
Total External Sources                  166.0            400.0       80
TOT4L SOIIRCES                                  208.2            501.7      100
APPLICATIONS
Capital Expenditures                        195.9            472.1       94
Increase in Working Capital                  12.3              29.6       6
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                              208.2            501.7      100
6.23      The financing plan includes the 30% tariff increase effective July
1, 1973 an(d a further 107 increase to become effective October 1, 1976.  It
is based on the recent development of expenses, taking into account the effect
the expected improvement of cost management will have on PLN's finances.
Fuel cost was projected at price levels agreed between the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and major oil companies.   ERTAMINA,
the national oil company, has assured PLN that it will be in a position to
supplv the quantities required.



- 19 -
r1.24     Tle; investment program of about US$470 million appears large but
considering that the total r' committed and not yet withdrawn foreign assist-
ance of various forms availaLle (Annex 8) as of September 1972 -.mounted to
about US$320 ailllon, it is judged ettainable.
VII.  ACREEMENTS REA(:TD  AID RrCO'PENDATIONS
7.01      DuA-ng Credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a)  an overall Java system development plan will be init.ated
with the help of consultants in 1973 (para 2.11;
(b)  the Association's concurrence will be sought before any
macerial amendments to legislation affecting PTN are
contemplated (para 3.01);
(c)  satisfactory insurance arrangements will be made by
Government and PLN (para 3.11);
(d) cor.sultants acct'ptable to the Association will be retained
for design, procurement and construction supervision of the
Project (pa ra 4.039);
(e)  local preference will be taSken illto acrount in bid
evaluation (para 4.11);
(f)  the Governrmnt will keep payrents for ele-:tricity services
current (para 6.07);
(g) rovernment and MLN will gradually irplement a "financial
recovery plin" as outlined in paragrapns 6.10-6.15;
(I) the Government will providec the necessary funds to cover
operatinz cash def'cits (1.ara 6.15);
(1)  fuinds whilich the Government makes available for PL's
capital investments, including the proceeds of the proposed
Credit, will be as equity contribution (para 6.16); and
(j)  PLM will have its accounts audited by independent auditors
(para 6.20).
7.02      Effectiveness of the Credit will be contingent upon conclusion
of all contractual arrangements for the comprehensive management consultinz
services (para 3.10).
7.n3      With the above aoreements, the Proect would be suitable for an
Association Credit of US>46 r:lilion equivalent.
ff,ay 10, 1973



INDCNESIA                                Annex 1
aRRTTSAHJtN ITJUM LISTRIK NEflARA (PLN)
dEST JAVA THLRMAL POi&C PROJECT
Installed Generating Capacity by Exploitasi
(ae of Dec&iber 31, 1971)
ROGIONS                                         Installed Capacity (KW)
YEXPLOITAS;                                      Hydro    Stear    Diesel   Gas Turbine   Total
I. North Sumatra (i4edan)                           120       -       27,611     14,000      41,731
II. Scuth Sumatra (Palembang)                      1,320       -       26,713     14,000      42,033
III. West Kaliriantan (Pontianak)                     -         -        6,782        -         6,782
IV. North,Central & South Kalimantar                 -         -       12,847        -        12,847
(Bandjarbarna)
V. North Sulawasi (Manado)                        8,940       -        5,394        -        14,334
VI. South Sulawesi (MaKassar)                        -      25,0C     13,678        -        38,678
VII. haluk (Ambon)                                    -         -        4,325        -         4,j,25
VIII. Nusa Teng7ara (Denpasar)                           19      -        9,595        -         9,614
IA. East Java (Surabaja)                          44,922   50,000    19,826          -       114,748
A. nentral Java (SeTnarang)                      39,900       _      27,874    14,000        81,774
.d. Sast 4est Java (Bandung)                      57,952  -'  _         2,274        -        6o,226
:II.  dest West Java (Jakarta)                     33,695   50,000    13,005          -        96,700
AIII. Atjeh (Banda Atje~h)                            -         -        5,575        -         5,575
rIV. -est -5uriatra (Pada.vo)                          70       -       17,626        -        17,696
XV. West Irian  (Jajapura)                                     -       0,201                  10,201
Total                            186,938  125,000   203,326    42,000        557,264
fl. .a   ...... I.n  .. D    a.=..:. nZW
1/   Does not include 125,000 KW of Jatiluhur now owned by the state  owned
Jatiluhur authority.



INDN3:SIA
?M!RUSAHUAN U)ON LISTAL( NEDARA (PLN)
WWsT JAVA TRERMUL PO:1E±t PROJEOT
Public Generation and Sales by kxploitasi (1967/71)                        (OWh)
eUPLIT91A_                          1967                      1968                       1969                      1970                       1971
(MrAratimn  Sales       Gae ratim    Sales          Owe rati on  Sales        Gem ration   Sal.s         0.rwratimo  SaLs
I                         56.7      47.7            74.8      60.2            79.9       65.9            92.8       74.3            103.0      82.4
II                         73.5      58.7            81.9      60.5            91.2       65.7            94.8       70.4            101.8      78.5
III                         14.8      10.8             14.3      13.2           18.9       13.2            22.9       14.7            24.0       15.8
nv                         12.0       9.8             14.7      11.2           18.8       15.8            21.2       14.6             24.2      16.6
v                         21.3      15.2             23.0      15.4           25.6        18.4           28.4       a0.1             32.4      21.9
VI                         26.5      25.1             31.5      27.6           37,4       32.4            4G.0       33.5             51.2      39.2
VII                          5.2        4.3             6.6      14.4             7.3        4.7            7.9        5.5              8.9       6.1
VIII                         13.0       10.8            14.0      11.0            1L.2       12.5           17,5        14.3            21.8      17.2
rx                        339.5    248.1             363.6    255.1           379.6      295.7           421.2      321.5            472.1     355.1
217.2     160.7           242.3      170.0          248.5      190.9           263.8      199.6           278.3      207.3
II 1                      301.0     211.8            329.3    215.8           335.0       251.8          367.0      277.14           404.1     307.1
III/                       488.2      317.3           516.9     321.5          560.1       442.9          646.8       495.1           770.5     590.7
XIII                          8.4       10.5             8.8       8.8            10.8        8.8           13.2        10.5            14.2      11.0
xIV                         29.9      27.1             34.8      29.7           1.5         35.6           46.2        37.7            48.0      37.1
XVr 1/                     N.A.      N.A.             N.A.      N.A.           N.A.        N.A.            .A.         NA.             A.       N.A.
Total                      Ui607.2   1 157.5          1 765 5 1&2014.4            8,        1,54143       208357 18922                   354.4       7866.1
1/  Includes Jatiluhur
2/   Sxploitai IV (West Irian region) becam  purt of pU beginning Jan. 1, 1971.



mIDON,S IA
' &llSAJ{AAN UiA-., LISTqIK :!3A.i (?LN)
Wt-iT JAVA TH'RkMAL PO?E{t pRaJtJl
ergy Sles by Jonsunier (ategories (1967/71)
Consarmr Class                  1967               1968              1596           1970             1971
QD A                                 OWh A                 IWh  % S
Residential                636.5  55.0         681.4  56.5       821.0  56.5    892.8  56.2    996.2  55.7
Coarcial                    130.2  11.2        112.9   9.4       133.0  941    128.8.  8.1    152.0   8.5
Public Consumption         179.2  15.5         186.2  15.5       231.0  15.9   276.9   17.4    331.4  18.6
In astr*al                 212.0  18.3        223.9  18.6        269.3  18.5    290.7   18.3    306.5  17.2
Total           141Z.a2 .12Q       U0,Q'  .2         1       J 2D.  1M§2A    .12,.2   1I7X1  .122
1/ Consists of street lighting, Public and national companiss ard enterprises.



IIIXJtzIA                         AMNNEX 4
eZrAUS,UIAAt UKJrt LISrAlyh 14JAtA (PLN)
W'SST JAVA THERU.L POLfER PiIOJECT
-'roject Cost Etinate
us    - Rp 415
Billions of dtupiahj   Millons of US Dollara
Ical  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign   Total
1. Mara Karang Thermal Station (200 ME)
(1 ) IAM                              0.13     -      0.13   0.30      ;       0.30
(2) Civil Works
Civil dorks                   0.35    0.16    0.51   0.85    0.38       1.23
Buildings                     0.32    0.88    1.20   0.77    2.13       2.90
Sub-total       0.67    1.04    1.71   1.62    2.51      4.13
(3) Boilers
Boilers & Pwas                3.22    2.96    3.18   0.53    7.12       7.65
Fuel Storage                  0.47    0.32    0.79   LO       0.78      1.92
Sub-total       0.69    3.28    3.97   1.67    7.90      9.57
(4) Turbines & Generators
Turbines & Generators         0.01    3.34    3.35   0.03    8.04       8.07
Pipings                       0.21    1.55    1.76   0.49    3.75       4.24
Condensor System              0.01    0.5°    0.51   0.03    1.19       1.22
Sub-total       0.23    5.39    5.62   0.55   12.98    13.53
(5) ELectrical Works
Instrunentation               0.13    0.59    0.72   0.32    1.42       1.74
3witctard & Eouipments       0.07  -. 15           '.12  0,17    2 53  2.70
Sub-total       0.20    1.64    1.84   0.49    3.95      4.44
(6) Miscellaneous
Miscellaneous Equipments      0.01    0.27    0.28   0.02    o.66      0.68
Spare Parts                    -      0.40    0.40    -       0,97     0.97
Sub-total       0.01    0.67    o.68   0.02    1.63      1.65
(7) Trarsmission System
Transmission Lines            0.07    0.34    0.41   0.17    0.81      0.98
Substations                   0.09    1.19    1.28   0.22    2.86      3.08
Sub-total       0.16    1.53    1.69   0.39    3.67      4.o6
(8) Engineering & Irninistration
Engineering   1/              0.24    1.12    1.36   0.58    2.70      3.28
Administration                0.31      -      0.31   0.74     -       0.74
Sub-total       0.55    1.12    1.67   1.32    2.70      4.02
(9) Contingencies
(a) Physical - 10%            0.27    1.46    1.73   o.64    3.53      4.17
(b) Price    -  5% p.a.       0.41    2.13    2-54   1.00    5.13      6.13
Sub-total       0.68    3.59    4.27   1.64    8.66    10.30
Total           3.32   18.26   21.58   8.00   44.00    52.00
2. Future Studies
(1)  Java System Development ?lan     0.12    0.42    0.54   0.30    1.00      1.30
(2)  .1tar-r. trdroelictric '.uciy    0.12    0.42    0.54   0.30    1.00      1.30
Total           0.24    0.A4    1.08   0.60    2.00      2.60
Total Project Cost                L.56   19.10   22.66   8.60   46.00    54.60
/ Includes US$ 1 million equivalent for training both at the plant and abroad under
the auspices of engineering consUltants.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NECARA (PLN)
WEST JAVA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Return on Investment
The return on the Project is the discount rate at which the present worth of
costs attributable to the Project, excluding duties and taxes, is equal to
that of the benefits derived from it over its life. The calculation involves
the following considerations:
Costs
1.   Capital investments in the Project including transmission systems,
net of duties.
2.   Operating and maintenance costs (excluding depreciation) together
with fuel cost at US 51l/MBtu for Bunker C oil, expected price after
1975, exclusive of duties.
3.   It was assumed that the units would be base-loaded as soon as
they came into operation in 1977 (75% plant factor) and would
so remain for the first 10 years of their life. Thereafter,
because of the introduction of more efficient generating facilities,
plant factors have been reduced in st&ges to 60% for the last
5 years of the plant's assumed 25-year life. The unit heat rate
was assumed to be 10,500 Btu,'kWh.
Benefits
1.   In years 1977 through 1979, benefits would consist of two elements:
sales increase attributable to the Project and fuel savings to be
realized from displacing less efficient generating units by utilizing
surplus energy from the new units. After 1979, all energy generated
by the Project was assumed to represent new sales, after deducting
auxiliary consumption and system losses.
2.   Increased revenues attributable to the project were calculated at
12.3 Rp/kWh, which would represent the expected average tariff to
be realized in the late *970's.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Return
1.   The equalizing rate thus obtained is about 24%.
2.   The Project cost includes the costs of transmission lines and sub-
stations from the power platit to the existing systems. The second
distribution rehabilitation project which would sufficiently improve
the system capability to convey output of Muara Karang plant to
ultimate customers is being financed by previous Credits. If one-
third of the total distribution rehabilitation cost of US$75 million
should be attributed to the cost of the Project, the return would
be about 20%.
Sensitivity Study
1.   If the future average tariff should remain at 11.2 Rp/kWh after the
first adjustment in 1973, the return would be about 22%.
2.   If the fuel cost should further increase to 60 J/MBtu, the return
would be about 23'.
May 10, 1973



INDONESIA
11E:t'J3^HAqt J.71;,! LITl.lS 
?  JAAAIN J .' 1~i'(L JiA  (
Cost-Benefit Stream
(in US$ million)
Year                 1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980-86   1987-91   1992-96    1997-2001
Cost Streas
Capital Costa         0.80   4.29   27.62   17.48    1.81      -       -         -          -         -
Operation &
Maintenance Costs     -               -       -      0.50   1.00    1.00        1.00      0.96      0.92        0.88
Fuel Coots             -               _ -            5.19    6.61    6.61      6.61       6.18      5.74       5.30
Total               0.80    4.29   27.62   17.48    7.50    7.61    7.61       7.61      7.14      6.66       6.18
Benefit Streas
Fuel Cost Savings      -       -       -       -      2.16    3.41    1.96       -          -         -          -
Incremental Sales      _       _       _       _       -      3.79   20.21     33.28      31.12     28.90      26.67
Total                _       _       _       _      2.16   7.20   22.17      33.28      31.12     28.9')      26.67



Annex 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
PERUSAHAAN 'J1UM LISTRIK NXIARA (PLN)
Outline of Terms of Reference for
Java ystem Development Plan
I. objective
The study is aimed at establishing e long range system development
plan for Java which will determine investment priorities in the sector in the
late 1970's/early 19eO's and serve as a guideline for the future investment
policy. It will also form a basis for the standardization of design and
operation of the power system, which is essential for the future integration
of the separate systems in the island.
The study will define the optimum system development plan
including generation, transmission and major distribution; separately for
the East, Central and West Java regions, initially, but oriented towards
an integrated system at an appropriate date in the future.
II.  Scope of Services by the Ehgineer
The Engineer's services will include but not be limited to the
following items:
1.   Review aad Analysis of Previous Studies
Review and analysis of studies which have been carried
out for different systems and projects in Java. Evaluation
and utilization to the extent possible of the findings and
recommendations of these studies.
2.   Load Forecast
Preparations of load forecasts for each year up to 1985
and for 1990 and 1995. These will include both energy
requirements (KWh) and peak demands (kW) in each region
separately and for the island of Java as a whole, taking
into account diversities in respect of daily, monthly and
seasonal peaks. The forecasts should be related to projections
of gro th in each economic sector, improvement of living
standards, regional development plans, etc. A macro analysis
sho'ild also be made to compare the Java de-relopment to those
in other developing countries.
3.   Present Situation of Power Supply
(1)  Investigations of availability and service level of
present power supply in each region; installed and effective
generating capacity, transmission, transformation and
distribution capacity, quality of services to consumers,
including service interruption records and service voltage
level.



Annex 6
Page -2
(2) Inventory of existing power systems and facilities:
system configuration, insulation level, short
circuit capacity, capability and operating
conditions of major equipment, etc.
(3)  Retirement schedule (especially for small diesel plants)
4. Genaration Development Plan
(1)  Identification of possible future sites for hydro and
thermal power stations.
(2) Establishment of development planning policy:
reserve requirement criteria,optimum combination
of base-load capacity and peak-load capacity.
(3) iecommendation or. optimum development program.
(4) Economic justification.
5. Transmission and Distribution System
(1) Targets of service level:
reliability and voltage level for each consumer
category in different areas (cities, towns, villages)
(2) Standardization of technical and operating characteristics:
system configuration, operating voltage level and
its regulation, neutral grounding system, short
circuit capacity, etc.
(3) Development plan for each region.
(4) Interconnection plan between regions:
its timing, capacity and justification
(5) Reactive power control plan.
(6) Strategy for rural electrification.
(7)  Reccmaendations oii phasing of develooment for each region.



Annex 6
i'age 3
6. 9ystem Gontrol Plan
(1)  Establishment of dispatching system: central and regional.
(2)  Comiunication system improvement.
(3) Standardization of protective relaying system.
(4) Automatic operating scheme for small and remote power
plants and substations.
7.  Dbtailed Plan for Early Iiplementation
Detailed plan for implementation covering generation, transmission and
distribution for the period to 1985.
8. Cost Estimate
Cost estimate of the recommended plan, its total capital
Investment and annual expenditure, together with annual
operating expenditure.
9.  Economic Evaluation and Financial Analysis
(1) Economic justification of the recommended plan, evaluation
of overall energy cost.
(2) Evaluation of plan's sensitivity to changes in load fore-
casts and costs estimates.
(3) Financing plan for the implementation of the detailed
plan referred to in 7 above.



ANNi7X 7
Pate 1
INDONES IA
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA (PLN)
Summary of the Charter
1.        The Charter was issued in the form of a Government Regulation
decreed by the President of the Republic. It replaces the former statutes
of PLN as established by Government Regulations No. 19 (1965), No. 11 (1969)
and No. 30 (1970).
2.        The object of PLN is stated to be "to participate in the develop-
ment of "he economy and the national resilience pursuant to the policy of
the Government and to carry out activities in the whole field of electricity
to improve the Indonesian standard of living."
3.        It is to carry out activities in the field of:
"(a) generation, transmission and distribution of power;
(b) planning and construction of power facilities;
(c) operation and development of power facilities; and
(d) provision of services in the field of power".
and it issues for these purposes technical regulations.
4.        The enterprise has the right and responsibility for generation,
transmission and distribution of power throughout Indonesia. It is expected
to follow sound commercial and industrial practices in carrying out these
responsibilities. It is also responsible for construction of new generating
plant and power networks including procurement in accordance with sound
commercial and industrial practice.
5.        Private generation plants if used only for the owner's require-
merts is permitted provided their capacity does not exceed the limit es-
tablished by the Minister on the recommendation of the enterprise. Such
facilities have to be registered with PLN. Plants and systems existing at
the time the regulation was enacted, however, are exempted from regP-tration
but are subject to technical control.
6.        The powers of the enterprise enable it in accordance with
existing laws and regulations to:



ANNEX 7
Page 2
"(a) make use of roads which are not public ro'ds;
(b) enter public as well as private property and/or
have the temporary use cf them;
(c) install wires and/or cables above or under public as
well as private properties;
(d) dig in public as well as private roads; and
(e) have the right on land ir. accordance with the existing
provisions of Agrarian Law."
7.        The capital of PlN is State property and is ini.ially r.qual to the
net value of assets (i.e. current replacement cost less accumulated depre-
ciation) owned by the enterprise at the time the Covernment Regulation was
issued. This value is determined by the Ministe;r of Finance. Revaluation
of assets is permitted from time to time.
8.        The enterprise may acquire funds by the issue of bonds or deben-
tures.
9.        The basic tariffs shall cover operating expenditures, depreciation,
debt service in excess of depreciation, taxes, and leave a surplus to contribute
to the financing of further expansion. Basic rates are determined by the
Minister on the recommendation of the Management.  Provision in the basic
rates exist to allow ior changes in fuel and other costs. They have to be
submitted together with the basic rates by the Minister to the President for
approval.
10.       The Minister of Public Works and Power decides on general policy
and exercises general control over the activities of the enterprise. He
is advised by an Advisory Eoard comprising:
Minister of Finance
Minister of Industry
Chairman of BAPPENAS (State Minister of National
Development Planning)
on all policy matters, including annual and long-range development and
investment programs, revision of rates, and annual audits.
11.       Management of the enterprise is in the hands of a Board of
Directors consisting of a Presidert Director responsible to the Minister
and at least 2 Directors responsible to the President. The Board performs
all basic management functions. Members of the Board are appointed by the
President on the Minister's recommendation for a maximum term of five years
-- they may be re-appointed.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
12.       The Directorate General of State Finance Control audits the
annual accounts. All personnel responsible for money, security and materials
of the enterprise are accountable to the Financial Control Body.
13.       At least tbh  e months before the commencement of any financial
year, the Board of Directors must submit a budget to the Minister for
approval. Any substantial later changes to the budget must be approved
by the Minister.
14.       Annual statetnents comprising a balance sheet and a profit and
loss account must be submitted to the Minister, the Financial Control Body
and the auditors withiti six months of the end of the financial year. The
Minister iL to endeavor to have the accounts audited witihin 3 months of
their receipt.
15.       The balance of net profit remaining after meeting Corporation
taxes, necessary provisions and reserves may be distributed:
55% to Overall Capital Investment Funds
20% to General Reserve but not exceeding twice
the capital of the enterprise
25% to various employee benefits determined by
the Minister.
The Minister of Finance may authorize the use of Overall Capital Investment
Funds for expansion of PLN's facilities i.e. capital expenditure. When
the General Reserve is equal to twice the capital of the enterprise, any
excess may also be used for expansion.
16.       Appointment and dismissal of personnel is made by the Board based
on the policy approved by the Minlster. Salaries and pensions are based
on regulations approved by the Minister.
17.       Further regulations and/or rules may be established by the
Minister as he sees fit.
May 10, 1973



INDOtlES IA
FERUSAIIAA   UMUV1 LISTRIK  ECGARA (PLN)
FORiICGN Aif CCIO4I7TEWTS
(ag of September 30. 3972)
Co_lreent by Co-otry                                 Contracted by PIL,
Soiree of                         o r AA .ncS                                    or Co'er-ent                               W thdrawalS
Funnds     Year         Amuvnt            S   o1a1n             ~                     US$$ntae                   AvtL$$El.3c
A.  Stgned Aretmeat
Expl.tasi I
1.  3edsn  lectric Power RehabilttatSot   Project   AID              1970   US$   13.000,000   US$   13,000 003    IS$    1.607,700   US$               1,607.700    US$         371.40U   USS         371 400
2.  Asahen ',dvo Powr Project                           Japan         1970   Y    288.000,000   US$          956.800    Y    288.000.000  U1$             956.800    Y    288.000.000   LSS            956.800
Explolts.1 ITT
1.  Pontianrk Frwer Project                             ADS          1971   US$    4.60.Ga00   IS$    4.600000           6S       347.700   US$         347.700                        -
Ftplo.tacI TV
1.   Ri i Ksn.n Hydro Power Project                     Japan        1968-  V  3.816.805.000   US,S   12.fSO.400    V  3.816,b05.0U0    US$   12,680.400    V  3.624.193 000   US$   12,040.500
2.   anJ.rmbn tisttbotton Project                       Japae         1972   V    424.440.000   USS    1.410,100    Y            54.0OD.000   USS         179.400
Erplaktami Vill
1.  balt Electrifeation Projr.t                         UK            1972   L       3 400,000   '5S       8.1bD,0000             1.652.500   VS$       3.966.000               -
EploIta.S IX
1.  E.at Java Transmission Pr ,ect 7                    Japan         1971-  V  2,912.403,000    0SS    9,675.700    v    406,513,80U0    SS            1,350,bOo      Y    235,t644.07   US$          782.900
1972
2.  K.IS Kooto Hvdro Pre  Pr-oect                       Japan         1970-  v    507,000,000   USS   1',6J4.400    t    50S,731.000   US'    1.680,200    Y    43CV4S,OOOSS                         1.430,100
1971
3.  Karng Katet R/dro Power Project                     Japan         1978-  V  3,704.400,000    US$   12.307,000    V  3,692.896,000   USS    S2.269.800    V  2.407l 1.000   USS    7.99;.! 0
Eaploit.si X                                                              1971
1.  Central J-v. Electrification Project I              AID           1970   US$   16,8CW.000   US$   16,800.000    USS    1.890.700   US$              1.2i,0.700    US$        556.900   US:         556,900
2.  ketelger Tranmission and Distrtbution
*e',sbiIittetion Prolect                           AID           1971   [S7$   21,000.000   US$   21,000,000    U76$    2,193,100    VSS           2,193,100      USS      2,19.1 1.    UlS      2,191.100
3.  6inarang Stean Power Project                        AID           1971   USS   19,700,000   LS$   19 700.000    '75$    3.062.900   US$    3,062.900
4.  Central Java Geotherml Development Project   AID                  1972   USS        302.300   US$         302,300    US$         302.300   USS        302.300               -
5.  Central Jav-  Electritftition Project                             1968-
Phate I snd 11                                     Germny        1909   IM    20,400,000    S$    6.355,100    Im            6,143,900    USS      1,914,000      Ul      6.095.200   UiS         964,200
KRIoitasi Xl
1.  West Jav.Ij Iram1seon Project                       France        1969-  Pfr   42,762,500   USS    8.417.800    ffr   25,e55,300   US$    5.089,60r0                  r   20,296,300   USS       3.995,300
1970
foploltast X!I
1.  TanJong Priok III  Termal Plant                     Japan         1969-  Y        4.554,774,  USS   15,132,100    V  4,554.,74.000   US$   15.132.100    V  4.175,259.400   0S$   14,515,700
1971
2.  Jakarta Electricity Distribution                                  1969-
Project I and It                                    IDA          1972   U1SS   5.,DOOOOO   Us$   %%.000,0DO           JISS    ;.;i6.900   US$       7,916.900      various c-rre-i _   U0$        .916,400    *e>
Explottoel XI and XII                                                                                                                                                                                                   J
1.  Weat Java Long LOnge Planning Study                 IDA           1971   US$        350,000   US$         350,000    US$         150.000   LSS         350,000 t    1S       289.200   USS         289,200     xs
1           tpl.tWSt rIV                                                                                                                                                                                               -_ 1
1.  West Su8c ra Power ProJert                          ID3           1971   U55    7,100,000   L'SS$    7.100,000    US$            835,100   Uvs        81S,10a                                                  r



Cott ent by Cou.,ntrv                               Cortract:d by PLN
Source of                          er Acency                                       or c;oveirnent                              W1i:drawvl,
Funds                                       US$r Amort  USS Entul lent  A.ount           CSS Eq.is vI.nt           Ano.,nt            bES Enlnalent
Vario-s E.pl.irsi
I   Micro Hydro P.ver Protect                        UK/Franc.       1970-   b         450,000    US$    1.080,000        6         150,000    USS         340.000     6          144,500   DS-         346,eoo
1971     Ffr   2,700,000      LS$        531,500                                    -
2.  Isolated Dltcel and Dlttrih.tion                 Netherl.nds   1968-   Nfl  25,963,700          uS$    8,0e3.300       Nfl  25.963.700       JSS    8.063.300    Nfl   1918,.600    US$    6,081.20A
Deroaark       1971      Dkr   6.o00,000    US i           O 9. 10   Dkr   6,600.000       USS       959.300    nkr    6.342,300   USO             921.801
SObtotal of Signed Apreements                                                                           US$  225.265.800                             USS   83 !06.800 oUS$   57,379,400
8. ARrement. Ready for Signing
Erloatest 11
1.  Palembang System Rehab,litetion Project    Japan                  1972   V 1.292.400,000        US$    4.293.700               -
E tploit*ss LX
1.  Est Ja.s Transmission and Distribvtion
ProJect '1                                       1span            1972   USS  11.070.000       US$   11.070.000
2.  Tana.ng Perak Thermal Proj.ct                    Japan            1972   US$   9,410.000        US,    9.410.000
KErloitasti X
1.  Central Java Electrification Project 11    AID                    1972   VS$  10,900.0NJ    US$   10.900,000
2.  Central Java El-ntrification Project                              1970-
Phas6   III and IV                               Germany          1972   Dit   35.700.000       US$   11,121.400              -
E!Pla.toas Xl
1.  West Java Tranemisamon and Distribution
Project                                         AID               1972   US0  17.200.000        VS1    17,200.000             -                       -                      -
Ex,ploitsti XV
1.  Pekanb-rv Thermal Project                        ADS              1972   1S$   2,600.300        US$    2.600.000               -
Varlous Exploitasi
1.  Isolated Diesl and Distril,tion                  Japan            1972   US$   2,635,0D0        US$    2.63s.000               -                       .     _                      _              _
Subtotal of Agreement. Ready for Signing                                                                 USS   69.230,100                             US5                                          VS$
C.  Finsncing Likely to be Comtmtted
leploitast X l
1.  Musra Rerang Thermal Project                     IDA              1973   US$  43,000,000        USS   46.000.000
Vsriore  IpRloltsi
i.  Various Gas Turbines                             AID               1973   US0  40,000,000       USS   40.000.000
Subtotal of Finar,cing Lik}Is to be Co_itted                                                             US$   86.000,000                             U$                                           USS 
TTt.;, FOREIGN AID CC0HITMTtNTS                                                                               U55  380.495.900                             USS   83.106.800                             US$   57.379.400
0



ANNEX 9
ThT1RT A - P R1~HA   IMIDM LTST.TX( IJEGARA AML)
WEST JAVA THEaXAL POWER PRDJBCT
Eatimated Schadule of Disburuement
IDA Fiscal Year                         Cuwulative Disbursement
and quZarter                            at end of Quarter
(US OI=
1972/73
Jun. 30, 1973                                  190
1973/74
September 30, 1973                             320
December  31, 1973                             880
March    31, 1974                            2,260
June      30, 1974                           3,430
1974/75
September 30, 1974                           4,750
December 31, 1974                            7,150
March    31, 1975                           10,950
June      30, 1975                          17,130
1975/76
September 30, 1975                          27,520
December 31, 1975                           35,410
March    31, 1976                           38,060
iun.      30, 1976                          40,430
1976/77
September 30, 1976                          42,170
December  31, 1976                          43,740
March     31, 1977                          44,860
June      30, 1977                          45,830
1977/78
September 30, 1977                          45,930
DeemAber 31, 1977                           46,000



INDONES LA
PERUSAHAAN 1.?1   LISTRIK NECARA (PLN)
ACTUAL AND FORECAST INC8ME STAIEMENTS 1971-1978/79
(in billion Rp unless otherwise indicated)
1971-1973           Fiscal years ending December 31                 ACTUAL    ---- ------_--             ------------      --FORECAST----------                    ------
1974/75 onvwrds;  Flscal years ending March 31                        1971       1972        1973        1974/75        U17            1976/77        1977/78         1978/79
Sales of Energy (GWh)                                                1,786      1,903       2,280         2,680          3,050          3,480           3.970          4,515
Average Revenues per kWh Sold (Rp)                                        8.6        8.6         9.9          11.2           11.2           11.8           12.3            12.3
Operatins Revenues
Revenues frcm Sales of Pover                                        15.4       16.3        22.6          30.0           34.2           41.1            48.8           5S. 5
Other Operating Revenues                                             1.1         1.1        1.1           1.1            1.1             1.1            1.1 
Total Operating Revenues                                              16.5        17.3       237            10                           42.2            49.9           56.6
OperatinR Expenses
Purchased Power                                                      0.7        0.7         0.7           1.0            1.0             1.1            1.1             1.1
Fuel                                                                 3.3        4.8         5.0           7.4            8.4            9.4            11.2           12.0
Operation, Maintenance. Administration                               8.5        13.6       15.8          17.0           18.4            20.2           22.2           24.3
Depreciation                                                         9.6        10.0       11.0          12.1           13.9            16.0           17.8           19.2
Total Operating Expenses                                              22.1        29.1        32.5         37.5            41.7           46.7           52.3            56.6
Operating Income                                                     C   5.6)  (  11.8)  (   8.8)         (   6.5)       (   6.4)        (   4.5       (   2.4)
Other Income                                                         0.4        -          -             -                              -              -
Interest                                                                            -           -             -
et Profit (Los)                                                      (   5.2)  (  11.8)  (   8.8)         (   6.5)        (   6.4)       (   4.5)       (   2.4)           _
Provision for bad Debts                                              (   0.1)  ( 1.5)           -             -
other Adjustxents                                                         0.5        5.2               -              -                     -               -              -
Previous Year's Profit(Lose)                                         (   1.3)        6.1)  t  14.2)           23.)          29.5)        (   35.9)          40.            42.8)
Accumulated Profit(Los.)                                             (   6.1)  (  14.2)  (  23.0)          (  29.5)        , 35.9)40)                     t   42.8)        42.8)
Expenses (tncl. provision for bad debts)
Cevered by Revenues                                                76T.       57%         73%           837            857.            901            951             1007
Ret% of Return on Net Fixed Assets in Operation                                -                -             -                              -              -              -
January 8. 1973
Rate of Exchange:  US$1 - Rp 415
1/  rLN  will chsi ge its fistal year from the Janusry/Decenber period to the April/March period on April 1  1974.  For the transitory period January I through March
31, 1974, a separate budget will be prepared.  The Indo;nesian authorities, hovever, have not yet deuided whether the financial statements for FY1974/75 will cover
a 15-month period (January 1, 1974-March 31, 1975) or a 12-month period (April 1, 1974-March 31, 1975) with interim accounts covering the 3-month period January 1-
March 31, 1974; since the results of the financial projections ore not seriously affected, above forecests disregard this 3-month period.                                                          a



ANNEX 10
Page 2
INDONESIA
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
Notes and Assumptions o'n Income Statements
Fiscal Years
1         According to its charter, PLN's fiscal year coincides with the
calendar year unless otherwise decided by the Minister of Public Works and
Power. Consequently, PLN's fiscal year followed the calendar year so far.
With the company's dependence on the Government's budget cycle, however, it
was felt that adoption of the Governmenz fiscal year (April 1 - March 31)
would be appropriate. From 1974 onwards, therefore, PLN's fiscal year will
extend from April 1 through March 31, with a transitory 3-month period
(January 1 - March 31) in 1974.
Sales of Energy (04h)
2.        Energy sales forecasts are based on an average annual sales
increase of 14%. In 1972, however, serious blackouts occurred in the
Jakarta area, PLN's principal market; the 1972 increase is therefore estimated
at only 6%.
Average Revenues per iWh Sold
3.        The projected revenues are based on the actual 1971 figures.  They
include the-overall 30% tariff increase effective July 1, 1973 and assume a
further 10% increase effective October 1, 1976.
Other Operating Revenues
4.        This item includes revenues fron various activities such as
tariff changes, reconnection charges, hire charges for appliances, etc.
Purchased Power
5.        This item represents PLN's expected power purchases from the
Jatiluhur multi-purpose plant operated by the Jatiluhur Authority. The
price for the energy is Rp 1 per kWh at present and increases in proportion
to the percentage of the tariff adjustments.
Fuel
6.        The projected fuel expenses have been based on PERTAMINA's fuel
prices as of January 1, 1973 which were the following:



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Bunker "C" oil             7.5 Rp per liter
Diesel oil                 9   Rp to 16 Rp per liter
depending on quality
In negotiations between the oil companies and the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries (OPEC) certain price adjustments were agreed, which
have the following effect on the world market prices of oil:
(a) increase of US 5 0 per barrel effective January 1, 1973
(included in above prices), 1974 and 1975 respectively;
(b) increase of 2.5% effective on the above dates to reflect
the anticipated inflati3n.
These adjustments have been reflected in the fuel projections.
Operation, Maintenance, Administration
7.        In 1972, a 60% salary and wages increase was granted, aimed at
raising PLN's salary levels to those of Government employees. For 1973
another 15% have been budgeted in line with Government compensation plans.
In order to allow for future increases in cost of labor and material, an
about 9Z increase has been assumed for the forecast period.  Considering
the expected expansion of the PLN system, the annual projected increases
should be larger than 9% (over the past years it was about 30% including
compensation for inflation); the consultants, however, feel that after the
heavy increases, particularly in 1972, and in anticipation of the ,ositive
results the implementation of the managemenit consultants' recolTmendations
will have on PLN's operations, the reduction to 9% increase per year is
justified.
Depreciation
8.        As of December 31, 1971 PLN undertook, with the assistance of
the accounting consultants, the revaluation of its assets. The valuation
was made by attaching the estimated current purchase price to the various
items and by deducting accumulated depreciation equivalent to the assets'
time of use and overall condition. The adjusted net value, which is included
in PLN's balance sheet, will be depreciated over the estimated remaining
life of the respective items.
10.       Assets acquired in 1971 and later are depreciated over their
expected usefal life using depreciation rates consistent with normal public
utility practice. Depreciation is generally calculated on a straight-line
basis.
Provision for Bad Debts
11.     - In recent years, the number of unsettled hills and the amounts
involved had become excessively high. As a condition of Credit 334-IND, the
Government has recently settled its arrears with PIN and is presently paying



ANNEX 10
Page 4
its bills on a current basis. The arrears of the private sector as well
as those of some municipalities have been written off between 1967 and 1971
because their collection has been considered impossible. Collection proce-
dures have developed satisfactorily in the recent past and it is therefore
that no provisions for bad debts are forecast in the financial projections.
Other Adlustments
12.       The 1972 figure of Rp 5.2 billion reflects the settlement of
Z,overnment arrears up to December 31, 1971, for which provision had been
made in earlier years.
May 10, 1973



INSlONES 1A
PERUSAHWAN UMUM LISTSltr NECAA (PUL)
FORECAST SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUrNDS 1972-1978/79
(in billion Rp)
1972-1973           FiScal years ending December 31
1974/75 onavrds:  Fiscal yeam ending March 31                                 1972           1973    1/    1974/75             1975176          1976/77          1977/78         1978179           TOTAL
SOIRCES
Internal Sources
Operating Incoa                                                    ( 8.1)         ( 8.8)             ( 6.5)            ( 6.4)           ( 4.5)           ( 2.4)              -             36.7)
Depreciation                                                        10.0           11.0               12.1              13.9              16.0            17.8            19.2            100.0
Total Internal Sources                                                 1.9            2.2                 5.6              7.5              11.5            15.4             19.2            63.3
External Source.
Consumers' Contributions                                             3.0            3.0                 3.0              3.0               3.0             3.0              3.0            21.0
Government Contributions
(a)  for Foreign Expenditures                                    8.2           21.7                26.2             37.7              35.4            19.8              7.6           156.6
(b)  for Local Expenditures                                      0.5            6.8                 1.2              2.2                                                               10.7
Total Government Contributions                                         8.7           28.5                27.4             39.9              35.4            19.8              7.6           167.3
TOTAL SO(tRCES                                                               13.6           33 7                36.0             5D 4              49.9            38 2             29 8           251.6
APPLICATIONS
Capital Expenditures
Foreign Expenditures                                                 8.2           21.7               26.2              37.7              35.4            28.3             22.6           180.1
Local Expenditures                                                   3.1            3.0                 7.7             11.6              11.4             7.9              5.8            55.5
Total Capital Expenditures                                            11.3           29.7                33.9             49.3              46.8             36.2            28.4           235.6
Variations in Working CaPital
Items other than Cash                                                1.2            1.8                 1.5              1.1               2.2             2.2              1.8            11.8
Cash                                                                 1.1            2.2                 0.6                                0.9           C 0.2)           ( 0.4)            4.2
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                                           13.6           33. 7               36.0             50.4              49,9             38.2            29.8           251.6
January 8, 1973
Rate of Exchange:  US$I - Rp 415
1/  PLN vill chnge i's  fiscal year from the January/December period to the April/March period on April 1. 1974.  For the transitory period Jln.wry I through March 31. 1974.
a separate budget will be prepared.  The Indonesian authorities, however, have not yet decided whether the financial statements for ii1974/75 will cover a 15-month
period (January 1. 1974-March 31, 1975) os a 12-month period (April 1. 1974-March 31. 1975) wvth interim accounts covering the 3-sconth period Januarv I-March 31, 1974;
since the results of the financial projections are not scriouslv affected, above forecasts disregard this 3-month period.



INDONESIA
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIX NEGARA (PLN)
ACTUAL AND FORECAST BALANCE SHEFTS 1971-1978/79
(in billion .p)
1971-1973       :       F    iscal y ears ending December 31      ACTUAL         ---------------    /    ---------FORECAST---------------------------
1974/75 onwards:  Fiscal years ending March 31                     1971          1972       1973            1974/75        1975/76       1976177        1977/78       1978/79
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Fixed Assets in Operation                                 109.6          118.9      139.5            199.3         229.8          265.6         325.8          346.2
Accumulated Depreciation                                   t 9.5)        (19.6)    (30  )            (42.7)        (56.6)         (72.6)        (90.4)        (109.6)
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                                100.0          99.3      108.9            156.6         173.2          193.0         235.4          236.3
Work in Progress                                           37.0           39.0       48.1             22.2          41.0           52.0          28.0           36.0
Total Fixed Assets                                            137.0         138.3      157.0            178.8         214.2          245.0          263.4         272.6
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                                               5.5           6.6        8.8              9.4           9.4           10.3           10.1           9.7
Accounts Receivable                                          3.3           4.0        5.6              7.0            8.0          10.1           11.9          13.6
Materials and Fuel                                           5.5           6.0        6.5              6.7            6.9           7.1            7.6           7.8
Other Current Assets                                         2.8           2.8        2.8              2.8            2.8           2.8            2.8           2.8
Total Current Assets                                           17.1          19.4       23.7             25.9           27.1          30.3           32.4          33.9
TOTAL ASSETS                                                       154.1          157.7      180.7           204.7          241.3          275.3         295.4          306.5
LIABILITIES
Equity
Statutory Capital and Government Advances                  93.9          102.6      131.1            158.5         198.4          233.8          253.6         261.2
Asset Revaluation Reserve                                   51.2          51.2       51.2             51.2           51.2          51.2           51.2          51.2
Other Reserves, etc.                                         6.9           9.9       12.9             15.9           18.9          21.9           24.9          27.9
Accumulated Profit (Loss)                                 Lfi-J)         (14.?)     (23.0)           (29.5)         (35.9)        (40.4)         (42.8)       ( 42.8)
145.9         149.5      172.2            196.1         232.6          266.5          286.9         297.5
Current Liabilities                                              8.2            8.2        8.5             8.6            8.7            8.8           8.9            9.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                                  154.1          157.7      180.7            204.7         241.3          275.3         295.8          306.5
January 8, 1973
Rate of Exchange:  US$1 - Rp 415
1/  PLN will change its fiscal year from the January/December period to the April/March period on April 1, 1974.  For the transitory period January I through
March 31, 1974, a separate budget will be prepared.  The Indonesian authorities, however, have not yet decided whether the financial statements for
FY1974/75 will cover a 15-tonth period (January 1, 1974-March 31, 1975) or a 12-month period (April 1, 1974-March 31, 1975) with interim accounts
covering the 3-month period January 1-March 31, 1974; sit,ce the results of the financial projections are not seriously affected, above forecasts disre-
gard this 3-month period.



ANNEX 13
Page1of 7
MANAGMFlENT SERVICES
FOR
PERUSAHAAN UmUM LISrRIK NEGARA
TjMS OF REFEREN2CE
BACKGRCXJND AND DESCRIPTION OF SEXVICES
Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN) is presently engaging the
French consulting firm SOFRELEC to assist it in providing extensive manage-
ment consulting and engineering services (first phase) with the assistance
of the International Developmenat Association (IDA) financing through Credit
No. 165-IND for the First Electricity Distribution Project in Jakarta. IDA
has recently extended a new credit for the Second Electricity Distribution
Project, IDA Credit No. 334-IND, which, inter alia will be used to finance
the foreign exchange cost of the second phase management consultant services
complementary to the services being provided under Credit No. 165-IND. A
new charter has been issued by the Government (Government Regulation No. 18,
197?) to defin6 the status, duty and responsibility of PLN.
The extensive Management and Training Services represent part of
PLN's on-going five year expansion program in the framework of the compre-
hensive financial recovery plan, which takes into account all aspects of
PIN's administration and operations and is designed to allow PIN not later
than during its fiscal year 1978/1979 to cover out of the revenues from
its sales of electricity all its administrative and operating expenses (in-
cluding maintenance, adequate provision for depreciation ani bad debt, and
taxes, if any) and interest and other charges on debt.
Furthermore, these Services are designed to enable PUI to plan
annually the measures required to make adequate progress towards financial
recovery during each of its annual financial recovery programs and to re-
view and assess in semi-annual intervals the actual progress made.
The Services are expected to be completed by June 30, 1976.
SCOPE OF SERVICES
The nanagement consultant will make recommendations to PLN and
assist PLN in improving its entire management including the accomplishment
of training. The improvement of management would cover activities relating
to planning, personnel, finance, construction, operation and maintenance
of the generating plants, transmission and distribution systems, and would
allow PIN to achieve financial recovery and attain the following operating
ratios not later than over the fcllowing fiscal yearss
1974/75 - 80 percent,
1976/77 - 90 percent, and
1978/79 -100 percent.



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 7
In performing the Services, the Consultant should identify and
systematically analyze, in consultation with PIN, the problems confronting
PIN and submit in due time program proposals, stipulating clearly the
activities, the flow of activities and detailed time schedules.
In addition to providing continuing day-to-day assistance and
advice to PIN's management on all aspects of the company's operations, the
Services will consist of the following:
I. PLANNING
1.  Assist PIN in the restructuring of the Directorate of Planning,
including preparation of an appropriate organization chart and
all related documents (e.g. job descriptions, definition of
responsibil.ities, etc.).
2.  Assist PI.! in the nreparation of its investment program and, in
coordination with the Directorate of Finance, assist in the
drafting of Financial Forecasts, including Revenue Account,
Balance Sheet, Source and Application of Funds Statement, etc.
3.  Assist PLN in the praparation of its overall planning including
the definition of a general policy f(r investment and projects
priorities.
4. Prepare terms of reference for a National Long Range Power Devel-
opment Study (Overall Long Range SysLom Planning and Long Range
Financial Planning), advise  UiN on facilities needed and assist
in the execution of such Study.
5.  Assist PLi in establishing a "Central Data Bank for Management
Purposes."'
6.  On-the-sob training for general planning techniques.
II.  PERSONNEL AND TRAIlING
1.  Assist PIN in the continuation of efforts and actions already in
progress resulting from the services provided by the Consultant
under Addendum B dated April 25, 1972 to the Contract between PLN
and the Consultant, dated June 3, 1970 No. Pdj. 031/PST/70.,
including specifically:
(a) implementation of new personnel regulations based on
Government Regulation No. 18, 1972 such as: recruiting
and dismissal, salaries, wages and pensions, asse3s-
ment, transfers, etc.;



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 7
(b)  restructuring and training of its labor force, and in
the implementation of the job organogram, job analysis,
job qualifications and job descriptions; and
(c) establishment of the nec6s3ary training centers.
2. A35ist PLN in the implementation of new adminiatrative procedures
and office management at the Head Office and other areas.
3. Assist FIN with other general organization or training problems
on request (e.g. planning, finance, construction, safety, atc.)
III. FINANCE
1. Continue and complete all activities in progress on the revised
financial and acc.. iting systems and procedures, including:
(&) consumer administration: improvement and assistance in
the implementation of clerical procedures covering
consumer service, billing, consumer accounting, credit
control, data control, collecting, meter reading;
(b) conditions for connection: in connection with Part VII
of these Terms of Reference, drafting such conditions,
covering among other things, PIN consumer contracts,
conditions of access to the premises, collection, dis-
connection, etc.;
gc) mechanization of consuaer administrations drafting all
necessary instructions, assistance in the negotiations
with electronic data processing companies, and training
and implementation;
(d) cash control: improvement of the system already implement0d
in Java and assistance in further implementation;
(a) cash accounting and cash management: drafting the necessary
instructions and assisting in their implementation;
(f)  uniform accounting:  review and improvement of the new
uniform code of accounts;
(g) inventory control: assistance in the implementation of
the new proposed system, in connection with Parts V, VI
and VII of these Terms of Reference;
(h)  fixed assets administration:  drafting the necessary
instructions and assisting in their implementation;
(i) depreciation: review the outline proposals already
submitted, draft final instructions concerning a
depreciation policy and assist in their implementation;



ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 7
(j)  revaluation of fixed assets:  drafting a  method for the
revaluation of fixed assets and assisting in its imple-
mentation, including the necessary discussions with the
Ministry of Finance;
(k.) budgeting:  improvement of the already implemented sy3tem,
covering operating and investment budgets, and assistance
in its implementation;
(1)  annual accounts:  improvement of the forms in connection
with the annual accounts, including Revenue Account,
Balance Sheet and all necessary supporting schedules;
assistance in the completion, including consolidation
of said annual accounts;
(m) management reportilg system:  draftirg an outline of
general management reporting system, assistance in it3
implementation, and thereafter, improvements to the
system;
(n)  payroll accounting:  drafting the necessary tn-'-.-2ions
and assistance in their imploment .Lon;
(o)  internal audit:  Is.iue the necessary recommendations con-
cerning a comprehenoive internal audit program and assist
in its inplemantation;
(p)  proseLt co.rwtissionLizg:  in connection aith Part IV of
>.dheB Ter-.x- of fteference, review and imnrove the existing
procedures conc6mning project cor'missioning and there-
after, the transfer of the related financial data from
"work in progress" to " fixed assets in operation" in
PLi 's accounts;
(q)  insurarce:  assist PIN in the establishment of  a
comprehensive insurance policy;
(r)  financial forecasting:  in connlection with Part I of
those Terms of Reference, assist in tho establishnment
of lcnr-tarm financial forecasts, including Revenue
A^zcount, balance Sheot, Source and Application of Funds
Statement, etc.; and
(s)  tariffs:  propose all necessary tariff adjustmants,
assist in the negotiations with all Ministries concerned,
and assist in the implementation of the agreed tariff.
2.  Provide continuing advice and guidance to the management of
PLN on all financial and related matters, including nego-
tiations with third parties.



ANINEX 13
Page 5 of 7
3. Assist PIN in the development and implementation of its new
organization as may be raquired by the financial functions with-
in PLN.
4. Make additional follow-up visits to review progress at the Head
Office and other areas, and p-ovide further advice and raidance
for the improv-ement of all systems and procedures.
5. Undertake a feasibility study to evaluate the justification of
further utilization of electronic data processing systems.
6.  Continue and develop the training programs in the financial
and accounting fields.
IV. CONST.RUCTION
1.  Establish bas:c te-amical standards for generation, tr^.nsmission
and distribution equipment.
2.  Assis'. PIN in improving the organizatiornal aspects of construction
activities (Head Office, Regional Offices and job sites).
3.  Assist PLU  in defining the relations between the Directorates
of Planning, Construction and Operation during study, design,
execution, trial operation and ccarmissioning of projects.
4.  Establish procedures to improve the management of projects
(including appraisal, budgeting, accounting and reporting)
and assist in their implementation.
5.  Organize and conduct training for administrative and financial
management of projects.
O. Assist PLN in improving the prozedures to accelerate the
completion of projects and to achieve optimum results.
7. Advise PIN on establisning the necessary facilities and pro-
cedures for project commissioning and acceptarne testing.
V. GENERATION
In addition to the services already contracted for in Addendum C
dated April 18, 1973 to the Contract between PLN and the Consultant,
dated June 3, 1970 No. Pdj. 031/PST/70, the Consultant shall:
1. Recommend improvements on the logistics of fuel handling and
assist PII to negotiate long-term fuel contracts.
2. Assist PLN in the implementation of inventory control pro-
cedures in the powar plants.



ANNE1 13
Page 6 of 7
3. Assist PLN in thte establishment of a Directorate of Generation
at the Head Office.
It. Assist PIN to improve the powier plant protection systems.
5.  Study and assist in the implementation of special safety regulations
for the power pla.nts.
6.  Prepare and assist PLN in th. inplemrentation of procedures for
operation and maintenance ot' gas turbine and diesel powar piants
(a) in the capital citiea of the Proviuces, and (b) intercon-
nected with the high-voltage networi.
7.  Prepar, and assist ?,LN in the implemen'ition o' procedures fnr
operation and maintenancc of nydro powver plant.s in accordance
with prioritias as may be u t3rmincd by PLI.
VI.  TtwlafISSIvON
1. ntecon=m,r.'a imrrovements ir. ontion and maintenonce procedures
and assist in their implemonzation.
9.  Undertake a study and assi2t in tan e3tablishment of a load dis-
patch centuer icr Wo. Qava.
3.  Recofwat.  lo.d dispatch procedures to lminimize operating costs.
It. Recormend adequate and reli<.Th system protection schemes.
5.  Reccnno3nd appropriate technical system standards.
6.  Design a training progrim  oi tranumission operation and main-
tenance.
7.  Advise 1;LN orn appropriate measures to reduce systeu losses.
VII.  DISTRIBUTTIM
1.  Assist PNIN in the cxganization and establi3hment of Regional
Distributi3n CenLers.
2.  Assist PLN in the improvement and implementation of general
procedures for distribution operation and maintenance, including
appropriate system protectioil.
3.  Assist PLN in the establishment of appropriate commercial
polioes for the distribution o1 powHr.



ANiNX 13
Page 7 of7
A. Assist PLN in the organization and establishment of a lirectorate
of DistribuL-,Pn at thd Head Office.
5. Assist PIN in the improvement and implerLentation cf' administrative
procedures for the distribution of power (inventory control, con-
sumer administration, system standards, etc.).
6. Training as included in Part II of these Terms of Reference.
7.  Advise PIN on appropriate measures to reduce system losses.
A more detailed specification of activities required for PIN's
financial recovery is stipulated in the appendix attached as an integral
part of these 'lorms of Reference.  This appendix outlines the Consultantfs
activities and the approximate time schedule for commencement of each
activity, as well as those actions needed on the part of PIN and the Govern-
ment to supplement the Services.
The appendix is divided into two (2) -tategories:
1. Category A specifies activities which should have the
immediate impact and require immediate aotion in
allowing PLN to recover its financial position.
2. Category E specifies supplementary activities, the
implementation of which is expected at a later stage.
April 24, 1973
Annexes
Category A
Category B



0 41
Responsibility of                                                                                  Areas of                      °  0
PLN and                                                                 Responisibility         Lmple-                         
Consulta,nt                Responsibility of Connultant                     of PLN             %entatior,
S ibmission of        Preparatcry work         Start of implrp'en-                      G o ovoren-   i  n
Pasic data             recoslrjendati ons     or isp1 unta-            tation wi.i nssist- r        ' |           ;    - 't
available to             by Consultant           tiorn undertaken          ance o1 Con-              21 Sg      volve-        -  is
No.           A C T I V I T Y                 Consultant                to rLN              bZ 'outant                     sultant j               <O    o 00
TU   -    (2)                (3)                       (u lM                                                                                (10) taTn
1. PLANNING
1.           Investment program              Juni 73                Review Oct. 73                _                    April 74y yes yes yes    Approval                   I.2
by Jan.
74
2.           Cash flow                       June 73                Review Oct. '3                _                    April 74            yes yes yes    Approval         1.2
by Jan.
7L
3.           Central Data Bank                                         Nov. 73                March 74                 June 74             yes  -   -            -         I.5
Ir.  PFWRSONNEL AND TRAI1NING
Regulations
14.          a.  Personnel                   Complete                  Conplete           Oct.. - Dec. 73              Dec. 73             yes yes yes    Regulation   II.l(a)
by Oct. 73
5.           b.  Salarids and wages          Complete                  Complete            Oct. - Dec. 73              April 74             yes yes yes    R3gulation   II.l(a)
by Oct. 73



Responsibility of                                                                             Areas Of                  a
PLNa n                                                             Responsibility         imple.                  U .
Consultant,              Rasponsibility of Consultant                   of PLN             mantation               9
Basic data            Submission O         Preparatory w'or)k      Start of  implemen-                   m _ Oent in. 5 
available to           recormmnations       for implemanta.         tation vith asslist-           2 a    Volve-   ,!
Consultant             by Consultant       tion ende.taken            ance of Con-        ¢              ment   
No.           k C T I virr _IrT                                       to FLN            by Consultant               sultant
71)            ~~~(2)                      (3)                    (4)                  (5)                       (6)            1         ;--0 --rY
6.           c.  Pensions                   May 73                   Julr  73          Cct.-Dec. 73               April 74           yes yes yes    Regula-    Ii.l(a)
ti on by
Oct. 73
7.           d.  Dismissal and             Cootplet3                 June 73              Oct. 73                 Jan. 7L            yes yes yes       -         II.l(a)
recruitmnt
8.           e. Assessunt, trans-          Complete                  July 73              Aug. 73              Jan. 74 up to         yes yes yes                 Il.l[a)
ters, etc.                                                                                      Feb. 76
Lnpower lanning
9.           a.  Job organagras, Job        Complete                 June 73              Aug. 73                 Oct. 73            yes yes y3i        -        I.1(b)
anlysis, job quali-
ficationa and Job
description
10.           b. bstructuring progru    Complete                      Complete             Oct. 73              Jan  74 up to Feb.   yes yes yes    Approval   Ir.l(b)
76                                by Oct.
73
11.           Trainin  entera and          To be completed         Start Jura 73             -                      June 73            yes yes yes        -         1.6
tre irsg                      Dec. 73                                                                                                               ri.l(b)(c)
11.3
r 6.
Yr:.6
vzr.6
-4.e 



0
Responsibtlity of                                                                               Areas of
Pl.ll and                                                           Responsibility of    imple- 
Consultart                ILRsponsibility of Consultant                    PEN               mentation
Pasic data             Submisston or         Preparatory work         Start of itmplermen-    Dove rr_ -                      0
available to            recommendations       for implementa-          tatior. with a3-ist-  uo      l        ment irs-    >
Consultant              by Consultant        tion undirtakon             ance of Con-           I>.I         volve-        a  e
?4o.         tC? I_A C T I V I T Y                                      to PLN            by Consultat                3-ltant                            mun _ nent
(1)                (2)                          (3)                      (14)                                            (6)            (7) (1) (9)*      (10)           (11)
12.          Office managsrent               May 73                   Jan. 7L               tar:h 74                 April 74            yes  .   -         -            11.2
procedures
13.          Safety megulations             Complete                  Juno 74            Jul,-Dec. 74                Jan. 75             yea yea yes         -           II.3
V.5
III.  F INL4Z
14.          Consimer administration        Complete                  Complete              Complete                 Jan. 73              -  YPs  1      Regu'ation   III.l(a)
Complete                  Complete                 -                    Aug. 74              -   -  yes    Regulation   III.1(a)
15.          Conditions for connection    June 73                     Dec. 73                   _                    June  74            yes yes yes    Regulation   III.1(b)  @
16.         MIechanization of consumer          -                      Complete             undenray                 underway             - WJ*  1            _         III.l(c)
administration                                                                                                                 EJ
17.           Cash control improvement          -                      Continuous           Continuous               Continuous          yes yes 1,2          -         ITI.l(d)
5/6
16.          Cash accounting and cash           -                      Dec. 73              March 74                 July 74             yes yes yes          -         III.l(e)
maomgement
19.           Uniform accounting in-            -                      Continuous           Continuous               Continuous          yes yes yes    Inform         II.l(f)
proversent
20.           Inventory control              Complete                  Complete             Aug. 73                   Jan. 74            yes yes yes          _         III.lg)  9
21.          Fixed assets adminis-              -                      June 74              Dec. 74                  April 75            yes yes yes    Inform          III.1(h)  8
trati on
22.          Depreciation policy                -                      June 73                   -                   April 74            yes yes yes    Approval        III.l(i)
a   WJ * West Java
l;J * East Java
*HF Numbers refer to Exploitasis



0
Rssponsibility or                                                                              Areas of
PLN and                                                              Responsibility       imple- 
Consultant                 Responsibility of Consultant                 a£ PLN              mentation
Submission of        Preparatory work         Start of implenen-    ,,_    7         Govern-       c 0
Basic data           recexmendations      for implementa-          tation with *ssist-  ,           D      asnt in-     e
available to            by Consultant       tion undertaken            ance of Zon-         *0      e',      volve- -        D
No.          A C T I V I T Y                Consultant                 to FtPN           bnsultant                   sultant                             ment
23.          Revaluat/wo  of fixed               -                    June 74              Sept. 74                 Feb. 75            yes yes yes    Approval    III.l(J)
assets
2..          Operating budget is-                -                    Continuous           Continuous               Continuous          yes yes yes        -         III.l(k)
prova ent
25.           Investment budget                  -                    Continuous           Continuous               Continuous          yes yes yes        -         Ill.l(k)
improvement
26.          Annual accounts in-
provoient                          -                    Continuous            Continuous              Continuous          yes yes yes         -        111.1(1)
27.          General management re-
porting systea                Complete                  Cct. 73               Nov. 73                 Jan. 74             yds yes yes         -         111.1(m)
28.           Payroll accounting                                      Jun  73               Dec. 73                 April 74            yes yes yes                  1.1(n)
29.           Internal audit                May 73                    Dec. 13            Jan.-March 74              April 74            yes yes yes    Infofl         III.l(o)
30.          Project couissionixg           Julj 73                   Oct. 73                                       April 74            yes yes  _                    III.l(p)
31.          Insuram a                      Dec. 73                   Jan. 7j               Jan. 75                      _              yes yes Yes    Approval    II1.1(o)
32.          Financial forecasting          June 73                   Oct. 73                  -                    April 74            yes yes yes    Approval    111.1(r)
33.          Tariffs                        Complete               Yearly review        in due time                in due tine          yes yes yes    Approval    III.1(s) 
5.



Responsibility or                                                                             Areas of
PLN and                                                          Responsibility ot      imple-                           0
Cormultant                ?t*esponsibilij of consultant                  PLS               mo.ntation                   8 &
Subomssion at        Preparatory work        Start of irplemen-                     0oem-
8azic datc     ~ rcormendAtions          ror imple*mnta-         tation with a.aist^                    ment in-          0 ,
available to          by Consutant        tion Undertakon           ance of Consult-    R     ola-
No,          ACT I        -VIY                Consultant              too FL               C o             mt       att m.w                            ant . 
rv. GiSTRUCrIob
34.            etc technical               July 73                   Marh 74                                       June 74            yes YON yes    Support       IV.1
et..ndards
35.          In4WroYoeZt of XAn*&S-         June 73                  Juno 74              July 74                  ort. 74            yes yes yes    Regulation  IV. 4
mat of woJectJ                                                                                                                           by June 714
36,          Proceaursa to accele-                                                                                                                                 nV.3
rate the copl.ticn                                                                                                                                    r.6    v
of projects "nd to
achieve optimum results
- project execution an4       July 73               Stnrt Oct. 73                -                   April 74           yen yo n
supervision
- contruction procure-        July 73
ment
for*tga currncy             -                      cplot.                   -                   April 74           you       -           -
lImal curroncy                                    Oct. 73                   -                   April 714           yes yes  -           -
- pmject cQ^isioning          July 73                  Oct. 73                   *                   April L            yes yes  -            -
V. QGNERAT?HJ                                                                                                       , 
Steame and San turbine
37.         a.  Inprovmeant of oper-       CoqFlete                  Dc. 73                   -                    Jan. 74             _ yes yes                  Addendumo C
sAlind NW M     JMi*n                                                                                                                            e.-d V.6
procedures



0,
Responsibility of                                                                                 Areas Of                     °r 
PLN and                                                              Rtapon&ibilty of    iple-
Conaultant                 Responsibility of Cofsultant                       PLN             mentationr
Submission of        Pr'paratory wrk          Start ol inplemen-           _          Oovern_          °
Basic data             recomrndations       for implementa.          tation with assdst-         w Sa    -    mint in-      u)
available to            by Coreultant        tion umdertaken             ance of Con-            la E  SE    volve-
ho.          A C T I V T T r                 Consultant                 to FtN            by Conutant                   sultait                    0       ment
m                                               U                                                                        (J               -                13)  - 1L) 1516)  ~TV L7J    (91)
38           b.  Plait location data         Compl te                  July 73                    _                   Oct. 73            yes yea yes    Support        V.1
b7 Aug.
73
39.          c.  Fuel handlizg and           Complete                  Oct. 73                    _                   April 74             -  yes yes    Support        V.1
atorage
W.            cd.  Fuel requireenuts         Complete                  Oct. 73                     -                  Jan. 7L              -  yes yes         -         V.1
ana specificationa
41.           e.  Long-term fuel con-        Dec. 73                       -                 Feb. 71                  April 7L            yes yes yea    Support        V.1
tracts                                                                                                                                  by iarch
74
L.2.          f.  Control of fuel cuality  Complete                 St,rt Oct. 73                  -                  April 71.            -  yes yes    Support        V.1
and quantity
g.  Facilities for fuel             -                 Star.L Dec. 73                 -                  April 74             -  yes yes    Support        V.1
quality control
(plant)
L.l           h.  Facilitist fer fuel        Dec. 74                   Feb. 75                     -                  April. 75            -  yes yea    Support        V.1
qual ity control
(master lab.)
45.           Inventory control              Complete                  Complete              AtC. 73                  Jan. 74             yes yes yes         -         V.2
16.           Eatablishment of D5rec-        Complote                  Complate              Sept. 73                 Jan. 74             yes  -                        v y.3     0
tor-te of Oeneration
1.7.          Powr plant protection
ysteM                          Complete                   Lec  73                                        Aprtl 71             -  yua ys3    Support        V l



oOi
Responsibility of                                                                             Areas of
PLN and                                                            Responsibility of       imple-                          .
Corsultant                Respcnsibi li'y of Consultant                    PLN             mentation
Submission of        Preparatory work        Start of iiiplemen-      e            Govern-        1
Basic data            recommendations      for implementa-         tatimn with assist-   ,  t             wt in-
available to           by Consultant       tion urdertaken           ance of Con-          E               volve-
No.          A c r I v i r Y                Co.-nultant               to PFL            b  Conutat                  sultant                            ment
7   (2)  ~ ~~~             (3)                     (0                            -                 (6)            7                         - (11-
Die sel1 and hydro pc ue r
Prcedures for oper-                _                Start Dec. 73                -                   Jan. 74                ye* yes    Support        V.6
ati n and wAintenance                                                                                                                                 V.7
VI. rRANSSKBSIQN
149.          Improvetent of operation      Complete              Start Jan. 7l2               -                  Feb. 74              _ yes yes    Support        Vra
and maintenance pro-
cedures
50.          Load dispatch center           Complete                 Dec. 73                   -                   April 714           -  WJ*  -      Support      VI2
(only study)                                (engineering de-                                   VI.3
sign)
51.          System protection              Complete                 Dec. 73                   -                  April 71i            - WA  -        Support      VI.La
52.          Appropriate technical          June 73               Start March 7L               -                   June 714           yes yes yes      apport      Vi.5
system standard,
53.          System loss reduction               -                Start Nov. 73           Continuous               Continuous          - yes yeb    Support        VI.7    g
VT. DISTRIBUrIQN
514.          fganization and  atablish-  Complto                    Compl te              Sept. 73                Jan. 7t            yes  -   _                  VII.t   >
mot of Directorte of
Distribut ion
WJ - Wst Java



Responibility of                                                                                Areas of
FLE and                                                               Risronaibility        imple-          
Consuzltant               Responsibili!Z of Coieultant                     of PLN            mentatAon                      JE
Submtssion of        Preparatory work         Start of impl'"qsn-      c             Govern- 
Basic data           reco .a.,.jdations    for implementa-          tattion vith Lssist.   o       , .   e    ment in-  
available to           by Consultant        tion urdertaker,            ance of Coi-        V   >           volve-        I.
No.           A C T I V r T r                 Crsultant                 to PLN            byCorksu1tant                mltant'
Tin                 (2)                         v                         {n                                             (b)            |7      )        '    T          TT2 (10 F) (1-
55.          Organitation and est3b-        Complate                  Cormiplete            Jan. 74                  April 7L             - yes  -           -        VII.1
lishIrnt of Regional
Distribution Centers
56.          Opertion and aaintenance    Complete                  Start F3h. 7L                                     March 71;            -  yes yes          -       VII.2
procedures
57.          SsWt  loas reductin                 -                    underway              Continuous               Coutinuous           -  yes yes          -       vir.7
Administrative procedures
58.          a.  Inventory control          Complete                  CompL te              Aug. 73                  Jan. 7L             yes yes y-a                  VII.5       ,
59.          b. Corumer administra-          June 73                   Dec. 73                   -                   June 7u             yes yes ;ea   RBrgulation  VII.5
tion (conditioms fwr                                                                                                                    by June
connection)                                                                                                                               73
60.           c.  Inmt&ata on reg-           Conplete                  June 7L           July-Dec. 7L                Jan. 75             yes yes yes    Regulation  VII.5
ulations                                                                                                                               by Aug. 74
61.           Coinsrcial policies                -                     Continuous           Continuous               Continuous          yas yes Y-rs    Approval    VII.3



Responsibility of                                                                                Areas or
PLN and                                                                 Responsibility         imple-                       a
Consultant                 Responsh4lity of Consultant                      or PLN               n tat an
Submission of         Preparatory work         Start of implemin-       t              Govern-       5
Basic data             recorendations        for implenmnta-          tation with asist-             a*3  mnt in-  >           3
available to             by Corsultant        tion undertaken            ance of Con-           3 I            volvo-           L
No.          A C T I VIT Y                   Consultant                to PLN              by Cor ul It                 sultant                            ment(
(Z)                  ~~~~(.3)                 (TI                   (5                          (b)                              -(lo)        (
T.  PtLANWII
62.          OveralU long-rang.
plannig                        July 73                    Sept. 73             Nov. 73                 Study Jan. 7n         yes yes yea    Support        1.3
rr.  PX85QIYL AND TRUNINNG 
63.          Office manageunt
procedures                     IMy 73                     Jun. IL           July - Sept. 74              Oct. 74              -  yes yes         -        II.2
IL. FI)IAC
6b.          Cash control                                                 -                     -                     July 75              -   -  3/b/        -       111.1(d)
65.          Ibehanization or con-             -                          -                     -                     July 75              -  0J.3  2/5/      -       III.l(c)
sur addinatration                                                                                                                     6
66.          Project coimisioning           July 71                    Oct. 74                  -                     April 75             -   -  yes         -       III.l(p)
Central Java
MuFaers refer to Zzploitasis



Rusponsibilit, of                                                                               Areas of
PLN and                                                               Responsibility          iuple-           
Consultant                Responsibilitq  of Consultant                    of FIJI           wnntation,
Submisaion of        Preparatozy work         Start of implame-             e         O Dovern-  
Basic data           recommendations       for implenmnt -          tatioh with a33ist-                     m C    e ent in-
available to            by Consultant        tion undertaken             ance of Con-                         volve-           4.
No.              C T      I V I T I          Comultant                  to PLN            by Consultant                 sultant          __                int
XtJ t~~~~2J)J  (3)                                                               -~()-(6)   10 =
Iv.  Q; gSjToP
67.           Procedures to accelc-
rate the couplatica
of projects and to
actti.e optiau re-
suits
- project execution and        July 74                   Oct. 74                    -                   April 75             _   -   yes        -        iv.6
euparVifio n
-procurenent in local             -                      oct.7                      -                   April 75             _   _   ys         -        IV.6     0
currercy
- project coFt-sioning         July 74                   Oct.  h                                        April 75                 -   yea        -        IV3
- facilities for co_ia-        Dec. 73                   1Wrch 74                   -                   June 74             yes             Support      17.7
aioning and acceptance
V. GEMMA ION
68.           Diesel plants
-fuel storage and bind-
lixr                         Compe te                  Oct. 74                    -                   Dec. 75              -  yea  yes   Support         *.1
- contrul of ruel gan-
UV  ar qiality               Sapt. 74                  Oct. 74                                        Dec. 74              -  yea  yes   Support         V.1
-facilities for fuel
quality control (plant)    Dec. 74                  Start Dec. 7h4                                     April 75            -  yes  y e    3upport        *.1



0,
Reeponsibility of                                                                             Areas of
FIX and                                                             Responsibility         imple-
Conultant                 Re,on3ibility of Consultant                     of ,DN           mentatton
Submission of        Preparatory work        Start of implemen-                     Oovern-       5o
Basic data            reaoosendations      for implamenta-         tation with assist-                    Mo a   e  ment in-    t
available to            by Consultant       tion undertaken            ance of Con-                 e)    volve-
No.          AC T TI V I T T                Coneultant                toL               by C ul                     sutant  m__ent
VI. TIR5AiISION
(For referenoe)                    -                                                                        -
VII. DISTRIBUrICi
69.          Organization and estab-        Complete                 J,'  7?L              Sept. 74                Jan. 75           _ _         2                  VII.1
lishmrt of 3bgiocla
Distribution Centers



INDONESIA
LOCATION OF MAIN PUBLIC GENERATION FACILITIES
WITH INSTALLED CAPACITY OF 5000KW AND ABOVE(DECEMBER 31,1971)
lfi~~~~                                                                          ~     ~      ~        ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ D zg   IESEL   1..lWdWMI  A HYD$10 OmttU
TRAILA.ND                                                                                                                                                     .w7&b      141   7 S.O          20
-                   ._s                                        4.S  r  5w 1  -   f  .  * GWI  SO  10 T  120
K.1-         6.0  10. K    ~      7.0
1). Kbh.,      12.6  12. Pw.q       50
Sou/h  China  Sea                    B   H                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPINES           2*.S.-AMRGA- UAIN6  J13.L,do          1020
C    _ . .   rS   < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E                              PRUI@TI ., ~~~~~~~~~~~~S A B A H      P2 LPIN                                     5 S-D H+   S 1  14. C,Wq           I 7    s
2M                  MALAYA   .                                                                                                                                                                           0.2STEAMORGASTUABIEI5 Jtl.h.  10
XttAl.                                                                 $ A0 KA .4w I-O
A        L        A        y       S                                                                                          2  0,.n        1 2 5                 .
2 2. P,d .o    1  2 5
S-gtt   .    Y\.  .                \       VS SARAWAK                                                                                    77.            2io 250
>   S   3SGAPORE              \-..A I' 5*                                                                                                             ttr
- -Icl,*,c~ R-*,oN,.db,
0  F-ALMANTAN                                            * fA-A.                       x-     * N.~ 
S7      S    _.Pt+l+                        1    K A L  M A N T A N           ,       ,       V     *To'>  t5                ,,S*
P- t tr.*2 75      *                PAN GtA                      (Borneo)                .       .                . .
tf  ' t  IPo ",t0v*Unt                                           SUL AWL S4
O        r         solembr; tz      '                     '               -                        (I'  Celeb9S   .,                          CftM ',           ,                !
0 b'*.C                        II tLiTON                   a,4,0 '00                                                 t.              AS,t                            WEST  IRIAN
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   KA FtRTA                                           S       i Ao                                              .         ......  .
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, .a -                                                    d A   
A    V                       4 
/hI fs1lt~zvs                              j        UMBAWA          FLORES                   -TIMOR-
rl.t.;.~ ~    ~       ~ ~ 3A~   A  Ct,t            .1 0o 
_wt h t410w ~~~~/wlJ6zanw                                                                   51JM6A                                                                 /[/IIS  IQMSCa
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11                                                                                                1- -



INDONESIA
POWER SYSTEMS IN JAVA
DECEMBER 31,1971
J-v  ScoID                                                                 10°-                      li                        11i211
IAKARTA                                                              POWER PtANTS                                TRANSMISSION  LINES
S/                                     p    "'o  H o                                      E..--g                                     .c
Hy"    A           A    4.1b,4,Iy S*d,               12l15KVL-..                              .                  Rg..o. o..,n.
't't i°xa / \ StioF P.o,-(t Lcco ~~~~~~~~~~~30KV  L,-,                                                                              XI    Ebtc R*9l~1 N,,w
SN _r oOSYd -t % Cltl<iori          D@se           *                                             7       -                               -   _   _ -do Nb
/ / / t Sb f lons oC s . .s sed ;e ^#  e-.>r ^-ISDKV   I - 
OS06                     107
lavo                Sea
,   A ARTA              .'
0      is      so      75      o
j                                                                                                                  too~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0 0  ISO  200
oa 7ANDUNC,                                                                                                            0                    SI.
JDrvel x   fa,aia  .. ..  n    -rS; dvL ~  *1nga-9-   SEMARANG             *
- 7'            8w - dc      l oSnod,ow G /    .                 -.2aa                                          s,,i."e4  
4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ ......Iad  ' .  e- ,,,, ,,,,-7,PG9i
A.   ef              f       d>                                  ]                             S¢ i.. . . .    Z  t  t MA, *.  4S Ur r'AA
*, lib .wfi                       0   'o                                                          - .
_ _ _ _ _ _     _                                                                                        A'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
4                                                                                                                                                                   -bl.V 
mnalon   Oceon
N 
r}  ON  Ki  S                                                                                                                 .                                                                      IS



