CON"RMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 399 IND
Project Agreement
(West Java Thermal Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
DATED JUNE 22, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 399 IND
Project Agreement
(West Java Thermal Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
DATED JUNE 22, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       June  22, 1973, between    INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA (hereinafter called PLN).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement df even date herewith
between Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-six million dollars ($46,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that PLN agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS PLN, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  the term "First Project Agreement" shall mean the project agreement
(Electricity Distribution Project) of October 29, 1969 between the Association and
PLN; and
(b)   the term "Second Project Agreement" shall mean the project agreement
(Second Electricity Distribution Project) of September 29, 1972 between the
Association and PLN.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PLN shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate public utility, administrative, financial and engineering
practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist PLN in the design engineering, procurement
and construction supervision under Part A of the Project and in the studies to
be carried out under Part C and Part D of the Project, PLN shall employ consultants
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.03. PLN shall cause all works included in Part A of the Project
to be constructed by contractors acceptable to the Association, employed upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the financial recovery plan
included in Part B of the Project, PLN shall: (i) prepare with the assistance of
qualified and experienced management consultants and submit to the Association
during the third quarter of each of PLN's fiscal years a definitive draft of a detailed
financial recovery program of measures for the following fiscal year, designed to
improve PLN's administration and operations and scheduled to be implemented
by realistic target dates specified in the program, together with an analysis of the
expected financial effects of such measures; (ii) afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to comment on such draft; (iii) thereafter, adopt a program consisting
of the measures specified in said draft as modified to take into account the
Association's comments thereon; and (iv) implement that program expeditiously.
(b)   PLN shall: (i) review during the first quarter of each of its fiscal years
the implementation of its annual financial recovery program during the preceding
fiscal year on the basis of its unaudited financial statements for that preceding
year; (ii) review during the third quarter of each of its fiscal years the'
implementation of its annual financial recovery program during the first fiscal
semester on the basis of financial statements for that semester; and (iii) prepare
such financial statements in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, and furnish to the Association certified copies in the English
language of such financial statements and the result of such review.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shah otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be


﻿5
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) PLN undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by PLN to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, PLN shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) PLN shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   PLN: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PLN
Section 3.01. PLN shall at all times manage its affairs, improve its financial
position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance
with sound engineering, administrative, financial and public utility practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
experienced and competent staff in adequate numbers.


﻿6
Section 3.02. (a) PLN shall maintain its existence and right to carry on
operations, and shall take all -teps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
interests in land and other properties and all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the carrying out of the Project or in the conduct
of its business.
(b)   PLN   shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, facilities,
equipment and other property, and promptly as required make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound engineering and public utility
practices.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PLN shall not sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, which shall
be required for the efficient operation of its business and undertaking.
Section 3.03. PLN shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions, including self-insurance, satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
sound practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PLN shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. PLN shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of PLN and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association and PLN, with the approval of the
Borrower, shall otherwise agree, and after having attained full financial recovery
in accordance with the plan included in Part B of the Project, PLN shall:
IL


﻿7
(a)   from time to time take all steps (including but not limited 'o increases
in its tariffs and charges) as shall be required to provide revenues from PLN's
sales of electricity sufficient to cover all PLN's administrative and operating
expenses (including maintenance, adequate provision for depreciation and bad debt,
and taxes, if any), debt service in excess of depreciation, and a reasonable
contribution towards new capital investments of PLN; and
(b)   within the first and third quarters of each of its fiscal years, review
on the basis of reasonable estimates whether the revenues from its sales of electricity
shall be sufficient to cover during the current fiscal year the costs specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section, and furnish to the Association the result of such
review.
Section 4.04. PLN shall pay all its debts within one month after their
respective due dates.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and PLN shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and PLN shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of PLN and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and PLN shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.03. PLN shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of PLN and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Amendment of Prior Project Agreements
Section 6.01. The First Project Agreement is herewith amended by replacing
the provisions of Section 2.04 of that Agreement by the provisions of Section
4.03 of the present Agreement.


﻿8
Section 6.02. The Second Project Ag:eement is herewith amended by
replacing the provisions of Section 4.03 thereof by the provisions of Section 4.03
of the present Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 7.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Scction 7.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of PLN thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify PLN of this event.
Section 7.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 8.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
I


﻿9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For PLN:
Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara
Kantor Pusat
J1. Adityawarman
Blok MI No. 135
Kebayoran Baru
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
PLNPST
Jakarta
Section 8.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of PLN may be taken or executed by its President Director or such other person
or persons as PLN shall designate in writing.
Section 8.03. PLN shall furnish to the ALsociation sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen sign(ture of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of PLN, take any action or execute any documents re-nired
or permitted to be taken or executed by PLN pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 8.04. This Agi ment may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
By /s/ Sjarif Thajeb
Authorized Representative


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to contracts for civil works, equipment, materials and supplies
described in Categories I through III set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to the Development Credit Agreement, identical or similar items to be procured
shall be grouped together to the extent practicable for the purposes of inviting
bids, and such grouping of items shall be subject to the approval of the Association.
2.    With respect to any contract for civil works, or for such equipment, materials
or supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders for civil works contracts are required to prequalify, PLN
shall, before qualification is invited, inform   the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together
with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of
any applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by PLN to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified and PLN shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, PLN shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, PLN shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom    it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of the said consultants,
and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or


﻿12
referred to in Section 2.05 of this Agreement, promptly inform PLN and the
Borrower, state the reasons for such determination and advise PLN of any
cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
3.    With respect to any other contract for such equipment, materials or supplies,
PLN shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to
the delivery to the Association of the first appliLation for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.05 of this Agreement,
promptly inform PLN and the Borrower, state the reasons for such determination
and advise PLN of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c)
of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for such equipment,
materials and supplies, customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on locally produced goods, shall be excluded, except
to the extent hereinafter provided, and bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. Jakarta price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally
produced goods. The cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall
be taken into account in the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7
of the Guidelines for Procurement.
2.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower


﻿13
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Indonesia of not less than 20% of the ex-factory bid price.
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in Indonesia.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
3.    For such equipment, materials and supplies, a margin of preference may be
granted by the Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be
granted by adding to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose only of comparison with
Preferred Domestic Bids, an amount (hereinafter called "Domestic Preference
Margin") equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and other import
taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the goods offered
in the bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
4.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:
Stage                     Bids to be Compared                      Preference
I.         All Preferred Domestic Bids and Non-preferred          None
Domestic Bids.
II.        (a)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, if           Add Domestic
Preferred Domestic Bid, with all Foreign          Preference
Bids;                                             Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, if           None
Non-preferred Domestic Bid, with all
Foreign Bids.
III.       If lowest evaluated bid under Stage II is not          None
the lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, all
Foreign Bids.


﻿14
5.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


