CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 399 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(West Java Thermal Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 22, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 399 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(West Java Thermal Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 22, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1973, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara
(hereinafter called PLN) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to PLN the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided;
(C)   The Borrower concurs with the amendments of the project agreement
(Electricity Distribution Project) dated October 29, 1969 and the project agreement
(Second Electricity Distribution Project) dated September 29, 1972-, both between
the Association and PLN, set forth in the project agreement (West Java Thermal
Power Project) of even date herewith between the Association and PLN; and
(D)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and PLN;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective


﻿4
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and PLN of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement; and
(b)   "Governing Laws" means Government Act no. 19, 1960, Presidential
Decree no. 17, 1967, Law no. 9, 1969, Government Regulation no. 18, 1972 and
any other legal provisions at any time governing the organization and operations
of PLN, as any of them may be amended or supplemented from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-six million dollars ($46,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made r-j account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a merAr -r of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 1983 and ending February 15, 2023, each installment
to and including the installment payable on February 15, 1993 to be one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under tho Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
PLN to perform in accordance with 5he provisions of the Project Agreement all
the obligations therein set forth, including the establishment and maintenance of
tariffs and charges as specified in Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement, shall
take and cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable PLN to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance. To that end, the Borrower
shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover the budgeted expenditures
estimated by PLN to be made for the Project during each month shall be available
to PLN not later than the fifteenth day of such month.
(b)   Until the Association shall have notified the Borrower and PLN that
it has determined that PLN's tariffs are adequate to generate revenues sufficient
to cover all of PLN's operating expenses (including administration and overhead
expenses, maintenance, adequate provision for depreciation and bad debt, and taxes,
if any) and debt service requirements in excess of depreciation, the Borrower shall
transfer to PLN, in addition to the funds referred to in the preceding paragraph,
and as and when required, sufficient funds to finance PLN's necessary capital
investment expenditures to be made until such notification.
(c)   The funds referred to in the preceding paragraphs of this Section,
including the proceeds of the Credit, shall be made available to PLN in the form
of equity contributions.


﻿6
(d)   Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower shall make or
cause to be made effective arrangements to supplement, on reasonable terms, PLN's
resources with sufficient liquid funds as required by PLN to pay all its debts arising
from its administration or current operations within one month after their respective
due dates.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all actiun to ensure at all times that
amounts owed to PLN for services provided by it to any department or agency
of the Borrower be promptly paid when due, and, to that end, the Borrower shall
ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover such amounts owed to PLN shall be
available to cach department or agency not later than the fifteenth day of the
month during which such amounts shall be payable.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the position of President
Director of PLN shall at all times be filled by a qualified and experienced person
and, before an appointment is made to such position, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the name, qualifications and experience of the person considered
for appointment to such position and afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on the qualifications and
experience of such person.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by PLN of its obligations under the Project Agreement,
the administration, operations and financial condition of PLN and, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,


﻿7
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of PLN and, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
th reof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by PLN of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,


﻿8
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a default shall occur in the performance by PLN of any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of PLN or for the suspension of its operations, without having
obtained the prior concurrence of the Association;
(c)   the  Borrower   shall have   suspended, terminated, repealed   or
substantially amended any of the Governing Laws or any provision thereof, without
having obtained the prior concurrence of the Association; and
(d)   PLN shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by PLN or by others whereby
any of the property of PLN shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of Section 6.02 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Amendment of Prior Development Credit Agreements
Section 7.01. The development credit agreement (Electricity Distribution
Project) of October 29, 1969 between the Borrower and the Association is herewith


﻿9
amended by adding to Section 4.01 of that prior agreement as new paragraphs
(c), (d) and (e), respectively, the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of Section
3.01 of the present Agreement.
Section 7.02. The development credit agreement (Second Electricity
Distribution Project) of September 29, 1972 between the Borrower and the
Association is herewith amended by first deleting paragraph (b) of Section 3.01
of that prior agreement and then adding to that Section as new paragraphs (b),
(c) and (d), respectively, the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of Section
3.01 of the present Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   that the execution and delivery of the Project Agruement on behalf
. -of PLN have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and
(b)   that PLN has entered into contract with management consultants
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association to carry out the services specified in Part B. I of the Second Electricity
Distribution Project described in Schedule 2 to the development credit agreement
of September 29, 1972 between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, PLN, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of PLN in
accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date August 15, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III of this
Agreement and the provisions of Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall cease and


﻿10
determine on the date on which ther D1velopment Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Jakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿11
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Sjarif Thajeb
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M..Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below    sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   Civil Works for                2,500,000         61% of total expendi-
Part A 1 of the                                  tures (representing
Project                                          the estimated foreign
expenditure component)
II.  Supply and Instal-            26,500,000          100% of foreign ex-
lation of Generating                             penditures and 95%
Facilities including                             of local expendi-
Transformers and                                 tures ex-factory
Switchyard
III.  Supply and Instal-            3,600,000          100% of foreign
lation of Trans-                                expenditures and
mission Lines and                                95% of local expendi-
Substations                                      tures ex-factory
IV.  Consulting Services            2,700,000          100% of foreign
for Part A of the                                expenditures
Project
V.   Consulting Services            2,000,000          100% of foreign
for Parts C and D                                expenditures
of the Project
VI.  Unallocated                    8,700,000
TOTAL        46,000,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category IV on account of expenditures
incurred after April 1, 1973; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and


﻿14
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or
of local expenditures under Category II or III shall increase and no proceeds of
the Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A.    Muara Karang Thermal Power Station
1.   Construction of a 200 Mw thermal power plant at Muara Karang
in the northwestern outskirts of Jakarta, including linkage of
the generators through step-up transformers to a 150 kV
switchyard.
2.   Construction of about 30 km      of 150 kV double circuit
transmission lines to connect the plant with three existing
substations near Jakarta and the reinforcement of such
substations including, where required, upgrading to 150/70 kV.
Part A of the Project is expected to be completed by mid-1977.
Part B.    Financial Recovery Plan
A comprehensive financial recovery plan taking into account all
aspects of PLN's administration and operations and designed to
allow PLN not later than its fiscal year 1978/79 to cover out
of the revenues from its sales of electricity all its administrative
and operating expenses (including maintenance, adequate
provision for depreciation and bad debt, and taxes, if any) and
interest and other charges on debt.
Part C.    Java Power System Development Plan
Formulation of a comprehensive power system development plan
for the island of Java to form the guideline for future power
development on Java; the plan is to include inter alia a long-term
investment program for the power sector.
Part D.    Citarum Hydroelectric Feasibility Study
A feasibility study of a hydroelectric project on the Citarum
river about 40 km upstream of the existing Jatiluhur dam.


