Documrtl
T he     W or: -' ;>..., f iz11, 1.b
FOR OFFICIAI
Report No. 9829
PROJE%..T COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
MUTARA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(CREDIT 937-RWA)
AUGUST 30, 1991
Agricultural Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Unit: Rwanda Franc
Year    -  USS 1.00
Ecuivalent
1978   -   92.84
1979   -   92.84
1980   -   92.84
1981   -   92.84
1982   -   92.84
1983   -   94.34
1984   -  100.17
1985   -  101.26
1986   -   87.64
1987   -   79.67
1988   -   76.45
1989   -   79.98
1990   -   82.60
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 are (a)               =      0.0247 acres
1 hectare (ha)           =     2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)        =      0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2) =     0.39 square mile
!                                  1 kilogram (kg)                2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                    0.26 US gallon
0.22 Imperial gallon
1 ton (t)               =      2,204 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
FAO         United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization
CA          Cattle unit per hectare
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
EEC         European Economic Community
MAL         Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
OPROVIA     Marketing parastatal?
OVAPAM      Office for the development of agriculture and
livestock in Mutara (Office pour la Valorisation
Pastorale et Agricole du Mutara)
TSC         Technical Support Center
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31



FOR OFCI  USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office nI DvectorGueneral
Ope#atmns Evakiultun
August 30, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report - RWANDA
Mutara Agricultural and Livestock Development Project -
Phase II (Credit 937-RWA)
Attached, for your information, is a copy ef a report
entitled 'Project Completion Report on Rwanda - Mutara Agricultural
and Livestock Development Project - Phase II (Credit 937-RWA)I,
prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
MUTAPA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(CREDIT 937-RWA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  ............... . .               . . . .* . *.... . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY       ...                                . .  i.
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANU   S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
B. Background.. . . . ..1
C.  Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . .      .2
D. Project Design and Organization ..                                3
E. Project Implementation   ..3
F. Project Results    ..4
G. Project Sustainability         ..                                 7
H. Performance of the Bank         ..                                7
I. Performance of the Borrower.. .    8
J.  Bank/Borrower Relations           ...............   9
K.  Performance of Consultants              ..                       9
L. Documentation and Files       ..     .  .                        .   9
PART I1:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORO_ER'S PERS5PEC-TIV
A. Mutara I Project  .............. .... 10
B. Project Objectives  . . . . . ................ 10
C. Project Achievements  ...... ............ . 11
PART III: STATISTZCA2 IDbTA
Table 1: Related IDA Credits . .  .......... . . .  .15
Table 2   Project Timetable.                              .      .. 16
Table 3: Credit Disbursements                                       17
Table 4:  Project Implementation                                   18
Table 5:  Project Costs and Financing. .** .               .    .19
A.  Project Costs and F$nancing                         . 19
B.  Exchange Rates and Price Contingencies  . . . .  . 20
Table 6t Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  .   . 21
A.  Economic Rate of Return  ..      .. ...        .  .21
B.  Cashfiow for the Economic Rate of Return  . . .  . 22
Table 7:  Status of Covenants.           .                         23
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources . . . -     . . .   . . .  . . . .  . 24
A.  Staff Inputs  . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . .    . 24
B.  Missions  . . .                      ..     .  .   .  . . . .  .25
Maps:     1.  Rwanda Country Map - Location of Project Area (IURD 1386S)
2. Project Area (IBRD 13866)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
NUTARA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(CREDIT 937-RWA)
PPEFACE
This document is the Project Completion Report for the Mutara
Agricultural and Livestock Development Project, Phase II. in Rwanda, for which
the Bank provided a credit of US$8.75 million (Cr. 937-RWA) in 1979. The credit
was closed on December 1986; it was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement
was on February 17, 1987.
The Preface. Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of this report
were prepared by the FAO Investment Center (FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program)
in collaboration with the Agriculture Division of the Africa Region. South
Central and Indian Ocean Department.  The Borrower prepared Part II of this
report and also a full completed report in 1987.
This document is based on reports (in particular the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Credit and Project Agreements, supervision reports and correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower), consultations with project officials, and an
on-site assessment of the results.



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
MUTARA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(CREDIT 937-RWA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The project was intended as the second phase of a settlement project
for farmers and pastoraLists in a sparsely populated, toe-too infested area.
The first phase settlement project was conceived as a means to reduce land
pressures elsewhere in the country. The achievements under the first phase
were considerable, but not sustainable. A second phase project was therefore
felt necessary.
Obiectives
2.    As a second phase of a settlement project, the project was intended to
complete the social infrastructure needed for the region, and to consolidate
the achievements of Phase I, in particular with regards to soil fertility,
range management, and institutions. The production components for Phase II
included the development of extension services for 10,000 farmers (8,400
farmers who had been resettled during the first phase, and 1,600 farmers who
lived in areas adjacent to the resettlament area), who would be encouraged to
use organic matter and anti-erosion techniques, of extension and veterinary
services for a thousand herders, organized in group ranches, and of a
technical support center to provide improved fodder species and cattle
breeds; in order to restore ranch productivity, 2,500 head of cattle (13% of
the total herd) would be made to leave the area, and 7,000 ha of range would
be rehabilitated by the project. Marketing services would be developed, and
primary schools, health facilities, and water supply provided.
implementation experience
3.    Continued settlement took place during phase It, which absorbed most of
project management efforts (700 families). Now %reas were made available to
the ranches, range rehabilitation was successful, and stocking rates could
thus adjust initially to carrying capacities without significant destockLng.
This led to optimism regarding the progress of group ranchest the emphasis of
project staff shifted from de-stocking to improving livestock health and
marketinq services. This was done with reasonable success. After 1982, when
stocking rates started to exceed the carrying capacity of the pastures,
insufficient action was taken to reverse the situation, as project management
lacked the legal power to enforce de-stocking and market outlets were
limited. The project was succesful in introducing the concept of growing
crops on cultivation plots to erstwhile nomadic and semi-nomadic herders.
4.   Additional settlement in the Paysannat style schemeVJ proceeded
swiftly (3,500 families), with the experience of phase I, but it was soon
realized that the technical package for intensification of production had
little to offer. Efforts to develop it were insufficient. Despite this
constraint, crop production and yields improved during project
implementation, as a result of efforts to increase soil fertility through
organic fertilization. With much delay, but clear success, a credit scheme
was set up for the acquisition of cows for stall-feeding ("fermettes").
}J    settlemnt of farmers on 2 ha lote in lees densely pcpulated
areas.



iv
5.    The construction program proceeded fast once firm bank action had
helped improve planning and procurement procedures. Management problems were
not however limited to these initial adjustments, but were felt throughout
implementation, resulting largely from the institutional met-up established
by the previous project. The water supply component suffered much delay due
to engineering difficulties, but implementation was satisfactory.
Results and gustainability
6.    The projoct met most of its phymical targets regarding crops
production, animal health, and infrastructure, and added a settlement
component not initially envisaged. The development of markets, and the
improvement of housing are clear achievements. Which of the economic
benefits can be directly attributable to the project, i.e. that spontaneous
settlement would not have achieved anyway, is however, less clear, but would
certainly include the "fermette" development, still limited (4% of all
"payeannat" farms in 1985), a real improvement in animal health, and the
development of a modest dairy activity. On the other hand, the main project
objective was not achieved: group ranches are still not sustainable, and no
progress has been made in this direction. Stocking rates have almost doubled
during implementation, and still continue to increase, resv.lting in serious
range degradation. Pasture rehabilitation through woed eradication has been
resumed by government, but does not address the problem of ewosion through
overgrazing: time for pasture regeneration is not available. Although the
project cannot be rated satisfactory from a purely economic point of view
(ERR is 7.5%), it has achieved considerable social goals (settlement of 4,200
families and completion of the infrastructure for these and previous
settlers). If social returns could be included in the analysis, project
achievements can be considered satisfactory.
7.    In October 1990, Rwandese refugees living in Uganda invaded Rwanda and
conducted guarilla ectivities in the project area. As the PCR mission
visited the project area prior to the outbreak of hostilities, it is not
known to what oxtent the war has affected project achievements.
Findings and lessons learned
S.    While project staff, government officials, and supervision personnel
endeavored, in a difficult context, to achieve immediate project objectives,
they lacked the perspective to orient their activities towards building up
the conditions for sustainability. This can partly be attributed to a
failure to analyze and define these conditions during project appraisal and
implementation. For example, while it was anticipated that stocking rates
were to remain stable, no strategy beyond developing some marketing outlets
had been proposed and no incentives were developed to enable herders to
dispose of their older and least productive animals.  The mid-term review,
impressed by technical improvements, missed the last opportunity to re-orient
the project. These improvements were not sustainable, because of continued
settlement of new herders and insufficient maintenance of the pastures by the
existing herderee
9.    Lessons to be learned include the following:
. Settlement brings drastic changes to semi-nomadic herders.
Acceptance of sedentary village life does not mean that the need for
changes relating to production techniques (pasture rotation, weeding,
reseeding, etc.) and management (e.g., deo-stocking) is understood.
Even if it is, changes may take a very long time to be accepted.
Group ranches imply collective management, i.e. new individual
rights and obligations, to be collectively discussed, decided, and
enforced; project formulation should envisage not only new techniques,
but also new institutions and organizations, drawing from a basic
knowledge of existing practices.



v
Extension activities and associated monitoring and evaluation
activities should be given a major emphasis by project management. The
monitoring and evaluation activities should provide the information to
management to intervene and re-orient the' extension service.



POECT COHMPLET.ION REPORT
RWANDA
MUTARA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEJELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
iCREDIT 937-RWA
PART I:  P
A. Pro1eet j4pr&t1t
Name:             Mutara Agricultural and Livestock Development Project
- Phase II
Credit No:        937 IWA
Region:           Africa
Department:        Souith-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Sector:           Agriculture
Sub-sectors:      Crops/Livestock
B. Background
2.1   Rwanda is one of the smallest, but most denseiy populated countries in
Africa. In 1976, at the time of project design, the population was estimated
at 4.2 million, growing at an annual rate of 2.8%. Population density varied
widely, between 372 inhabitants per km2 in the most fertile areas to 109
inhabitants per km2 in the tse-tse infested savannah areas. Land pressures
had already resulted in excessive clearance of forests and overutilization of
the soil. Other natural resources being limited, agriculture was the most
important sector of the economy. In 1976, it contributed about 80% of GNP,
accounted for more than 99% of its export earnings, and supported over 95% of
the population. Agricultural productivity was, however, low and about 30% of
export revenues had to be spent on food imports.
2.2   Since 1953, the Government has crganized a number of settlement schemes
(lgvsannats) in the less densely populated areas.  The objectives of these
sc.iemes are to remedy the general shortage of land, and to increase
productivity by intensifying the delivery of technical and social services
(access roads, extension services, education and health care). Resetzlod
farmers enter into a contract with the Government, represented by the
Commune, and in return are given the cultivation rights of a 2 ha plot. When
the Government approached the Bank in mid-1967 for assistance with some of
the agricultural projects listed in the 1967-72 Development Plan, about
20,000 familiea had been resettled under a dozen paysannat schemes.  In 1973,
IDA financed the Firset Mutara Agricultural Project (Cr. 439-RWA), which
settled about 8,400 farm families in payeannat style settlement schemes and
960 on a newly introduced settlement echeme:  the group ranches.
First Mutara aricultugal Prolect (Cr. 439-RWAI
2.3   At the time of preparation for the First Mutara Agricultural Project,
in 1971-73, the Mutara area in north-eastern Rwanda was ragarded as a
marginal toe-toe infested region, which was sparsely populated with an
estimated 3,000 farming families and 150 Sahima nomadic herding familieo,
owning together some 30,000 head of cattle. With the development of roads
and water supply, the provision of veterinary and marketing services, and a
program for tso-tse eradication, the project aimed at settling 5,700 families
over an area of 45,000 ha: 4,300 families would receive farm plots of 2 ha
each (the standard area for paysannat settlement schemes) in the wetter,
hilly part of the area (900 to 1200 mm of rain), and 1,400 pastoral farmers
would be settled on group ranches for cattle development, in the drier
rolling savannahe (700 to 900 mm of rain). Total project costs were
estimated at US$ 4.3 million. Contrary to the institutional system under
which similar settlement schemes had been established in the past, the
project was to be implemented by an independent parastatal development



2
agency, the -Offifo pour la Valorisation Fastorals at Agricole du Mutara"
OVAPAM, to ho financed mainly from fees paid by beneficiaries.
2.4 Project implemontation was plagued by numerous difficulties, partly
related to the creation of OVAPAM and partly due to: (i) a massive migrant
influx between project preparation and effectiveness; (Li) departure of many
Bahima herders, distrustful of Government policies, to Uganda; and (iii)
changes in the project area, because 6,000 ha of marshlands in the proje-'
area was designated for irrigation development to be financed by the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), in compensation for which the
Government released 9,000 ha additional land from the hunting reserve
bordering the project area. In addition, high cost increases led to a
reduction in the size of the ranch component, and to postponement of water
supply 'nventments.
2.5   While revised physical targets were met for infrastructure development
(the water supply component was dropped), and were substantially exceeded for
settlement (8,400 families were installed in the "paysannat" settlement
schemes, and 960 on the group ranches), production of subs_stence crops had
only marginally increased, efforts to introduce cash crops had failed, and
the overall Mutara herd had declinsad by an estimated 16,000 head.   Still,
orderly settlement had been achieved in a difficult ethnic context, road
infrastructure had been provided, and group ranches, a system introduced in
Rwanda by the project, were gaining acceptance, albeit after installation,
grazing and veterinary fees had been suspended. The project completion
report for the first project concluded that, if the ERR was at best marginal,
social achievements were significant. The most obvious flaw was
institutional, since next to OVAPAM, new organizations had emerged for the
development of marshlands in the Mutara area, with duplicated infrastructure
and sometimes conflicting interests.
2.6   Mid-way in the implementation of the first project, it became apparent
that a second project would be necessary in order to complete the original
investment program, which had become impossible to complete because of severe
cost over-runs, and to safeguard the investments made under the first
project. It was foreseen that, without urgent action, soil fertility and
crop yields would further decline on the crop farms, pastures would be
invaded by weeds and acacia trees, and an additional 10,000 head of cattle
would have to leave the area.
C.  Proiect ObiectiZes and DescriEtion
3.1   The major objective of the second project was therefore to develop
techniques, procedures and an institutional environment which would make it
possible to (i) stop the process of soil and pasture degradation and preserve
the long term production potential of the area; (ii) make rational use of
land and other resources; (iii) intensify the use of available resources in
-order to cope with population increases; (iv) make use of existing
technologies for erosion control, herd maintenance and integration of crop
and livestock development; (v) adjust the orientation of the project as
experience was gained; and (vi) incorporate the project into the local                       U
administration, in order to ensure its sustainability.
3.2   The project included the following components:
(i)    Development of improved extension services for _rop and livestock
in the Payeannat (8,400 families) and adjacent communal sectors
(1,500 families), including crop development, the introduction of
a livestock stall-feeding program (fermette), and staff and
farmer training;
(li)   Development of improved extension and veterinary services for
cattle and crops on the Group Ranches, including a pasture
improvement program (7,000 ha), an improved veterinary and animal



3
husbandry program, technical support for cultivation plots, and
staff and pastoralist trainingl
(iii)  Development of a Techniual Support Center (TSC) for fodder
multipllcation and trials, and reproduction of "improved cattle
breeds";
(lv)   Assltance to develop marketLng servLce8s
(v)    Construction of schools and health centernp
(vi)   Development of a water supply schem  to serve about 9,500
familles and 10,000 head of cattl- and
(vii)  ProvLiLon of Technlcal servLco, lncludlng general servLces for
the project, road maintenance, agricultural credit, staff
trainlng, consulting servLces, technical assistance for Project
Management and support for the Studies and Projects DLvisLon of
the MinLitry of Agrlculture and LLvestock (MAL).
The project area covered 61,000 ha, including the 51,000 ha covered by Phase
I, plus approxlmately 10,000 ha ln adjacent communal sectors where farmers
would benefit from the same servLces as ln the "0aysannat."
D.  Proiect Design antd OranLzation
4.1   The project design was appropriate and took into account the main
lessons learned during the Lmplementation of the first project. Most
importantly, the organlzation and management of the project would be
substantially strengthened. In order to avoid a repetitlon of the
difficulties in project management encountered during the first phase, the
Bank initially insisted that OVAPAM would be replaced by a Pr^4ect Unit, an
idea that Government orlignally endorsed (May 1978), but subsequently
rejected. As a result, OVAPAM was maintained as a parastatal, responsible
for project management, but with the terms of reference that the Bank had
proposed for the Project Unlt. Local adminietrative authorities would
participate in the Project through OVAPAM's Board of Directors and the
Beneficiaries Committee, and the Communal Technical Crx=itee and Development
Council. A mechanism had been established within the Minietry of Agriculture
that would allow for OVAPAN to liaise with other projects. The project would
be organized into two subprojects, the Paysannat and the Group Ranches
subprojects, each with a director. Furthermore, the tochnical aseeistants
would be on-board, and the selection of the consultants for the marketing and
water supply studies would have been made prior to credit effectiveness. A
mid-term review would take place after two years of project execution in
order to assess progress of the project and of the Government Ln defining a
development strategy for the region.
E.  Protect IMl2ementation
5.1   caedLt       iyAne and Proiect Start-un.  The credit was approved on
June 19, 1979. EffectLveness was delayed by seven months, from October 15,
1S 9, to May 30, 1980, due to delays in the selection of the Technical
Assistants (Project Director and Marketing Specialist), who would asslst
OVAPAM in project management, and in selectlng the consultants who would
carry out the water supply and marketing studies.
5.2   Imolementatlon Schedule.  The project was originally scheduled to be
completed by December 31, 1983. All project components, except for the water
supply, technlcal assistance and the agricultural :redit scheme, were
completed on target.  The 4alays in the water supply component were caused
primarily by disagreement between IDA and Government on the type and cost of
water supply (gravity system versus wells) and about the sustainability of



4
the investment. The technical assistance component was extended due to
delays in implementing the pasture and crop improvoments, and to ensure
proper execution of the water supply component. The agricultural credit
scheme took longer than anticipated to got off the ground.  In order to
ensure completion of theme three components, a first extension of the cloging
date was granted until December 31, 1985, on Narcn 15, 1984. A second
extenoion to December 31, 1986, for the completion of the watersupply
component was granted on February 3, 1986.
5.3  J!igcgJgp_  _ts.  Total project costs were estimated at US$ 11.4 million,
to which IDA would contribute by a credit 2f USS 8.75 million, and the EEC by
a Special Action Crsdit of USS 1.65 million. The final project cost io about
US$ 12.7 u'iillion. The increase in project costs is in part due to cost
overrunn for civil works and the water supply component, and in part to
higher than expected local inflation.
5.4   Disburement.  The estimated and actual disbursements are given in
Table 3 in Part III. The credit initially disbursed ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but delays occurred due to problems in implementing the civil works
and water eupply component. The original closing date was December 31, 1983;
but the credLt was only closed on December 31, 1986, after 2 extension. of
the closing date (para. 5.2). Disbursements against commitments were made
until February 1', 1987. No cancellations were made.
5.    credit Allocation.  The original and actual allocations for the credit
are shown in Table S.A. in part III.
5.6   Procurement.  Procurement for construction followed standard government
procedures of hiring contractors and providing them with construction
materials or doing the construction on force account. Although the former
was not envisaged in the Development Credit Agreement, the method had been
uoed during phase I and was accepted by the Bank.  This method of procurement
was one of the main reasons for the sizeable cost overruns during the first
project. When IDA supervision missions became aware that the proposed civil
works program would again suffer major cost overruns, IDA stopped all
disbursements on civil works until OVAPAM had submitted the plans and
corresponding cost estimata.. This decision was instrumental in getting the
costs for civil works under control.
F. Prolect Restlts
6.1   The project was able to meet its main objectives within the original
time frame. The two exceptions are the water supply component, which
encountered a three year delay because of technical problems and doubts about
the sustainability of the investment, and the group ranches component, which
was unable to achieve its main objectives.
6.2   E1!ttlmeqt. After Board presentation, the Government of Rwanda
allocated 10,160 ha of additional land to the project from the adjacent
hunting reserve. The total ranch area could thus be increased by 6,180 ha,
the remainder was allocated to Paysannat style settlements. This was not
foreseen at appraisal or negotiations, and consequently no provision had been
made in the credit. It also diverted attention from project management.
Despite these constraints, by the end of 1984, the project had resettled an
additional 700 families on the group ranches and 3,500 families in the
paysannat area.
6.3   PAiman"i.  The Paysannat component progressed slowly, particularly the
introduction of anti-erosion measures, and the uae of organic fertilization.
The anti-rosion measures were only slowly adopted by farmers, but by 1984,
80% of appraisal targets were met. The introduction of compost pits
initially ouffered from the inadequate availability of water. When this
oituation improved after the repair of several wells, the use of compost pits



5
increased rapidly, greatly exceeding appraisal targets (Table 4). 2l
Extension was reorganized to concentrate on model farmers, rather than trying
to visit all farmers, and staff training wau strengthened. The weakneesos of
the available technical package were recognized, but the few trials and
demonstrations initiated to develop it were poorly planned and managed,
because of an insufficient linkage between the management of the paysannat
subproject and the extension service.  The few results (row seeding and
maize-bean intercropping) were therefore never widely dioseminated. Seed
multiplication was mostly limited to local cultivars, due to the poor
performance of varieties recommended by research.  Experiments with animal
traction, envisaged by the mid-term review as a means of reducing possible
labor constraints, were only partially implemented, because of a lack of
experienced staff.
6.4   Crop production increased significantly during implementation.
According to OVAPAM data, total crop production increased by 64% from 1979 to
1985, while the area allocated to crops production was extended by 42%. Farm
productivity improvements are attributed to better yields, since cropping
intensities stayed at 90%. Other than through the improved soil fertility as
a result of compost use, there is no satisfactory explanation for the
increase in yields, which casts some doubt on the reliability of the OVAPAM
data. The SAR had estimated that yields would drop by as much as 2.5% per
annum in the absence of the project.
6.5   The fermette program (distribution of heifers on credit to farmers for
permanent stalling) started late, but came close to meeting appraisal targets
(Table 4). This program may be the most successful innovation brought about
by the project to the paysannat and provides the most significant
contribution towards improving soil fertility. In 1985, the management of
the credit program was transferred from OVAPAM to the Banques Populaires,
because the former lacked experience in collecting payments.
6.6   Group Ranches.  The increase in the group ranch area, together with the
redistribution of herds among ranches to adjust population densities, and the
improvement of pastures resulting from weed eradication, initially
contributed to a dramatic improvement of pastures and herds' nutrition. De-
stocking efforts were therefore limited, in part because older less
productive animals were not marketable, but mainly because the need was no
longer urgent.
6.7   When the mid-term review mission visited the project in November 1981,
it concluded that de-stocking was no longer a priority, and could be limited
to the elimination of unproductive animals, while settlement could continue
in the new areas. It was also decided to carefully monitor herd
productivity, to test chemicals for weed control (manual weed control having
proven to be too difficult too implement), to speed-up the pasture reseeding
and forage crops program, to develop new actions to facilitate the marketing
of livestock produce, including the provision of a small slaughterhouse and a
pilot milk processing unit, and to test artificial insemination in the TSC.
The provision of the slaughter house was necessary for the marketing of meat.
Unfortunately, demand for meat declined significantly after OPROVIA, the
parastatal charged with meat marketing, cancelled its cont:act with OVAPAM.
6.8   In 1982, after the mid-term review, a number of refugees, who had fled
from Uganda with their herds, had to be accepted for resettlement 3/.
2/    Part II states, however, that only few of the 16,970 compost pits
or heaps established during the project were utilized after
project completion. In the absence of a satisfactory explanation,
it is difficult to believe this information is correct.
J/    The number of herders and the size of their cattle is not in project
files.



6                                                    i
Improved animal health care and the continued practice of selling only young
male calves, also contributed to the continued growth of the herds. In
addition, only marginal weed eradication efforts were undertaken by the
herders after OVAPAM stopped weed control activities. As a consequence,
pastures became overgrazed, pasture rotation became nearly impossible because
of land pressures, Acacias and Cymbopogon grasses started spreading again,
reducing the useable area and its nutritive value, and patches of bare land
reappeared. The situation became critical during the dry season of 1985,
when some ranches lost 20 to 30% of their animals. Bank supervision missions
soveral times brought this problem to the attention of MAL and OVAPAM, which
resulted in renewed weed control efforts, but not in serious de-stocking
activiries. Do-stocking could not be enforced, because no legal framework
had been established and markets were limited (para. 6.7 and 8.4). At the
time of credit closing, herd size greatly exceedod carrying capacity of the
pastures (a h.rd size of over 42,000 animals compared to a carrying capacity
of about 25,000 animals).
6.9   Even though the Group Ranches sub-project was unable to achieve its
objective of pasture rehabilitation, it was very successful in introducing
the concept of cultivating plots to erstwhile nomadic and semi-nomadic
herders, and thus increasing their food security.
6.10 T6chnical Suoport Center. This center, has become an important
ingredient for livestock extension in the region. It has built up two herds
(one pure Ankole breed and one of crossbred Ankole and Sahiwa), plays an
important role in cattle marketing activities and is the basis for trials in
the field of forage crops, pasture upgrading, artificial insemination and
draft animals. In addition, the Technical Support Center is providing
heifers and young cows to farmers under the credlt program (para. 6.5).
During project implementation, milk processing activities were started on a
pilot basis.
6.11  The Technical Support Center was expected to become self financing
through its commercial activities, such as the marketing of live animals and
carcases, and insemination services. In general, the commercial activities
have been profitable, although the profits so generated were never enough to
finance all activities.
6.12 Marketina Services. The marketing study carried out in 1980 by
Ifagraria did not produce any new information, and the marketing specialist
hired by the projeft left after two months and was never replaced, because it
was felt that (L) OVAPAM should not get Lnvolved in commercLal activities, as
the private sector was already developing; and (Li) little addLtional benefit
was expected from this activity. ActivitLes thereafter includeds (i)
construction of stores, and limited operations to sustain prices of crops,
which were then handed over to OPROVIA, a marketing parastatalt (ii)
purchases of calves, bulls and steers to facilitate destockingu and (iii)
operation of the slaughterhouse and the pilot milk unit.
6.13 SociAl Infrastructure. The construction and equipment of the primary
schools and health centers, was completed prior to the original closing date,
despite initial delays. The delays were caused because OVAPAMs' coat
estimates were far too high and the proposed buildings were of a different
design than agreed upon at appraisal. The problems were resolved in
consultation with the Government, who agreed to pay part of the cost
overruns.
6.14  Water 5uPlv *Comoonen.  This component was originally included Ln the
First Mutara Project. At the time of the mid-term review of that project, it
was decided to postpone implementation and include it as a component in the
second project.  As substantial inflation had taken place since appraisal of                I
the first project, the cost of the water supply component was re-appraised
for the second project.  The oriqinal desLgn called for a simple gravity
design filled from springs and wells. in 1981, a consultant firm came up
with cost estimates of US$ 1,000 per beneficiary family. A decision on



7
construction was postponed until viability studies were completed, and
assurances were obtained that user fees would be collected for the express
purpose of financing the maintenance of the water supply system.  As a
result, the construction of the water supply system did not start until early
1985, justifying a second extension of the credit closing date to December
31, 1986.  The provision of water to most of the settlers and the successful
implementation of a system of user fees and hook-up charges4/ are some of
the main achievements of the project.
6.1S Economic Pelformance. In October 1990, Rwandese refugees living in
Uganda invaded Rwanda and conducted guerilla activities in the project area.
As the PCR mission visited the project area prior to the outbreak of
hostilities, it is not known to what extent the war has affected project
achievements. Prior to the war, the economic rate of return was estimated at
10.5% for the Payeannat sub-project, negative for the Group Ranches sub-
project, and 7.5% for the project as a whole, as compared to 14% estimated at
appraisal (table 6). Like the First Mutara Project, the project had achieved
considerable social goals: orderly settlement of an additional 4,200 settler
families; provision of the requisite infrastructure for these settlers
(houses, schools, health facilities and, most importantly, water); and
development of fermettes in the Paysannat. If these social returns are
included, project achievements could have been considered as satisfactory. A
financial rate of return could not be calculated for the project, because
OVAPAM did not maintain a database with the necessary information.
G. Proiect Sustainabilitv
7.1   OVAPAM has not yet achieved the reforms envisaged at appraisal.
Progress has been made, however, with the preparation and discussion of the
Mutara master plan in 1985, which charged OVAPAM with regional planning and
coordination. It has given solid evidence of it. capability to manage the
project with government resources only. Schools and health facilities are
maintained and operated by the relevant government departments, and the water
supply system, handed over to the concerned communes, is maintained by a
"syndicat intercommunal" which receives water rights from users. Extension
and veterinary services are still managed under OVAPAM, as well as the TSC.
Cattle fattening and marketing by the TSC appear financially viable at
present. Milk processing, mainly because the new plant is operating below
capacity due to a lack of market outlets, is not preser.tly financially viable
although it is considered to have good potential.
7.2   The ranches are clearly not sustainable, with stocking rates having
virtually doubled after rehabilitation. The problem is not expected to
improve when some 3,000 ha of rarshlands now used for dry season grazing are
reclaimed for rice cultivation.  Even after a new program to eradicate weeds
and bushes, total carrying capacity is unlikely to exceed 20 to 25 thousand
head. Sustainability will not be possible to achieve without massive
destocking and the introduction of improved range management practices.
H. Performance of the Bank
8.1   Bank supervision has been most effective in containing project costs,
ensuring that infrastructure equipment would serve their purpose, and that
major covenants were being met. Bank missions displayed flexibility in
adjusting to unforeseen developments, e.g. the changes in technical
assistance composition, or the addition of the milk pilot plant, but also
firmness; thus disbursements for construction were interrupted for a year,
pending a thorough cost review. Supervision missions were adequately staffed
and generally timely, with one exception in that no mission was sent for a
AI    The hook-up charges only recovered part of the initial investment.



8
full yaar early in the life of the project, although the previouu mtiuoion had
reported a deteriorating trend and recommended close supervision and frequent
visits.
8.2 Technically, the misesions had promptly diagnosed the weaknesses of the
agricultural programi consequently they attempted to boost the fermettes as
well as to strengthen the adaptive research component. With respect to the
livestock component, there may have been too prompt a reaction to the
improvements obtained in pastures and animal condition by weed and bush
eradication, in allowing the pressure on destocking to be relaxed. It was
particularly unfortunate that in late 1981 the mid-term review mission,
impressed with such improvements, concluded that destocking was no longer
crucial (although the herd contained already 26,000 head), and that the focuo
should be on eliminating unproductive cows. The mid-term review simply
recommended to closely monitor the evolution of the herd and the development
of the range carrying capacity, which war expected to continue to improve.
Subsequent missions paid therefore little attention to the issue, and only
three years later was it realized that pasture maintenance had been
neglected, while herd size had continued to increase.
8.3   The lack of strategy to influence herders' management can be partly
attributed to poor preparation work by the firm which provided technical
assistance during Phase I. This firm saw no reason for any profound change
in project concept betweezt Phases I and II; the Bank took the same view,
therefore no further preparation effort was deemed necessary, and the
opportunity to undertake an in-depth review of how to set up a structure that
would enable timely de-stocking was missed.
8.4   In retrospect, Bank missions, including the mid-term review mission,
did an excellent supervisory job, but lacked a clear long-term vision of the
changes implied by the project for the pastoralists. The need for some form
of collective management of herds and pastures was only explicitly recognized
at the time of the preparation of the first phase of the project, when
emphasis was given to ranch associations, which would link together herders
through contractual rights and obligations. Such associations were never
formed, depriving the project of a basic institution through which the
discipline needed to manage pastures and adjust herd sizes could be enforced.
I. Performance of the Borrower
9.1   Efficient project management by the project director has been
constantly hindered by interference in day-to-day project management by the
director of OVAPAM, which ran contrary to the agreed on terms of reference.
Due to effective Bank supervision, direct damage from this situation has
largely been limited to strained relationships with or among project staff.
Otherwise, government selection of project staff has been generally
satisfactory, particularly for those in charge of livestock activities, which
is remarkable in view of the lack of trained staff in the country.
9.2   The Government did not strictly comply with the Development Credit
Agreement requirement to maintain a revolving fund of at least RwF 30 million
in the project's bank account, resulting in frequent cash flow problems.
However this is partly because the project rarely prepared detailed cash flow
projections to justify its financial requests to Government before the
discussion of the annual budget. In fact, the Government has always shown
keen interest and commitment towards the project, as is shown by the
assumption of respons`.bility for recurrent costs for all components (except
water supply) by 1984.



9
J. Blank/Borrower Relations
10.1 Bank-Borrower relations have been very good, as evidenced by the
Borrower's responsiveness to Bank requests and by its willingness to provide
adequate recurrent funding.
K. Performance of Consultants
11.1 Long-term technical assistance wan limited to an
agriculturalist/extension specialist, who was at the same time project
manager for two years, and to a financial and administrative director for
three years. The latter, not foreseen at appraisal, was recruited in May
1981 to improve accounting and financial management, a task that was
substantially achieved. The performance of the project manager was
acceptable, given his difficult situation. The marketing specialist, who was
expected to stay on as a long-term technical assistant, left after two
months.
L.  Documentation and F~Ies.
12.1 Gathering the information required to prepare this report presented
difficulties, because the project had already been closed for 5 years.
Furthermore, the supervision missions in 1986 and 1987 did not collect
implementation data in the same way of those prior to 1985, primarily because
the implementation focus had shifted to the watersupply sub-component, this
may explain some of the discrepancies between the information presented in
Parts II and III.



10
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
MUTARA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(CREDIT 937-RWA)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  MUTAPA I PROJECT (1974-19791
1.    The Mutara region was traditionally an extensive grazing area.  With a
view to utilizing it also to resettle farmers from overpopulated areas, the
Government undertook from 1969 to 1973, with assistance from FAO and IBRD, a
series of studies which led to the preparation of an agro-pastoral project
(Credit 439-RWA, Nov. 1973).  Its objectives were to install 4,300 farming
families under a "payeannat" scheme, and 1,400 herding families with 28,000
aead of cattle in collective ranches. It was also envisaged to set up a
breeding ranch and to launch a tse-toe eradication program. An Office pour
la Valorisation Pastorale et Agricole du Mutara (OVAPAM) war to be
responsible for implementing the project.
2.    By the end of phase I (1979), the major project achievements included:
for the "payeannat," 7,898 farms covering 30,000 ha, 760 km of feeder roads
and 409 km of anti-erosion lines; and for the livestock component: E4
ranches, enclosed with hedgeo and covering 27,943 ha, with 992 families and
23,972 heads of cattle, and served by 294 km of feeder roads.
3.    In spite of such achievementr, the first phase encountered great
difficulties caused by: (L) a lack of qualified personneli (ii) creeping
inflation which led to reduced quantitative objectives, shortened project
duration, and postponement of a water supply components and (iii) rapid
influx of squatters into the area, which induced the need to give priority to
the demarcation and allocation of farm plots, at the expense of other
development tasks.
B. MUTARA II: ORJECTIVES
4.   The second phase of the project aimed at:  (i) strengthening the
achievements of phase I and preserving the production potential of the area
through erosion control and soil fertility improvement, and (ii) increasing
incomes of farmers and herders by raising the productivity of pastures and
animals, improving animal health, and introducing modern methods of
production and management to farmers and herders. The other project
objectives were to strengthen training and extension, carry out marketing
studies, set up a market information system, and buy animals in order to
encourage destocking. Finally, the project was to develop a water supply
system to serve the project area.
S.    In the "paysannat," the envisaged technical improvements were to fit
the existing farming systems and mest farmors, noedsu in particular, they
were to include the productlon of compost or farm manure, and the
lntroduction of green manurel the active promotion of stall-feeding of small
stock and cattle, with a view to increasing manure productioni the
introductLon of new varieties and now cropsi and a reforestation program.
The area covered by the "payeannat" was planned to be extended by 10,000 ha
to 34,700 ha.



11
6.    The total area allocated for the ranches amounted to 27,850 ha.  In
order to preserve the production potential of grazing land and of animals, as
well as to increase herders, income, the project had to observe the following
conditions:
-     forbid access to the ranches of any new herd;
-     redistribute existing herds according to the carrying capacity of
the various zones;
-     eliminate 2,500 head of unproductive cattle and young males to
limit current overstocking;
-     embark on a massive grazing land improvement program by weed
eradication and reseeding of the most degraded parts, to cover
ultimately some 7,000 hal
-     set aside 3,000 ha of marshlands for grazing.
In addition, the project was to complete veterinary infrastructure, organize
weekly dippings for all cattle, and carry out a strict program to control
trypanosomiasis.
7.    As a result of the project, it was expected that the annual extraction
rate would increase from 10 to 17%, the culling rate from 8 to 13-14%, the
calving rate from 60 to 62%, while the mortality rates would be reduced from
25 to 16% for calves, and from 6 to 5% for adults. Pastures would be
rotated, and each ranch would include 10 ha of forage crops. The breeding
ranch set up under phase I would be upgraded into a Technical Support Center
the role of which would be to: (i) multiply fodder crops; (ii) produce
improved sires and dams for distribution to farmers and possibly to herders;
(iii) serve as a transit center with a view to encouraging animal sales; and
(iv) to introduce artificial insemination.
8.    A mid-term review carried out in late 1981 resulted in Lhe addition of
the following new components:
-     resettlement of 3,800 families in the "payeannatr";
-     an agricultural credit program to allow farmers to buy pregnant
cows for stall-feeding;
-     the setting-up of an additional 8 ranches in the cyonyo zone
released from the game reserve;
-     construction of a slaughterhouse at Nyagatare to encourage
destocking; and of a pilot milk processing unit at Rukomo.
The review mission also modified some of the initial objectives of the
project, particularly with regard to destocking, which is no longer
considered a priority, since pastures have significantly improved through
weed and acacia eradication.
C. ACHIEVEMENTS
9.    The IDA Credit was extended until December 1986 so as to allow
.          completion of the water supply system; however, all other components were
completed by end 1984, and the project has been continued since solely from
its own resources and government budget. The following relates to
achievements reported in 1985.
C.1  PavsanIat
10.   Farmers' resettlement has met the targeted objectives:  4,170 new
families have been settled, i.e. a total of 12,068 families for an overall
area of 33,900 ha. Over 4,300 km of anti-erosion lines of Setaria or
Trypsacum have been planted, sometimes in association with Leucaena,
Cedrella, Cassia, or other tree species.



12
11.   A total of 16,970 compost pits of heaps were prepared, but few have
ever been used. Adoption of organic matter utilization is only common with
farmers who have cattle. Others fallow their land regularly, and apply straw
mulch to their banana plantations. Green manure has never been adopted.
However, stall feeding is progressing very satisfactorily: by the end of
1985, 580 farms owned cattle, including 279 who benefitted from the credit
program, and 551 produce farm manuret 333 farms have over 0.1 ha of fodder
crops. The number of applicants for credit has increased every year.
12.   With regard to improvement of cultural techniques, few results have
been achieved; mechanization tests with draught power of tractors have been
discontinued, new crops introduced by the project have not performed well,
and new varieties had limited success. The project withdrew from all
commercial activities, which were taken over by public corporations or
private operators, as envisaged; however, no attempt has been made to develop
market information.
13.   Reforestation covered a total of 1,831 ha, including 1,310 ha in blocks
of individual woodlots, the rest being under collective, communal or State
ownership; over 80% of this is eucalyptus. This activity has been most
appreciated by beneficiaries, and the first plantations are already being
exploited.
14.   The agricultural gross product per family in the Paysannat was
estimated at about FRw 158,000 in 1985 (crops only). In volume, the
Paysannat production increased by 74% from 1979 to 1984, and per capita
production by about 25%. Major increases concerned beans, groundnuts,
sorghum, cassava and bananas, while soybeans (marketing difficulties) and
peas (ill-suited for the area) were reduced.
C.2. Collective Ranches
15.   The settlement of herders, started during phase I, was completed in
1984. From 1979 to 1984, the number of herder families increased from 992 to
1,803 (the mid-term review target was 1,300), and the number of ranches from
64 to 77. The project has clearly succeeded in modifying the deeply-rooted
nomadic traditions of herders, who have adopted a settled village life. This
has been made possible through: (i) careful selection of beneficiaries by a
special Committee, which was headed by Byumba Prefect and included as members
the Director of OVAPAM, the project manager, and the mayors of the communes
concerned; and the establishment of a contract between OVAPAM and each
individual herder, stating his rights and obligations; and (ii) careful
distribution of ranches according to carrying capacity, water availability,
and social affinities between families. The allocation of 1.5 ha of arable
land for each family did reduce the amount of land available for grazing, but
has allowed many of them to become self-sufficient in food crops, and
contributed to creating a farming spirit, which is reflected by steady
investments in housing improvements.
16.   It must be noted, however, that water supply has not reached all
villages, and that some of the conditions in the settlement contract have not
always been met, particularly the minimum herd size (15 head), and the
maximum share of grazing rights which should not exceed 45% of the total
ranch for any individual herder. Moreover, pastures have been seriously
degraded during the latter part of project implementation, and their
condition has continued to worsen since.
17.   Herders in the Mutara are still practicing an extensive production
system, based on the utilization of hill pastures during the rainy season,
and that of marshlands during the dry season. Ranges are invaded by
Cymbopogon and Imperata grasses, and by Acacia trees. Cymbopogon, which is
little grazed, accounts for up to 90% of the grass cover in some of the
ranches. During the dry season, hill ranges have little to offer, and cattle
may lose 20 to 30% of their weight. This situation is due to overstocking,
failure to control weeds and acacias, and to rotate pastures.



13
18.   Cymbopogon eradication war efficiently carried out by the project from
1980 to 1982, but herders did not take over. By the end of phase II, this
grass covered 60 to 80% of 14,000 ha of ranches, and 30 to 60% of 6,700 ha.
Acacia trees were also cut over 9,700 ha by the-project from 1980 to 1982,
particularly with a view to eliminating toe-toe flies. The trees, which were
cut at one meter above ground, grew much thicker thereafter since there was
no follow-up maintenance, and have choked large expanses of land which are no
longer accessible to men or cattle. Complete tree uprooting is now
envisaged. Reseeding of degraded pastures with Chloris gayana has never been
carried out, except on a trial basis, and pasture rotation, which had started
in some of the ranches, has not been continued.
19.   While the project envisaged maintaining the herd at about 20,000 head,
the total number increased to 42,185 head by December 1985, because of new
inflows of refugees from Uganda. efficient health care which resulted in
increased ht c-tt t at.:t   r- - U r d mtortality, and due to a significant
reduction in commercial activities by OVAPAM after the termination of a
contract for meat sales with OPROVIA, the meat marketing parastatal. Herd
composition has markedly improved i.e. with, per 100 cows, 55.7 calves in
1985 as against 37.6 i 1979.
20.   Veterinary services have provided systematic protection against
trypanosomiasis, black quarter and, in 1985, against rinderpest; control of
worms is practiced by few herders, but 60% regularly dip their animals. All
treatments are provided against payment. In addition, veterinary staff are
also responsible for extension of improved herd and pasture management; they
have been fairly successful with fire control, dipping and tagging of
animals, but much less with pasture rotation or manuring, early culling or
cultivation of fodder crops.
21.   The Technical Support Center covers 1,925 ha, including a breeding
ranch with 598 head (550 ha), and a transit center (1,375). The Center
produces planting material for fodder crops, of which 22 ha have been planted
in collective ranches. In 1985, the breeding herd included 99 Sahiwal x
Ankole and 86 Ankole dams, and the center distributed 41 animals to farmers,
which is far below the demand. Artificial insemination could not start for
lack of liquid nitrogen. The Center sold up to 5,172 head of cattle annually
before 1984, which was insufficient for destocking, but barely above 1,100
head in 1985, when private operators were given more leeway. The
productivity of the herd in the center is higher than in collective ranches,
except as regards milk production, but while SxA crosebreeds gain weight
faster than pure breeds, they lose more weight during the dry season. There
is as yet no clear breeding policy, and no clear superiority of improved
breeds in the present conditions, except for stall-feeding in paysannat
farms.
22.   The pilot milk plant processed daily 1,950 liters in 1985, collected
from 1,803 families in 59 ranches, and was profitable.  The volume handled
has been reduced since, because of marketing difficulties.  Since the
contract with OPROVIA was terminated in 1984, the slaughterhouse works only
for local needs (126 head in 1984), and represents a heavy burden for OVAPAM.
23.   The net income of an average herder with 23 head of cattle was
estimated at about FRw 120,000 in 1985. Of this, 43% was provided by milk,
30% by meat, and 27% by food crops.
24.   In summary, the project achievements are quite sizeable and include:
the successful settlement of farmers and herders, the provision of social
infrastructure, particularly schools and a hospital, of roads and of water
supply, the improvement of animal health, and a better organized extension
system.  Much remains to be done, however, to inprove the efficiency of
extension, to further promote integrated crop-livestock farming and agro-
forestry, to rehabilitate degraded pastures, and to encourage destocking by
improving market opportunities. Further investments are still needed to
complete the water supply network, which does not reach all sectors at



14
present. Finally, while a number of new projects are now actively developing
other parts of the Mutara region, particularly the marshes which provided a
crucial supplomentary source of food for cattle during the dry season, OVAPAM
has not succeeded in fulfilling the role of overall planning and coordination
which was envisaged at appraisal.



15
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
MUTARA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(CREDIT 937-RWA)
PART IIIt STATISTICAL DATA
Table 1: AgEicultureRelated IDA Credits
ADDroval           b~~~mount I/             PurDose                    Appoval              Stts       Commenu
1. Mutara 1               3.8                   Area Development               1973               Completed  PCR avail-
(Cr. 0439-RW)                                                                                     in 1979    able
2. Cinchona                1.8                  Perennial Crops                1976               Completed  PCR avail-
(Cr. 0656-RW)                                                                                     in 1983     able
3. BGM I                  14.0                  Area Devdopment                1976               Completed  PCR avail-
(Cr. 0668-RW)                                                                                     in 1982     able
4. GBK (Agro-             21.0                  Foreary/Liveadck               1910               Completd  PCR avail-
Sylvo l)                                                                                       in 1987     able
(Cr. 1039-RW)
5. PCCV                   11.8                  Area Development               1981               Completed  PCR pending
(Cr. 1126-RW)                                                                                     in 1988
6. BGM DI                 15.0                  Area Development               1982               In progress
(Cr. 1283-RW)
7. Agricultural           11.5                  Researeb                       1985               In progress
Reserh
(Cr. 1546.RW)
8. Gitarama               12.7                  Ftion and                      1986               In progress
(Cr. 1669-RW)                                   related services
9. Agro-Sylvo 11          14.1                  ForettyLivestock               1987               In progress
(Cr. 1811-RW)
10. Agri-services         19.9                  Extension and                  1989               In progress
(Cr. 2026-RW)                                   related services
I/ Amounu are expreused in millions of US dollars.



16
Table 2: Proiect Timetab
12ateDa
Planne                   Revise:                    Plttnned
mm                                (Month/YA                 (Mpnth,/Year)              (MonSh/YIr
Identification it                                                                       oon7
Preparation 2I                                                                          05/78
Appraisa                                                                                05/8
Post-appraisal                                                                          12/78
Nagociations                        06/79                                               05/79
Board approval                      06/79                                               06n9
Effectiveness                       10179                     01/80                    05/80
Completion 3/                       06/83                     06/85                     06/86
Credit closing                      12/83                     12/85                     12/86
1/ Identification was carried out during supervisions of Phase 1.
-I Preparation was carried out from April 1977 to May 1978 by IFAGRARIA.
3/ All projoet components except water supply, technical assistance and agricultural credit fund were completed on schedule by
June 3983.



17
Table 3: Planned and Acual Cumlulative Disbursements
(la milg
SAR Estimai                      Aln
Year            Qgarr           I                               MA              IF
1980             2             0.10                             0.22
3             0.25            0.10            0.82
4             0.40            0.10             1.22
1981             1             0.60            0.40             1.66
2             0.90            0.60             2.22
3              1.30           0.90             2.43
4              1.80            1.20            2.56
1982             1             2.30             1.40            2.91
2             2.90             1.65            3.29            0.223
3             3.60                             3.53            0.476
4             4.30                             3.91            0.564
1983             I             5.00                             4.32            0.904
2             5.70                            4.57             1.171
3             6.50                             5.13            1.238
4             7.20                             5.24            1.2S0
1984             1             7.90                             5.41
2             8.75                            5.46
3                                             5.48
4                                             5.50
1985             I                                              5.79
2                                              5.89
3                                             6.10
4                                             6.63
1986             1                                              7.68
2                                             8.06
3                                             8.35
4                                              8.57
1987             1                                              8.75



18
Table 4:
maii          reProect                                          Revul R 9
a1979m                                                             (1244)
- Sealnent 6snUbg               nb                8,400                      1,400                   12.000           11,9S3
. Ana alloe I/                 ha                23,400                    30,000                   33.900           33,900
Ajti-eoslon liMs                 km,                                          5,600                                     4,014
Compost productiOn
(pi"uaund hewp)                  ab                                          9500                                      27,5?3
Night stailnp
(including sheep/gots)          nb                                            270
Pomaent milings                  nb                                            420
Troe nursing production          low ta,                                       S30
H. gBOUP RANCHES
Scttament
Fumilics                                            950                       960                                       1,660y
. Aru allocated                 ha                27,350                    27,850                   34,120            34,120
Total catle                      heand             19,000                    20,500                  (26.000) 3/        45,750
Rango Rageneation
- Cymbopogon
eradication I/                  ba                                         53,800                      -               36,560
- Acaci eradlcation              ha                                           1.750                     -               14,826
- Reseeding It                   ha                                            3SO                                          10
Dipping (ab per monh
and per had)                                                                4                                          3.2
Annual ofttak. rat                5                   10.5                      17                                          13.S
1/   Three adminisaive sors fom  Nguam  commune wee addbd In 1979, nd 1,50 ha from the hundng rsrve in 1980.
21   Additona settlement sulted from an inc     in the amea llocted to the Group Ranches sub-Projeet
I/  In fac, no xplicit targt wu mentioned.
4/   Total of 3 annuai uprootingp.
At   Discontnued since tras w    not succesfu.



19
Table Sa: Prgiect csts andt financing
Edimato                           Uni~
IDA Contribution
1. Civil works &
infrastructure                           432             820.86            1.90
2. Equipment & 'ehicules                    89             988.94            1.10
3. Staff sahries &
operating costs                          2083           2127.40            1.02
4. Agric. credit                            117             47.93            0.41
S. Watr supply                             2299            3217.54           1.40
6. T.. hnical services &
training                                 ISII            988.22           0.65
7. Technicai assitnce                       910            378.27            0.42
8. Pre-investment study                     500             180.85           0.36
Total IDA Contribution                     8750            8750.00           1.00
EEC Contribution (item 1)                   1650           1650.00           1.00
Government Contribution                     950            2374.01 ZJ        2.50
Tota CostJFancing                          11350          12774.01           1.13
Jl  For a meaningful comparison betwen actual and eetimated figures, the unallocated amount of UrS 1.18 shown in
the SAR bas baen here reditributed betwn etgories I to 6 proportioely to their initil amounts.
a/ Actual government contribuidon (esimaed from the rapport d'bbvm t) rr  from 1980 to 1985, instead of
1980- 1983 (appraiul). However, the main reason for thoe lr  dicrepac is in Lie cost overrun in conetuctions,
which was not digible for IDA refunding (see pa. 25).



20
Table Sb: Project u4ts and Financing
ExEganee Rae ad Price ContiRgencies
US$ to ER             Exchange Cost              Costs I1/
1w            SAR est.   act             em   aai                simat  acu
............... .(Annual increase in %).
1980          91.91     92.84            6.0     9.7               10.0   7.3
1981          91.91     92.84            6.0     0.5               10.0   6.5
1982          91.91     92.84            6.0    -1.4               10.0   12.6
1983          91.91     94.36            6.0    -2.6               10.0   6.6
1984          91.91     100.18                  -1.7                      5.4
1985          91.91     101.26                   1.1                      1.7
1/ Actual local costs increase is not readily available. It has been equated with General
Consumer Price Increase.



Dfocur      MIC'IRUFfGHE c,IcV?y
The Wor:         Rseport No:. /9b^j-9dw   Typ (e CR)
JIAMV.13, E. / X317'h6 / T *90;'!  IE:l]1
FOR OFFICIAl
Report No. 9829
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
MUTARA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(CREDIT 937-RWA)
AUGUST 30, 1991
Agricultural Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restkited distbuion and may be used by recpents only In the perfonance of
thdir oficflu duties. Its content may not othewise be dislosed wihot Wodd Bank authozation.



22
Table 6b: Cashflow for the Economic Rate of Return
(Constant 1985 FRw)
igX              ~~Investment Cost 1/                       Invcstment Net Bend it
(Milion FRw)                               (Million FRwlo
Pcvrunna& a' Bmbasu _'
1980                        22S.6                                  -11.6         0
1981                        196.4                                  -26.9         5.0
1982                        265.6                                  -33.1        17.6
1983                        126.2                                   0.4         21.0
1984                        138.9                                   45.5        30.3
1985                         29.6                                   83.0        37.3
1986                         32.7                                  103.3        39.4
1987                         34.5                                  111.9        42.2
1988                         57.5                                  119.1        43.0
1999                         57.5                                  117.8        45.8
I/ Includes IDA Credit and Government contributions minus 0 -st of water supply and social infrasructurand equipment
(school and hospita).
a/  Incremental production accruing from the 210r new  lern instL%d during Phan U and from the 'fermettes (a total of 600
ferme    has been assumed). For the new setten, the without project siuation assumes a minimum sbisec producton levd in
yea 1. Without manure, yields decline by I% annualy in the setloment aru end in tho aeas where setlers camo from.
3r It is assume that total herd niize has not been affected by the project and will decline to 35,000, through destocidag or
incraed mortaity. Incnmental producton is accruing through higher had productivity (paur improvement, destockingof
unproductive aniauds, etc...).



---NDA                                                      30             \To Mborara a Kampala
o                   ~RWANDA                                                                                                                        \
MUTARA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK                                                !                                      -kuo ---
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE 11
LOCATION OF THE PROJECT AREA
Rutshuru                                                                       .     P Ir
....... KAGERA NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY                                                                                                                                       T  A  N  Z A  N  I A
MAIN ROADS                                      REPUBLIC           O\agolfre
'J,Z7Jo  RIVERS AND LAKES                                     ZAIRE                                                                                 gota
-*  _   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                   ,
in,. w1    0 w  &.   WW    bO*. v., ..o'ty lb, 'A* 000.o..,0,
Ruhengeri
04ffi-tO*8"$h ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    'I 4f, o  ipto~Sl*~ t   b*}                                       )<>  uhondi                                          r                             5 } 
bo.o,d.0*0 0*000,00110* /,~ 00 001 fo04,. on 110m 00 Wd /01 0,K A G E R A
;  Fs   \ %<      _     t        ffi        <     J       X      S~~~~~~~~~~~~~yum buX0, a                 N A T I 0:N A L      g     t
anr/odomol -, .. (flat 0*01.0 09 a "'im tantWyOtAlflodOnao , o
I Mema Z
,,<_ \to t f- < t i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rugwe'o  R 
RWANDA                                             <               BtDS_                                 BURUNDI                         /
'~~~  Buqaromafram                                                                                                                                              0
};9 \  ;i       \         /    )    >                  K                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERIS
RE PU B LIC  Of 9tt   
ZAIRE                                                                                                                                          ___S_U_R_U_N_D_I______________-____m
29  S\,VN  j|   i   30                         mML
290  ~  ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      A.                               300usub  L. yhoh



RWANDA-                                                           UGANDA
Mutara Agricultural & Livestock Development Project, Phase                                                                             ,-
Projet de Developpement Agropostoral au Mutora, Phase I[f
Project boundaries                          C IDA financed rnarshland development project                                                                     Z
Perimetre du projet                         Projet d'amenagement des morais finance par lICDI                   lN \PAYA RNT
-_______  Phase I - Project boundary                    Main road                                                                                                        >
Perimetre du projet - Phase I               Route Nationale
____  Sector boundaries                                Other roads
Perirntre des secteurs                       Routes secondaires
Paysannat sub-project                  A      Hill
Sous-projet Paysonnot                       Collisne
rfl  N Group ranch sub-project                           Rivers                                                           c o r
t          ;I Sous-projet ranches collectifs            Rivieres                         ,
r-          Project extension area                 I_ nternalional boundaries
A Zone d'extension du projet                    Frontieres internationoles                                  GROUP
/# X.  .     J tRANCHES                       \          
MILES    _   __ 2   3      4       5we#po
KILOMETERS t   *               , , , ,7                                                                ri1  
q~~~~~ I'  2' : '  4a   5T   6   7r   a 8/                                                   
GROUP(' RANCHES
j;===S J  teMy?asfar    1    tJ ROUP 
jD/          >&                     {  X  R~~~~~ANCHES 
r  \ ttSfoagssfe Sector                  X~~~- Nyagc8rf 
CYANZOZ HpuLA             AJ              , 
UGANDA (,
.   . y    $f7crngo   Sectcr                                          ,             ,  
,_    '  /    Sho,pngo       5  c t        
!    /                      Sector          , /acsro0|                                                                                           A 
! ./ n < t/ ~~~~~~Nor+J?r-rr
\s'    .         .AL.f.'       '.                                          t~~~~CHICA
.               ~~~~Ceriralsc$o                  K.iv    9                   s 
#/ /~~-    Sout,hern  Sector z v   
- V  +    ,                X rQ                         HUNTING R~~~~~~~~ENTERV
. \   ,  W  A              W. _                                                                                        fi UGANDAo PA R 
EXTENuSl?QN AREA   \              S                                                                              AR                i*/'1aANZANlA
/  ~Approx 10,000 iho) .-'/-a                                  rood
(~~~~                      ~    ~       ~ . - )   '-,  ,;YS  NS> NA7W       D
I)'                                                                                      ~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~roKaynz o-d   >OKiga li  
_i ) \\ ,/' | I~~~~~~~~~~~~This m=p hes bee prpae by th Worldr Bak staMff exclusvl for th conven .' ence 
-      ?                    of the readers of the report to arh;n it s atrached The denommeatons used snd the  IX    i'          +        
} \ iY t bound6r/es shown on this map  do not  impfv,  on tho part of ths World Reek end its    ?  Ngr
,)affiliates, any jud9ment on the legal status of a eny trritory or any  cndorsement otr
acceptance of such boundenes                                                   4UN                             r
, To GObiro                                                           20 3,0



