Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2221-RW
RWANDA
MUTARA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 25, 1979
Eastern Africa Region
Central Agricultural Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current Unit    =      Franc Rwandais
US$1.00          =     RF 91.91
RF 100           =     US$1.09
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                                              British/US Equivalents
l meter (m)                           -                3.3 feet
ilhectare (ha)                                         2.47  acres
1 are                                                  100 m  = 0.02 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2                               0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )                               0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)                                        2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                                            0.26 US gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (lmp gal)
1 metrie ton (m ton)                                   2,204 pounds (lb)
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
AIDR       Association Internationale de Developpement Rural
(International Association for Rural Development)
BGM     -  Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo Project
ISAR    -  Institut des Sciences Agronom:iques du Rwanda
(Agricultural Research Institute of Rwanda)
OBM     - Office du Bugesera et Mayaga
(Agency for Bugesera and Mayaga)
OCIR    -  Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda
(Agency for Industrial Crops of Rwanda)
OPROVIA -  Office National pour le Developpement et la Commercialisation
des Produits Vivriers et des 'Productions Animales
(National Agency for Development and Marketing of Foodcrops
and Animal Products)
OVAPAM  -  Office pour la Valorisation Pastorale et Agricole du Mutara
(Agency for Agricultural and Livestock Development of Mutara)
SSS     -  Service des Semences Selectionnees
(Selected Seed Service)
UN/HCR  -  United Nations - High Commission for Refugees
CIDA    -  Canadian International Development Agency



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
APPRAISAL OF THE MUTARA AGRICULTUFAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASE II
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND  .....................................................                         1
A.   Project Background  . ........             ...........................               1
B.  The Agricultural Sector  ....................................                         2
C.   Crop and Livestock Marketing and Processing ..                      ..............   5
D. Institutions Responsible for Agricultural and Livestock
Development  .......          ............................                        6
E.   Agricultural Credit  ... ........... ............. a ..               .......        8
F. Government Strategy and Plans for agricultural and Rural
Development  .......          ............................                        8
II. THE PROJECT AREA ...........................                                                9
A.  Location and Physical Resources .....               .............                     9
B.   Government Services  ......         ..............         ....................    10
C.   Sociological Aspects  ......................................                       il
D.   Agricultural Development Project  - Phase I (Credit  439-RW)  .    13
E.   Marshland Development Project-    ............... ...............    18
III.  THE PROJECT  .................................................    19
A.   Project Concept  .............................................    19
B.   General Description  .........................................    20
C.   Detailed Features  ...........................................    21
D.  Project Costs  ...............................................    27
E.   Financing .................................................    28
F.   Procurement  ................................................    29
G.   Disbursement  ...............................................    30
H.   Accounts and Audit  .........................................    31
I.   Environmental Impact             .......................................    31
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                ....................................    32
A.   Project Organization and Management  ......                   ..................    32
B.   Project Implementation Schedule  .......                 .....................    38
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation               ..........................  .......    38
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Rwanda
in April-May 1978, composed of D. Lallement, H. Marticou, D. Coyaud (IDA),
R. Lemarchand and J. Le Hasif (consultants). H. Sanger (RMEA) and
R. Randriamandranto (IDA Washington) also participated in the appraisal.
D. Lallement held post-appraisal discussions in Kigali in December, 1978
with participation of C. Blanchi and H. Sanger (RMEA).
This documnent has a restricted distribution and rmay be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dulies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION .......................................   39
A.  Technical Features ........................................   39
B.  Producer Benefits .........................................   42
C.  Production Estimates ......................................   43
VI. GOVERNMENT BENEFITS .....................          ......................   43
VII. MARKETS AND PRICES         ......................  ......................   44
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ........... ..           ..............   44
IX. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED ON CREDIT CONDITIONS ......  48
Schedule 1 - Proposed Staffing for the Project ........ ........   52
SUPPORTING TABLES AND CHARTS
Table 1 - Total Costs - Phase I Project ........................   53
Table 2 - Summary of Annual Project Costs - Phase II Project ...   54
Table 3 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ....            .............   55
Table 4 - Economic Analysis ...................................   56
Table 5 - Impact on Government Budget .........................   57
Chart 1 - Project Organizational Structure ....................   58
Chart 2 - Project Implementation Schedule .....................   59
Material available in Implementation Volume ...................   60
MAPS
1. Rwanda Country Map - Location of Project Area IBRD 13865
2. Project Area - IBRD 13866



RWANDA
MUTARA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      IDA has been involved in the Mutara Region since 1974 when the first
Mutara Agricultural Development Proje,-t was initiated. Due to several imple-
mentation difficulties including cost overruns, IDA agreed with Government
to reduce the scope of the project. Following an in-depth Review mission
which visited Rwanda in late 1975, it was agreed in principle that the project
would in future be considered a Phase I project to be followed by a Phase II
project. Government requested that ID)A consider financing for the Phase II
Project in March 1978. The Project proposal was prepared for Government by
IFAGRARIA, the consulting firm which provided technical assistance for the
implementation of the Phase I project, with assistance from RMEA. The pre-
paration report was reviewed by a tripartite Government Committee, including
representatives from the Ministries oai Finance, Planning, and Agriculture.
1.02      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
which visited Rwanda in May 1978. The mission was composed of D. Lallement,
H. Marticou, D. Coyaud (IDA-Washingtorn), and J. LeHasif, R. Lemarchand (con-
sultants). H. Sanger (RMEA) and R. RaLndriamandranto (IDA-Washington) also par-
ticipated in the appraisal. D. Lallement held post-appraisal discussions with
Government in Kigali in December 1978, with the participation of C. Blanchi
and H. Sanger (RMEA).
1.03      The principal modifications to the preparation report agreed upon
during the appraisal were: (a) the reduction of the Project period from five
to four years to allow for the experimental nature of the Project; (b) the
extension of the Project area by three new administrative sectors, in order
to provide extension services to all farmers of a same Commune; (c) the
attribution of the implementation responsibility to a Project Unit within
the Ministry of Agriculture as the Office pour la Valorisation Pastorale et
Agricole du Mutara (OVAPAM), a parastatal company established for the imple-
mentation of the Phase I project, could not be self-financing as required by
the law on parastatal companies; (d) a substantial reduction in the scope of
the Project to put more emphasis on the development of extension services
rather than additional infrastructures; and (e) a substantial reduction in
Project cost. During the post-appraisal discussions, the Government informed
IDA of their decision to maintain OVAPAM even though it could not be self-
financing; they proposed to amend the Arrete Presidentiel establishing OVAPAM
accordingly.
1.04      To date, the Bank Group has financed three agricultural development
projects: the Mutara Agricultural Development Project - Phase I (Credit



439-RW) which received an IDA Credit of US$3.8 million; The Cinchona Project
(Credit 656-RW) which received an IDA Credit of US$1.8 million; and the
Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo Project (Credit 668-RW) for an IDA Credit of
US$14.0 million. The Mutara-Phase I Project is reviewed in Chapter II(D).
Implementation of the two other projects is proceeding satisfactorily.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.05      Rwanda is one of the smallest countries in Africa (26,340 km ) but
one of the most densely populated, and one of the poorest.  It is completely
landlocked, being bordered by Uganda in the North, Tanzania in the East,
Burundi in the South, and Zaire in the West. Its topography is characterized
by rolling hills with intensively cultivated slopes, and marshy valley floors.
Its equatorial climate is moderated by altitude; the temperature only varies
between 15 and 250 C.  Rwanda today faces a critical problem of land degrada-
tion despite the natural fertility of most of its soils. Excessive clearance of
forest has led to large scale erosion and overutilization is rapidly exhausting
the land. This trend is accelerated daily by the growing population's demands.
Unsuitable marginal lands are cropped and erosion increases while soil fertil-
ity declines. The shortage of land serves to aggravate this situation to the
point where the rate of degradation approaches an exponential rate. Other
natural resources are limited. Rwanda's population was estimated at 4.2
million in 1976, and is growing at2an estimated rate of 2.8% annualiy.  There
were on average 160 inhabitants/km in 1976, and 350 inhabitants/km of
arable land, pastu5e land included. Population densities vary wideiy, between
372 inhabitants/km in the most fertile areas to 109 inhabitants/km in the
savannah areas which are more hostile to settlement because of tse-tse in-
festation. Rwanda's GNP at 1976 market prices was estimated at US$480 million
in 1976, or US$110 per capita. 1976 estimates show the absolute poverty level
for the rural population to be US$70 per capita per annum and US$130 per
capita per annum for the urban population. About 60% of the rural population
are below these levels.
1.06      Agriculture is Rwanda's most important single resource.  In 1976 it
contributed about 80% of GNP, accounted for more than 99% of its expo5t
earnings, and supported over 95% of its people. About 70% (17,760 km ) of
Rwanda's land area is theoretically suitable for agriculture, the remainder
being covered by lakes, ri ers and forests.  Discounting degraded or rocky
areas, only 54% (13,809 km ) of the total area is available for agriculture,
of2which 58% (8,000 km ) is suitable for cultivation; the remaining 42% (5,800
km ) is natural pasture. In 1976, the area under cultivation was given over
95% to subsistence crops and 5% to commercial crops; it includes about 1,000
km of marginal lands. Total foodcrop production falls short of the country's
basic requirements. To make up its chronic deficit, Rwanda spends about 30%
of its agricultural exports revenues on foodcrop imports.



-3-
Crops
1.07      Foodcrops.  Bananas, sorghun, beans, peas, sweet potatoes, maize,
groundnuts and manioc are the principal foodcrops. Banana production is in-
creasing because beer is an important source of cash income, and plays an
important role in social activities. Diversification efforts are now underway
to promote some planting of alternative crops such as wheat, rice, sugar ca-ne,
and soya. Wheat production is increasing. Rice production reached about
2,600 tons in 1976, thanks to several marshland reclamation projects. There
is little reliable data on food crop ields, but what is available indicates
considerable scope for improvement. Generally, yields achieved at research
stations are double or triple the national average, and yields at the
paysannats (para 1.10) have also been most encouraging.
1.08      Commercial Crops.  Coffee, l:ea, pyrethrum, and cinchona are Rwanda's
main commercial crops. Coffee is by far Rwanda's most important export crop,
accounting for well over 50% of all exports and generating about 20% of all
Government revenues. In 1976, coffee production reached 27,000 tons. Almost
all coffee is of the Arabica type, and is exported. Tea production has ex-
panded rapidly in Rwanda and reached 4,976 tons in 1976. Pyrethrum produc-
tion declined in 1976 with only 3,032 ha under cultivation compared to 4,210
ha in 1975; farmers were apparently diLscouraged by delays in payments for the
crops. The production of dried flowers reached 1,753 tons in the latter year.
Farming and Production Systems
1.09      Most of the land in Rwanda is traditionally farmed on a family
basis. Before the demographic explosion, production was guaranteed by clear-
ing new plots of land each year. These plots would be cultivated for a few
years under multiple intercropping then abandoned when fertility dropped below
acceptable levels. Multiple intercropping presented several advantages: the
farmer was protected against climatic hazards as all plant behaviors are diver-
sified; the soil was protected against too much sunshine which dries it up
and raises its temperature, which in turn accelerates humus decomposition.
Moreover the soil mineral resources were optimally utilized by the various
crops under intercropping. Natural feallow permitted a satisfactory regenera-
tion of the soils. Certain forms of vegetation use the deepest soil strata
unused by cultivation and bring mineraLls back to the surface thereby regener-
ating the soils. Livestock was a totaLlly separate activity from cultivation.
This system is still largely practiced although it has been disrupted by
recent demographic growth, the introduction of commercial crops, and the
fact that crop cultivation is competing for land with livestock.
1.10      Since 1953, the Government has organized a number of settlement
schemes called Paysannats, in the less densely populated areas.  The objec-
tives of such schemes are to remedy the general shortage of land, and to
increase productivity by intensifying the delivery of technical and social
services (access roads, schools, dispensaries). Farmers enter into a con-
tract with the State represented by the Commune. Farmers have the usufruct
of a 2 ha cultivation plot, receive more intensive extension services, but
must conform to set agricultural practices. In 1976, an estimated 62,000
families had been settled in this manner. The Paysannat schemes appear to



have achieved increases in yields, production levels, and gross incomes for
participating farmers. They have also been active vehicles for the promotion
of new cash crops.
Livestock
1.11      Animal husbandry is an important activity in Rwanda.  According to
the 1976 census Rwanda had 630,000 cattle, 680,000 goats and 250,000 sheep.
Livestock development is beginning to play a new role in Rwanda, moving from
extensive to intensive patterns.
1.12      Cattle.  The herd has been declining since 1971 (1.5% p.a.), and
more rapidly so since 1975 (7.2% p.a.). This is probably due to a combination
of three factors: (a) substantial losses of herds to neighboring countries,
largely due to the reduction in available pastures; (b) the high mortality of
young animals resulting from the poor health situation; and (c) overexploita-
tion of herds, in consequence of the rising demand for meat. Cattle raising
in Rwanda is still organized along very traditional lines without distinction
between meat and milk herds. Most cattle holdings belong to farmers, and
comprise more than a dozen head. A few large herds (200-300 head) are left in
the pastoral zones, mostly in the hands of Hima and Tutsi herders. There are
no commercial ranches in Rwanda. Some herds on the ISAR (Karama and Rubona)
and AIDR (Rusumo) research stations produce top-quality animals. Two small
fattening ranches, one in Bugesera Est and one in the Gisaka/Migongo region,
will be developed as part of the Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo project, while a
military ranch is also to be developed in the north of Mutara.
1.13      Rwandese cattle are in general the result of the uncontrolled
crossing of two distinct strains: a small, short-horned Zebu and the red
Tutsi (Ankole) animals which are large, with long straight horns. Parasitism
and underfeeding make for poor breeding performance and low yields of meat
and milk, but the animals are hardy and respond well to remedial action.
The health situation is generally poor, and worst where there are concentra-
tions of tse-tse fly, mostly in the east of the country. East Coast Fever,
Bovine Trypanosomiasis and varieties of Helminthiasis do the most damage.
Rwanda has a fairly extensive network of dipping tanks and sprays but they
are greatly hampered by lack of resources. At the moment dipping is done
free of charge.
1.14      Goats and sheep are the other two major types of livestock.  The
flocks are small, and the animals are generally kept tethered. Pigs are not
numerous, about 70,000, almost all concentrated in the south. The Rwandese
pig is hardy, undemanding and well adapted to its environment. Poultry.
Chicken and eggs are still not popular and poultry-raising is limited but
there were 800,000 chickens in 1976 (increasing by 20% per year) which shows
some progress.



- 5 -
1.15      Meat Production.  Estimates for meat production appear to be little
more than guesswork. Livestock Service estimates of 1976 production were:
10,000 tons of beef (carcass) and 6,000 tons of goat meat and mutton collec-
tively.  However, the same Service issued figures of 38,160 cattle, 25,500
goats and 2,241 sheep for regulated slaughtering in the same year. Estimated
exports of 40-50,000 head of cattle and 25-30,000 head of sheep and goats -
collectively should also be treated with scepticism, and may include illegal
exports.
C. Crop and Livestock Marketing and Processing
Crops
1.16      Most of the subsistence crops are marketed in traditional markets
held periodically, where marketing is almost exclusively in the hands of
private traders. Marketable surpluses are sold by farmers on a strict cash
basis, generally immediately after the harvest; post harvest prices are
usually depressed, rising steeply just before the next harvest. Prices also
vary regionally. Commercial crops are marketed through private traders, and
public companies such as the National Coffee Board. Government is attempting
to develop better marketing channels to lessen seasonal price fluctuations
and develop the country's storage capacity both in surplus and deficit regions
(para 1.22).
Livestock and Meat
1.17      Live cattle are marketed on small rural markets, and on large markets
where the herds are made up for export (mainly to Zaire) or to supply the
major centers of consumption. Almost all live cattle transactions take place
on a cash basis. A "presentation" taxi of RF 30 per head on average and a
"transaction" tax of RF 150 to 250 per head are levied by the Communes. Sales
of breeding stock are very limited. Sheep and goats are bought and sold
at general weekly or monthly markets. Prices vary with markets and are
subject to seasonal fluctuations. Prices have risen very sharply in the last
four or five years, by 50 to 100% or more according to the type of animal.
1.18      Meat is marketed on both the traditional markets where the greatest
volume is in bone-in beef, and goat meat and on the high-grade meat market in
Kigali with a turnover of approximately 40-50 animals per month. Official
prices are, in theory, established by the Ministry of National Economy but
there is no effective enforcement systeem, and butchers can easily cheat on
weights. Slaughtering is mostly carried out in the rural areas at numerous
stations either totally lacking in equipment or with the most rudimentary
facilities; few are subject to health control. There are three abattoirs
(Kigali, Butare and Kibungo). The Kigali abattoir came into service about one
year ago, but is far from being operational.



- 6 -
D. Institutions Responsible for Agricultural and Livestock Development
1.19      Several institutions have responsibility for agricultural and
livestock production and development. The major institutions and their
respective responsibilities are as follows:
1.20      The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock is responsible for
policy direction and coordination in the agriculture and livestock sector.
The Ministry has a Secretariat and several operating departments. 1/ The
Secretariat includes the Studies and Projects Division, and three offices
(archives, budget management, and agrarian reform). The Agronomy Department
is divided into the Extension Department essentially concerned with all exten-
sion services and with plant protection, and the Forestry and Water Resources
Department. The Rural Engineering (Genie Rural) and Soil Conservation Depart-
ment develops marshland reclamation projects, and provides various other ser-
vices, mainly topographic. The Livestock Department manages the country's
Veterinary Services and is responsible for promoting animal production. The
Land Department supervises land registration and allocation. The Ministry
has recently taken responsibility for some projects, like the Office du
Bugesera et Mayaga (OBM), formerly established as parastatals and which were
left with inadequate management and institutional structures upon cessation
of foreign assistance. In addition, the Ministry is the umbrella organiza-
tion for several parastatal companies such as OCIR, (para 1.21), and OPROVIA,
(para 1.22). The Ministry has over 2,000 staff members, most of whom are
field extension workers (over 1,500) or veterinary field staff (about 400),
operating in all the Prefectures and Communes. In general, field extension
services are weak, as the staff is inadequately trained, poorly supervised and
the logistical support insufficient. The Ministry's operating and development
budgets amounted to RF 287 million and RF 1,291 million respectively in 1977,
representing 4.2 and 6.6% of the Government s operatiag and development
budgets.
1.21      The Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda (OCIR) is essen-
tially responsible for quality control, conditioning and marketing control
and promotion, of such exports as coffee, tea, pyrethrum, and cinchona. It
is fully responsible for tea production, including the management of tea
plantations, of production promotion among small farmers, and of processing
plants. OCIR does not market coffee but controls the one authorized exporter,
and producer prices. It operates a stabilization fund for coffee prices to
lessen the effects of international price fluctuations on the producer.
1.22      The Office National pour le Developpement et la Commercialisation
des Produits Vivriers et des Productions Animales (OPROVIA) was established in
1975 as a parastatal agency broadly responsible for the production, processing
1/   Department - Direction Generale.



and marketing of foodcrops and livestock. To date, it has mostly been active
in handling and selling food products imported with bilateral or international
grants. In the medium-term it should take over several on-going projects such
as: (i) GRENARWA, Greniers Agricoles du Rwanda, a USAID financed marketing
project, which is currently building silos in several prefectures to develop
the country's storage capacity of subsistence crops and lessen seasonal price
fluctuations; (ii) a Belgian aid projsect for the extension and rehabilitation
of the Kigali slaughterhouse plant; and (iii) fattening ranches in the Bugesera,
which are to be developed under the I])A/BADEA/FAC financed project. OPROVIA
is poorly staffed, and unless it soon receives proper technical assistance to
develop its managerial and marketing capability, it will continue to stagnate.
1.23      The Institut des Sciences Agironomiques du Rwanda (ISAR) is responsi-
ble for agricultural research. It is largely financed by Belgian aid, and
includes a large Belgian technical assistance staff. It operates several
research stations, and has carried out extensive research orn most crops grown
in several ecological zones in Rwanda. on tse-tse eradication, pasture improve-
ment, and livestock development.
1.24      Agricultural Training is mostly carried out by three educational
establishments: The Faculte d'Agronomie of Butare University is being devel-
oped with Canadian aid to train agricultural engineers; the first class grad-
uated in 1977. The School of Agriculture in Butare, largely supported with
French technical assistance, operates a four-year post secondary course and
trains agricultural technicians and veterinarians. The school at Kibuye
operates a two-year course, and trains lower level assistant agronomists.
There is no program to train lower level assistant veterinarians but the
training centre which is to be built under the Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo proj-
ect would start such a program. Overseas training programs remain the main
source of agricultural engineers and veterinarians.
1.25      Local Governument Institutionus have played a rather limited role
in agricultural and rural development in the past. However, since 1976, the
Government has established guidelines for them to take a greater share of
development responsibilities. The Commune is the smallest administrative unit
and groups a number of Collines (hills). It is divided into two or three
sectors and is headed by a Bourgmestre, appointed by the Minister of the
Interior. The Communal Council (Conseil Communal) which includes represen-
tatives of the population, is the main executive body; the Development Council
and the Technical Committee are bodies; in charge of executing and proposing
development projects. The Communal Action Fund is one of the sources of
financing for communal development projects; it is funded by a 10% contribu-
tion of the Communes' taxation income. The Umuganda whereby each adult
contributes one day of labor a week, is the main instrument for communal
development projects. The Prefecture is the second administrative unit,
(there are 10 Prefectures in Rwanda), and the largest ones are subdivided into
sub-prefectures. The Prefecture is headed by a Prefect, also appointed by the
Minister of the Interior. To date, little coordination has taken place
between the local and national institutions in programming and implementing
development projects.



- 8 -
E. Agricultural Credit
1.26      Institutional agricultural credit is not well developed in Rwanda.
The Development Bank of Rwanda, established in 1968, extends credit primarily
for smallholder tea, sugar, and other industries in the private sector. Other
commercial bank credit has been extended mainly to finance the coffee industry.
Interest rates by all banks vary between 7 and 10%. Informal credit is still
quite important in the rural areas; most commonly, livestock is lent to a
farmer so that he can get milk or start his own herd. These loans are usually
transacted within a complex structure of social links and obligations. Gov-
ernment is now actively considering the promotion of agricultural credit.
A comprehensive agricultural credit study is being carried out under the IDA
financed Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo project. The recommendations of the study
would be used to promote a nationwide systematic agricultural credit program.
F. Government Strategy and Plans for Agricultural and Rural Development
1.27      The Government of Rwanda has defined the broad objectives for
agricultural and rural development in the Second Five Year Plan. Four essen-
tial goals are identified for the five year period 1977-1981: (i) meeting
the population's nutritional requirements; (ii) promoting a better utiliza-
tion of human resources; (iii) improving individual and collective living
conditions; and (iv) improving Rwanda's standing vis-a-vis her foreign part-
ners. The Plan emphasizes the priority to be given to the agricultural sec-
tor, in particular to integrated rural development as one of the means of
agricultural growth. The Plan recognizes, however, that diversification is
necessary both within the sector to lessen reliance on a few crops, and with
other sectors to lessen reliance on agriculture for economic growth.
1.28      The specific objectives for agriculture for 1977-1978 are as follows.
The agricultural sector as a whole would grow at 5.0% p.a. as compared to
7.1% and 7.2% respectively for the secondary and tertiary sectors. Subsistence
crops would increase at 3.8% p.a. as compared to 12.7% for export/industrial
crops, 11.9% for animal products, and 37% for fish. Value added for new
traditional crops such as oilseeds (groundnuts, soybeans), potatoes, wheat,
rice and vegetables would grow at higher average rates than other subsistence
crops. Likewise for livestock products: beef and mutton would only grow at
3.6% p.a. as compared to 22.6% p.a. for pork, poultry, eggs, milk and fish.
Among export crops, value added for relatively new crops such as cinchona,
cotton and sisal, medicinal or essence plants, tobacco, etc., would grow at
higher rates than traditional crops such as coffee, tea and pyrethrum. Rural
income would increase by 4.2% p.a. For the 1977-81 period, the share of agri-
culture in the national development budget would average 8.5%, of which 89%
would be financed from external sources, both public (65%) and private (35%).



- 9 -
1.29      The Plan recognizes that these targets will be hard to achieve.  The
only chances of success would come from the combined efforts of the population.
The Communes should become the major catalyst for development, as they provide
a better framework for the people to work on improving their environment. The
Umuganda (para 1.25), should be actives in developing social services in local
communities. The development of cooperatives would also be emphasized, mainly
to encourage the production and markelting of agricultural inputs and produce.
The Plan also emphasizes the need to develop better technical services for
agriculture. The Communes would assume part of the training responsibilities
by developing centers where training would be given to selected farmers who
would then become promoters of techno:Logical improvements in their colline.
1.30      Because of the severe constraints on land, livestock and crop
development would focus on intensive production. Erosion control should
receive priority in order to preserve the country's production potential.
Because of the scarcity of foreign exchange, organic fertilizer and improved
seed varieties are two major inputs that could be used to maintain soil fer-
tility and increase productivity.  ThiLs would be achieved by integrating
livestock to agriculture, and by carrying out further research on higher
yielding varieties. Livestock productivity itself would be increased by
preserving existing pastures, expanding extension and veterinary services,
developing fodder production, and upgrading the genetic value of the herd.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location and Physical Resources
2.01      Location.  The Mutara region, located in the northeast of Rwanda, is
bordered by Uganda on the West, and Tanzania on the East (Map 13865). The
altitude averages 1400 to 1500 meters, and the rainfall varies between 700 and
1200 mm, making the region one of the driest in Rwanda.  The temperature ranges
from 12 to 33 C . The region is not an administrative unit and is not stricly
defined (para 2.07). Roughly it covers the three Communes of Muvumba, Ngarama,
and Gitaza in the Byumba Prefecture.  Before Independence, the Eastern half
of the Mutara was designated as a National Park covering 185,000 ha (55% of
the Mutara); in addition, some 40,000 ha in the south have been earmarked as a
hunting reserve. As a result, only 70,000-80,000 ha are left for development.
Since 1974, this remaining area has been the object of two major Government-
sponsored development projects: the IDA-financed Agricultural Development
Project, covering approximately 51,000 ha, and the CIDA-financed Marshland
Development Project, covering approximately 9,000 ha. Recently 5,000 ha in
the North have been set aside to be developed as a military ranch (Map 13866).



- 10 -
2.02      The proposed Agricultural and Livestock Development Project-Phase II
would cover the same area as the Phase I project, increased in the south by
three administrative sectors, Ngarama and Kigasha in the Ngarama Commune, and
Karama in the Muvumba Commune. The Project area would cover about 60,000 ha
total, including the whole Commune of Muvumba, and most of the Commune of
Ngarama, except for the mountainous zone covering the sectors of Gatsibo,
Gatinda, and Manishya; no topographical survey is available at present. The
Project area is bordered by Uganda on the West, the National Park on the East,
and the Hunting Reserve in the South east. The Kigali-Kagitumba road, a major
access road to Uganda, is the actual border between the Project and the Park.
The marshlands of the Kagitumba and Muvumba rivers on the perimeter are
excluded from the project as they are part of the CIDA-financed Marshland
Development Project (see Map 13866).
2.03      The Project area can be divided into two main zones:  (a) the roll-
ing savannahs north of the Muvumba river, and the steep cultivated hills to
the south. Because of its pastoral character, the northern area was selected
by the Phase I project to develop group ranches while the southern area, which
is more humid-and has better water resources, was selected to develop a
paysannat (paras 1.10 and 2.17). There are no urban centers in the Project
area. The closest town is Byumba, the center of the Prefecture south of the
Project area, but a number of small markets and trading centers are appearing.
Access to the Project area is via the Kigali-Kagitumba road, passable through-
out the year, and the Kigali-Byumba-Ngarama road, hardly passable during the
rainy season.
B. Government Services
Technical Services
2.04      The Communes, Prefectures and Sub-Prefectures are supposed to pro-
vide some technical services. They consist at present of road maintenance
(mostly done by hand), and agricultural and veterinary services (reaffor-
estation, distribution of improved seeds, development of the Prefectural
or Communal demonstration plots, the dipping and vaccination programs). In
fact, with the Phase I project, OVAPAM (para 2.17) has provided most agricul-
tural services in the Muvumba and Ngarama Communes while the communal agro-
nomists and veterinarians focussed on the communal sectors outside the project
area.
Social Services
2.05      They are limited to:  (a) two health centers, one at Rukumo and one
at Nyagahita, both in the Paysannat; neither functions properly for lack of
medicine, although each has a nurse/social worker; and (b) a few schools, in
various degrees of maintenance: two in the Paysannat, of which only one has
a complete cycle (Rukumo), and two in the Group Ranches, at Nyagatare and
Rwempasha. Buildings and equipment are rudimentary.



-. il -
2.06      Some Development Centers are now being built on the initiative of
the Byumba Prefect to provide the population with training sessions on such
subjects as health care, nutrition, and agricultural techniques. The objec-
tive is to have one per Commune. All the professional workers from the
Commune would contribute to the courses and seminars.
C. Sociological Aspects
2.07      Historical Background.  Once part of the old Ndorwa-Ankole Kingdom,
the Mutara became incorporated into the expanding nuclear kingdom of Rwanda in
the late 18th century. It remained an army fief held by Tutsi warriors until
the inception of colonial rule at the turn of the century. Even during the
period of German and Belgian colonial rule, it was always regarded as a
marginal tse-tse infested area, mostly used by Tutsi and Hima pastoralists to
graze their cattle. Following Independence and the Civil War (1959-1962), the
Mutara became a refuge for Tutsi elements; later Hutu cattle herders and
farmers started settling in the south, because of population pressure and land
scarcity in other parts of the country.
2.08      Population.  No reliable demographic data exist for the Project
area. From the communal archives, sample surveys and other data collected
by the Phase I project, the population of the Project area in 1977 can be
estimated at 58,000 people, roughly distributed as follows: Group ranches
10%, Paysannat 65%, and non-Paysannat sectors 25%. Trends are also extremely
difficult to assess; several migratory movements have taken place in recent
years. With the Phase I project, pastoral families first moved out of the
Mutara (para 2.18), but some are now coming back. Farming-families immi-
grated much faster than Government had anticipated.
2.09      The Mutara is ethnically more diverse than other parts of Rwanda.
Traditionally inhabited by Hima pastoralists, it was later occupied by Tutsi,
Hutus and Twas. In addition, since 1972 some 900 Barundi families have been
been installed in the project area (Muvumba Commune).
2.10      According to a survey done in the Paysannat, the average family size
is 4.6 persons, much below the national average of 5.6 - 6 persons, reflecting
the fact that most immigrant families are young. However, this sample survey
only included children of the family head and one wife. Polygamy is reputedly
quite frequent but details are limited. The age structure is also quite char-
acteristic of a newly installed population. Children (1-18) represent 55% of
the total population, and the age composition is as follows: 76% from 1 to
12, 14% from 12 to 15, and 10% from 15 to 18 years of age.
2.11      The number of households in the area may be much higher than reported.
Many Paysannat beneficiaries admit to using hired labor. Most typically this
is provided by a family member who comes to live on the plot, at first alone,
but subsequently with all his own family. Local authorities deny this practice,
but project staff confirmed that it does, in fact, prevail.



- 12 -
2.12      Land Tenure.  The allocation of land set aside for development under
the Phase I project is virtually completed. The Paysannat and Group Ranch
systems established give relative security of tenure. Beneficiaries only have
usufruct rights on the land, not ownership. Hereditary rights exist and are
well-defined in the case of the Paysannat where plots are inherited in whole
by a single child, usually the eldest son. In the Group Ranches, hereditary
rights are not yet defined clearly, as the experience is new to the country.
Provided the whole herd remains constant per ranch, the subdivision of herds
between children will be accepted, and has been de facto accepted during
installation. Theoretically, only one family can settle on a plot in the
Paysannat. In practice, Government will have to reconsider this in view of
the extended family system and pressure on land. In older Paysannats, the
authorities allow one more family per plot, provided all Rugos (houses and
farm buildings) are grouped in order to leave maximum land for cultivation.
The land tenure system for the Marshland Development Project has not yet been
fully devised.
2.13      Land distribution within the Paysannat and Group Ranches is fairly
equitable but inequalities do exist between the Paysannat, Group Ranches,
and farms not integrated into the Phase I project. In the Paysannat, all
the cultivation plots are 2 ha, except those of the Barundi refugees which
are only 1.5 ha. In comparison, farmers who have not yet benefitted from
such projects in Rwanda have an average of 1.3 ha of land. Not all plots
have the same production potential, and obviously not all can be at the same
distance from existing services. In the Group Ranches all families have 2
ha of grazing land per animal unit and a 1.5 ha cultivation plot per family.
However, some families have more cattle than others; cattle ownership ranges
from a minimum of 5 head to 100 head or more. Some ranches have a much better
pasture endowment than others.
2.14      Settlement.  Traditionally, farmers and pastoralists of the Mutara
lived in extremely scattered settlements. This has radically changed with
the Phase I project as farmers have been regrouped along a road in the
Paysannat, and even more in the Group Ranches where they have been regrouped
into villages. These changes appear to have been reasonably well accepted
by participants, although a further regroupment of farmers in the Paysannat,
proposed during 1975, had to be abandoned because of farmers' reluctance
to live in villages. This may change, however, when some social services,
namely schools and health centers, become available. Spontaneous regroup-
ment is already noticeable around market places.
2.15      Production Systems.  One must make a clear distinction between
farming and pastoral activities. (i) Farming System. Cultivation of the
plot is mostly done with family labor. Due to the current age structure of
the population, labor is relatively scarce and may be one of the constraints
on faster and more intensive resource development of the plot. Men are
usually responsible for building the house, clearing land, and maintaining
the banana plantation. WÀomen do some ploughing, weeding and harvesting,
in addition to household chores. Typically, it will take a family three to
five years to fully develop its 2 ha plot, from first installation. Multiple



- 13 -
intercropping is generally practiced. Most families keep a few goats, and
the better off keep some cattle. The livestock is grazed on fallow, or along
the road sides, and is brought back to the farm at night.  Livestock keeping
is usually the children's responsibility. (ii) Pastoral System. Since 1974,
the traditional semi-nomadism of Bahema and Tutsi pastoralists has been dis-
appearing. Although the Group Ranch concept is new to pastoralists of the
Mutara, they seem to have accepted it surprisingly well. The initial relue-
tance to accept grazing boundaries and "fixed" villages has disappeared. The
four ranches first settled have started some pasture rotation.
2.16      Institutional Relationships.  Traditional relationships are mixed
with the new environment created by the Phase I project.  Traditionally, the
control of land gravitated around the Clan or extended family (known re-
spectively as ubwooko and imiryango). In that system, power went with control
over large expanses of land or ownership of large cattle herds. Powerful
families would develop patron-client types of relationship with other families
to which they would entrust either the herding of their cattle, or the cultiva-
tion of their land (Bagererwa). In a new settlement like the Mutara, these
traditional relationships seem to reappear, in particular in the farming zones
where most settlers come from Ruhengeri.  Individuals or families who come
with a small capital (e.g. from selling a plot of land in their region of
origin) manage to acquire a plot, at times through personal favors or a cash
payment to local authorities. Others develop a small trading business to
become local leaders, setting up new patron-client types of relationship
locally or calling on distant family members to come and cultivate their land.
Family traditions are also predominant on the Group Ranches; Group ranch heads
are elected by ranch members often from among the wealthiest family on the
ranch and from among the older men.
D. Agricultural Development Project - Phase I (Credit 439-RW)
2.17      The Agricultural Development Project - Phase I was approved in
November 1973. The objective of the project was to develop about 45,000 ha
in the Mutara. Some 5,700 families would be settled, about 4,300 families on
cropping plots in a Paysannat (para 1.10) and 1,400 on Group Ranches for cattle
development. Investments included the development of infrastructures (roads,
water supply, veterinary and marketing, services), the development of a breed-
ing ranch, a tse-tse eradication program, and the provision of general services
(project management, and extension). The project was to be implemented by
the Office pour la Valorisation Pastorale et Agricole du Mutara - OVAPAM, a
parastatal organization to be created for the project implementation under the
umbrella of the Ministry of Agriculture. Participants would sign contracts
with OVAPAM and pay settlement, grazing and veterinary fees. Total project
costs were estimated at US$4.3 million (RF. 356.2 million) of which 88% was to
be financed by IDA, 6% by Government, and 6% by project participants.



- 14 -
Project Implementation
2.18      Project implementation started about October 1974 and is to be
completed by the end of June 1979. Credit effectiveness was delayed six
months because of difficulties in recruiting the consulting team required
for most of the project management positions. From the start, project imple-
mentation encountered very serious difficulties, which have only been partly
resolved to date. (i) Management. The Presidential Decree which established
OVAPAM created the position of Director of OVAPAM, although it was not envi-
saged at appraisal, to which a Rwandese national was appointed. The terms of
reference for OVAPAM's director were the same as those defined in the appraisal
report for the expatriate project director who would be at the same time the
director of OVAPAM during the project period. Government never acted to
resolve this anomaly although the question was raised by most IDA supervision
missions. The resulting conflict of responsibility and decision making power
has plagued project implementation to this day (para 2.24). (ii) Reaction of
the participants. This was perhaps the most critical factor. Project staff
did not present the project well initially. The population regarded it with
suspicion and even hostility, in particular pastoralists who thought that the
Government was coming to take their cattle and their money, and many left for
Uganda. They resented having to pay the installation fee since no such fee
had been payable under other Government Projects; they also resented having to
pay veterinary and grazing fees on top of the cattle tax, while no services
were provided. (iii) Changes in the data base since appraisal - The first
population and livestock census made by the project revealed that the project
area was rmuch more densely settled than at the time of appraisal, in particular
in the ranching zone. In late 1974, about 7,500 families and 34,700 head of
cattle were identified compared to the 3,400 and 30,500 mentioned respectively
in the appraisal report. Among these 7,500 families, many were farmers with a
few head of cattle. In addition, some 1500 refugee Barundi families were to
be installed in the Paysannat under the auspices of the UN/HCR. The resource
base also appeared to be substantially different from what had been appraised,
in particular in the ranching zone. The rapid deterioration of the range from
over-stocking and over-grazing has caused an estimated decline in the carry-
ing capacity of the ranching zone from an average 1.3 ha/A.U. mentioned at
appraisal, to 2.5-3 ha/A.U. 1/ (iv) Changes in the Project Area. The original
area earmarked for development had been estimated at 45,000 ha. The topograph-
ical surveys revealed that the area was only 42,000 ha. In addition, in 1975
the 6,000 ha of marshlands which the appraisal had identified as suitable for
dry season grazing, were set aside for development under a CIDA-financed
project (paras 2.28-2.30) and became no longer available. In 1976, Government
subtracted some 14,250 ha from the Hunting Reserve, of which it allocated
9,250 ha to the project implemented by OVAPAI4.  The other 5,000 ha were set
aside as a military ranch reportedly to compensate for the Bugesera military
ranch now earmarked for commercial ranching. The project area was, therefore,
brought up to about 51,250 ha, of which 27,850 ha have finally been allocated
1/   A.U. = Animal Unit.  Throughout this report "Animal Unit" corresponds
to one "Unite de Betail Tropical", that is, one head of adult cattle
weighing 250 kg.



- 15 -
for group ranch development and 23,400 ha for the Paysannat. (v) Staffing
constraints. Given the general scarcity of qualified agricultural staff and
the high demand for new graduates, the project has suffered throughout from
the lack of sufficiently qualified staff. A Rwandese veterinarian was not
appointed to the Group Ranch sub-project until late 1976, and a Rwandese
agricultural engineer to the Paysannat until late 1977. Lack of qualified
staff at all levels still prevails. (vi) Cost Increases. After one year of
project implementation project cost estimates had increased by 80%. This was
due in part to world inflation causing an increase in the price of project
goods and in part to the fact that the appraisal mission omitted the cost of
local staff housing and underestimated the water supply scheme costs. This
cost increase was not covered by the Bank's then standard contingency proce-
dures.
2.19      In view of these difficulties, project implementation has been sub-
stantially different from what had been envisaged at appraisal. Because of
the importance of the existing settlements, the project became largely one of
resettlement of the population already living in the area. All farmers who
did not qualify as participants in the Group Ranches were relocated in the
Paysannat, and vice versa. Ranchers who used to graze their cattle south of
the Muvumba were relocated north of it. Many of the farming families in
particular were newcomers who had rushed to the Mutara in quest of land upon
hearing that a new Paysannat was to be established. The difficulties of
resettling families should not be underestimated. Equally difficult was the
task of installing traditional pastoralists on the ranches. The project
proved to entail much more than developing infrastrutures and extension
services; it had to deal with a very complex situation in which the human
element was perhaps the major constraint to smooth implementation. Installa-
tion, grazing and veterinary fees were suspended but no alternative source
of income for OVAPAM established. Because of the changed situation, and
to remain within the limits of the financing available, Government and IDA
agreed to reduce somewhat the scope of the project following an in-depth
review mission which took place in late 1975. The major changes agreed upon
were i) elimination of the water supply component from the infrastructure
development; and ii) reduction in the overall project area to 32,000 ha,
and in the number of Group Ranches from 120 to 70 (Government had not yet
reallocated the 9,250 ha from the Hunting Reserve to the project, para 2.18).
No major changes were made in the Paysannat component.
Project Achievements
2.20      Most of the infrastructure development should be completed by the
end of the project in June 1979. By then, about 8,300 families will have
been installed in the Paysannat, and about 950 in the Group Ranches. By
December 1977, 6,000 families had been installed in the Paysannat, including
about 950 Barundi refugee families installed under the auspices of the UN/
HCR. Project costs from 1974 to 1977 amount to RF. 185 million. Including
the amounts budgeted for 1978/79, total project costs should be approximately
RF. 348 million, or roughly what was estimated at appraisal. Details are
given on Table 1.



- 16 -
2.21      The quantitative summary of Phase I achievements does not really
give an accurate picture of the project successes and failures. Objectives
for infrastructure building and settlement have been achieved but those for
extension and production have not.  The few staff recruited for the project
were essentially used to carry out the censuses, and the allotments or Group
Ranch repartition and allocation. Little time was left for the project
management to develop a sound extension program. To relieve the lack of
agricultural and veterinary staff, the project did develop a small training
program for extension workers. A few extension themes were promoted in the
Paysannat, mainly anti-erosion measures and compost production; but because of
the lack of properly trained staff and supervision, few of these themes have
been effectively adopted by farmers. A dipping and vaccination program was
implemented as Group Ranches were installed, but little was done in terms of
pasture improvement particularly in the most degraded areas.
2.22      In terms of overall agricultural production, the picture is rather
negative, and-the economic rate of return is estimated to be negative, if no
further investments are undertaken.  Whether farmers were relocated from
outside or from within the area, it takes them on average five years to fully
develop their plot because other tasks, such as housing construction, compete
with agricultural tasks initially. As a result, it is estimated that since
installation started, production of subsistence crops has only increased
marginally in the area. However, it can be assumed that occupation of the
Mutara would have taken place anyway, since it had already started; but with-
out the project it might have been different, perhaps slower.  The apprai-
sal estimate of coffee and groundnuts cultivation has not yet started.  In
fact, a smaller part of the project area lends itself to coffee production
than envisaged at appraisal. Groundnuts have a good potential in the Paysan-
nat zone, but there are no marketing outlets at present; the Kigali oilseed
processing factory is not fully equipped and could not absorb a significant
quantity of grounduts. In terms of livestock production, the picture is
equally negative. The overall herd from Mutara has declined by about 16,000
head, and Rwanda's herd by 10,000 head. The destocking program simply con-
sisted of removing the families which had not resided in the Mutara since
1969. Many of them left for Uganda, with an estimated 10,000 head of cattle;
the remainder went to other parts of Rwanda, principally Bugesera. Although
the destocking of the Mutara is reported to have had a positive impact on the
range, about one third of the ranching zone is still considerably overstocked
and degraded. The likely increase in productivity of the remaining herd, from
destocking and initiation of the veterinary program, may not have compensated
yet for this loss.
2.23      On the basis of the investments achieved in the first phase, few
improvements in agricultural and livestock production can be expected unless
follow-up is secured. Farmers will indeed progressively cultivate their plot
but traditional cultivation techniques do not include organic fertilizer use,
so reduced fallow, declining soil fertility and increased erosion will result.
In the medium and long terms, overall agricultural production in the Mutara
would decline as no more land is available. Overall livestock would also be
likely to decline as 7,000 ha of range would come out of production and be



- 17 -
taken over by weeds. 10,000 head of cattle would have to be moved somewhere
else in Rwanda or leave the country. It must be recognized, however, that
most of the infrastructures developed are indispensable for the Phase II
Project.
Institutional Aspects
2.24      OVAPAM.  The Office pour la Valorisation Pastorale et Agricole du
Mutara was created by Presidential Decree No. 50/12 of March 4, 1974, as a
parastatal organization responsible for the implementation of the IDA-financed
Mutara Agricultural Development Project - Phase I, under the umbrella of the
Ministry of Agriculture. It was headed by a director, and administered by a
Board of Directors. The latter included representatives from the Ministries
of Agriculture and Livestock, Finance and Economy, Planning and Natural
Resources, Social Affairs and Interior, from the National Bank of Rwanda, and
representatives of the beneficiaries of the Paysannat and Group Ranch Sub-
projects. The Board was initially chaired by the Secretary General of Agri-
culture who later appointed the Director of the Rural Engineering Department
in his stead.  The Office consisted of the General Services (Secretariat and
Accounting Section) located in Kigali, and two sub-projects: the Paysannat
Subproject and the Group Ranch SubproJect. Project headquarters were built in
Nyagatare, and were partly used by the project manager and other expatriate
specialists, and by support staff. OVAPAM's director has so far never lived
at Project headquarters. The expatriate management team consisted of a
project manager, a veterinarian, a construction specialist, an accountant,
and a mechanic. The team was provided by IFAGRARIA/AGROTEC, an Italian
consulting firm.  Several staffing problems took place within the management
team: the project manager initially proposed was changed by the firm because
of delays in obtaining approval from Government and in finalizing the contract.
The first accountant resigned after a month and his replacement did not arrive
until April 1975. The veterinarian hadL to be replaced after a year and a half
in the project. A marketing specialist was envisaged by the appraisal but was
never recruited. At first such recruitment was thought premature, but since
1977 IDA has been pressing the issue. To date, no action has been taken by
OVAPAM's management or Government. Performance of the management team has
been average, often hampered by their poor relations with the Rwandese staff.
One major deficiency in overall Project management has been the lack of
careful planning and budgeting. Budgets were never more than rough estimates,
inadequately supported by detailed investment and work programs.  The account-
ing system is reasonably well organized, and the accounts up-to-date. The
accounts have only been verified by the Government's auditor, never audited by
independent auditors as required in the Development Credit Agreement.
2.25      As a parastatal company (Office), OVAPAM was supposed to be self-
financing under Rwandese Law.  Its failure to become so would be one of
the main reasons for abolishing it.  According to the appraisal of Phase I,
OVAPAM was to draw revenues from fees levied on services to project partici-
pants. The change in this situation is detailed in paras 2.18(ii) and 2.19,
and was reflected in the amendment of the Development Credit Agreement dated
January 16, 1978.



- 18 -
2.26      Beneficiaries Committee.  This committee was established to decide
on the allocation of plots and Group Ranches to beneficiaries. It was chaired
by the Byumba Prefect, and included the Bourgmestres of Muvumba and Ngarama,
and representatives of OVAPAM and of the beneficiaries. This committee has
functioned very inadequately. Instead of meeting regularly to review all
cases, it delegated its responsibility to OVAPAM, meeting sporadically only to
review cases under litigation; the committee exerted basically no control on
OVAPAM's plot allocations, although many abuses have been reported.
2.27      In retrospect, it appears that the project should have been conceived
as a Phase I project for infrastructure development and settlement, to be fol-
lowed by a Phase II project. To conform to the law on parastatal companies
(para 2.25), OVAPAM should be theoretically abolished. Even though OVAPAM's
performance has been rather poor (para. 2.24), the project has had some
positive institutional building effects. It gave Government the opportunity
to take responsibility in project implementation, and to define what they
expect from technical assistance more clearly. Finally, it has been a good
learning experience in dealing with the Bank Group in the agricultural sector,
as this was the first experience.
E. Marshland Development Project
2.28      In its original request to IDA for financing the Phase I project,
Government had included the development of the marshlands in the valley of the
Kagitumba and Murumba rivers. The appraisal team that went to Rwanda in 1971
concluded that insufficient technical and hydrological information was avail-
able to justify including the drainage and development of the marshlands in
the project. The mission had doubts, among other things, on the agricultural
potential of the reclaimed marshlands. Government then requested IFAGRARIA to
do a feasibility study of the marshland development, which they later submitted
to CIDA (Canada) for financing. The project was approved in 1975, and was to
cover 9,000 ha of which 6,500 ha would be drained and irrigated. It would
benefit some 13,000 families. Implementation would start with an experimental
phase, to be followed by 4 phases over 13 years. There was no clear planning
or coordination between this project and the OVAPAM project: the project
areas overlap, and some of the development goals conflict, in particular over
3,500 ha of marshland needed for dry season grazing for the Group Ranches. To
limit this conflict, it was verbally agreed during the 1975 review mission of
the IDA project, that the development of the marshlands would be initiated
south of the Muvumba river.
2.29      Project implementation in the first 400 ha (see Map 13866) started in
mid 1976, and has run into very serious technical problems causing a doubling
or so of costs. These problems include higher than expected floods from the
Kagitumba river during the rainy season, difficulties in clearing the bush
and in eradicating a weed called imperata cylindrica. CIDA halted development
works (except for housing and some agricultural experiments) for a few months
in 1978 until they had gathered more data on the precipitation and river flow.
Flood control is the major issue and may be too costly to be justifiable.



- 19 -
Government informed IDA during negotiations that they have received no
guarantee from the Canadian Government that they will continue the project
once the first phase is completed.
2.30      Lack of coordination between the Marshland Development project and
the Phase I project has been detrimental in several respects: to attract
manpower, the former bid up local wages (from RF 60 to RF 80, then RF 100 per
day) drawing labor away from the farms in the Paysannat; project headquarters
at Nyagatare do not have office space or water supply to accomodate all the
staff from both projects.  In the future, more problems may arise:  some
participants installed under the Phase I project may be moved from part of
their land to install irrigation canals; no space is really available to
install new families receiving irrigated plots unless new plot sub-division
takes place in the Paysannat. Participants in the Marshland Development
project would also need some social infrastructure; schools, health centers,
water supply, etc. Government is now aware of the need for better planning
and coordination.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept
3.01      The proposed Project would be the second phase of a long-term
development program for the Mutara region.  Although a second phase, the
Project would essentially be experimental. In designing the Project, the
following factors were recognized: (i) The Mutara is in a precarious state.
It is threatened with heavy loss of production potential. Unless effective
action is taken, erosion and reduced f allow will continue to cause a decline
in soil fertility as in the rest of Rwanda, and this will be all the more
rapid since little effort is made at present to regenerate the soil. The
range will be further degraded beyond its present poor state by overstocking,
overgrazing, and the take-over of weeds in the absence of weed-control. In-
tensification of agricultural and livestock production will be required to
offset this. (ii) The Mutara region still has land available, in contrast
to other parts of Rwanda. Because of population pressure, it is likely to
be settled and used more and more. At present, Government has earmarked only
part of the Mutara for development and settlement, but in the long run, they
may be required to make additional land from the Hunting Reserve available.
(iii) Technical know-how is limited in the Mutara: farmers practice multiple
intercropping, rotation and fallow; pastoralists practice some pasture rota-
tion, mineral supplementation, and genetic selection. (iv) To date, the
local administrative authorities have been only minimally involved in the
development effort.
3.02      The major objective of the Project is therefore to develop tech-
niques, procedures, and an institutional environment which will make it pos-
sible to (a) stop the process of soil degradation and preserve the production
potential of the area, so as to maintaiLn it at least constant in the long run;



- 20 -
(b) make rational use of land and other resources; (c) intensify the use of
available resources in order to cope with the population increase; (d) make
use of available local know-how which means: i) maintaining intercropping
while intensifying cultivation, ii) implementing measures to prevent erosion
and loss of soil fertility, iii) integrating crop and livestock development,
and iv) maintaining a large proportion of females in the traditional cattle
herd while stabilizing the overall herd; (e) improve the orientation of the-
proposed Project and future projects as experience is gained; and (f) inte-
grate the Project into the local administration in order to give it more
development responsibilities as established in the Second Five Year Plan and
the Communal Action Plan. The Project concept accords with other projects
under implementation in Rwanda that have similar objectives. Government is
also considering additional projects with a similar approach, in other
parts of the country.
B. General Description
3.03      The Project area would include the 51,000 ha covered by the Phase I
project (para 2.01 and 2.18(iv)), extended in the South by three administra-
tive sectors of the Ngarama Commune covering approximately another 10,000 ha
(para 2.02). The Project would be implemented over a four-year period. It
would comprise:
(i) Development of improved extension services for crops and livestock
(cattle, goats and sheep) in the Paysannat and adjacent communal
sectors, including crop development, the introduction of a livestock
stall-feeding program, and staff and farmer training;
(ii)  Development of improved extension and veterinary services for
livestock (mainly cattle) and crops on Group Ranches, including a
pasture improvement program, an improved veterinary and animal
husbandry program, technical support for cultivation plots, and staff
and pastoralist training;
(iii)  Development of a Technical Support Center, essentially for fodder
multiplication and trials, and reproduction of improved cattle
breeds;
(iv)  Assistance to develop Marketing services;
(v) Construction of schools, and health centers;
(vi)  Development and construction of a water supply scheme for both
people and livestock;
(vii)  Provision of Technical Services, including general services for
the Project, road maintenance, agricultural credit, staff training,
consulting services, technical assistance for Project management,
and support for the Studies and Projects Division of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock.



- 21 -
3.04      The Project would be managed by OVAPAM under the umbrella of the
Ministry of Agriculture. The Project would be organized into two subprojects,
a Paysannat Subproject, and a Group Ranch Subproject covering the Group ranches
and Technical Support Center components. Local administrative authorities
would participate in the Project through the Board of Directors of OVAPAM and
the Beneficiaries Committee, and the Communal Technical Committee and Develop-
ment Council. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government
would consult with IDA before entering into any commitments or arrangements
with the Marshland Development Project or other possible projects which might
affect the Project area.
C. Detailed Features
Paysannat Subproject: Extension Services in the Paysannat
and in Adjacent Administrative Sectors
3.05      The Subproject would aim at developing extension services for crops
and livestock in the Paysannat established under the Mutara Phase I Project,
and in the adjacent administrative sectors of Karama, Ngarama and Kigasha in
the Muvumba and Ngarama Communes. The major objectives would be to preserve
the production potential of the area, and increase agricultural production.
The basic extension program would include anti-erosion control by planting
hedges of setaria, preservation of soil fertility through planting such
grasses as mucuna on fallow-land and use of organic fertilizer, intensifica-
tion of agricultural production by promoting stall-feeding of small stock or
cattle and using manure for crops and reafforestation. Staff and farmer
training would be fully integrated into the extension program, on a systematic
and continuing basis. Delivery means would involve: short training sessions
at local facilities (in the sectors or sections in the Paysannat, at the
Communal Development Center, or at gathering points for the Umuganda (para
1.29)), development of, and visits to, demonstration and multiplication plots,
including the plots of participants who were willing, and individual follow-up
at farms by extension workers for demonstration of and assistance in improved
cultivation and farm development techniques. Extension workers would visit
farmers on a regular schedule, following the priorities of the extension
program, and the cropping cycle. Training sessions and visits would be
addressed to women as well as men.  The proposed ratio of farming families
per extension worker would be 300:1. Supplementary animal production and
veterinary staff would strengthen extension on animal health and husbandry,
including hand spraying, vaccinations, animal nutrition, and watering.
Veterinary services would be provided at a fee, and medicines sold (para
3.06). The extension staff from the Paysannat would work in close colla-
boration with the Commune extension staff, and would participate in the
training sessions at the Development Centers (para 2.06).   Farmers from
the adjacent administrative sectors would also be invited to participate
in meetings held in the Paysannat. The extension services would provide
assistance to an estimated 9,900 families, 8,400 in the Paysannat, and
another 1,500 outside the Paysannat. Average farm sizes would be 2 ha, and



- 22 -
the dominant activities would be cultivation of subsistence crops: bananas,
beans, sweet potatoes, sorghum, manioc, etc. A majority of farmers would
adopt the simplest elements of the extension program i.e. anti-erosion measures
and compost production, while a small proportion would start night or all day
stall-feeding of small stock or cattle. A few could be expected to continue
traditional farming methods without any technological improvement.  The main
investment items would include: small offices for the Paysannat Director and
Sector Chiefs; a few staff houses, small veterinary and bulling centers,
multiplication plots, nurseries, vehicles and essential materials and equipment
for the extension services, vaccines, veterinary supplies and chemicals, and
staff and operating costs for the extension services.
Group Ranch Subproject
3.06      Extension Services in Group Ranches.  The objective would be to
develop efficient extension services in order to recover about 7,000 ha of
degraded rangeland and preserve the herd, and increase range and herd produc-
tivity. The proposed program would have two parts. The first would include:
(i) a destocking operation to limit the current overstocking by eliminating
about 2,500 head of unproductive cattle and young males from the most damaged
part of the ranching area; (ii) a massive pasture improvement program, in-
cluding weed destruction, and reseeding of the most degraded pastures; and
(iii) the development of efficient veterinary services, including a strict
dipping program to control East Coast Fever, and preventive or curative
treatment against other diseases, to control trypanosomiasis and helminthiasi-
tic diseases in particular. Pastoralists would pay for these services. A
dipping fee of RF 110 per head per annum would be charged, and a schedule of
fees and prices for treatments, drugs and minerals would be established, on a
cost basis plus 15-20% to account for losses. The schedule of fees and
prices would be reviewed annually or more often if necessary. Fee collection
methods would vary; pastoralists could pay either OVAPAM - Veterinary Services
in the beginning, or the pastoralists' associations once they have been
established. Proceeds from fees and sales of veterinary products would be
paid into a revolving fund. Assurances on all these points were obtained at
negotiations. The second part would be to intensify production through
sustained improved pasture management and fodder development, improved animal
nutrition and herd management; development of cultivation plots.
3.07      Preconditions to approval of this program in the annual work plans
(para. 4.09) would be that (a) no new herd would be accepted into the Group
Ranch Zones, (b) existing herds would be redistributed according to the
relative carrying capacity of the various zones; (c) 3,000 ha of marshland
pastures under the CIDA-financed Project from the hills of Cyenjojo and Kabare
to the North of the ranching zone would be left for grazing by the group
ranches for at least five years; and (d) the improvement of 1,500 ha of pas-
tures and the elimination of about 500 head of cattle planned for Phase I
have been implemented. Staff and pastoralist training would be fully inte-
grated to this program, along the same organizational principles as the
extension services of the Paysannat Subproject. Animal production and vete-
rinary staff would not only work at field veterinary centers for curative
services, but would regularly visit the ranches for preventive services and



- 23 -
to advise on pasture management and animal nutrition; an agrostologist and an
agronomist would support the veterinary staff for pasture work and cultivation
plots. The Subproject would reach the existing 63 - 70 Group Ranches, repre-
senting about 1,000 families. Limited population growth would be absorbed by
accepting new families onto the existing ranches. The main investments would
include weed eradication and range reseeding, completion of veterinary infra-
structures (1 dipping tank and a few -veterinary centers), housing, vehicles
and equipment for veterinary extension staff, veterinary drugs, staff and
operation costs for animal husbandry and veterinary services.
3.08      Technical Support Center.  A Technical Support Center would be
established on about 650 ha, widening the scope of the breeding ranch partly
developed under the Phase I project. It would be a servicing unit for both
the Group Ranches and the Paysannat, although it would be under the super-
vision of the Group Ranch Subproject ,lirector; it would also serve as a
demonstration center for improved animal husbandry for Group Ranches. The
Technical Support Center would have: (a) A fodder multiplication sector,
including multiplication fields of anti-erosion grasses and fodder crops,
for distribution in the multiplication centers of the Paysannat and the Group
Ranches, and a tree nursery for reafforestation in the Group Ranches; the
sector would also work on pasture improvement and fodder establishment on
Group Ranches. (b) A Zootechnical Center which would develop a small repro-
duction herd to produce improved sires and dams for later distribution in
the Paysannat, and possibly on the Group Ranches. Most experiments in Rwanda
have been done with Ankole x Sahiwal cattle; given the difficulty of obtaining
Sahiwal stock, it might be worthwhile for the Project to experiment with other
breeds. This should not be undertaken, however, without close coordination
with the Livestock Department and the ISAR experimental stations. The Zoo-
technical sector would also start experimenting with artificial insemination.
And (c) A small commercial sector on about 200 ha.  It would be first used to
fatten steers which could not be relocated as part of the destocking program.
Then it would be used as a transit center for animals which would be purchased
under project supervision to be sold to the Paysannat or to other projects
for further breeding or fattening. ThLe main investments would include:
completion of housing and water supply infrastructures; construction of a
small veterinary laboratory; development of paddocks, tree nursery and forage
crops; equipment; staff and operating costs.
Marketing Services
3.09      The Project would carry out a preliminary nation-wide marketing
study and collaborate with the Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo Project which is to
carry out a study of livestock marketing. In addition, an information
service for buyers and producers would be provided. Prices for cattle and
crops along with information on possible surpluses and outlays would then be
published. Some purchase operations of specific crops and of livestock to
assist the destocking operation on the Group Ranches would be undertaken by
OVAPAM but in emergency situations only and where contracts with buyers had
been already established. Costs of these services would be fully recovered
through sales. Assurances on all these points were obtained at negotiations.



- 24 -
Social Services
3.10      To endow the Project area with better schooling facilities, the
Project would finance the construction and equipping of six new primary
level schools in the Paysannat and of one new primary level school in the
Group Ranch, and the repair, extension, equipping and furnishing of the two
existing schools in the Group Ranch zone. Each school would have a complete
eight year cycle, and a workshop. The total classroom capacity would be
brought to 75% of the current needs; further project phases would bring
the capacity to 100% of needs, including incremental needs resulting from
population growth. School construction would be coordinated with, and
according to the standards of, the Ministry of Education, which would also
provide the staff and operating costs; assurances on this were obtained
at negotiations. The main investments would include construction costs
and school equipments.
3.11      The Project would also finance the construction and furnishing
of two health centers, one in the Paysannat, and one in the Group Ranch zone.
Each health center would have a meeting room for education on family planning
and nutrition. The construction would be coordinated with, and according to
the standards of, the Ministry of Public Health which would assume the oper-
ating costs. It would be a condition of disbursement against the EEC Special
Action Fund (para 3.22) that Government has obtained that an organization such
as UNICEF will provide the initial stock of medicines and supplies and train
the staff for these health centers, as part of their health program in Rwanda.
The Ministry of Health would provide the other operating costs. The main
investments would include construction and furnishing costs.
Water Supply
3.12      In the Paysannat, the Project would finance the development of
a water supply scheme to provide drinking water to participants in the
Paysannat. A preliminary study would be carried out to make a thorough
inventory of known water resources in the area (springs, wells, rivers), and
initiate systematic flow measurements of these resources. Some 200 wells
would then be constructed and equipped in order to serve an estimated 8,500
families, each with one head of cattle, with an estimated total demand of 22
1/second. Complementary gravity water supply schemes would be developed:
(a) where population density was high enough for a gravity scheme to be
more economical than the well alternative; and (b) in the northern sector of
Nyabwishomgwezi and wherever else well prospection proved negative. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the water demand from beneficiaries
installed under the Marshland Development Project starting June 1980, would
be taken into account in the final design of the water supply scheme. IDA's
approval of the gravity schemes prior to undertaking the investments would be
a condition of disbursements. In the Group Ranches, the Project would finance
the construction and equipping of about 40 wells to serve about 1,000 famillies
and 2,000 head of cattle with a total demand of 9.3 1/second.  Twenty of these
wells would be on locations which do not have access to a river; the other -0
would be to provide potable water for the population of the ranches. Each
well with a minimum flow of 0.1 1/second each, would supply ahout 950 people,
and Ln the Paysannat would be located 800 m on average from any onc fami!l



- 25
drawing from it.  The design of the wells would be simple, but it would give a
minimum protection against pollution; they would be covered at the top and be
equipped with simple and easy to mairntain handpumps locally manufactured
mostly with local materials. All the wells in the Paysannat and Ranches with
no water source would be equipped with a water trough for livestock. Assur-
ances 1ere obtained at negotiations that a minimum water charge of about
RF 5/m based on the costs to cover well maintenance and depreciation would be
collected from users by OVAPAM, and that it would be reviewed annually. 1/
Further water studies would be made during the project in order to acquire
more knowledge on the Mutara water table and help the Government develop its
capacity to establish a long-term water utilization plan.
Technical Services
Technical services would comprise:
3.13      General Services for Project management, including the Project
Director's office, assisted by a marketing specialist and supporting staff;
the administrative and Financial Department; and the garage. Investments would
be limited to additional staff housing, extension of the garage, and procure-
ment of additional equipment.
3.14      Road Maintenance.  Bridge construction, repair and maintenance of
the main access roads within the Project area would be ensured by the Project.
These would include the Ngarama-Karama, the Nyagatare-Rukumo, the Nyagatare-
Tabagwe-Karama, and the Nyagatare-Rwerapasha roads. Assistance for road
maintenance would be provided by the Communes; small feeder roads would be
maintained by the participants as stipulated in their contract, and within
Umuganda activities. The Gabiro-Kagitumba road, a national road giving access
to Nyagatare, is to be maintained under the IDA-financed Fourth Highway
Project. Provisions for bridge construction, and road repair and maintenance
have been included in Project costs.
3.15      Agricultural Credit.  The Project would start an experimental
agricultural credit program, in coordination with the Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo
project under which a national agricultural credit study is being made; the
study is to propose lending terms. Credit would be provided to farmers or
pastoralists to acquire such inputs as heifers, steers or small stock, im-
proved seeds, tools, or small equipment such as handsprays. An arbitrary
provision of RF 10.0 million has therefore been made in Project costs. No
disbursements would be made until the agricultural credit study had been
completed, and the lending terms and processing procedures clearly established
and approved by IDA.
3.16      Staff Training.  In addition to the training activities to be
carried out in the extension programs, the Project would finance specific
1/   For gravity systems, the minimum charge would be around RF 21/m3, which
is well beyond the participants' ability to pay.  These3systems would
therefore be subsidized at a rate equivalent to RF 17/m initially.



- 26 -
staff training activities, including a training assignment in project manage-
ment for OVAPAM's director, technical seminars and study trips for the director
of OVAPAM and for the Subproject directors, and a training program for extension
staff, in particular to train lower level staff for whom there hardly exist
any training facilities in the country (para. 1.24); this program would be
coordinated with the Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo project. The proposed training
activities for OVAPAM's director and for the Subproject directors could take
place in Rwanda or in foreign countries, depending on circumstances; parti-
cipation in negotiations would be included as part of the training program.
The training of lower level agricultural and veterinary staff would be a
continuation of the program undertaken under the Phase I project, which
consists of weekly theoretical courses by senior Project staff, and field
training by sector and sub-sector chiefs.
3.17      Consulting Services.  The Project would hire consulting services
on an ad hoc basis to examine particular technical aspects of the Project, to
assist with the technical management of the Subprojects, and with the Project
financial and mechanical management if necessary (para. 4.05 (c) and (d)).
Technical services would be needed in the Paysannat Subproject to help
constantly assess and orient the biological/ ecological technique of soil
regeneration recommended by the Project, or to establish tree nurseries and
establish the reafforestation program. Such services would also be needed in
the Group Ranch Subproject to help with the pasture improvement program,
including range reseeding and fodder crop development, with the supervision of
the tse-tse eradication program, and with the cross-breeding and artificial
insemination programs at the Technical Support Center. Such consulting
services would be recruited for locally, from ISAR or other projects, or
internationally.
3.18      Project Monitoring and Preparation.  The Project would support the
strengthening of the Studies and Projects Division of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Livestock, in order to develop the Ministry's capacity to monitor
project implementation, to monitor the development of the agricultural sector,
to assess the current farming systems and sociological patterns, to assess the
farmers' rate of adoption of the technical package, and the project impact on
employment, and to prepare further project phases in Mutara or new projects in
other parts of the country. The head of the Studies and Projects Division,
assisted by one of the expatriate adviser already working with him, would be
responsible for developing a simple monitoring system of agricultural projects
implementation, for preparing projects, and for training the staff to such
activities. He would also coordinate the division's activities with other
divisions of the Ministry, namely the statistical division, and with other
Ministries such as the Planning Ministry. The Studies and Projects Division
would be responsible for preparing a preparatory report for the Project
mid-Implementation Review (para 4.10) and the Project completion report (para
4.15).
3.19      Technical Assistance.  Two full-time internationally recruited
technicians would be employed by the Project, for 96 man-months initially.
Fluency in French would be one of the selection criteria, and their recruit-
ment would be a condition of effectiveness. There would be an agronomist/



- 27 -
extension specialist who would also be the Project Director (para. 4.04 (b));
and a marketing specialist (para. 4.04 (d)). After two years of project
implementation, the staffing needs of the Project would be reassessed and the
contracts of the two internationally recruited technicians renewed on a
yearly basis until the end of the Pro;ject if necessary. The costs of technical
assistance of $6,000 per man month on average (salaries plus travel and
residence allowances) are included in investment costs.
D. Proiect Costs
3.20      Total Project costs are estimated at RF 1,085 million (US$11.8
million), of which US$6.2 million (or 52%) represent foreign exchange costs.
Details are summarized in the followirLg table.
% of total
Costs ex-
RF '000                    US$ '000        cluding con-
Project Component       Local   Forei_n   Total    Local Foreign Total tingencies
Paysannat Sub-Project   63,687   26,339    90,026         693   287      980      11.2
Group Ranch Sub-
Project                99,997   48,588   148,585   1,088   529   1,617          18.6
Technical Support
Center                 16,945   15,43,6    32,381       184   168      352       4.0
Marketing                 15,151   17,578    32,729       165   191      356       4.1
Water Supply              66,928  106,192   173,120       728 1,155   1,883       21.6
Social Services          31,250   15,050    46,300        340   164      504       5.8
Technical Services
General Services       52,966   53,389   106,355        576   581   1,157      13.3
Agricultural Credit   10,000        -       10,000      109    -       109       1.3
Consulting Services    3,945   74,955    78,900          44   814      858       9.8
Project Monitoring
and Evaluation           7,000   13,000    20,000        76   141      217       2.5
Technical Assistance       3.750   58,650    62.400        40   640      680       7.8
Total Base Costs      371,619  429,177   800,796   4,043 4,670   8,713    100
Contingencies
Allowances
Physical               49,415   62,895   112,310        538   684   1,222
Price                  97,219   75,064   172,283   1,058   817   1,875
Total Contingencies  146,634  137,959   284,593   1,596 1,501   3,097
Total Project Costs  518253   67,16 1,085,389   5,639               11,810
The above costs include some operating costs for staff already working in
the area and other operating costs for activities continuing from the Phase I.



- 28 -
However, since the investments made under the Phase I project have not
yet yielded benefits, all these expenditures are necessary to achieve the
Project objectives established at the beginning of Phase I, to maintain the
production potential in the area, and obtain production increases. These costs
have therefore been included in the Phase II Project. Project costs were
estimated at January 1979 prices. A physical contingency of 10% was applied
to all Project items except to the water supply component where a 30% con-
tingency allowance reflects the great uncertainty over costs for this component.
Price contingencies were applied following Bank/IDA guidelines for foreign
exchange costs, i.e. for equipment 6.5% for 1979 and 6% for 1980-1983 and for
civil works 7.5% for 1979 and 7.0% for 1980-1983, and at rate of 12% for 1979,
and 10% for 1980-1983 for local costs. Taxes and duties on project goods
would be limited since imports for development projects are normally exempt
from duty; applicable taxes are estimated at RF 32 million (US$0.35 million).
The phasing of investments and details of Project costs are summarized in
Table 2.
E. Financing
3.21      The financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
Proposed Financing Plan
Other       Govern-  Partici-
IDA    Co-financier    ment    pants        Total
------------------US $  000
1. Equipment and Vehicles               770         -            40        -         810
2. Civil Works and Infrastructures    370        1,510          100       220      2,200
3. Staff Salaries and Operating
Costs                            1,785         -           315        -      2,100
4. Agricultural Credit                   100        -            -         20        120
5. Technical Services and
Training                         1,295         -            55        -      1,350
6. Water Supply                       1,970         -            -        110      2,080
7. Preliminary Program                  500         -            60                  560
8. Technical Asistance                  780         -            -         -         780
9. Unallocated                        1,180        140          380       110      1,810
Total Costs                        8,750      1,650          950       460    11,810
% of total costs                      74         14            7         5        100
3.22      The proposed IDA Credit of US$8.75 million would be to the Government
of Rwanda on standard IDA terms. The credit would finance about 74% of total
Project costs, including 92% of foreign exchange costs and 55% of local
expenditures,and 76% of Project costs net of taxes. The European Economic



- 29 -
Community Special Action Credit would finance a total of US$1.65 million
equivalent, representing 14% of total Project costs, for expenditures on
civil works and infrastructure development (and related materials) (see
Table 6). IDA would act as administrator of the EEC Special Action Credit
under a separate agreement between IDA and the EEC. The signature of the
cofinancing agreement between the EEC and the Government of Rwanda would be
a condition of effectiveness. Participants in the Project would finance an.
estimated 5% of total Project costs. Another 5% of costs would be recovered
from beneficiaries as water supply fees (para. 3.12) and payment for veterinary
medicines and treatments (paras 3.05-3.06).  Government would contribute
US$0.9 million. The share of financing of Project operating costs by Govern-
ment, local authorities or beneficiaries would increase progressively through-
out the project period, to aim at 100%, financing of such costs by July 1,
1983. Assurances on this were obtainetd at negotiations. US$0.3 million
equivalent would be recovered by Government through taxation.
3.23      Assurances were  obtained at negotiations that (i) funds for the
Project would be made available to OVAPAM as a subsidy; (ii) a Project account
would be established under the control of the Project director and his adminis-
trative and financial director; and (iii) Government would credit its contri-
bution once a year after the budget approval not later than February 28.
OVAPAM would prepare annual estimates of its expenditures in July which it
would submit to the Board of Directors (para 4.03) for approval, so that they
could be integrated into the budget preparation exercise of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock, at the latest by the end of October. These esti-
mates would be prepared in the context of the annual work plans which would be
submitted to IDA for approval. It would be essential that OVAPAM have an
assured source of funds for its day-to-day operations. To replenish the
initial Phase I revolving fund and bring it to RF 30 million equivalent,
Government would contribute US$250,000 and maintain it at that level through-
out Project implementation (through reimbursements from the IDA Credit Account
and Government contributions); the amount of the Revolving Fund would be
reviewed annually and revised as necessary to reflect price increases.
Assurances regarding this fund were obtained during negotiations, and it would
be a condition of Credit effectiveness that the fund had been replenished. A
special revolving fund would be established to handle dipping materials and
veterinary medicines (para 3.06). Another revolving fund would be established
to handle marketing activities (para 3.09). The Government would borrow
US$500,000 under the IDA Project Preparation Facility, to finance the con-
struction of bridges and roads, seed multiplication centers and tree nurseries
in the Project area, and the marketing and the preliminary water supply
studies. Amounts disbursed would be reimbursed from the IDA Credit Account.
F. Procurement
3.24      For the supply of vehicles and equipment (about US$0.6 million)
and veterinary drugs and chemicals (about US$0.1 million), contracts exceed-
ing US$50,000 would be awarded after international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Contracts for vehicles, equipment, and



- 30 -
supplies costing less than US$50,000 and not exceeding a total of US$350,000
would be awarded following Government procurement procedures, which are
satisfactory, with the provision that quotations would be sought from all
suppliers represented in Rwanda who offer adequate guarantees of service and
supply of parts. Contracts for supplies such as veterinary products,
breeding material (cattle, artifical insemination straws, etc.), and seeds
(US$380,000), would be procured through international shopping or interna-
tional advertisement, civil works for housing, office, school, and health
center construction (about US$1.6 million) would be carried out by OVAPAM by
force account or in cooperation with local communities, or by local contrac-
tors following competitive bidding based on local advertisement. In view of
their size and remoteness, these works would be unlikely to attract interna-
tional bids. Implementation of the water supply component (about US$1.7
million) would be carried out by a qualified firm with experience in shallow
well construction in developing countries, preferably in Africa. The contract
would be awarded following international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank/IDA guidelines. Draft tender documents for all contracts equal to
or exceeding US$50,000, and for the water supply component, would be submitted
to IDA for approval before invitations to bid were issued. Full information
on proposed contracts valued at US$20,000 to US$50,000 would be submitted to
IDA for comment prior to award of the contract. Items financed under the EEC
Special Action Credit would be procured according to IDA procedures, but
limited to EEC and eligible countries. Assurances as to the above were
obtained at negotiations.
G. Disbursement
3.25      Funds from the Credit Account would be disbursed over four and a
half years on the following basis:
US$ '000
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures or 95%
of local expenditures for equipment,
materials, including veterinary
chemicals and medicines, and seeds,
and vehicles;                                      770
(b)  85% of the total cost of civil works
and infrastructure development;                    370
(c)  85% of the total cost of staff
salaries and other operating costs;              1,785
(d)  70% of local expenditures under the
agricultural credit fund;                          100



- 31 -
US$ '000
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures or 95%
of local expenditures for
i) technical services                         1,295
ii) technical assistance                         780
iii) water supply development                   1,970
(f)  Reimbursement of advance under the
project preparation facility;                     500
(g) An unallocated amount representing
a part of price contingencies on
the above categories and transfer-
able to them as appropriate.                    1,180
Total IDA Credit                               8_,750
3.26      Disbursements against (a), (b), (c), (e) and (f) would be fully
documented. Disbursements against (d) would be made against statements of
expenditure certified by the Project director and the administrative and
financial director. A full documentation would be retained by OVAPAM and made
available to IDA for inspection in the course of normal Project supervision.
An estimated schedule of IDA disbursements is given in Table 3.
H. Accounts and Audit
3.27      OVAPAM would maintain separate records and accounts adequate to
explain all Project activities. The accounts would be kept according to the
OCAM Accounting Plan as required by Rwandese Law for all public institu-
tions. For details of OVAPAM's accounts see para. 2.24. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that Government is having the Phase I accounts
audited by an auditor acceptable to the Association; the satisfactory comple-
tion of the audit is a condition of Credit effectiveness. Assurances were
also obtained at negotiations that the Phase II accounts would be yearly
audited by auditors acceptable to the Association, and that the audited
accounts together with the auditors' reaport would be submitted to IDA within
six months of the end of each fiscal yesar.
I. Environmenital Impact
3.28      Project investments and activiities would have a positive environ-
mental impact on the Mutara region. Exctension programs would encourage
farmers and pastoralists to adopt agricultural and animal husbandry practices
aimed at reducing soil erosion and dec:Lining soil fertility. This can be



- 32 -
achieved by planting live hedges and fodder grass strips, constructing cut-off
drains where necessary, practicing proper rotation using organic fertilizer,
and better pasture and herd management techniques, establishing tree-nurseries
and re-afforesting degraded areas. Further tse-tse control, development of
health facilities, and improved water supplies should significantly improve
health conditions in the Project area. The utilization of ground water for
wells would be quite limited and should not have any adverse impact on the
ecology; a proper system to monitor the water table fluctuations would be
established.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization and Management (Chart I)
4.01      As explained in para 1.02, Government has decided to maintain
OVAPAM, although it cannot be envisaged that OVAPAM will be self-financing
as required by law for parastatal companies. Government also indicated they
wanted OVAPAM's director to be a Rwandese national and that OVAPAM's head-
quarters be in Nyagatare. The receipt by IDA of Government's written con-
firmation on this was a condition of negotiations. A condition of effective-
ness would be that a on this Decree/Law had been issued, stating that OVAPAM
would not be expected to be self-financing during the Project period, and that
OVAPAM's headquarters would be in Nyagatare.
4.02      General Description:  Government would make the Office pour la
Valorisation pastorale et Agricole du Mutara - OVAPAM responsible for overall
Project implementation under a Subsidiary Agreement.  OVAPAM would be placed
under the umbrella of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.  The sig-
nature of the Subsidiary Agreement would be a condition of effectiveness.
Policy responsibility and control of implementation would be vested in the
Board of Directors of OVAPAM, and day-to-day Project implementation responsi-
bility would be vested in a Project director who would be internationally
recruited (para 3.19). The Project technical implementation would be de-
centralized into two Subprojects: a Paysannat Subproject and a Group Ranch
Subproject. A Beneficiaries Committee would handle allocation of plots and
Group Ranches. The Phase I Beneficiaries Committee did not function at all
well (see para 2.26), but the Committee would have new terms of reference,
defining its role more strictly and linking it to the Board of Directors, to
whom it would be accountable for its activities. Under its new terms of
reference, the Committee would review all awards of land proposed by the
extension service and would have the power of ratification over every such
award. The CIDA-financed Marshland Development Project would also report to
OVAPAM's Board of Directors, and have the same Beneficiaries Committee. Other
projects such as the Tobacco Project of the Ministry of Agriculture would have
their own directors and would also report to OVAPAM's Board of Directors.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the proposed organization
and terms of reference for key staff, that OVAPAM's Board of Directors would
be appointed, that the CIDA-financed Marshland Development Project and other



- 33 -
projects such as the Tobacco Project would report to OVAPAM's Board of
Directors and have their own directors, and that the Beneficiaries Committee
would be maintained in its revised form.
OVAPAM
4.03      Board of Directors.  The members of the Board of Directors would be
nominated by Presidential decree. ThLey would include (a) high ranking re-
presentatives from the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock, Finance,
Planning, and Social Affairs and Cooperatives; (b) the Prefet of Byumba
Prefecture; and c) one representative of the Beneficiaries under each Sub-
project. The Project Director and Subproject directors, and the director of
the CIDA-financed Marshland Developmetnt Project would participate on a con-
sultative basis in the meetings of the Board of Directors. The Board would
report to the Minister of Agriculture and Livestock. The Board would be
chaired by a high ranking official from the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock. The responsibilities of the Board of Directors would be (i) the
review and approval of the Project annual work plans, investment and operating
budgets (see para 4.08), (ii) the review and monitoring of progress in Project
implementation, (iii) the supervision, of the Beneficiaries Committee, (iv) the
coordination of the Phase Il Project with the Marshland Development Project,
including the review and approval of the latter's annual work plans and
budget. The Board of Directors would also be responsible for ensuring that
Government's development policies are implemented through the Project, and
for ensuring liaison between OVAPAM and the local authorities, and effective
coordination with IDA, CIDA and other cofinanciers. The Board of Directors
would meet at least once a quarter. The chairman would propose the date,
location and agenda for the meetings. Some meetings would be held in the
Project area, and would be followed by a field visit.  Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Government would not alter the composition
of the Board or its terms of reference without prior consultation with IDA.
4.04      Management Staff would include OVAPAM's director, the Project
director who would also be an agronomist/extension specialist, the two Sub-
project directors, assisted by a marketing adviser and by supporting staff and
general services.  OVAPAM's headquarters would be in Nyagatare (i.e. in the
Project area); a small liaison office would be maintained in Kigali (see para
4.05). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that changes in key staff
appointments would not take place during Project implementation without prior
approval by IDA.
a)   OVAPAM's Director, a Rwandese national, would be responsible to
OVAPAM's Board of Directors in respect of the full range of OVAPAM's activi-
ties. He would forward to the Board documents and technical proposals
prepared by the director of the projects under OVAPAM's jurisdiction, to-
gether with his comments thereon. He would ensure that the Board's decisions
and policies are implemented, and would liaise with the project directors,
with the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and with relevant institutions
such as cofinancers. He would be more specifically responsible for initiating
personnel recruitment procedures, and would cosign with the project directors
the documents related to junior personnel employment and management. He would



- 34 -
also cosign with them other documents e.g., order forms and procurement
documents.
b)   the Project Director, an agronomist/extension specialist, would be
recruited internationally, and his recruitment subject to IDA's approval,
would be a condition of effectiveness (para 3.19). He would be fully
responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the Project, including the
preparation of the annual workplans and budgets, the supervision of the
operation of the general services and of the Administrative and Financial
Department, and the technical implementation of the Project. He would consult
with the Director of OVAPAM and the Subproject directors on the annual work
programs and budgets, and on staff appointments. He would assist the sub-
project directors with the preparation and implementation of the extension and
training program for each Subproject, and with the coordination of these
programs with similar programs in other projects in Rwanda.
c)   The Sub-project Directors, Rwandese nationals, would head the
Paysannat and Group Ranch Subprojects respectively. They would be fully
responsible for the technical implementation of each Subproject, including
the management of extension and support staff at the field level, and co-
ordination with local authorities. They would be appointed by the Minister
of Agriculture and Livestock subject to IDA's approval; their appointment
was a condition of negotiations. They would report to the Project Director
on all aspects of Subproject performance, and would prepare the Subproject
annual work plans and budgets. They would also report to the Board of
Directors on the technical aspects of Subproject performance, and would
present the status of implementation of their respective Subprojects at the
meetings of the Board. Each Subproject director would have a small support
staff (secretary, accountant, and a marketing officer in the Paysannat). Head-
quarters for the Paysannat and Group Ranch sub-project would be respectively
located in Rukumo and Nyagatare. Each Subproject would be divided into exten-
sion sectors headed by A2 level agronomists or veterinarians; each sector
wou-ld include several sub-sectors each headed by an A3 level agronomist or an
A4 level veterinarian, and staffed with A3 or A4 level extension workers.
d)   The Marketing Specialist, an advisor to the Project director and
Subproject directors, would be responsible for preparing the implementation of
the marketing cormponent following the recommendations of the marketing study,
for training local staff in marketing activities, including market analysis,
contracts with buyers, storage management, and for supervising OVAPAM's ad
hoc livestock and crop purchase and sale activities. He would be recruited
internationally, and would report to the Project Director. His recruitment,
subject to IDA's approval, would be a condition of effectiveness. He would
be assisted by marketing staff in each Subproject.
4.05      General Services:  They would be located in Nyagatare, and would
comprise:
(a) The Office of OVAPAMWs Director which would include OVAPAM's
director and his secretary;



- :35 -
(b)  The Project Director's OffiLce which would include the Project
director, the marketing adviser, and support staff (a secretary,
draughtsmen, topographers, etc.).
(c)  The Administrative and Financial Department which would include
five sections: the Secretariat, the Personnel Section, the
Accounting Section, the Staff Store, and the Supplies Section.
The Department would be headed by an administrative and financial
director. His responsibilities would include, establishing the
operations of the Department, proposing budget management
guidelines and supervising the activities of each section. In
addition, he would be responsible for preparing and controlling
the budget, for the final preparation of the annual accounts,
and for the provision of a:Ll the information to the auditors.
He would be recruited loca:Lly, and his recruitment subject to
IDA's approval, would be a condition of effectiveness. However,
90 days after Credit effectiveness, the performance of the
administrative and financial department would be assessed, and
if necessary, an adviser to the administrative and financial
director would be recruited internationally for part or the
total duration of Project implementation; funds f'or an inter-
nationally recruited administrative and financial director have
been included in technical services.  He would report directly
to the Project director, but would be prepared to answer
questions from the Board oi Directors. He would be assisted by
a Deputy, who would also be the Personnel Officer. Assurances
on this were obtained during negotiations. The supplies
officer would be based in Kigali, but would constantly liaise
with Nyagatare.
(d)  The Support Services, are the garage, the carpentry shop, and
the building construction and maintenance section. The
garage will be headed by a Chief Mechanic, a Rwandese national.
However, provisions have been made for an internationally
recruited advisor as for the administrative and financial
director (para 4.05 (c)). He will report directly to the
Project director.
4.06      Staffing:  In total, 35 staff members would be required for
general services, and 127 for the extension services under the Subprojects,
of which 7 and 89 would need to be recruited. Of the additional extension
staff, 5 would be A2 level, 7 would be A3 level agronomists, and 47 would be
A4 agronomists and veterinarians (Schedule 1). Levels A3 and A4 represent a
fairly basic degree of training. A2 and A3 level staff will come from the
Butare and Kibuye schools of Agriculiture; A4 level agronomists or veteri-
narians have been trained under Phase I by OVAPAM and will be ready for per-
manent employment by July 1979. Assurances were be obtained at negotiations
that the staffing would be provided for by Government according to Schedule 1.
Pastoralists and farmers would be encouraged to form associations which would
take over responsibilities such as supervision of dipping tanks, weed control
and the marketing of crop surpluses.



- 36 -
Beneficiaries Committee
4.07      This Beneficiaries Committee would have the same composition as
under Phase I i.e. it would include the Byumba Prefect who would be the
Chairman, the Ngarama and Muvumba Bourgmestres, the Project and Subproject
directors, and representatives of the beneficiaries; in addition, the Project
director or his Rwandese deputy from the Marshland Development Project would
become members. The chairman would be responsible for calling the meetings
and proposing the agenda.  The beneficiaries ' representatives should be
elected by the beneficiaries themselves. The Committee's functions would be
extended from Phase I, but its power of delegation limited; it would report
to the Board of Directors of OVAPAM. It should review: (i) all allocation of
plots or group ranches, not only the cases under litigation; and (ii) bene-
ficiaries' compliance with their contract, not only plot or ranch allocations.
It would meet regularly once a month on a fixed day, to review all forthcoming
cases of plot allocation or compensation and would hold a special quarterly
meeting to review the beneficiaries' performance.  In no case, should the
decision making power on plot allocation and compensation be handed down to
OVPA24's management or extension staff or to the management of the Marshland
Development Project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
terms of reference of the beneficiaries would be duly revised in a Ministerial
Decree.
Coordination
4.08 a)   With Local Authorities: would be assured mainly through the
Technical Committee and the Development Council of the Communes. The Sub-
project directors would participate in the meetings to inform them of their
forthcoming programs, and to report on the progress of Project implementation.
In addition, the Project staff would closely work with the Communes in the
context of the Umuganda works for the construction works under some Project
components (schools, health centers, etc.).
b)   With Other Projects:  the Project management will coordinate the
Phase Il Project activities with the Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo project for
training and extension related activities, and with the Nyabisindu Project for
the technical aspects of the mixed farming Project component. Coordination
with other projects would also be established through the project directors'
Committee recently established within the Ministry of Agriculture and Live-
stock. This Committee is supposed to meet three times a year, and be a forum
for exchanging experiences between projects. The Secretary General of Agri-
culture is responsible for calling the meetings.
c) With Other Institutions: the Project management would ensure
coordination and contacts with other Government institutions as appropriate,
in particular with ISAR for all the research and experimental aspects of the
Project, with OPROVIA for all the marketing aspects, with the Ministry of
Health for the health component, and with the Ministry of Education for the
school component.



- 37 -
Annual Workplans
4.09      The system of annual workplans and budgets elaborated in the
context of the Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo project would be adopted for the
implementation of the Phase II Project.  The objective would be to facilitate
a full annual review of progress in Project implementation by Government and
IDA, and to make possible modificatiLons or adjustments of the Project as ex-
perience is gained. The workplans would be prepared by the Project manage-
ment; Subproject directors would be responsible for preparing the draft
workplan and budget for their respective Subprojects. After being discussed
by the Board of Directors the workplans would be submitted to IDA for approval.
Plans would be formulated following consultation with the local population,
namely the Communal Development CourLcils, to encourage full participation in
the project by the local population. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that a) the workplans and budgets would be submitted to IDA for
its review and approval not later than November 1 of the year preceding the
period covered by the workplan; b) before approving the livestock development
program in the workplans, the preconditions detailed in para. 3.07 have been
met; c) the pasture improvement, breeding, and marketing marketing programs
of the Technical Support Center detailed in para 3.08 are fully documented;
d) the marketing program detailed in para 3.09 is fully documented and the
marketing study has been completed; and e) each work plan is signed by the
Director of OVAPAM to certify approval by OVAPAM's Board of Directors.
It would be a condition of effectiveness that the first work plan (for July-
December 1979) had been submitted to and approved by IDA.
Proiect Mid-Implementation Review
4.10      As requested by the Government during the appraisal, a joint mission
by Government and IDA would do an in-depth review of the Project after the
first two years of implementation. The objectives would be:
(a) to assess the institutional, managerial and technical
performance of the Project so far, including whether OVAPAM
can be maintained as a Regional Development Authority or
parastatal company which would be responsible for the
long-term development of the region; and whether the
technical approach taken for agricultural and livestock
development is proving adequate;
(b)  to decide whether to include some further activities into
the latter part of the Project, such as agricultural credit,
milk marketing, improved seeds, bulling centers, etc.;
(c) to assess the needs for further project phases and project
preparation, and to decide on the technical orientation
which should be adopted for further project preparation; and
(d)  to assess the system of veterinary fees (paras 3.05-3.06),
and water fees (para 3.12)..



- 38 -
4.11      Criteria for including new activities and preparing further phases
would be:
(a) the progress achieved to date with the implementation of
the priority activities in the extension program, and the
rate of adoption of the technical package by farmers and
pastoralists;
(b) the availability of sufficiently trained staff;
(c)  the extent to which Communes and participants had actively
participated in the Project;
(d) the rate of occupancy and population growth in the area;
and
(e) the progress made by Government in defining a development
strategy for the region, including the development of the
marshlands and the Hunting Reserve.
Assurances were obtained from Government at negotiations that the Project
Mid-Implementation Review would take place no later than August 31, 1981, and
that Government would prepare a preparatory report for it (para. 4.14).
B. Project Implementation Schedule
4.12      The Project would be implemented over a period of about four years
beginning July 1, 1979, when the Phase I is completed. The Government was
encouraged during Credit negotiations to begin promptly with project start-
up activities, namely with the preparation of annual workplans and budgets,
the recruitment of internationally recruited staff, road repair and bridge
construction and with the construction of the few additional houses needed in
the Project area and the establishment tree nurseries and seed multiplication
centers, to avoid subsequent implementation delays. A Project Implementation
Schedule is included as Chart II.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.13      Internal Monitoring and Evaluation.  Internal monitoring and
evaluation activities would be an integral part of the extension programs to
be implemented under each Subproject. The Project Director who would also be
an agronomist/extension Specialist would train staff in making a sample
analysis of participants in order to monitor their adoption of, and adjustment
to, the technical package, and to develop progressively a data base for the
Mutara necessary for the preparation of future project phases. Regular
reporting by senior Project staff on Project progress and activities would
also be established; once a month for sub-sector and sector chiefs, once a



- 39 -
quarter for Subproject directors, and twice a year for the Project Director.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a consolidated semi-annual
Project Report would be submitted to IDA within one month of the close of each
six-month period.
4.14      Project Monitoring by the Studies and Projects Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock would be one of its priority tasks in.
the strengthening of the Division (see para 3.18). The Division would
analyse the data collected and reports prepared by Project staff and focus
on key project performance variables, including management and the Project
economic costs and benefits. It would also monitor sectoral variables such as
labor, agricultural or livestock prices, their impact on beneficiaries, and the
adoption of the proposed technical package. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Studies and Projects Division would submit its proposed
monitoring and evaluation program to IDA within the first year of Project
implementation, i.e. no later than June 1980. Assurances were obtained that
as part of its monitoring activities, the Division would prepare a preparatory
report for the mid-implementation review (para 4.10).
4.15      Proiect Completion Report.  As part of its monitoring activities,
the Studies and Projects Division of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
would prepare a Project Completion Report, summarizing the project perform-
ance and evaluating its successes and problems. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that this report would be submitted to IDA not later than
six months after the expected closing date (i.e. December 1983).
V. AGRICULTLURAL PRODUCTION
A. Technical Features
Integrated Crop and Livestock Production
5.01      Given the limitations on farmers' know-how and resources, the
technical improvements proposed under the Project would be integrated into
their traditional farming system basesd on multiple intercropping, crop and
plot rotation, and fallowing.  Measures to strengthen this system and make
maximum use of the natural vegetative growth potential of the farms and
maintain soil fertility would be: planting of fodder strips for anti-erosion
protection and fodder production; mu:Lti-level farming to limit evapotranspira-
tion and use the various soil strata; the planting of mucuna and such grasses
on fallow to regenerate the soil humus; organic fertilizer production and use
from compost and manure; and complete integration of on-farm livestock breeding
from fodder production and stallfeed-ing. These measures would be supported by
the strengthening of extension services, the provision of technical inputs and
the development of supporting services such as multiplication plots, nurseries,
crop seed research, and marketing.
5.02      Five farm models have been developed to illustrate the progression
of the recommended technical package: a farm (Model I A) before development,



- 40 -
i.e. at the beginning of the Phase II Project; a farm (Model I B) without
technical improvement after ten years; a farm (Model Il) which would adopt
anti-erosion fodder strips, compost production, and cultivated fallow as its
major technical improvements; a farm (Model III) which would adopt all three
measures plus permanent stallfeeding of three goats or ewes and their off-
springs; a farm (Model IV) which would adopt all first three measures, and in
addition would cultivate some fodder to stall feed a cow plus a calf, instead
of stall-feeding small stock; and a farm (Model V) which would stall feed two
steers instead of a cow plus a calf.  All farms are 2 ha plots, which is
representative of most crop farms in the Mutara; cultivation plots on Group
Ranches are of 1.50 ha only, but are meant solely for subsistence crops. For
analytical purposes, crops have been presented on a pure crop basis in all
models. In practice, farmers would continue practising multiple intercropping;
they would also make their own adjustments, depending on the slope of their
plot, soil composition, altitude, available family labor, and their initial
resources, family traditions, and needs. For models II-V, full family nut-
rition has been assumed.
5.03      With the Project, crop yields are expected to remain at least at
their current level (Models II - compost, and III - smallstock), or to increase
at 0.5% per annum (Models IV and V - cattle). Without the Project, they would
decrease at about 2.5% p.a. For analytical purpose, yields have been compared
after ten years of the Project, and are summarized below.
Farm Model               Farm Model-After 10 vears
IA          IB          II      III       IV          V
Without Pro-      No
ject before   technical              Small                Two
Development  Improvement  Compost  Stock  Cow + Calf  Steers
-------------------------kg/ha------------------------------
Bananas                8,500        6,950           8,500                 8,935
Sweet Potatoes         7,000        5,500           7,000                 7,360
Manioc                10,000        7,800          10,000                10,510
Maize                  1,000          780           1,000                 1,050
Beans                    700          550             700                   735
Peas                     800          625             800                   840
Groundnuts             1,000          780           1,000                 1,050
Squash                10,000        7,800          10,000                10,510
Sorghum                1,000          780           1,000                 1,050
5.04      Crop yields are expected to remain constant because of humus
regeneration, or increase with the Project, largely from the following
husbandry practices: (a) use of organic fertilizer: 3.5 tons under Models
II and III, 6-9 tons (and better quality) under Models IV and V; (b) cul-
tivated fallow which produces 10-15 cm of organic matter; (c) improved
cultivation techniques, including erosion control, more timely planting;
mulching and simplification of associations; and (d) selection of planting
material.  As the farm models illustrate the progression of the technical
package rather than alternatives or options, it is expected that only farmers
owning some livestock or with some capital, would adopt the livestock models;
most farmers would adopt part of the technical package. It has been estimated



- 41 -
that after ten years, about 60% of beneficiaries under the Paysannat Sub-
project will have adopted most of the measures under Model I, and another 10%
and 14% will have adopted most of the measures under Models III and IV or V
respectively. A minority of beneficiaries, 16%, would continue with their
traditional techniques. Most of the Group Ranches (80%), would use cattle
manure as organic fertilizer for thebir cultivation plots as it is already
readily available from night kraals.
5.05      Livestock production woulcl also increase in the mixed farming
area from both improved nutrition with the use of fodder production and
mineral supplementation and from improved animal health as a result of the
use of sprays and medicines.  No significant increase in livestock density
in mixed farming areas is expected, as farmers who are most likely to adopt
stall-feeding of smallstock or cattle are those who already own some.
Ranch Livestock Production
5.06      Given the current degeneraLtion of about one-third of the rangeland
available for cattle ranching in the Mutara, the precarious animal health
environment and prevailing animal husbandry practices, a three-fold approach
for livestock development would be followed:  (a) range regeneration from
herd destocking, weed eradication, and reseeding; (b) animal health improve-
ment, from compulsory dipping, veterinary treatments, and tse-tse eradication;
and (c) production intensification from improved animal nutrition (pasture
management and fodder cultivation), and improved herd management. These
measures would be supported by the E'roject-financed range regeneration
program, the development of efficient animal production and veterinary
services, and the development of such supporting services as those provided
by the Technical Support Center, and marketing services.
5.07      Two herd models have been developed, representing the herd of Zone
t covering 7,100 ha where range degradation is most critical (60-80% weed es-
tablishment; current carrying capacity of 3.5 ha/A.U.); and the herd of
Zone II and III covering 6,630 ha and 14,110 ha respectively, where range
degradation is less pronounced (30-60% weed establishment in Zone II, 20-25%
in Zone III); current carrying capacity of 2.0 ha/A.U. in Zone II, 1.8-2.0
ha/A.U. in Zone III). The following; assumptions for the situation after ten
years have been made and compared ta the situation at the end of Phase I.
Zone I                 Zones II and III
End of                      End of
Phase I   After 10 years   Phase I After 10 vears
Area (ha)                            7,100                         20,740
Herd numbers (head)           6,045          3,933         12,876          16,621
Total A.U /a                  5,279          3,434         11,245          14,516
Stocking rate (ha/AU)             1.34           2.06           1.84            1.43
Calving rate (%)                 60             62             60              62
Culling rate (%)                  8             13              8              13
Calf mortality rate (%)          25             16             25              16
Adult mortality rate (%)          6              5              6               5
Extraction rate (%)              il             18             il              17
/a   One animal unit being defined as one Unite de Betail Tropical,
corresponding to one head of adult cattle weighing 250 kg.



- 42 -
B. Producer Benefits
Paysannat Subproject
5.08      An estimated 9,900 farm-families would receive direct assistance
under the Project over four years, of which 8,400 are in the Paysannat, and-
another 1,500 in the zone of extension. All participants would have the
usufruct of a plot averaging 2 ha. After ten years, which is the time
period deemed adequate to fully implement the best elements of the technical
package (full-time stall-feeding of cattle), participants would be at
various stages of implementation of the technical package as illustrated by
the following farm models:
---------------Farm Models after 10 Years------------
IB         IB         Il       III         IV          V
No
Without  Technical              Small                    Two
Project Improvement Compost   Stock   Cow + Calf   Steers
(1) No. of Farms              9,887      1,582    5,932        989         692        692
(2) Gross value
of production            29,276    29,276   46,718   52,900        52,334    65,342
(3) Increase in (2)
over LB (%)                              0      59.6     80.7         78.8     123.2
(4) Value of pro-
duction net of
physical inputs          28,000    28,000   44,859   49,756        49,086    48,558
(5) Increase in (4)
Over IB(M)                               0      60.2      77.7        75.3       73.4
(6) Return to
labor
(RF/manday)                  61          61       69       72           76        75
(7) Increase in (6)
Over IB (%)                              0      13.1      18.0         24.6      23.0
Projected increases in net farm incomes are substantial, and result from
increases in cultivated area, from maintaining soil fertility, and from main-
taining or increasing yields.
Group Ranch Subproject
5.09      An estimated 1,000 families of livestock breeders would receive
direct assistance under the Project. There is no typical individual herd.
However, the average herd size per participant would increase from about 20 to



- 43 -
22 head, when the overall herd is sitabilized by year 11. It would include 40%
of calves 24 months old, and 60% of adults. Gross income from the herd would
increase from about RF 17,000 a year before the Project to RF 41,000 at full
development, and net income from RF 16,700 to RF 34,000.  Incremental gross
and net income would amount to RF 31,800 and RF 25,500 although this figure
would only be representative of the average herd in Zones II and III. Because
of the current difference in grazing availability between Zone I and Zone II
and Zones II and III, without the Project most of the cattle from Zone I and
some from Zone II (about 10,000 head total) would have to leave the area, if
not the country. In addition to the income from the herd, the average Group
Ranch family cultivating subsistencea crops would have an estimated increase in
net income amounting to RF 24,400.
C.  Production Estimates
5.10      Incremental production at Project year 10 is summarized below:
Crops                 Paysaanat      Group Ranches      Total
=----------------(tons)--------------
Bananas                    2,686              -            2,686
Sweet Potatoes             3,244           1,106           4,350
Manioc                       251              78             329
Maize                         81              23             104
Beans                        910             314           1,224
Peas                         121              40             160
Groundnuts                 1,710              -            1,710
Squash                       139              46             185
Sorghum                      509             173             682
Beef                          57              207            264
Milk (hectolitres)                         17,000         17,000
5.11      These increases in production are worthwhile if weighed against
Rwanda's production of basic food products and growing population. The ranch
herd would increase from 19,000 head to 20,500 head. This increase may appear
small in absolute terms but herd productivity would be substantially increased,
sustaining an annual extraction rate of 17%, and 7,100 ha of range land would
have been either recovered or saved from degradation and maintained available
for grazing.
VI. GOVERNMENT BENEFITS
6.01      Cost of agricultural, animal production and veterinary extension
services would be covered through increased tax revenues, not directly from
participants as such services are normally provided free of charge. Govern-
ment has been considering introducing a special tax or tax surcharge in areas
benefitting from intensive Government-financed development programs; no



- 44 -
specific proposals have yet been formulated. Costs for certain investments
like seed multiplication fields, tree nurseries, reafforestation, schools and
health centers, and road maintenance would be partly recovered from parti-
cipants and local communities who would contribute labor. Costs of veterinary
services would be partly recovered as participants would pay for drugs and
chemicals (para 3.05 and 3.06). Costs of marketing services would be recovered
from sales of crops and livestock (para 3.09). Investment and maintenance of
water jupply would be recovered from participants through a water charge of
RF 5/m (see para. 3.12). A government cash flow is included as Table 5.
VII.  MARKETS AND PRICES
7.01      After ten years, an estimated 15% of the total value of incremental
production would be marketed through existing traditional channels (para
1.16). Most of the crop surpluses would be sold to supply other parts of
Rwanda, thereby reducing reliance on imports from abroad. If the oilseed
processing capacity develops, the Project could usefully organize groundnut
collection and temporary storage at a fee for the processing company. Most of
the livestock would be marketed at Nyagatare to supply the Kigali market, or
other parts of Rwanda, although some cattle would continue to be exported
(illegally) to Zaire on the hoof. The Project would assist with the develop-
ment of the market for breeding animals and immatures to supply mixed farming
areas or fattening ranches.
7.02      Prices obtained by producers aided by the Project are not expected
to be higher than pre-development prices as improvements in marketing,
Project and on-farm storage facilities are expected to be slow; most of the
produce would continue to be sold at harvest time. Coordination would
however be established with other marketing projects and institutions,
namely the USAID-financed GRENARWA (para 1.22).
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The proposed Project would arrest the rapid degradation of soils
in the Mutara and introduce soil conservation measures. Not only would
erosion and declining fertility cease, but land would be recovered and the
production potential of the Project area increased or enhanced by rising
yields of subsistence crops and livestock products. Without the Project
these yields are expected to drop seriously. The value of annual incremental
production is estimated at about US$1.8 million at full development (Year
10). Additional benefits which have not been fully quantified would include
the development of social services (water supply, schools, health centers);
the preservation of Rwanda's wildlife which is a potential foreign exchange
earner; the production of firewood and construction wood from reafforestation;
the development of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock capacity to
better monitor the overall agricultural sector, to better monitor projects
under implementation, and to prepare new projects. The participation of
local authorities, staff, farmers, and pastoralists in the development effort



- 45 -
in Mutara would be of crucial importance to the further development of the
region.
8.02      The economic rate of return from directly productive elements of
the Phase II Project is estimated at about 14% over 20 years (Table 4).  All
project investments and operating costs which relate directly to expected
increases in production were included in the analysis; the costs and benefits
of social infrastructure, water supplies, and part of technical services
(studies, half of monitoring and project preparation) were excluded from the
analysis; benefits from the technicaLl services are principally intended to
assist in the design of future development projects in Mutara or elsewhere in
Rwanda; benefits would therefore largely accrue in future projects. For all
investment works the cost of unskilled labor was valued at the prevailing rate
of RF 100 per day. All farm labor was considered to be family labor whether
provided by the participants' direct family, extended family, or through other
social relations (see para. 2.16). All commodities except for groundnuts
were considered as non-tradable. Fcreign exchange costs and benefits were
valued at RF 114.40 per US$1, to reflect the scarcity value of foreign
exchange. Prices used in calculations of benefits are 1978 prices for food
crops and livestock products taking into account regional and seasonal
fluctuations. The rate of return was tested for sensitivity: a 10% increase
in investment and operating costs would lower the internal rate of return by
2 percentage points to 12%; a 10% increase in costs and a 10% decrease in
yields would lower the rate of return by 5 percentage points to 9%.
The rate of return was also tested for other variables.
(a)  If maize, beans and beef were considered as tradable
commodities in addition to groundnuts, the rate of return
would increase by 1 percentage point to 15%.
(b)  If the rate of adoption of the technical package levelled
off after 10 years, the rate of return would decrease by
1 percentage point to 13%.
(c)  If the water supply costs were included, the rate of return
would decrease by 4 percentage points to 10%.
(d)  If hired labor has to be used instead of family labor beyond
the direct family labor available and is valued at RF 100
per day, the rate of return would drop by 9 percentage
points to 5%; if such hired labor is valued at RF 50 per day,
the rate of return would drop by 4 percentage points to 10%.
(e)  If the cost of all unskilled labor for investments is shadow
priced at RF 50 per day, or at RF 150 per day i.e. 50% and
150% of the current wage rate in the area, the rate of
return would be 15% and 13% respectively.
(f) If the costs of the Phase I project are included, the rate
of return would decrease by 7 percentage points to 7%.



- 46 -
(g) If yields increased by 10% the rate of return would increase
by 2 percentage points to 16%.
(h) If benefits were lagged by one, two, and three years, the
rate of return would be 11%, 8%, and 6% respectively.
It should, however, be emphasized that the economic analysis entails many
uncertainties, was made with a very poor data base, and without reliable
information on yields, on the impact of extension services, on the
adoption rates for new techniques, and possible decrease in soil
fertility.
Risks
8.03      The Project involves very substantial risks.  The most important
are:
a)   participants' rate of adoption of the mixed farming technical
package.  Although the proposed technical package is extremely simple and
aims to integrate as far as possible farmers' current know-how and practices
with improved cultivation techniques, farmers' rate of adoption will largely
depend on the effectiveness of the extension services. Results are not
immediate and farmers may get discouraged. Another possible constraint to
the rate of adoption of the technical package is the hard-to-predict labor
supply to the farm. The prevailing socio-economic system in Mutara, and in
Rwanda at large, offers guarantees at present that sufficient labor will be
available at no financial cost to the farmer, or economic cost to the country.
However, if this socio-economic environment is disrupted, the risks are high
that not enough labor would be available, and therefore the Project benefits
would not be attained. It is unlikely that a farmer would hire labor at the
prevailing wage rate. In this context, Government should carefully weigh the
pros and cons of allowing or forbidding more than one or two households per
plot. The incremental returns to labor may also not be a sufficient incentive
for the farmer to invest more labor in the proposed farm development techniques,
although his nutritional benefits would be high. To override these risks, the
Project is designed to i) focus on extension services and to give them full
logistical and technical support, and ii) have all these variables monitored
during implementation by OVAPAM and the Studies and Projects Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, and fully reviewed during the Project
Mid-Implementation Review.
b)   The difficulty of successfully implementing the cattle destocking
program in Group Ranches: not only do pastoralists have a tradition of
large herds, and of not selling stock unless to meet cash needs, but parti-
cipants' initial reservations from the Phase I project have not fully dis-
appeared. The Project staff will need much tact and assiduity to convince
farmers to sell their unproductive cattle. To support them the Project has
envisaged paying a bonus for all cows and heifers sold under the Project
control. It must also be said that the chances of successful destocking may
be higher in Mutara than in other pastoral areas (or countries) as livestock
breeders are aware of the shortage of land in Rwanda and of range degradation.



- 47 -
c)   The difficulty in implemerLting the range improvement program.  Again,
it will require a very sound organization and full Government support. Full
labor costs have been included in th,e Project and if group ranch participants
do not meet their share of pasture improvement, Government should be prepared
to find the necessary incentives, e.g. pay for the labor, distribute fodder.
d)   Management:  from the Phase I project experience, the risks are
still high of having management difficulties, mostly because of the limited
management capacity available in the! country. An effort was made in the
design of the Phase II Project to eliminate the major stumbling blocks of
the Phase I: the respective terms of reference of OVAPAM4's director and of
the Project director have been fully defined and integrated in the loan
documents; the Subproject implementation responsibilities have been decen-
tralized, the Board of Directors and the Beneficiaries Committee strengthened
to control Project implementation; and finally, the Project has been integrated
in the country's administrative structure.
While these risks are more immediate to Project implementation, one should not
overlook other long-term risks such as the increasing competition of agriculture
with extensive livestock ranching when land is already scarce, and the continued
population growth which is likely to exacerbate competition for the scarce
resources still available in Mutara. To overcome these risks, it is assumed
in the Project design that the Phase II Project will be followed by further
phases which would continue the proposed program of intensification of agricul-
tural and livestock production, and for which Project preparation funds have
been included.  It is also expected that in the long-term Government will
progressively make more land from the Hunting Reserve available for development.
Further overriding these risks are (a) the urgent need to start implementing
measures in Rwanda which will permit recovery and maintenance of the country's
production potential in the long term. The proposed technical package is a
start; it will need to be further developed, in particular with the introduc-
tion of chemical fertilizer, in order to intensify production and increase
productivity to cope with population growth. (b) A large number of families
would benefit from improved nutrition and cash incomes. (c) Such a Project
does sustain the overall Government development effort; if successful, it can
be replicated and extended to the neighboring Communes, even replicated in
other parts of the country. The proposed approach is simple but can have a
very significant impact for Rwanda's food production challenge.
Income Distribution and Employment
8.04      An estimated 65,000 people would directly benefit from the Project,
from increased cash income and subsistence production, and from increased
social services. For farm families, the net value of production, including
self-consumption, would range from US$305 to US$528 per annum; of this about
US$15-46 would represent the increase in cash income. For pastoral families,
the net income from the herd would reach on average US$370 per annum, of which
US$270 would represent an increase in cash income. This compares to the
estimated 1976 GNP per capita of US$110 or US$660 per family. The Project
would also create many employment opportunities. As the Project would be
labor intensive an estimated 500 persons would have been employed during the



- 48 -
construction period; and after ten years, an estimated 3,300 would be perma-
nently employed as farm labor. Given the complex social and institutional
environment prevailing, benefits cannot be expected to be equally distributed
between all participants. But the majority of the participants, formerly land
deprived people, would be better off.
IX. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED ON CREDIT CONDITIONS
9.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
Issues:
(a) Government would consult with IDA before entering into any
commitments or arrangements with the Marshland Development
Project or other possible projects which might affect the
Project area (para 3.04);
(b) Payment by participants for dipping and other veterinary services
and medicines, into a Revolving Fund and the annual review of
veterinary fees (paras 3.05 and 3.06);
(c) Preconditions to project purchase of crops and livestock
(para 3.09) would be that:
(i)   these purchase operations be restricted to emergency
situations;
(ii) contracts with buyers have been established; and
(iii) costs of these services be fully recovered from sales of
crops and livestock;
(d) Construction and operation of schools (para 3.10):
(i) construction would be coordinated with, and according
to the standards of, the Ministry of Education which
would provide for the teachers and other operating costs.
(e) Construction of health centers (para 3.11):
(i) construction would be coordinated with, and according
to the standards of, the Ministry of Health which
provides for staff and other operating costs.
(f) Construction of water supply scheme (para 3.12):
(i)  the water demand from beneficiaries installed under
the CIDA-financed Marshland Development Project would
be taken into account in the final design of the water
supply scheme; and



- 49 -
(ii)  a water charge of about RF 5/m  to cover maintenance and
depreciation would be collected from users by OVAPAM and
reviewed annually.
(g)  The share of project operating cost financing by Government,
local authorities or beneficiaries would increase throughout
the Project Implementation period, to aim at 100% financing
of such costs by July 1, 1983 (para 3.22).
(h) Funds for the Project would be made available to OVAPAM as
a subsidy; a Project revolving fund account would be established
under the control of the Project director and the administrative
and financial director, to which Government would credit its
contribution once a year after the budget approval, not later
than February 28; and the revolving fund would be maintained
at RF 30.0 million and reviewed annually.
(i) Procurement arrangements for the Project (para 3.24).
(j) Phase II accounts would be audited by auditors acceptable to
IDA, and audited accounts and the auditor's report would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal
year (para 3.27).
(k) Project organization and management, including:
(i) the Project implementation responsibility under OVAPAM,
a parastatal company responsible for all projects in the
Mutara Region; each project having its own director and
staff and reporting to OVAPAM's Board of Directors
(para 4.02);
(ii) the composition and terms of reference of OVAPAM's
Board of Directors (para 4.03);
(iii)  the appointment and terms of reference of key staff,
namely the Director of OVAPAM, the project director
(internatinally recruited), the Subproject directors,
the marketing adviser (internationally recruited),
and the chief mechanic (para 4.04);
(iv) the provision of internationally recruited advisers
to the administrative and financial director and
to the chief mechanic if necessary (para 4.05); and
(v)  the composition and terms of reference of the
Beneficiaries Committtee (para 4.07).



- 50 -
(1) Annual workplans:
(i)  Workplans, including budgets would be submitted to IDA
for its review and approval not later than November 1 of
the year preceding the period covered by the workplan
(para 4.09).
(ii)  Before approving the livestock work program, the following
preconditions have been met: the ranching zone has been
restricted to the cattle already in the area; the cattle
has been redistributed according to the relative carrying
capacity of the various zones; 3,000 ha of marshland have
been guaranteed for grazing for at least five years, from
the hills of Cyenjojo and Kabare to the north of the Project
Area; and the pasture improvement program on 1,500 ha and
the elimination of 500 head of cattle, planned for the end
of Phase I has been completed (paras 3.07 and 4.09).
(iii)   The pasture improvement, steer fattening, and breeding
programs would be fully elaborated and documented (paras
3.08 and 4.09);
(iv) The marketing program would be fully elaborated and docu-
mented and that the marketing study has been completed
(paras 3.09 and 4.09); and
(v)  Each workplan is signed by OVAPAM's director to certify
approval by OVAPAM's Board of Directors (para 4.09).
(m) A Project mid-Implementation Review between Government and IDA
would take place after the first two years of Project
Implementation, no later than August 31, 1981 (paras 4.10
and 4.11).
(n)  Reporting requirements:  Government would submit to IDA, the
semi-annual Projects reports within one month of the close
of each six-month period (para 4.13).
(o)  The Studies and Project Division of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock would:
(i)  submit to IDA its proposed monitoring and evaluation
program, no later than June 1980, (para 4.14);
(ii) prepare a Project Mid-Implementation Review Report
(para 4.14); and
(iii) prepare a Project Completion Report and submit it to IDA
no later than six months after the expected closing date,
December 1983 (para 4.15).



- 51 -
(n) Government would provide staff in line with the provisions
of Schedule 1, as that schedule is modified from time to time.
9.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a)  the recruitment of technical assistance (para 3.19);
(b)  the cofinancing agreement between the EEC and the Government
of Rwanda has been signed (para 3.22);
(c)  the payment of Government "s initial contribution of US$250,000
equivalent to the Project Revolving Fund (para 3.23);
(d) the completion of the audit of Phase I accounts (para. 3.27);
(e) the Decree/Law about OVAPAI's obligations has been issued
(para 4.01);
(f) the subsidiary agreement between Government and OVAPAM has
been signed (para 4.02);
(g)  the Ministerial Decree defining the terms of reference of the
Beneficiaries Committee has been issued (para 4.07); and
(h)  the first workplan has been submitted to and approved by IDA
(para 4.09);
9.03      Conditions of disbursements from the IDA Credit Account would be:
(a) against water supply gravity systems, that prior approval
of such systems has been obtained (para 3.12);
(b) against agricultural credit, that the agricultural credit
study has been completed (para 3.15).
9.04      A condition of disbursement from the EEC Special Action Credit
Account against the construction of health centers would be that Government
has obtained that an organization such as UNICEF will provide the initial
stock of medicines and supplies and train the staff for these health centers
(para 3.11).
9.05      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed Project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$8.75 million to the Government of Rwanda
on standard IDA terms.



- 52 -
RWANDA
MUTARA ACRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II                   PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT AGR«OPASTORAL AU MUTARA - PHASE Il
Proposed Staffing for the Proiect                                           Personnel proposé pour le projet
Posts filled/  Posts to be          Total staff
Postes           filled under    Required/
remplis          Project/Postes  Total personnel
à remplir pour requis
le projet
Paysannat Sub Project                                                                                       Sous Projet Paysannat
Director Sub Project                 (Ai)                   1                 -                  1          Directeur sous projet
Sector Chiefs                        (A2)                  2                  4                  6          Chefs de secteur
Sub Sector Chiefs                    (A3)                  6                  7                 13          Chefs de sous secteur
Extension Workers                    (A3/A4)               -                 42                 42          Moniteurs
Support Staff                                              l                 10                 il         Personnel de soutien
Sub Total                                               10                 63                 73              Total partiel
Livestock Sub Project                                                                                       Sous Projet Elevage
Director Sub Project                 (Ai)                   1                -                   1          Directeur sous projet
Secretariat                                                -                 2                   2          Secrétariat
Agrostologist                         (Ai)                  1                -                   1          Agrostologue
Sector Chiefs                        (A2)                  4                 1                   5          Chefs de secteur
Sub Sector Chiefs                    (A3/A4)               1                 5                   6          Chefs de sous secteur
Veterinary Assistants                (A4)                   5                4                   9          Assistants vétérinaires
Dip/Vet Center Attendants                                 14                13                  27          gardiens centresavet. et dips
Support Staff                                              2                 1                   3          Personnel de soutien
Sub Total                                              28               26                  54               Total partiel
General Services                                                                                            Services Généraux
Project Director                                            1                -                   1          Directeur de projet
Director's Office                                           3                -                   3          Bureau du directeur
Secretariat                                                4                 1                   5          Secretariat
Administrative & Financial                                                                                  Directeur administratif &
Director                                                  1                 -                   1           financier
Personnel Section                                          1                 _                   1          Section Personnel
Accounting Section                                         3                -1                   2          Section Comptabilité
Staff Store                                                -                 1                   1          Magasin du Personnel
Supplies Section                                           1                 -                   1          Section approvisionnements
Chief Mechanic                                             1                 -                   1          Chef mécanicien
Garage                                                     5                -1                   4          Garage
Carpentry Shop                                             -                 1                   i          Menuiserie
General Support Staff                                                                                       Personnel de soutien
(drivers, watchmen)                                      10                 5                  15          (chauffeurs, surveillants)
Marketing Advisor                                          -                 1                   1          Conseiller an commercialisation
Sub Total                                              30                l                   37               Total partiel
T O T A L                                   68                96                 164                T O T A L
May 25, 1979
le 25 mai 1979



RWANDA
MUTARA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE I                                   PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT AGROPASTORAL AU MUTARA - PHASE I
Total Costs                                                                                              Coiuts totaux
(RF'000)                                                                                     (en milliers de francs rwandais)
Appraisal estimates/
Estimations
1974          1975        1976        1977        1978/79 a/  Total       évaluation
Paysannat                                                                                                                                 Paysannat
Investments                          705          2,611       5,187       6,138      33,179       47,820            46,400                Investissements
Operating Costs                                      727      1,250       2,092       8,579       12,648            15,800                Frais de fonctionnement
Sub-total                         705          3,338       6,437       8,230      41,758       60,468            62,200                     Total partiel
Group Ranch - I                                                                                                                           Ranches collectifs - I
Investments                          509          4,428       6,326       5,267      26,788       43,318            63,600                Investissements
Operating Costs                       110          1,071      3,501       4,565       12,006       21,253            55,000               Frais de fonctionnement
Sub-total                         619          5,499       9,827       9,832        38,794     64,571           118,600                     Total partiel
General Ranches - I                                                                                                                       Ranches généraux - I
Investments                            -          1,143       1,958         513       14,655      18,269              4,000               Investissements
Operating Costs                        -             -          368         449        1,527        2,344             2,900               Frais de fonctionnement
Sub-total                           -          1143        2326          962       16,182      20613               6,900                     Total partiel
General Services - I                                                                                                                       Services généraux - I
Investments                         3,821         17,121     15,297       6,465       26,870       69,574            33,500                Investissements
Operating Costs                       794         28,112     32,632      29,222       38,997      129,757           109,900                Frais de fonctionnement
Sub-total                       4,615         45,233      47,929        35,687     65,867     199,331            143,400                     Total partiel
Tse Tse Eradication                    -              55         916      2,263          -          3,234            24,500               Eradication tsé tsé
Total                          5,939        ~55268       67,435      56,974      162,601     348.217            356,200                    Total
Total Investments                                                                             1R2, 215                                      Total investissements
Total Operating Costs                                                                         166,002                                       Total frais de fonctionnement
Total                                                                                         3482l7                                        Total
a/  Budgeted                                                                                                                      a/  Previsions budgetaires
May 25, 1979                                                                                                                       le 25 mai 1979
sâ



- 56 -
KiANDA
Table 2/ Tabl ea 2
MT7CARA AGRICULIUBAL AND L.IVESTOCK DEVELOPtENT PROJECT - PRASE II                          PRDJET DE DEVEICPPENENT AGROPASTORAL AU MUTARA - PHASE II
Susay cf Annpal Pro1act Coate                                                          Renne des Cote anuDels du Prolet
<D'000>                                                                           ep eilli-r de francs ruandais)
Year/A- o&                                       Foreign                     % of Proieot
Te'usi        Esoh-nge/                    CoIts/% des
I         2             3             4        1 - 4         Devises .         %          Cots de Pro1et
Poyvounat Sub PrPject                                                                                                                                                Sou- Projet Paveercet
Buildings eaR  înfraatod tures                 12,S80      2,7hO          680           9S0       17,320        6,062             35                                 Co-stotio-s et lnftaetruotuos
Et-iotent eod Vehiol-s                          4,302      1,355        4,270         4,854       14,789        11,837            80                                 Equipeseota apd véhittuir
Staff Conta                                    10,121    11,292        11,772        11,679      44,864           -                -                                 Celte su psrseourt
Oprratiog Ctsts                                  2,714     3,939        3,144         3,256       13,053         8,440            65                                 Ceot- de feottonneesent
Sob total                                   30.017    19,366        19 874        20,769      90.026        26339              29                 11                  Total peotiel
Goop Ra-ch SOb-Ptejct                                                                                                                                                S... PMee t Ranches Colîsotifs
Lund D.culorPunt -ud Iofrasoruoturet           47,640    38,010        14,070         2,400      102,120        22,307            22                                  AénnaSgmte et tefrarvoctotes
Eqoipemntt erd VnhitI-n                            690     3,150        2,700           855        7,395         6,201            84                                  Equipe tenne et vhiaulca
Staff Caste                                     3,255      3,462        3,650         3,650       14,017          -                -                                  CoIte su perseunel
Op-titg Conta                                    9,344     9,687        3,911         3,011       25,053        20,080            80                                  conte An fonttionnemet
Slb total                                  60,929    54            23,431         9,916     148,585        48,388            33                  19                   Total partiel
Technieal Sappoot Conter                                                                                                                                              Cernas d'Apput Tect-hniqe
Bulîding                                         3,200     3,775        1,300           625        8,900         2,845            22                                  Co-str-oti-on
Eqoiptoeot                                       10730     1,410        3,270         1,310        7 720         6, 635           84                                  Eqoipoarut.
Brcndiug Mtertial                                2,000       250          -             250        2,500         1,100            44                                  Matériel de reprodoctiot
Staff Coe-s                                     1,307      1,437        1,653         1,863        6,260          -                -                                  Co4ts n personol
Operating Conta                                  1,457     1,642        1,854         2,048        7,001         4,856            69                                  Conte do fonctionneront
slb total                                   9,694      8 514        8 077         6 096      32,3B1        15,436            48                   4                   Total partiel
Craining acd Etoontion .c                        1,190       690          690           690        3,260         2,485            76                                  Foraucino et Voloerlaatioo  S
Marketing                                                                                                                                                             Conercialicati-o
Marketing Stody                                 12,000        -            -             -        12,000        11,400            95                                  Etude de oorseotlalinatioo
Boildioag  aad Iafoetrooree                      4, 000        -        4,000            -         8,000         2,800            35                                  Couetru-tient et infonstroitoron
Vehiles Rod tquipmenut                             200         -        1,000           800        2,000         1,740            87                                  Véhiol. et eqoipo -entn
Staff Canti                                       552        792          792         1,123       3,259            -               -                                  C.otn ea personnel
Op-ration Coata                                    570       690          690         1,120        3,070         1,638            53                                  Coots do fonctioneote
lotrouental DRvalniag Fund                      4,400         -            -            -         4,400            -               -                                  Fooda de rooluo-nt sopplée..-aire
Slb totol                                  21,722      1,482        6.482         3,043      32.729        17.578            54                   4                   Total partiol
Acter SoPls                                                                                                                                                           Adductio  deco
Staff Ho.siog                                   8,900         -            -             -         8,900         3,115            35                                  Lagteeuts prrsouoeî
Pr-linioty Stody                                5,000         -           -             -         5,000         3,250            65                                  Etode poflieilairi
O1eI aroot ton    -                             15,000    27,000        60,000       45,000      147,000        95,350           63                                   Con5trertioo de pitta
lp-rtiug Co-tn                                     000     2,240         3,840        5,34E       12,220         4,277            35                                  Cont  de f..tooeuo
Sob total                                  29,700    29.240         63,840      50.340      173.120       106,192            62                  22                   Total partiel
Social setrices                                                                                                                                                       SOrrites Souieno
School Coott-utiton                              5,100     5,100         9,200        7,200       26,600         9,310            35                                  Coostrortino  d'ltoles
Sohool Eqoip-tn                                  1,900     1,900         2,900        2,000        9,700         1,740            18                                  Eqoipomnt d'éColes
He-lth toatot Cotr.tttu.on                         -       8,000           -             -         8,000         2,800            35                                  Controttioo de ostrrs do santé
Hoalth Conter Eqaiprunt                          1,000     2,000            -            -         3,000         1,200            40                                  Equipement do ontron de Aestr
slb tarot                                   8,000    17,000         12,100        9,200      46,300        15,050             33                  6                   Total partiel
Tethnic-l lervittn                                                                                                                                                    ternîtes Ooîhaiooen
Geoctal Sernires                                                                                                                                              -    revSio.e  géndéuan
tafeastracttren                            13,400      6,000         2,000           -       21,400         7,265            34                                   InfrPStiiroW
t'qatpnoert                                 7,105      1,900         3,645        7,900       20,550        18,412            90                                  Iqoipsusurs
Staff Costa                                 5,779      5,779         5,447        5,116       22,121           -               -                                  Colts ru pernonuol
Opernting fi er                             10,356    10,356         9,756        8,556       39,024        25,227            65                                  Coatn de tonotionosueur
Sob tarai                            36.640    24,035         20,848       21.572     103.095        30.904            49                  12                   Total partiel
Aoriioltoral Coedit                            -          -           5,000       5,000       10,000
A..i.t.-  -.- - I2 Crédit Agriiele
ConDoltin 8rervitet, Studios,
Taohntoal Aasla tante                                                                                                                                            Pretareron do lervitta, Itaden,
Consoliton Sornin s                         129,650    15,0038     19 000        196 508      70,9008      714 3395°b5                                            g   tnC   e9nq
Tsohntiol Aétintante .5.60.    15,603                              15.600        15,600       62,400       58 630             95                                 AnniattPte  to dboiqat
lob total                            32,050     37,400      43.400        43,250      161,300       146.605            91                  21                 Total partiel
Total -Sau Cnet                                235,142   192,036      203,742       169,876      800,796       429,177            54                 103                 Coutt rotaoc
iootioosuriee                                                                                                                                                        Proviniongn
Phy si-i                                        29,294    24,604       32,374        26.038      112.510        62,893            56                                 Po-  dlpaa-surt d-e q-ctitln
Prire                                           25,076    35,571       53.486        57,973      172.283        75,064            64                                 Pour d6pasaunoot dca pria
slb total                                   54.367    60,355       85,860        84,011      284.593      137,959             48                  36                 TaraS p-rtiel
Total                                      289.509   252,91      289,602       253.887   1.083.389        567.136            52                                      Total
I..Inclded in Gnrk--  Ser-ie..i
i     Ynoard tobl. pnal 3e20 Pr s  27                                                                                                                      a/  Corpris dans Ians.ervîtes gênérane
foerta I                                                                                                                                                        dans l  tablea..  su=é  pars 3.20
page 27 do Vaine-
Mgy 25, 199                                                                               1979
| t'



RWANDA
MUTARA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II    PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT AGROPASTORAL AU MUTARA -  PHASE II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                                Estimations de déboursements
IDA Fiscal Year               Cumulative Disbursement                    Année fiscale de l'IDA et
and Quarter                     at End of Quarter/                        trimestres
Deboursements cumulés
fin de trimestre
t(US$'000)
1980                                   IDA          EEC           1980
September 30, 1979 a/                  -             -            30 septembre 1979 a/
December 31, 1979                      100           -            31 décembre 1979
M3arch 31, 1980                        250          100           31 mars 1980
June 30, 1980                          400          200           30 juin 1980
1981                                                              1981
September 30, 1980                     600          400           30 septembre 1980
DecemUeL ,1, ;980                      9û6                        31 décembre 1980
March 31, 1981                       1,300           900          31 mars 1981
June 30, 1981                        1,800        1,200           30 juin 1981
1982                                                              1982
September 30, 1981                   2,300        1,400           30 septembre 1981
December 31, 1981                    2,900         1,650          31 décembre 1981
March 31, 1982                       3,600           -             31 mars 1982
June 30, 1982                        4,300           -            30 juin 1982
1983                                                              1983
September 30, 1982                   5,000           -            30 septembre 1982
December 31, 1982                    5,700           -             31 décembre 1982
March 31, 1983                       6,500           -             31 mars 1983
June 30, 1983                        7,200           -             30 juin 1983
1984                                                              1984
September 30, 1983                   7*,900          -             30 septembre 1983
December 31, 1983                    8,750           -             31 décembre 1983                                                        s
m
a/  Expected date of Effectiveness, August 15, 1979                 Date prévue de mise en vigueur du crédit, 15 août 1979
May 25, 1979                                                      le 25 mai 1979



5101A0A oARICUI2TU00  OND L100010CR  DEVELOPSIENT TROjEIT - POOE ilI                                                                       PROJET OR DTOTI.PPEMENT AGROPASTORAL DI 5110TA0 - PHLASE Il
CnooînTo-   -d he-fi, ut thc ProicaO                                                                                                       or utvcan   du Projet -/
(RF otleu                                                                                                                      e    iDosde francs encodais)
1         2       i         4        S        6         T        8         9        10      _il        12       23        14       15        R6       17        18       19       20
A. Couts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O.Cct
Ptytuuu~~~~tub-projecc ~~21.4          5.2       6.2      7.3                                                                                                                                                                                    cuoetulcif
-cuco bto-prjec                56.0    48.2       19.6       3.0h-                                                                                                                                -                -11cs-pro
lnaloiog                     ~~~~     ~~~~~~~1.0  0.9  0.9  0.9     -        ---Puaco
Murbk-lng                             21.0       -        6.5       1.0       -        ---ctuelîauo
Aucu  ai _ci_c                       25.9      10.0     10.0     10.0        -                                                                                                                         --Onors écau
Dgloiouloeit                   -        -         5.5      5.5       --di
Cotligtnine   ucdtu.dct.L'24:2         24.3    28.1    28.           -        --                                                                                                                                                         -Oro-  de      - no tultac     et etudet-
Tunnhlc-l  -uttittO                    23.       3.9    23.9      283. 9      -        ---                                                                                                                                                       ssantcuulu
S''b-rouai           ~~~~~~183.2    119.2   107.2    83.1     -        ---50-oa
opc-acîng cocu  k                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Dépentet, dsfcconucck
"Yps""auau-projcc                     14.6      176.4    127. 0   17.0      2l.13~f 11.3       11.3 1    If 21.3-l.S    21.31        21.3 f21.3-f21.3-f   21.3              .3-.f2I.3-f2l.3           21.3    21.3-   213;           ~        Nu-cjcaut
un ccp        -hnn    so-rjt            50      1.         .         .       26-1.!1.                    26-1.              2612.6   12. 1:   12.6 -   1~2.6-   26       1 2.6      162 -12. -:  I2126-1.- 1              2.6 -Nocs.pcja rnce oulcls4
ttarkntog        6.3       1.2      1.2       2.6      3   ~f  3 A~f  3 A~f  3 A~f  3 A  f  3 4  /  30  ~f~    81  38.'  3.4t'  3.48.'  sAt' 4  3/                                    cf        cf3 t4                  Cuns4rc4slea3î4
Mklocal out65.3                             96 1    1807 51 523         609      8.9       9.0      93       921       9.        31       9.        41       9.        54       9.2      9.       9,         62      9.                             ua   e oc
OlpOoce  pcojcc            ~~~~~~~~253.8   321.2    320.6   333.9    320   39        22 31 2 32.        294   '2894       225      256       292        6.      5.        5 2449            239.0 Ê2253.1    228.10aepoe
lncceau-   c ï ppo- url- f..             2.6      9.1      0. 3.5           111 3  2.0    120.    146.1    163.9    122.2   188.8    19.0 28.2    2      172.1   22.2 298  35.5    230.8    251 1.5 2601    28. 3  226.9 3cdclnepp~ uac
Otch-u  2Pjec3.5    41.:1   411.0    363.2                                  33.91    21.4      2891    26.5    249.2:   21.24   21.6:~    21.0    211.6    21.6    21.6~   21.6             214.6    2396    216 :      221,8                NaaPrjt
With p-ojeuc k'                        54.0     485      512       56       54.3      562      5.2        4.8     68.2       13       76.9    81.4      80.4     80.4     80.4      80.4     80.4      80.4      80 .4    80.4                he   prje  k2
Iccremettul  pcodcctloc     ~~~10.5    2.4      10.2    15.4      21.       24.8     30.8      38.3     44.5      49.6     55.3     58.8      58.8     58.8      58.8     58.8      58.8     18.8      58.6     58.6              P-ud-ceto   supplémentaire
Sutal  luppenaental  prodccctoo  11.1  17.2     45.1     98.9   132.1    153.7    12 6 .9    202.2   2 2 1.7    2 38 .4    253.3   282.0    225.9    285.0    294.3    30P.4    3 150.3   318.9    3 27 .1    335.2               Prudueplio  supplémunrale   laide.
Interna   Rues tE Rar-  13.85%                                                                                                                                                                                                              Tace de  -tneailit6  latare   lîtOl
F-iuccguu-phucge  c-pone..s  shod-  prîcl et 24%C au-  chc  ffituia1  ate- fech e                                                         af  Ce pciclctcc-1 dr-  d-ot-e  uéuté ieà 245 ..a deseus  dc ca.. de change
k'105. physî-Il cnuguesincluded.                                                                                                                                                             k'Y cpcle  102. d'lmp,récs  phpelqc
cf   Social ternîces ,n-c-  -cpplye-d 5O5.f not-  fop s-di-s ccitn- compris le cotdsspîessoan d   edato    ene  501  deac-Ota
ucu lot iudcd                                                                                                                                                                           d8tudes
s,   0' physînuI colnsulcuOreluen   cf  quptset ltlddA/  NyopIs15  d'lmpcéoe  phys-iques su le c-tpia-tec  decéietaea
f/  titat ad molk pcod-d hy 8arn  code1  Ill, TV acd n ace luplcded.                                                                                                                            t/Tpoeea  auanee  le  luO   pruduic  dans les f-tse  audgle  111, IV et 
Ccup prudunrlor tE g-op  --roh-sus   nldd                                                                                                                                                  Is   u  lappdu rtuagiclede1éende   cl  cifa
91 NOdo-  pricu  b- gr--d cu   Os 55 HP/kg.  Othe_  pr-duce  hune Reer  pei-d utL.uoptto   de la--hidn  cér  faire  dn. pria oiet-e  de 55 8ev/kg.  La prie
h/ p1plbdl g prdc No  annule hby the cuh of Phe                            auhi~1.pp-o -tctceinutrp.                                                                                                                     d  -t~é
y... cuppis la  pruduerfun  de repruduction  du C-ctc  d'appu1 techniqu..
Mtuy 25, 1979                                                                                                                                                                                   le21 mai 1979



RWANDA
MU-TARA AURICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PRASE Il                                                 PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT AGROPASTORAL AU MUTARA - PHASE Il
Projoct Impact on O%VAAM and Unverument Ca=h Flous                                                        Impact du projet sur les cash-flous de l'OVAPAM et do gouvernement  a/
(Incloding 15I physical contingenuios)
(RF million)                                                                                              (en millions de fmaecsruandais)
---------a----------------- Year/Annee ---------------------------___
1               2               3               4             5 -10        10 - 20
Cash Imflou
Entrées de Fonds
EEC Special Action Credit                        18.4            92.0            41.0               --                                                                Fonds d'antion  speoial de la EEC
SU                                               36.7           128.7           230.0           266.5            142.5              _IA
T-mou9                                           11.3             7.2              8.8             8.0                             I- Taes a/
Total                                        66.4           227.9           271.0           274.5           142.5                                                     Total
Cash Outflou                                                                                                                                                         Sorties de Fonds
Sobutdy to OVAPAM                               55.1           220.7           271.0            266.5           142.5            50.0                                Subventions à lOVAPAM
DSIf Soranaru t )        d EEC                   0.4             2.1             4.1              6.1             7. 2?             s                                Rambouement de credie a        l'IDA                                                  I
Total                                      55.5           222.8            275.1           272.6           149.7            62.0                                    Total
immunS  Cosh Sorplse  (or defioit)                     10.9             5.1            (4.1)            1.9             (7.2)          (62.0>                            E..oadent (ou d~fEost) asm..a
Cotooti  Ca h Surplo- (or deficit)                     10.9           16.0             11.9            13.8              6.6           (55.4)                            E..edent (ou dfiiit)   mLatif
e/  Costom duties amd soles tomes.                                                                                                                                       0/ Droits de douane et ta.e.  eur le, ventes
May 25, 1979                                                                                                                                                                                     le 25 mai 1979



- 58 -
Table 6
RWANDA
Mutara Agricultural and Livestock Development Project - Phase II
Items to be financed under the EEC Special Action Credit
Foreign Exchange        Local Costs         Total
------------------ US$ ------------------------
Civil Works
Paysannat Subproject          52,500                97,500           150,000
Group Ranch Subproject       225,000               675,000           900,000
General Services             160,000               300,000           460,000
Sub-total                  437,500             1,072,500        1,510,000
Unallocated                      -                    -              140,000
Total                                                            1,650,000
May 25, 1979



RWANDA
MUTARA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE Il
o                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                   3                                   4 
July 1978  June 1979               July 1979 - June 1980             July 1980 - June 1981              July 1981 - June 1982               July 1982 - June 1983              July 1983 - June 1984
Planning and Preparation
Terms of Reference  for Staff
Recruitment Iechnical Assistance
July - December 1979 Workplan and Budget_
Staff Hous-g Construction
Road, Br,dge       *
Marketing Study
Watnr SUPPlV Prel,m,tary Study 
Appointeent Piolent & Sab-proje-ts Directors
Paysannat Subprojent_
Group Ranch Subprojent
CYePsPo. E.dn        .                                                                                                                                               ....... adicati.nMaintenance
Dest.ckin9
Inansificatvon of Production                                                                         Packifl .
Technical Support Center
Forrage Developenent                                                                                                                                ...    ...
Crassbreec'ing                                                                                         l                                           ,  ,        _   .......
Wate Sapplo
Preelimnary  tdies_.
Wells 
Graviaary Systems                                                                                                                                                       -                 -        -       -         -
Schwols and Henalth Centers
General Ser-ice Infrastructures
| Afr,cularal Credit
Projct Mon,toring & Evaluation
Mid-lnplementation R"ievf
Phase 111 Preparaton                                                                                                                                                September 1981
IBRD
Appr-,al                                                    Januar  1979
Negotiations 
Baurd Appraval                                               May
Effect,veness                                                1979    JaeAaust
Cornpletion                                                           1979                  1979                                                   I                       l1983
Closîng                                                     ]    1_ _ ___ _                                                         _   _]Jn                                                                                                 Dec-nnber  1983
Completion Rport                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sepe,be 1983
World Bank- 19368



RWANDA
MUTARA - AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE Il
ORGANIZATION CHART
Ministry of Agriclture  and Livestock
<Minister)             |               Studies and Projects Division
OVAPAM
Board of Directors
(President)                      {          eneficiaries Committee
OVAPAM's Director
Oth,, Proj-ts, eg.              ~~                            l                                I DA Marshland Dsvelopmrent Project
Tobacco Pnoject                              Development Project - Phase 1                             IProject Director)
fP,oject Directori                                   Project Director
(Nyagatare)
General Services         |
(Nyagatare)_ 
Administrative and         Support Se|rProect Director's offa Srearr
<         1         -~~~~~~~Fn nca Dep a           |Garage Wrsp| |AonnitEtnsion A  viser
Paysannat Sub-Project                | Group Ranch Sub-Project sen ec                      a      Center    C|nse
Sub-Project Director                 |    Sub-Project Directlr    B agatare)
.    Rukumo)                         |         (NYagatare)
1                                         1        1 i
WVo,ld Bank -19369



- 61 -
MATERIAL AVAILABLE IN IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
.AjEXES
1.   Agricultural and Livestock Development in Rwanda
Table 1.  Staple Food Production for the years 1972 to 1976
Table 2.  Value of Food Crop Production
Table 3. Cactle Herd Numbers
Table 4.  Cattle Herd Composition (1976)
Table 5.  Herd Numbers (Head)
Table 6.  Controlled Slaughter (Head)
2.   Soc-.ological Issues
3.   Paysannat Sub-Prolect
Table 1.  Farm Mtodels - Area Breakdown
Table 2.  FarI  Models - Distributlon of Production Costs
Table 3.  Farm Budgets - Model 1A - Without Project - Before Development
Table 4.  Farm Budgets - Model 1B - Without Project - After 10 years
Table 5.  Model Il - With Project - Compost - After 10 years
Table 6.  Model III - With Project - Small Livestock - After 10 years
Table 7.  Model IV - With Project - Cow & Calf - After 10 years
Table 8.  Model V - With Project - Steer - After 10 years
Table 9.  Aggregated Value, net of physical inputs, after 10 years of
annual production of (a) farms of the Paysannat area,
(b) farns of communes surrounding the Paysannat area.
Table 10. Investnents
Table 11.  Operating Costs
Table 12. Return to labor after 10 years
4.   Group Ranch Sub-Project
Table 1.  Cymbopogon Eradication Planning
Table 2.  Proposed Fees per Treatments
Table 3.  Revolving Fund for Veterinary Medicines and Mineral Supplements
Table 4.  Herd Composition - Zone I
Table 5.  Herd Composition - Zone Il and III
Table 6.  Production Evaluation
Table 7.  Average Income per Beneficiary
Table 8.  Investment Costs
Table 9.  Operating Costs
5.   Technical Support Center
Table 1.  Zootechnical Center - 3reeding Herd Projections
Table 2.  Investments Costs
Table 3.  Operating Costs



- 62 -
ANNEXES (Continued)
6.   Training and Extension
Table 1. Investment Costs
7.   Marketing
Table 1. Marketing
8.   Water Supply Development
Table 1. List of Sources
Table 2. Well Construction
Table 3. Water Supply
Appendix 1. Proposed Pump Model
9.   Social Services
Table 1. Investment Costs
10. Organization and Management, and Technical Services
Table 1.  Investment Costs
Table 2.  Operating Costs
Table 3.  Technical Services
11.  Financial Analysis
Table 1.  Paysannat Sub-Project - Farm Models - Farm Cash Flow
12. Economical Analysis
Table 1. Aggregated Value of (a) Crop and Meat Production of the Farmers
of the Paysannat and Surrounding Communes and (b) Crop Produc-
tion of Group Ranches
Table 2. Aggregated Value of the Livestock Production on the Group
Ranches
Table 3.  Economic Costs and Benefits of the Project
Table 4. Internal Economic Rate of Return (Sensitivity Analysis)



|                      30°            :Toborcrr a omPOlr3 
RWANDAII
MUTARAAGRICULTURALAND LIVESTOCK                                                                                        D A                        K3bP5F3                                               j
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE Il                                                                  U G A N
LOCATION OF THE PROJECT AREA
Rutsh,ur          '                                               j    ::,  
PROJECT AREA
.*.....  KAGERA NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY                                                                                                                         TA  NZ AN            AI A
MAIN ROAOS                                  REPUBLI
<=)Cc9  RIVERS AND LAKES                                ZAIRE
-. -   INTE9NATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                             )                                /
^:cepe évlA^-otrd il~llé7dl9dtilàgff lto~ot/denem:fot  <<         Z tohondo             \        /  0 \    /A)    ti     AKGAEGREAR A
,J<  v.  < X \\ \À t 0 e~~~~~~~~~~~~Bum                                                        N A T I O N A L 
~~~~~~~  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d~~~~~~~~~~~~  I~~~~~~~                                                                    ~               
RWNDA
k~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~                                            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ Mugeser;X<     <<'Ea    ".  
Kofbr S    yangg                                                    G ,k n9or°  o
>P\                              An  )                g          <                                 T             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T AfN Z A N I A
<Xwirs clI S    r               <   ButrejJ                                                      O B U  R  U N  D  I0
L'eu  10    20       30     40     50     60    70 .0
/;  \   \     >         g  )    r      i         J                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS         :
REPUBLIC OF
ZAIRE                                   bf2d         B          U  R U  N  D I0                                                                             MLESm
2 9'      \                                      1'                             30 - 






RWANDA                                           UGANDA
Mutqra Agrccu1tttrak & ULves«tck Deve1opr n   Pr, oe   PhX= :e iL
Proîet d  DeveloppemriAgr s aM utara, Phsse tl                                      T                   Nyobshombwosi
--                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NORTHERN 
MomrOOfe.Apxo»t.; i5> i = :'  -: = S é f a.A t -3=2) fz  \;       PAYNANNAT
.F uvjAoet-P4utI         Rlbtjte NfgM3'àti 000oIe ; \;025 0   5 ;             \  MILITARY  0\         |t.0 0 R
-RANCH
Péev$t         '      A+  H,-                   -  ;=-  R -          = =     I   ;:}\:6
Musheli
!pu~ ro~hj-~T k ~ --                                            =- * ' | ' Seclor
[---*ZtZ  mxf     7m= --    -.-. !« o;i   7'; 2 rù -,                                   u 3   GR    p 
ou:r' rgn'oe'  'i                             Yt<sxeho                   X     9       t
FN~~~~~~ I                                                                Pt A N    
0J -g~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Rwmoha
Sc  or
\         eco :                             yoga/areKroyonzrsandAtiSf fA
\S ,. g rLctt 6b8gwe 5ect;
j                         ~~~~~~~~~~CYANZOZOHI.
K A G E R A
- -G-6-r--              - -           - -                                                >NATIONAL
Sec/or  Rto~~~~~~~~~.o.o ~~~PAR K
Northero
SO ~ UTHERN 1½YS.ANNAT                  -
I X Sovihere Secr
Tb K0y-r.o -ttdK,gyoh
OK,g.li
Tb 9.bil ~ ~        ~         ~        I 



