Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                        's
Report No.P-2587-RW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED CREDITS
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR A
MUTARA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
June 7, 1979
This document ias a restricted distribution sud may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not .therwise be dlsclosed wIthout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar Year 1978
Currency Unit           -        Franc Rwandais
US$1.00                 -        Rf 91.91
RF 100                  -        US$1.09
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA      -      Canadian International Development Agency
ISAR      -      Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda
(Agricultural Research Institute of Rwanda)
OCIR      -      Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda
(Agency for Industrial Crops of Rwanda)
OPROVIA   -      Office National pour le Developpement et la Commerciali-
sation des Produits Vivriers et des Productions Animales
(National Agency for Development and Marketing of
Foodcrops and Animal Products)
OVAPAM    -      Office pour la Valorisation Pastorale et Agricole du
Mutara (Agency for Agricultural and Livestock Development
of Mutara)
UNITS
Metric System



i -            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA MUTARA AGRICULTUAIA  AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Rwanda
Amount:                  US$8.75 million (IDA); and US$1.65 million (EEC
Special Action Credit)
Terms:                   Standard IDA (for both Credits)
Project Description:  The proposed project would be the second phase of a
long--term development program for the Mutara region.
(i)  The major objective of the project is to develop
techniques, procedures, and an institutional environ-
ment which will-make it possible to (a) preserve
produiction potential of the project area, (b) make a
rational and more intensive use of available resources,
(c) improve farming and ranching techniques, and (d)
integrate the project into the local administration.
(ii)  The project would comprise two major sub-projects, a
"Paysannat" sub-project and a Group Ranch sub-project,
to develop improved extension service for crops and
livestock, improved veterinary and animal production
servilces, and technical and social services. The
project would utilize fully the infrastructure built
and expand the extension and destocking programs
started under the first phase project.
(iii)  An estimated 65,000 people would benefit from the
project, from increased cash income and subsistence
crop production and also from increased social services.
(iv)  The project involves very subsantial risks.  The most
important are: the possibility of a low rate of adop-
tion of the mixed farming technical package, the possi-
bilil:y of difficulties in implementing the cattle
destocking program and the ranch improvement program and
the possible lack of adequate management. To obviate
these risks the project was designed to strengthen
project management while decentralizing implementation
and i:nvolving beneficiaries.  Developments under the
project will be monitored closely through annual and
in depth mid-implementation reviews and intensive
supervision.
This docament ha à restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of thirIfficial dutios. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I.   Estimated Cost:
US$ '000
Project Component                        Local      Foreign      Total
Paysannat Sub-Project                      693         287         980
Group Ranch Sub-Project                  1,088         529       1,617
Technical Support Center                   184         168         352
Marketing                                  165         191         356
Water Supply                               728       1,155       1,883
Social Services                            340         164         504
Technical Services                         805       1,536       2,341
Technical Assistance                        40         640         680
Contingencies:
Physical                        538         684       1,222
Price                         1,058         817       1,875
Total Project Costs:                5,639      6,171      11,810
II.  Financing Plan (US$ million):
Local Costs       Foreign Costs       Total Costs
IDA                             3.08               5.67              8.75
EEC Special Action Credit       1.15                .50              1.65
Government                        .95               _                  .95
Participants                      .46               -                  *.46
Total                           5.64               6.17             11.81
III. Estimated Disbursement (US$ million):
IDA Fiscal Year
80     81      82     83      84
IDA
Annual                              .400  1,400  2,500  2,900  1,550
Cumulative                          .400  1,800  4,300  7,200  8,750
EEC
Annual                              .200  1,000   .450
Cumulative                          .200  1,200  1,650



- iii -
Rate of Return:        14%
Appraisal Report:      Report: No. 2221-RW, dated May 25, 1979
Map:                   IBRD No. 13865.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
ON PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE REPUBLIC OF RWANDA FOR THE
MUTARA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE II
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed
credits to the Republic of Rwanda for the equivalent of US$10.4 on standard
IDA terms to help finance an agricultural development project for the Mutara
region.  Cne credit of US$8.75 million would be made from IDA resources; a
second credit of about US$1.65 million equivalent would be made from the EEC
Special Action Account administered by the Association in accordance with
the terms of the agreement of May 2, 1978, between the Association and the
European Economic Community.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on the Economy of Rwanda" (No.
1108-RW) was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 27, 1976. An
updating economic mission visited Rwanda in February/March 1979 and is prepar-
ing its report. 1/
3.        Rwanda became independent in 1962.  The present Government was
establishe.d in 1973 and faces many economic challenges. Achievement of
lasting structural improvements in Rwanda's economy is hampered by the
country's acute poverty and by many physical and manpower constraints. With
an average per capita income of about US$130 in 1977, Rwanda is one of the
25 poorest countries designated as "least developed" by the United Nations.
The pr9blem of an already high population density of about 165 inhabitants
per km is. exacerbated by the pressure of a rapidly rising population on the
limited arable land available. Although agriculture provides more than half
of Rwanda's exports (coffee, tea and pyrethrum, the remainder consisting of
minerals, mainly cassiterite, a tin ore), the expansion of export crops is
constrained by the priority accorded to the production of foodcrops for
domestic consumption. Rwanda's manufacturing base is narrow, and its growth
is hampered by the limited size of the market, the lack of raw materials,
shortage of trained labor, and inadequate ancillary services such as banking
and marketing.
1/   Part I of this report is identical to that in Report No. P-2398-RW
on thie Rwanda Development Bank Project, considered by the Executive
Directors on April 24, 1979, except for some updating in paragraphs
7 andL 13 to take account of the change of situation in Uganda.



- 2 -
4.        Despite these handicaps, the present Government has made percep-
tible progress in developing a strategy to lift the economy from its present
low level. Some socio-economic aspects of the country are favorable, and it
is around these that the Governnent has designed its strategy. The popula-
tion has a certain unity, deriving from homogeneity in customs and standard
of living. Income and wealth distribution are remarkably even. There are
neither the remnants of a strong traditional heirarchy nor signs of signifi-
cant emerging urban-rural polarization. Moreover, the small size of the
country reduces the administrative difficulties and, at the same time, limits
serious regionalism. The country also has a natural asset in its relatively
fertile soil which, provided that the problem of erosion in Rwanda's hilly
terrain can be overcome, can give good yields for a variety of foodcrops.
To take advantage of and preserve these admittedly modest assets, the Govern-
ment has recognized that its development policies must be built around a
carefully integrated and balanced strategy reaching the entire population.
The objective of achieving balanced and sustained economic as well as social
development, is reflected not only in Rwanda's Second Development Plan (see
para. 15) but also in a new constitution which was adopted in December 1978.
5.        Following an increase of about 2.0 percent per annum between 1971
and 1974, GDP at constant prices has been growing by some 6 percent per year
since then. All sectors of the economy appear to have shared in the growth.
Merchandise exports, in value, more than doubled during 1974-1976 owing largely
to above average crops and favorable world coffee and tea prices. Tea dis-
placed tin as Rwanda's second largest export earner.
6.        Among the encouraging developments of recent years are also:  (a) the
significant deceleration of the rate of inflation (b) substantial improvements in
the Government's financial position, the balance of payments and in the banking
system's reserves; (c) increased attention by the Government to key sectors such
as agriculture; and (d) intensified efforts in development planning which have
culminated in the preparation of a development plan for the 1977-81 period.
7.        Until 1971, the country had experienced a period of virtual price
stability, but subsequently prices started rising rapidly until the annual
inflation rate reached 42.5 percent in 1974. In 1975 and 1976 inflation slowed
down considerably to 17.4 and 2.6 percent respectively, but in the last half of
1977, inflation accelerated again to an annual rate of 23.1 percent. However,
1978 showed again a satisfactory price development (+ 5.8 percent). The fluctua-
tions in the inflation rate have been associated primarily with increases in
import prices and with coffee export and producer prices. If the prudent fiscal
policies that the Government has followed during the last two years (para. 8) are
continued future price developments can be expected to remain under control.
Recently, prices have risen again more rapidly in response to shortages due to
the hostilities in Uganda (para. 13), which blocked the country's main supply
and evacuation route. Recently, the route has been reopened and it may be
hoped that prices will soon return to a more normal level.
8.        The Government's current revenues exceeded current expenditures by
29 percent in 1976 and 32 percent in 1977. The improvement was brought about



by higher imports (import duties are a significant source of revenue), high
coffee priîes, and improved collection of income and profit taxes. Unlike
the 1970-72 period, when current expenditures increased much faster than GDP,
in 1973-76, they declined in proportion of GDP. However, the increase in
Government expenditures in 1977 again exceed growth in GDP and this was
probably again the case in 1978.  Overall, however, the Government's financial
position is satisfactory.
9.         Imports increased dramatically in 1975, producing a substantial
deficit in the balance of trade; but exports rebounded strongly in 1976 and
1977 turnin1g the deficit into a small surplus in both years. In 1978 the
country again registered a rather substantial trade deficit (RF 1.050 mil-
lion). Th,s chronic deficit in services has persisted and the net current
account outflow has fluctuated at around $65 million since 1975. These
deficits were more than offset by net inflows of official transfers and
capital with the result that: net foreign exchange reserves jumped from about
US$7.5 million at the end of 1974 to about US$80 million at the end of 1978,
equivalent to over six months of merchandise imports. However, in view of
the declinie in coffee prices already in evidence, external reserves have
probably rieached a peak and may be drawn down in the next two years to finance
imports associated with growing development expenditures.
10.       EIn the last few years, the Government has displayed both budgetary
discipline and fiscal responsibility.  It has pursued, for example, a rather
conservative credit policy. The Government, in fact, considerably reduced
its liabilities to the banking system. The expansion in domestic credit was
modest and entirely due to higher levels of credit to the private sector.
However, the relative equili.bria in both internal and external accounts were
achieved ait a level of investment, physical imports and capital inflows which
is too low compared to Rwandla's long-term development needs.
I1.       Agriculture is the principal focus of Government policy, with
higher foodcrop productivity a major objective. A review of the agricultural
sector completed by the Bank in 1977 (Report No. 1377-RW) concluded that a 3%
growth rates in yields is both necessary and attainable if Rwanda is to meet
its food production needs and not to endanger soil fertility. To this end,
in the last few years, the Government has been working on a rural development
plan with major efforts directed at foodcrop intensification. These efforts
would be linked with soil conservation and livetock development, and sup-
ported by iextension services and appropriate infrastructure, including local
roads and storage facilities, which will assist Government efforts to imple-
ment a suitable price policy.
12.        In the mining sect:or (cassiterite, wolframite, etc.), which con-
tributes realatively little to GDP but constitutes a major source of foreign
exchange earnings, the merger of several companies in 1973 into the Societe
Miniere du Rwanda (SOMIRWA) has arrested the decline in the sector's output,
lowered administration costs, and improved technical efficiency. A substan-
tial expansion of mining activities is now being studied. SOMIRWA is also



-4-
making efforts to process locally part of the tin ore mined. Some positive
steps have been taken in the manufacturing sector as well, reflecting the
Government's interest in stimulating the development of the sector.
13.       Rwanda's landlocked position at 1,700 km from the nearest port,
Mombasa, has been particularly disadvantageous in recent years when transpor-
tation costs have risen sharply. Attempts are being made to improve the route
through Tanzania via Rusumo for alternative access to the ocean while a new
road northward to Uganda was recently completed. The road southward to Burundi
is also being improved. Although these are positive steps, more efforts to
improve the transportation network, both internal and external, are necessary
in order to expand the production base and improve distribution. The unreali-
ability and inadequacy of present routes to the Indian Ocean were recently
demonstrated by the hostilities in Uganda, which blocked the only road capable
of carrying heavy trucks. As a result, imports of heavy bulk goods (gasoline,
construction materials, etc.) and equipment came to a standstill, severely
affecting production, trade and development work. Prices of imported and
domestically produced goods consequently rose rapidly. Moreover, coffee
exports could only be maintained by air, which, in view of the exceptionally
high stocks, is insufficient.
14.       To deal with common problems and maximize the exploitation of
regional resources, two years ago Rwanda, Burundi and Zaire established
the Community of the Great Lakes. A major objective of the Community is the
electrification of the Great Lakes region. Recently, the three countries
have also agreed to set up a joint development bank, exploit methane deposits
around Lake Kivu, and develop a fishing industry around Lake Tanganyika.
They also instructed the secretariat to investigate ways of improving the
transport system around the lakes in order to ease the enclavement of Burundi
and Rwanda. The President of Rwanda has been serving as the President of
the Community since 1977. In August 1977, another regional agreement was
concluded between Rwanda, Burundi and Tanzania.
15.       Development planning in Rwanda is indicative in nature.  Although
the country did have a formal plan covering the period 1966 through 1970,
planning for many years thereafter was based on several ad hoc studies. In
June 1977 the Government adopted a Second Development Plan covering the
period 1977-81 which attempts to address the overall and sectoral problems
of the economy in a more structured fashion. The Plan is not fully opera-
tional yet because some important elements of it are under further evaluation
and may undergo important revisions. Among these elements are the public
investment program (which is conceptualized as a three-year rolling program),
estimates of public revenue, sectoral allocation of certain categories of
expenditures, and the constraints of skilled manpower. In its present form,
nevertheless, the Plan throws some light on the Government's priorities. A
major objective of the plan is the improvement of infrastructure in order to
improve communication and transportation and thus provide incentives to more
intensive cultivation and diversification. The document projects an annual
growth rate of GDP of about 6 percent. Of the projected investment of about
US$580 million over 1977-81, nearly 30 percent would be allocated to physical



- 5 -
and administrative infrastructure. Of an estimated US$220 million intended
for agriculture, nearly 40 percent would be devoted to rural development as
such. Functionally, almost one third of the proposed expenditures would go
into feasibility studies and other selected administrative assistance.
16.       Although the performance of Rwanda's economy in the last three
years has 'been encouraging, substantial infusion of financial and technical
assistance well suited to the country's needs will be crucially needed in the
years ahea,d. Assistance in the past has been provided largely by Belgium,
Canada, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland, and European
Development Fund, UNDP and IDA. A "Table Ronde" meeting of aid agencies,
which was held in 1977 was aimed, inter alia, to ensure that future projects
are more closely related to national priorities, and the discussions helped
to establish a basis for improved coordination among the agencies.
17.       Rwanda's external debt is low.  External debt outstanding and dis-
bursed was estimated in the middle of 1978 at about US$81.8 million of which
IDA credits represented US$33.0 million (40 percent). The service payments on
debt are estimated at about US$1.4 million per year, or 1.5 percent of exports.
Because of Rwanda's level of poverty, assistance should continue to be on the
most concessional terms possible, including the financing of a substantial
part of the local currency cost of projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
18.       Bank Group assistance started in 1970 and initially focused on the
improvement of the road network and the strengthening of agricultural produc-
tion.  Rwanda has received nine IDA credits totalling US$74.6 million, of
which four, totalling US$43.1 million, were for roads, three totaling US$19.6
million for agriculture, one for a DFC project (US$4 million) and one for
education (US$8 million). A second credit of US$5.2 million to IBRD was
approved by the Executive Directors in April 1979. There have been no Bank
loans. An IFC loan of US$5:35,000 for a tea factory was signed in 1976. Annex
II contains a summary statement of IDA credits, IFC investments and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
19.       The first highway (road construction) credit (Credit 196-RW) is
almost completely disbursed. The highway maintenance credit (Credit 299-RW)
is fully disbursed (the project was completed in December 1978). The third
highway project (Credit 475-RW), which consisted of road construction, was
satisfactorily completed in December 1977, and funds have been completely
disbursed. A fourth credit for a highway maintenance project was approved
by the Board in February 1978 and became effective in August 1978.
20.       The implementation of the first agricultural development (Mutara)
project (Credit 439-RW of November 29, 1973) began in September 1974, about
a year behind schedule. From the start, project implementation encountered
very serious difficulties, which have only been partly resolved to date (see
para. 28). The Credit Agreement for a cinchona project was signed in August
1976, and the Credit Agreemient for the Bugesera East and Gisaka/Migongo



- 6 -
mixed farming and rural development project in March 1977. These two projects
are at very early stages of execution. A credit for an education project,
consisting primarily of furnishing and equipment of workshops, became effec-
tive in 1975. The physical implementation, though slow, has been satisfactory
and it was recently agreed to increase the number of workshops to be built
under the project. There have, however, been administrative problems on
procurement. The Agreement for a credit of US$4 million to the Development
Finance Company (BRD) was signed in August 1976; the amount committed under
the BRD line of credit was US$2.5 million as of April 30, 1979. Generally
because of the lack of skilled manpower and expertise in Rwanda, the execution
of projects requires substantial assistance from Bank Group staff through
extensive supervision and expatriate experts for whom financing is included
under all credits.
21.        For the future, the primary emphasis of Bank grant operations will
remain on agriculture, although absorptive capacity and the activities of
other donors may limit the scope of our activity in this sector, on communica-
tions to reduce the country's isolation, and on education. The preparation of
a forestry project has just been completed; the project, planned for FY1980
would aim to develop plantations for fuel wood and timber in the western
part of the country. A coffee development project is under active prepara-
tion and would increase export earning capacity. In highways, the Government
has asked the Bank to finance with other donors the Butare-Cyangugu roads, for
which a feasibility study and detailed engineering will be carried out this
year, instead of the Kigali-Ruhengeri-Cyanika road which would be entirely
financed by the Federal Republic of Germany and the African Development Bank;
the Bank project would open up the southern region towards Zaire and Burundi
and support both the forestry and the coffee development projects. Also to
reduce the constraints due to the landlocked position of the Country, a
telecommunications project is under preparation. In education, preparation
with the assistance of UNESCO of a second occupationally oriented secondary
education project has been completed. For the longer term, two other projects
have been identified: one for the development of local construction industry;
the other in the water suply sector, where a study made by a WHO team has
confirmed the need to improve rural water supply and to provide sewerage
fcilities for Kigali. We also intend to continue out support to the develop-
ment bank (BRD).
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
22.       Agriculture is Rwanda's most important single resource.  In 1976
it contributed about 80% of GDP, accounted for more than 99% of its edport
earnings, and suiported over 95% of its people. About 54% (13,800 km ) of
Rwanda's land area is2available for agriculture, of which slightly more than
half, only, (8,000 km ) is suitable for cultivation. In 1976, over 95% of the
area under cultivation was devoted to subsistence crops and 5% to commercial
crops. Total foodcrop production falls short of basic requirements, and
Rwanda spends about 30% of its agricultural export revenues on foodcrop
imports. Moreover, Rwanda faces a critical problem of soil degradation
accelerated daily by the growing population's demands. The livestock herd has



- 7 -
also been declining since 1971. About 60% of rural population is below the
absolute pcverty level of US$70 per capita per annum, (as compared to a GNP
per capita US$110 in 1976). Most of the land is still traditionally farmed on
the basis cf multiple intercropping alternating with fallow. Since 1953, the
Government has organized a number of settlement schemes called Paysannats in
the less pcpulated areas to increase productivity through a better delivery of
technical and social services; participating farmers enter into a contract
with the Gcvernment represented by the local administration (commune) and have
to follow certain agricultural practices.
23.       I'he Government of Rwanda has defined the broad objectives for
agricultural and rural development in the Second Five-Year Plan (1977-1981).
Four essential goals have been identified: (i) meeting the population's
nutritional requirements; (ii) promoting a better utilization of human re-
sources; (iii) improving individual and collective living conditions; and
(iv) lessening dependency from abroad by becoming progressively self-
sufficient.  The Plan recognizes that diversification of the economy is
necessary to lessen reliance on a few crops, and to lessen reliance on agri-
culture for economic growth.
24.       The Plan acknowledges that these targets will be hard to achieve.
The chances of success would come from the combined efforts of the population.
The Communes should become the major catalyst for development, as they provide
a better framework for the people to work on improving their environment.
They would also implement development projects through the Umuganda (Voluntary
Labor) Program.
25.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock is responsible for all
policy direction and coordination in the sector. The Ministry has 2,000
staff members, most of whom are field extension workers or veterinary field
staff. Its operating and development budgets were respectively RF 287 million
and RF 1,291 million in 1977, representing 4.2 and 6.6% of the Governnent's
operating and development budgets. Government also operates through statutory
organizations such as the Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda (OCIR),
which is responsible for quality control, conditioning, and marketing of export
crops, or the Office National pour le Developpement et la Commercialisation
des Produits Vivriers et des productions Animales (OPROVIA), which is respons-
ible for the production, processing and marketing of foodcrops and livestock.
Agricultural research is carried out by the Institut des Sciences Agronomiques
du Rwanda (ISAR), through its several research stations.
26.       Agricultural training is mostly carried out by three educational
establishments: the Faculte d'Agronomie of Butare University which is being
developed with Canadian aid to train agricultural engineers; the School of
Agriculture in Butare, largely supported by French technical assistance,
which operates a four-year post-secondary course and the school of Kibuye
which operates a two-year course for lower level assistant agronomists.
27.       Institutional agricultural credit is not well developed in Rwanda.
The Development Bank of Rwanda extends credit primarily for smallscale tea,
sugar, and other enterprises in the private sector. Other commercial banks'
credit has been extended mainly to finance the coffee industry. Informal



- 8 -
credit is still quite important in the rural areas. These loans are usually
made in the framework of a complex structure of social links and obligations.
Government is now actively considering the promotion of agricultural credit.
A comprehensive agricultural credit study is being carried out under the
IDA-financed Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
28.       The proposed project is the second phase (1979-1983) of a long term
development program for the Mutara region in the northeast of Rwanda, between
Uganda and the Akagera National Park (see Map No. 13865-IBRD attached). The
Agricultural Development Project Phase I was approved in November 1973. Its
objective was to develop about 45,000 ha in the Mutara Region with the settle-
ment of about 5,700 families on cropping plots in a Paysannat and on Group
Ranches for cattle development. Investments included the development of
infrastructure (roads, water supply, veterinary and marketing services), the
development of a breeding ranch, a tse-tse eradication program, and the
provision of general services (project management and extension). Project
implementation started about October 1974 and is to be completed by the end
of June 1979. However, from the start, project implementation encountered
serious difficulties. The Government appointed the Director of The Office
pour la Valorisation Pastorale et Agricole du Mutara (OVAPAM) under the same
terms of reference as the Project Director, which resulted in conflicts of
responsibility and decision making; this anomaly was never corrected by
Government. The population regarded the project with suspicion and even
hostility for lack of an adequate presentation of its objectives and benefits
by Project staff; installation, veterinary and grazing fees were resented to
the point they had to be suspended, leaving OVAPAM with substantially reduced
resources. The population in the area had been underestimated in particular
in the ranching zone and the deterioration of natural resources was substan-
tially more rapid than expected. The lack of sufficiently qualified staff
hampered the effectiveness of extension services. Finally, the project suf-
fered from considerable cost overruns. Because of these difficulties,
project implementation was quite different from what had originally been
envisaged, and proved to entail much more than developing infrastructure
and extension services. Because of the changed situation Government and
IDA agreed, following an in-depth review which took place in late 1975, (a)
to reduce the scope of the project by eliminating the water supply component;
(b) to reduce the overall project area; and (c) to follow Phase I with a
Phase II project. However, the project area was subsequently enlarged again
by government to accomodate better the increased cattle herd. On the basis of
the investments achieved, few improvements in agricultural and livestock
production can be expected unless follow-up is secured. The objectives for
infrastructure building and settlement have been achieved, but those for
extension and production have not. The soil degradation must be stopped and
traditional farming habits improved through provision of more appropriate
techniques.
29.       The main features of the project are outlined in the Credit Summary
at the front of this report and a detailed account of the Project background



-9-
and components is contained in the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2221-RW),
dated May 25, 1979 which is being circulated separately. The Project was
identified in November 1975, prepared by consultants with the assistance of
RMEA and appraised in May 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington from May
14 to 18, 1979. The Government delegation was led by Mr. F. Nzamurambaho, the
Minister for Agriculture and Livestock.
Objectives and Description of the Project
30.       The Project area would be the same as the area partly developed
under the Phase I project with the addition of three administrative sectors
totalling 15,000 ha, giving a total of about 60,000 ha.
31.       The proposed second phase project is justified by several factors.
Firstly, there is an urgent need to stop soil degradation to avoid a heavy
loss of production potential both in farming and ranching areas. Secondly,
in contrasi: to other parts of Rwanda, the Mutara region still has undeveloped
land available. Thirdly, technical innovations are needed to intensify cul-
tivation and livestock husbandry  and thereby meet the needs of the increasing
population. Finally, a higher degree of involvement of local authorities in
the development effort is required to overcome the human constraints which
impeded the implementation of the Phase I project. The project aims to
develop techniques, procedures and an institutional environment which would:
(i) preserve the production potential in the project area; (ii) make a rational
and more intensive use of available resources, (iii) improve farming and
livestock husbandry techniques, and (iv) integrate the project into the local
administration in order to give it more development responsibilities as
established in the second Five Year Plan and the Communal Action Plan. It is
also hoped that experience gained under the project could be usefully applied
in projects with a similar approach which the Government is considering in
other parts of the country.
32.       The project would be essentially organized into two sub-projects,
a Paysannat sub-project and a Group Ranch sub-project, and include a Technical
Support Center and common services for both sub-projects (marketing, social,
water supply and technical services). Local administrative authorities would
participate in the project through OVAPAM's Board of Directors, a Benefi-
ciaries Committee, and a Communal Technical Committee and Development Council
(Sections 3.09 and 3.10, draft Development Credit Agreement and Sections 3.08
and 3.09 of the Special Action Credit Agreement).
(i) Paysannat Sub-project. The sub-project would be located in
the Southern half of the project area which has better water resources, and
would aim at further develcoping extension services for crops and livestock
(mostly cattle and goats) in the Paysannat established under the Mutara Phase
I project and in the adjacent administrative sectors, to preserve the produc-
tion potential of the area, and increase agricultural production. The basic
extension program would include anti-erosion control, preservation of soil
fertility, intensification of agricultural production by promoting stallfeed-
ing of small stock or cattle and using manure for crops, and reafforestation;
few of these extension thernes were promoted under Phase I for lack of properly
trained staff and supervision. Staff and farmer's training for both men and
women would be fully integrated into the extension program on a systematic and
continuing basis.



- 10 -
(ii) Group Ranch Sub-project. The objective would be to continue
to develop efficient animal health and production services in order to recover
about 7,000 ha of degraded rangeland in the northern, drier part of the
project area, preserve the cattle herd, and increase range and herd productiv-
ity. The proposed program would have two parts. The first one would be a
destocking operation following up on the successful but still insufficient
destocking program under Phase I; it would be followed by a massive pasture
improvement program (weed destruction and reseeding), and the development of
efficient veterinary services including a strict dipping program and preven-
tive or curative treatment against diseases. The second part would aim at
intensifying production. Staff and pastoralists' training would be fully
integrated in this program.
(iii) Technical Support Center. A Technical Support Center would be
established, widening the scope of the breeding ranch partly developed under
the Phase I Project. It would be a servicing unit for pasture improvement and
animal production for both the Group Ranches and the Paysannat, and it would
also serve as a demonstration center for improved animal husbandry. It would
comprise a fodder multiplication sector, a zootechnical center, and a small
commercial center.
(iv) Common Services. Common services would comprise social and tech-
nical services.
(a) Social Services: Schools and Health Centers: The project
would finance the construction and equipping of six new primary level schools
in the Paysannat and of one new primary level school in the Group Ranch, and
the repair, extension, equipping and furnishing of the two existing schools
in the Group Ranch zone. The project would also finance the construction and
furnishing of two health centers, one in the Paysannat, and one in the Group
Ranch zone. Each health center would have a meeting room for education on
family planning and nutrition. Water Supply: In the Paysannat the project
would finance the development of a water supply scheme to provide drinking
water to some 8,500 families. In the Group Ranches, the project would finance
the construction and equipping of about 40 wells to serve about 1,000 families
and 2,000 head of cattle. Prior to undertaking the investments, the final
design of the water supply scheme would be approved by IDA (Schedule 1
para. 4(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Road Maintenance:
Maintenance of the main access roads within the project area would be ensured
by the project. Assistance for road maintenance would be provided by the
Communes, and by the participants in the Project as stipulated in their
contract, and within Umuganda activities.
(b) Technical Services: Marketing Services: Under the project
an information service for buyers and producers would be established.
A preliminary study analyzing the market structure would be prepared by
consultants financed under the project in collaboration with the Bugesera/
Gisaka/Migongo project which is to carry out a study of livestock marketing.
Agricultural Credit: The project would start an experimental agricultural
credit program, in coordination with the Bugesera Gisaka/Migongo project,
under which a national agricultural credit study is to be made. No disburse-
ments would be made until the agricultural credit study has been completed
and its recommendations approved by IDA (Schedule 1 para. 4(b) of the draft



- il -
Development Credit Agreement). General Services would comprise: General
Services for Project management, the administrative and financial services,
and the workshop. Investments would be limited to additional staff housing,
extension of the workshop, and procurement of additional equipment. Staff
Training: The Project would finance specific staff training activities,
including a training assignment in project management in Rwanda or abroad,
technical seminars and study trips for the Sub-Project Directors, and a
training program for extension staff. Consulting Services: The project
would hire consulting services on an ad hoc basis totalling about 12 man-years
to examine particular technical aspects of the Project and assist with the
technical management of the Sub-projects. Such consulting services would be
recruited :Locally, from ISAR or other projects, or internationally. Technical
Assistance: Two full-time technicians would be recruited internationally, an
agronomist/extension specialist who would also be the Project Director, and a
marketing specialist, totalling 96 man-months, at the average cost of about
US$6,000 per man-month. Their recruitment would be a condition of effective-
ness (Section 7.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation and Management
33.       The Office pour la Valorisation Pastorale et Agricole du Mutara
(OVAPAM), a parastatal organization established under the first project which
is in charge of the agricultural and livestock development in the entire
Mutara Region, would be responsible for implementing the proposed IDA financed
project under the umbrella of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.
Policy responsibility and control of implementation would be vested in the
Board of Directors of OVAPAM , and direct responsibility for implementation in
the Project Director who would report to the Board of Directors of OVAPAM.
The Project Director would coordinate with the Director of OVAPAM the pre-
paration cf annual workplans and budgets, the management of locally recruited
personnel and procurement matters. The Government agreed to appoint an
internationally recruited expert as project director with qualifications and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.  (Section 3.07 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 3.06 of the draft Special
Action Credit Agreement).
34.       The members of the Board of Directors would be nominated by Presi-
dential decree. They wouldE include high ranking representatives from the
Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock, Finance, Planning, Social Affairs
and cooperatives; a representative of the National Bank of Rwanda; the
Prefet of the Prefecture of Byumba; a representative of the Beneficiaries
under the Paysannat sub-project; a representative of Beneficiaries under the
Group Ranch Sub-project. The Board would report to the Minister of Agricul-
ture and livestock and would be chaired by a high ranking official from that
Ministry (Sections 3.09 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement and
Section 3.08(a) of the draiEt Special Action Credit Agreement). The Director
of OVAPAM, the Project Director, the sub-project directors and the Director
of the CIDA-financed Marsh:Land Development Project would have the right to
receive notice of, attend, be consulted and be heard at all meetings of
OVAPAM's Board of Directors (Section 3.09 (b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement and Section 3.- (b) of the draft Special Action Credit
Agreement). A Beneficiaries Committee would handle allocation of plots and



- 12 -
group ranches and would have the same composition as under the Phase I
project. Its functions would be extented to the supervision of Beneficiaries'
performance under their contracts. The beneficiaries' representatives would
be elected by the beneficiaries themselves. The Committee would report to the
Board of Directors of OVAPAM (Section 3.10 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement and 3.09 of the draft Special Action Credit Agreement).
35.       The project management staff would consist of the Project Director
and the two Sub-Project Directors, assisted by a marketing specialist, and by
supporting staff, and general services. The project director would be an
internationally recruited agronomist/ extension specialist and the sub-project
directors would be Rwandese nationals appointed by the Minister of Agriculture
and Livestock. OVAPAM's headquarters would be in the project area (Nyagatare);
a small liaison office would be maintained in Kigali.
36.       Workplans and budgets would be prepared each year during the project
implementation. The objective would be to facilitate a full annual review
of progress in project implementation jointly by Government and IDA, and to
make possible technical or institutional modifications or adjustments of
the project as experience is gained. The submission of the first work plan
(July-December 1979) to IDA for approval would be a condition of effective-
ness (Section 7.01 (f) of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section
2.08 of the draft Project Agreement). After the first two years of implemen-
tation an in-depth review of the Project would be carried otit by IDA and the
Government to assess the performance of the institutions operating the project
and the adequacy of the technical approach chosen. On this occasion, the need
for possible amendments to the Project description would also be reviewed, as
well as that for the preparation of further Project phases. In order to
insure adequate coordination, commitments or arrangements with the CIDA
financed marshland development project which would affect the project area,
would be made without prior consultation with IDA (section 5.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
37.       Accounts and Audit.  OVAPAM would maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to explain all project activities. The accounts would
be kept according to the Accounting Plan of the Organisation Commune Africaine
et Mauricienne (OCAM) as required by Rwandese Law for all Government institu-
tions. The Phase I accounts would be audited by an auditor acceptable to the
Association before Credit effectiveness (Section 7.01(a) of the draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement). The Phase II accounts would be audited by auditors
acceptable to IDA. The audited accounts and auditor's report would be sub-
mitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.02
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
38.       Internal monitoring and evaluation activities would be an integral
part of the extension programs to be implemented under each subproject (Sec-
tion 3.03(b) of the draft l)evelopment Credit Agreement), and a consolidated semi-
annual Project Report would be submitted by OVAPAM to IDA (Section 2.05 (b) of the
draft Project Agreement). In addition, the Studies and Projects Division of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock would be responsible for overall
project monitoring. It would analyze the data collected and reports prepared
by Project staff and focus on key project performance variables. The Division
would submit to IDA its proposed monitoring program within the first year of
Project implementation and no later than June 1980 (Section 3.04 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement and of the draft Special Action Credit Agreement).



- 13 -
39.       Project Costs.  Total project costs including taxes are estimated at
RF 1,085 million (US$11.8 million), of which US$6.2 million (or 52%) represent
foreign exchange costs. A physical contingency of 10% was applied to all
project items, except to the water supply component for which a 30% contingency
allowance reflects the great: uncertainty over costs for this component.  Price
contingenc:Les were applied following Bank/IDA guidelines for foreign exchange
costs and at the rate of 12%' for 1979, and 10% for 1980-1983 for local costs.
Since imports for development projects are normally exempt from duty, appli-
cable taxes are estimated at: only RF 32 million (US$0.35 million).
40.       The financing of the project would be shared as follows:
Financing Plan
----------US$ million----------
Local    Foreign    Total       %
IDA                                3.08       5.67        8.75.    74
EEC Special Action Credit          -1.15       .50        1.65      14
Government                           .95         -         .95       8
Farmers                              .46         -         .46       4
Total Costs                        5.64       6.17       11.81    100
41.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$8.75 million would be made to the
Governnent of Rwanda and would be on standard IDA terms. The credit would
finance about 92% of total foreign exchange cost. The European Economic
Community through its Special Action Credit would finance US$1.65 million
equivalent, representing about 14% of total project costs. Participants would
finance an estimated 4% of total project costs through water supply fees
aiming at covering full maintenance and depreciation costs (Section 2.10 (ii)
and (iii) of draft Project Agreement) and payment for veterinary medicines and
treatments (Section 2.11 of' draft Project Agreement). Government would
contribute US$0.95 million or 8% of total project costs.
42.       Funds for the Project would be made available by Government to
OVAPAM as a grant. A Project account would be established under the control
of the Project Director ancl his Administrative and Financial Director, and
Government would credit its contribution once a year after budget approval,
not later than February 28. To replenish the initial Phase I revolving fund
aimed at financing OVAPAM's project activities, and bring it to RF 30 million,
Government would contribute US$250,000 equivalent and maintain it at that
level throughout Project implementation.  It would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness that the fund had been replenished (Section 7.01(g) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The external financing of operating costs
of the Project would decrease over the project implementation period as the
Government would finance and/or cause the local authorities and Beneficiaries
to finance progressively such operating costs in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.14 of the draft Development Credit Agreement
and Section 3.11 of the draft Special Action Credit Agreement). Special
revolving funds would be established to finance dipping materials, veterinary



- 14 -
medicines, and marketing activities. These funds would be financed out of the
revenues from fees on veterinary services, the sale of crops and livestock,
and any possible deficit would be covered by the Government. Under the
Project Preparation Facility, IDA has advanced US$500,000 to the Government to
help speed up the start of the Project. Amounts disbursed would be reimbursed
from the Credit Account.
43.        Procurement.  With respect to goods to be financed from the IDA
Credit, contracts for the supply of vehicles and equipment (about US$0.6
million) and veterinary drugs and chemicals (about US$0.1 million), costing
US$50,000 or more would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Contracts for vehicles,
equipment, and supplies costing less than US$50,000 each, and not exceeding an
aggregate amount of US$350,000, would be awarded following Government procure-
ment procedures, which are satisfactory with the proviso that quotations would
be sought from all suppliers represented in Rwanda who offer adequate guaran-
tees of service and supply of parts. Contracts for supplies of veterinary
products, breeding material (cattle, artificial insemination straws, etc.) and
seeds (US$380,000), would be procured through international shopping or
international advertisement; civil works for housing, office, school, and
health center construction would be carried out by OVAPAM by force account or
in cooperation with local communities, or by local contractors following
competitive bidding based on local advertisement since, in view of their size
and remoteness, these works would be unlikely to attract international bids.
Implementation of the water supply component (about US$1.9 million) would be
carried out by a qualified firm with experience in shallow well construction
in developing countries, preferably in Africa. The contract would be awarded
following international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines. Draft tender documents for all contracts equal to or exceeding
US$50,000, and for the water supply component, would be submitted to IDA for
approval before invitations to bid were issued. Full information on proposed
contracts valued at US$20,000 to US$50,000 would be submitted to IDA for
comment prior to award of the contract. Items financed under the EEC Special
Action credit would be procured in accordance with Schedule III of the EEC
Special Action Credit Agreement which limits bidding to EEC member countries
and IDA member countries which are eligible to receive Special Action Credits.
44.        Disbursement.  Funds from the Credit Account would be disbursed
as follows:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures or 95% of local expenditures
for equipment, materials, including veterinary chemicals
and medicines, and seeds, and vehicles;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures
for civil works and infrastructure development, (and related
materials);
(c) 85% of the total cost of staff salaries and other operating
costs;
(d) 70% of local expenditures under the agricultural credit fund;.



- 15 -
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures or 95% of local expenditures
for technical services and water supply development.
F7unds from the Special Action Credit would finance 100 per-
cent of foreign expenditures and 85 percent of local expen-
cLitures for civil works and infrastructure development (and
related materials);
Disbursemenits against (a), (b), (c), (e), and (f) would be fully documented.
Disbursements against (d) would be made against statements of expenditure
certified by the Project Director and the Administrative and Financial Director;
full documentation would be retained by OVAPAM and made available to IDA for
inspection in the course of normal Project supervision. The IDA Credit is
expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1983 and the Special Action
Credit by December 31, 1981.,
Benefits and Risks
45.       The major benefit of the Project would be to halt the rapid degra-
dation of soils in the area and introduce soil conservation measures. Some
land would also be recovered and the production of the area increased through
improved yields of subsistence products. The value of annual incremental
production is estimated at about US$1.8 million at full development (year 10)
thereby reducing import requirements.  At that time, the value of output of
typical area farms, net of physical inputs would have increased by 60 to 73
percent as compared to pre-project levels, and an estimated 15 percent of the
incremental production would be marketed in other regions of Rwanda; the
return to labor would increase by about 23 percent. It is expected that some
65,000 pecple, at the lowest level of income, would directly benefit from the
project, through increased cash income and subsistence production, and from
improved social services. The project would also create employment opportuni-
ties. An estimated 500 persons would have been employed during the construc-
tion period, and after 10 years, an estimated 3,000 would be permanently
employed aLs farm labor.
46.       The economic rate of return from directly productive elements of
the projec:t such as improved farming and animal husbandry methods and
provision of inputs, is estimated at about 14 percent over 20 years. All
project investments and ope!rating costs which relate directly to expected
increases in production were included in the analysis and amount to 30 percent
of total project costs; the costs and benefits of social infrastructure,
drinking water supplies and the technical services intended to assist in the
design of future projects have been excluded from the analysis. Foreign
exchange costs and benefits were valued at the rate of RF 114.40 per US$1, to
reflect the scarcity value of foreign exchange. The rate of return was tested
for sensitivity; a 10 percent increase in investment and operating costs would
lower the internal rate of return by 2 percentage points to 12 percent; a 10
percent increase in costs and a 10 percent decrease in yields would lower the
rate of return by 5 percentage points to 9 percent.



- 16 -
47.       The project involves substantial risks.  Firstly, the rate of
adoption by participants of the mixed farming technical package may be lower
than expected either because results are not immediate or because of un-
availability of labor should the socio-economic environment be disrupted.
Secondly, the cattle destocking and range improvement programs may also be
slower than expected; the Project therefore includes the possibility of paying
bonuses for cattle sold. Thirdly, management capability in the country
remains limited; the project was therefore designed to strengthen project
management while decentralizing implementation and involving beneficiaries.
In the longer term, population growth is likely to exacerbate competition for
land, and further agriculture and livestock intensification projects would be
needed; funds to prepare such projects have been included in the Project. In
addition to annual and in depth mid-implementation project reviews (see para
46 above) all developments under the project will be monitored through close
supervision.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Rwanda and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between OVAPAM and
the Association, the draft EEC Special Action Credit Agreement between the
Republic of Rwanda and the Association as administrator of the EEC Spe-
cial Action Account established with funds contributed by the member states
of the EEC, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l (d) of the Articles of Agreements, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
49.       Special Conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the
credit are: (a) recruitment of key staff; (b) all conditions precedent to
the effectiveness of the EEC Special Action Credit Agreement other than the
effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement; (c) revolving Fund Account estab-
lished and US$250.000 equivalent deposited therein by Government; (d) auditing
of the accounts under the Agricultural Development Project (Credit No. 439-
RW); (e) submission to IDA of the first work plan; (f) the Statuts of OVAPAM
amended to permit it not to be self-financing and to require its head office
to be located at Nyagatare; (g) the beneficiaries committee and its terms of
reference established; and (h) the subsidiary agreement between Government
and OVAPAM executed.(Section 7.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
A condition of effectiveness of the Special Action Credit Agreement is that
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement
have been met other than the effectiveness of the EEC Special Action Credit
Agreement. (Section 6.01 of the draft Special Action Credit Account.)



- 17 -
50.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Art:icles of Agreement of the Association, and that the EEC Special
Action Credit would comply with the criteria established by the Agree.ment
of May 2, 1978 between the Association and the European Economic Community.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
51.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credits.
Robert S. MeNamara
President
Attachments
June 7, 1979



- 18 -
ANNEX I
P>age1
TABLE 3A
RWANDA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  -----------------------------------------_____
-----_---------                                    RWANDA                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL        26.3                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.       16.9                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE            MALAWI          TANZANIA       KENYA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       60.0       80.0      130.0               70.0         110.0 /a  160.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)              2.6        3.7        4.3                 4.6         12.9/a      11.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        100.0      140.0      163.0                38.0         14.0        19.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANO        172.0      243.0       254.0              114.0         25.0        113.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)           52.5       50.7       50.0                49.3         50.5        49.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)            30.1       25.1       23.6                28.1         23.0        17.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)            ..     133.0          ..                  ..      165.0/b
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        36.0       41.0        41.0                38.5        41.9-        49.1
GR055 REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.3/t      3.4        3.4                 3.2         3.2          3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                   2.9        3.6 /a    2.3                  2.6         3.0/a        3.1
URBAN                                  11.5        7.7 -      7.3                 505                     6.3
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)             2.0        3.0        3.8                 5.6 /a       5.5/b       9.9
AIE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        45.1        43.8       43.6                43.9        44.4/b       48.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                        52.0       51.0 /b   53.3                  52.1        53.07        48.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                      2.5         5.2 /b    3.1                  4.0         2.6Tb        3.6
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      0.9        1.0        0.9                 0.9          0.9/b       1.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.8/b      0-9 /c      0-9 /a                          120l  b     1.1 /a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)             ..         ..         ..                  ..           ..        66.1
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..         ..         ..                   ..          .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          1500.0      2100.0                         2000.0      5600.da,b 5100.0 /b
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          95.0        93.0         *                 89.0         91.0/ab    90a 0 lb
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)              .9. .0.                . .                 . .         ..  ' 
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOMF REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         ..         ..                29.5        33.5
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         ..         ..                52.9        63.3         5. _
LOWEST  20% 0F HOUSEHOLOS                ,.         ..         ..                 5.7         2.3
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLOS                ..         ..         ..                15.0         7.0         11.77g
DISTRIBUTION OF LANO OWNERSHIP
*  OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..
- OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS             ..         ..          ..                  ..
HFALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            133570.0/C57900.0   53550.0                 75250.0    21570.0 /a   7810.0/d
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    23380.0/    20230.0 11480.0                     66Q-.0      4890.07T   1470.0fl
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                . .     770.0      670.0          / OU.0           700.07a    770.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)           88.0      96.0        90.0               103.0        88.0         98.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER 0AY)                55.0       62.0       56.0                54.0        43.0         71.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             ..       35.0 /d   27.0                  9.0/b      23.0         29.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU, AGES 1-4                ..         ..          ..                  ,,          ..         1.9
EDUCATION
AOJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        49.0        70.0      67.0                 40.0        35.0         64.0
SECONOARY SCHOOL                        2.0        2.0        2.0                 2.0         3.0          9.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECONO LEVEL>              12.0        12.0       12.0                14.0        13.0         13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLILMENT
(S 0F SECONOARY)                      40.0        12.0       14.0                 3.0        10.0/c        2.0
ADULT LIT'RACY RATE (S)                  10.0         ..       23.0                22.0           ..        30.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                   ..         ..         ..1.9
OCCUPIEO OWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                          .-         *          *-                78.0/cd.  30.0/b,d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                     ..         ..         ..                16.0/c,d
RURAL OWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                       ..         ..         ..                   ..          .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)             ..          .      32                   20.0         11.0        48.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)              ..        1.0       1.6                  2.0          3.0         9.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)              3.0 /c   21.0       34.0                 32.0         31.0/a      68.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                  ..          ..         ..                0.05         0.1         0.5
----EE-------NOTES-------------AN----------------------N-----T---------__S__-__ON-------REVERSE---------___--
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 19 -
ANNfEX t
Page 2
NOTES
Fn'.ec othes-cc fsnoted (eg. GNP per capita and population), data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971,
and far Mont Receat Estinrase betueen 1973 and 1976.
*  Recta hbs been selected sas  n objective country because it is an Africen country wfth an agriculture-based econorny which has aucceeded in reaching
a levil of econinlc dev,elopnent sabstantially hlgher than that of Ruenda.
RWANDA        196C     in  1957;    /   Ratio cf population ioder 15 end 65 and  over ta total lahbr force;                 /c  1962.
197C     /s  Lnrgely due ta innigration, gro-th rate if  higher than rate of natoral increat.;                 /b  15-59 sand 60 asd aver respectivelv;
c  Ratio of population under 15 and 60 and over to total labor force;                id  1964-66.
MALAWI        1970    ,a  Ratio of population under 15 snd 65 and aver to total labor farce;    /b  1964-66;    jr  1967;    Id  Urban only.
TANZANIA    1970    la  M.nilood Ten.ania;    /b  1967;    /0  1965;    /d  A. percenetge  cf urban hotahhald.
KFNYA         1970    la  Rotin of population onder 15 and 65 aod  avec to labar farce sge 15-99 veara;    /b  Labor force age 15-59 yearas;    Jo  Urban;
id Registered, not all practicing in the country;
R5, Septeaber 7, 1978
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATDRS
Land Area (thon ktanl                                                                          Population per nursing pa-son - Population divided by nunber of practicing
Total   Ttal surface arca comprising lard area and inlond 'acters-                                sale asd feaale gradate sursea, "trained" or "certified" nursea, and
asri. - Mont  --cesas ti-tae cf agrtculnucst stea ca-d t-eporarily or pana-                     auxiliary persoccal uith training or soperiecc.
nently for cropa, psstucrîa, rarket & kitchen gardens or tD lie fallî .                      Ppoalatian cas hapitel bed - Populatic  dinided by noab-er of bospifal bcdr
available io public and privera geonral and specialized haspital and
GNP per cacpita (U5S) - GNP par capitr  esitieatas ot carrent sacret prites,                     cebabilitatian centera; escludea nrsirg homoes snd ectablis.aiente for
calculated by saine converosin rethod as World Batà, Atlas (1973-7T basit);                    ctatodial and prevective care.
1960; 1970 and 1977 daces.                                                                   Pe     t ar apita spp  f calories ( aif rae,uirsaisntal) - Computed fras energy
equinalcor cf net food supplias anailebls ie =truty pet capita par day;
Porulation and vital statietici                                                                  available supplies co-priîe dossatic production, importa les  cpaorta. and
Population (fid-year milli0n)   AS of July first:  if not available, cnerage                     changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quantities uoed
of tvo end-year eaticatee; 160, 1970 and 1977 data.                                            in food proceasing sud lasses in distribution; requiremaats vere estitated
by FAO bhsed on physiological needa for nors-a  activity and hsalth conuid-
Population dacu s-i-  par scoare lki - Mlid-ycar population par square kiloeater                 cring cnviroanmental tasporatura, body weights, aegansd sex dis tribationa cf
(100 bactaras) cf total  rasa.                                                                 populstion, and al1stng 101. for vaste at honaehcd 1en1.
Pnpulation deasity - par anuare kl  cf aeic.  land - Computad as abave for                     Par capita aupply of proteis  (Rrans  pttr dey) - Protein content af par capita
agriccîtural lasd only.                                                                         et supply of food par day; cnt *upply of food te defi.ad as sbove; reqctrc-
acoits for al cointrice ectablîshed by USDA Etonomit Resesrch Services
Viral statietios                                                                                  ps-vIde foc a i.simnan allacanta of 60 grass cf total prortai  par day, acd
Crude birth rats par thb ...od, evarace - Acoual lita birthb  par thou.aad cf                     20 gras, cf an.ial acd pulsa proreai, cf vbhih 10 sgasa should be animal
mid-year population; ten-yeer arithoatiî  avorages ending in 1960 and 1970,                    protein; these standards are lover th.n those of 75 grama of total pr-tein
and five-year ancrage ending in 1975 for moat recent estimetr.                                 and 23 graoa of animal pr ltein  ea an average for the vorld, proposed by FAO
Ctode dasth rate per thousand, ancrage - Annuel deatha par thouacad of aid-year                  i the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year arithretic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and fine-                   Per tapira protein aupplv fras atimal aad pulse - Protcin aupply of food
yea-  average eadiog in 1975 for incae r-cent estiate.                                         derived frai animal.s and pulses in grass  par day.
Iofant ortnlity itat  i/téhs     - Annuel denths of infants under anc year cf ca.              Death rate (/thou) agas 1-4 - Annuel datbs  par tbusne d as        aga groap 1-.
par thocsaad lhue his-tha.                                                                     ycacs, ro childrec in this cge gs-cap; suegea ted aanindicats-  fi
Life expcctanec  at birth  yvrs) - Average cuasber of yearc  a  life remaaining at              molnutrition.
birth;  usually fina-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 aed 1975 for develop-
icg countries.                                                                                 a Edcatio
Gross reproduction rate - Ancrage ncaber of live dcughters s noman vill boer                    Adiaated ensollaent ratio - primarev ahool - Enro.ilmat cf a11 cge. ca par-
in her normal reproductive period if she capeaiences preae,at aga-specifis                     centaga of primary school-aga population; includes children agsd 6-11 yeact
fertility rates; usally five-year averagea ending in 19SO, 1970 and 1975                      but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countriea vith
for davcloping countrieE.                                                                      universal eduatian, carollîeat oay exc.ed 1007 tince .-  pupila are belov
Population tir-th rata (%  - total - Cotpound annuel growth ratea of Mtd-year                     or abome the offictal school age.
populatian far 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                 Adiu.ted enrolltasnt ratio - accondasry  chool - Camputed as aboya; aecondary
Populatio  rcrth rata  (%, - urban - Computrd ltke growth rate cf total                           ducation requires et laser foJ-r yeara of  pprcned primery inctrotian;
population; different dcfieitions of urban  reas .ay affect caap.acbllity of                   pronidea general, voactional or eascher traintng instructiouc for pupila
data  smong couatrie.s                                                                          of 12 to 17 years cf age; correspondens. courses are generslly excluded.
Urban population (% of total) - Ratio of urban ta total population; different                   Ye-rs af achooling provided (first and second lavels) - Total ysars of
dafinition6  ai urban sr-oa  mpy affect conparability of data among conatris.                   s-hoolichg; ar s.caudcry lev1, nacatiocal inatruction  -y be prtially or
teuplerely Cclssded.
Aue structure (percent) - Childrao (0-14 years), ucckiog-aga (15-64 yeast),                    Veetionsl .aroallmnt (7. cf secaederys     - Vocertiosl institutiona  includa
ccd catirad  (65 years c-d ovar) aa percetages cf aid-ycar population.                         techbical, industrial or cher progro  aehish operet  isdepandeutly or a
Age dependency ratio - Ratio af population onder 15 and 65 and aner ta those                      depasretets af accondary institutiona.
af ages 15 through 64.                                                                       Adult literacy rate (%) - Literate adolts (able ta resd and write) as par-
tconiomic dependrct ratio - Ratta of population codor 15 and 65 and avec ta                       ceutage cf total adult population agcd 15 yeste and mer.
the labo- force in age group af 15-64 yea.s.
FPaily planning - acceptors (cumulative  thoul - Cucc,ltiro mmmber  i acesprts                 Rouslnc
af birth-coctrci davicns onder auspices of ratinai fsui ly planning progr-a                  Pacsons per tom fusban) - Ancrage casber of persons per roa  in o-ccpied
sice isception.                                                                                 conventianal dwellings  l  urbac    ar.aa; doellioga  xclde n-pp-ermanent
Fcmily planaing - usera (I of carricd  onee.) - Percentages at mers-ed vomen of                   structures and uo-ccpied parts.
child-bearing oge (15-44 years) vhb osa birth-contral deviccs ta ail oarried                 Occupied dwellinga vithout piped ocatr (%) - Ouccpied centional doelliaga
vases- iOa5-      fmm   gs-ccp.                                                                if u-bhn sod rural  asas nithuet insida ar ousalde piped octer facilitiec
as  arsenrge  fIl  tc-upied dvellisga.
racplytanot                                                                                        ss te  eLectrsicit  (7, of ahL daLliangs) - Conventional d.allioga with
t ls o h -R iclly aas-ue  eran-, ncluding ared                 electricity in living quartera ce percent of total dvelliaga tn os-ban ad
fors-.saucd ,.eplaved bur eaclicdfg houeaeive, ntcda.s-t, ar..; definitla                      ru-cl eos-ea.
ic vas-face s-outrtesae not s-apacblea                                                        Rural duelli.g. cssescted ta electricity (7.) -  computed as aboya fer rural
Labar forse in agricautture(.,) - Agricultural labor force (in faroing, forestry,                dwellings  cly.
hucticg and fishing) ce perctntaga of total Iabor frce.,
lneimployed (% of labr force) - Unsployed are uscclly detined a- paracca vhb                    Conaumption
are able snd  illing tc take a job, out ai a jab on a given day, remained ont                Radio reseiners (per thon cou) - All types of reseiners for radio brosdcasta
ai a job, and aeeking  -rk for a  pecified minimon  peaio,d cot eeceadicg oc-                   ta general public per thous.nd af populetian; e.ccldes uclicersed re-civers
.ek; ey rot he caspaaable beteeen s-ctrieo duc ta diffearct definitiona                         fa cetries sud i0 years  hee  regiat-tion  f radiea             s   fa affect;
af utnepltyed and nn--ce of data, e.g., -eploy.ent offi-e statistics, saple                     date ferresot yparc  -ay cot be .apar.bal   inte ar   -trie  ahoiihad
sur-eys, coopclsory uneoplyoent insurcace.                                                      liteeig.
Passe,er care (cer thoc pop) - Pac...ge-r cars caspries maotr cars scating
I-cs  di-lts-thuca-  Pecoc      fea  ps-mata ircone  (bort  r cabh anA! kîcA)                     lase thsa eight pas-sons; ecasludes aisbulaoces, hearses anA cilitary
receivnd by richert 5%, richest 20%, pooreat 207, and poos-rt 40% af houes-                      eshiclei.
holds.                                                                                        Elctricitry (k-vh/y par -aP) - .,ncasl -oasecaptioa  ef industrial, coosercial,
peblis- sud ps-mare, alctricity la klr att bacs-a pr ass-pire, georailp1
Sistrfbctios-  fi land u   rneabhi  - Percectages cf lard ced by uaalthiest 107                   u eed  nm  prloductin data, nithur iILO.e.e fer losea  in grids but alla.-
sud pooerest If  of laned ovacra                                                                ing for importe and eperts af eletricity.
11-1th and N,l,citton                                                                           Xe_arint (ke/vs  per ee) - Par tapitr  su-ul cemnaption in  kiloù,,aa
Population per physicien - Population dividad by ciobar cf practicing                             e.t  *ted fro  doma.ti. produetto   plu. net importe of .tprint
physicians qualified fu-m  a iaedisal school ut usiversity levl.



- 20 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of April 30, 1979)
Amount US$ million
Credit No.   Fiscal Year   Borrower   Purpose                 IDA      Undisbursed
(Two credits have been fully disbursed)                        9.30
196-RW          1970        Rwanda      Kigali Gatuna
Road Construction   18.80         0.25
439-RW          1974                    Agro-pastoral
Development           3.80        0.33
567-RW          1975                     Education             7.90        5.17
655-RW          1977                     DFC                   4.00        1.50
656-RW          1977                     Agriculture
Cinchona              1.80        1.52
668-RW          1978                     Bugesera-Est
Gisaka-Migongo
Mixed Farming and
Rural Development   14.00        11.28
769-RW          1978                     Road Maintenance    15.00        14.58
Total                                         74.60       34.63
Note: Rwanda has received no Bank loans.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
In 1976, IFC made a loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory. A second
proposed IFC investment of long-term loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity
commitments of up to US$60,000 for a tea factory is scheduled to be considered
by the Executive Directors in June 1979.



- 21 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
PROJECTS IN RWANDA 1/
Credit No. 196-RW   Kigali-Gatuna Project; US$9.3 million credit of
June 17, 1970; Date of Effectiveness: September 15, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977;
US$9.5 million supplementary credit of December 19, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: February 18, 1976
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project consisted of building a paved road to link Kigali with
the Uganda Road system, thus reducing by 73 km the road distance to Kampala
through which most Rwandese imports and exports pass on their way to the port
of Mombasa. Construction works were interrupted in April 1975 because of a
cost overrun amounting to about US$16.0 million, including a foreign exchange
component of US$13.7 million. A supplementary IDA credit of US$9.5 million
was made in 1976 of which US$8.7 million was earmarked for the completion of
the Kigali-Gatuna road and the remainder to finance additional costs under
the HighwELy Maintenance Project of 1972, which has now been completed. The
cost overrun is confinanced with a US$5.0 million loan from the Saudi Fund
for Development. The works are now nearing completion. It is expected that
the road will be finally accepted by the Government before June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 439-RW   Mutara Agricultural Development Project; US$3.8 million
credit of November 29, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: September 5, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project which aims at the agro-pastoral development of some
45,000 ha of land in Mutara, situated west of the Kagera National Park in
the north of Rwanda consisited essentially in establishing a cropping settle-
ment paysannat, about 130 groups ranches and a breeding ranch. Project
implementation began about a year behind schedule because of delays in select-
ing a suitable consulting firm to assist in project execution. Various
difficulties have been encountered, particularly in management, in defining
the project area, and in recruiting staff and in coping with the rate of
population immigration and range deterioration.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
thal: they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Severe cost increases necessitated a reduction in the scope of the
project. The water component was deleted. In the paysannat, group ranch, and
breeding ranch sub-projects, substantial progress has been made towards achiev-
ing the main project objectives. This includes the settlement of families,
the construction of the basic transport, housing, administrative and veterinary
infrastructures. A tse-tse eradication program is about completed. However,
little has been done to date regarding extension work and promotion of improved
agricultural and animal husbandry techniques.
Credit No. 567-RW   Education Project; US$8.0 million credit of June 30, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the construction, furnishing and equipment of
150 workshops for about 6,000 students and of a print shop, and the provision
of paper for production and distribution of text books written in Kinyarwanda.
The project also provides technical assistance to the school financing and
construction unit (SFCS) which was established under the project and is func-
tioning satisfactorily. About 12 workshops have been completed and construc-
tion of 28 additional workshops is underway. Construction of the office
building for the SFCS has been completed. Construction of the print shop is
nearing completion and documents for procurement of paper are being prepared.
SFCS officials and all technical assistance specialists are performing satis-
factorily. There has, however, been an administrative problem regarding pro-
curement. Following an in-depth review: (i) the number of workshops to be
financed under the credit has been increased from 150 to about 250; (ii) an
amount of US$130,000 has been cancelled because of misprocurement of certain
construction materials; and (iii) an amount of about US$1.75 million, improp-
erly disbursed, will be restituted to the project by the Government through a
temporary reduction of the agreed disbursement percentages.
Credit No. 655-PW   Rwandese Development Bank Project; US$4.0 million;
Credit of August 20, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This credit to the Banque Rwandaise de Developpement (BRD) is
intended to fill a gap in the foreign resources requirements of the only
long-term financing institution in the main productive sectors in Rwanda.
This project is proceeding satisfactorily; the credit became effective on
March 2, 1977 and will soon be 90% committed. Also, BRD has obtained addi-
tional technical assistance from Germany. This project is designed to assist
the Banque Rwandaise de Developpement (BRD) in promoting medium and small
scale industries by providing the foreign exchange required.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit 656-RW        Cinchona Project; US$1.8 Million credit of August 20, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project which is to be carried out over a period of five years
provides agricultural inputs, extension, marketing and other services to
smallholders to assist in tlhe expansion of cinchona production for export
by extending the present plantations by about 900 ha. Project staff has
been appointed and an expatriate cinchona expert has been hired to visit
Rwanda from time to time to give advice on cinchona production. The most
serious difficulty concerns a fungal disease in seed beds, but this is being
solved.
Credit 668-RW        Bugesera Gisaka/Migongo Mixed Farming and Rural
Developpement Project; US$14.0 million credit of
March 31, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of the promotion of mixed farming and rural
development in two regions and the strengthening of the central services
responsib]e for rural development. The project includes tse tse control,
field extension and infrastructure, provision of farm inputs on credit,
constructiLon and improvemerLt of feeder roads and water facilities, schools,
and healtlh centers, establishment of two cattle ranches and a study for an
irrigation project.  The project is cofinanced with BADEA (US$5.0 million
equivalent for livestock development), Belgium (US$0.9 million equivalent
for water facilities) and France. The Ministry of French cooperation is
providing seven of the nine experts required by the project. Satisfactory
progress *has been made with start-up activities, including programming of
work, budgeting, procurement and construction.
Credit No. 769-RW   Fourth Highway Project; US$15.0 million credit of April 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1978;
Closin,g Date: July 1, 1982
Implementation of the Fourth Highway Project (a US$15.0 million
credit for road maintenance) started in January 1978. Technical assistance
is in the field and procurement of equipment is in progress. On the sugges-
tio of thle Association, an expert on labor intensive methods visited Rwanda
for three weeks in June 1978 and recommended that one mechanized unit be
replaced by one unit utilizing labor intensive methods. Following the con-
sultant's recommendation, Government decided to introduce labor-intensive
methods f-or road maintenance and therefore amended the original list of equip-
ment to be purchased to allow for this. Government is in the process of
discussing with World Food Program (WFP) storage and distribution of food
rations to be delivered by, WFP in November 1979. No major problems are
expected.



- 24 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
RWANDA
MUTARA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE II
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification Mission                     November 1975
(b)  Appraisal Mission                          May 1978
(c)  Negotiations                               May 1979
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness              August 1979
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
A.   Special Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:  (para. 49)
(a) Recruitment of experts (para. 32 (iv-b)).
(b) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
EEC Special Action Credit Agreement other than the
effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement (para. 49).
(c) Revolving Fund Account established and US$250,000
equivalent deposited therein by Government.
(para. 42).
(d)  Auditing of the Accounts of the Agricultural
Development Project (Credit No. 439-RW) (para. 37).
(e)  Submission to IDA of the first work plan (para. 36).



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(f)  The status of OVAPAM amended to permit it not to be self-
financing and to require its head office to be located
at Nyagatare (paras. 34, 35 and 42).
(g)  The Beneficiaries Committee and its terms of reference
established (para. 34).
(h)  The Subsidiary Agreement between Government and OVAPAM
(para. 49).
B.   Conditions of Disbursement would be:
(a) against the water supply gravity system, that prior
approval of such systems has been obtained (para. 32
(iv-a)).
(b) against agricultural credit expenditures, that the
agricultural credit study has been completed (para. 32
(iv-b)).
(c) under the Special Action Credit Agreement, against the con-
struction of health center that the government has arranged
that an organization such as UNICEF will provide the initial
stock of medicines and supplies and train the staff for these
health centers.






I  |  310°         To Mba,o,c A Karpol1
RWANDA
MUTARA AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK                                                                                        u G A N  D A                                                           KakIt..b1
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE Il                                                                                      U G AND
LOCATION OF THE PROJECT AREA (_
PROJECT AEAjN
........KAGERA NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY                                                                                              KooeTANZAN    IA
MAIN ROADS-1                                         REPUBLIC   0F e
RIVERS AND LAKES                                         ZAIRE
_._ -   INTERNATIONAL 8OUNDARIES                                                            I                           .
Ruhengeri
Sh sSs nFlud PlUthédlstahsotSvtefvWornvendnnento   * <  ,-   f    »>   ISWJvhordo                         f     8           \      K         }     K A G E R A R.A
/ < > B r 5ù 0 ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N A T  O 0 N A L ,>s
o ~ ~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~                                                                                                                           ~     ~~ ~~~~~~~~ Kibk '-  ng o7
- L RogcPcArR 
R 4? \Eugoromo                                                                         i  ',
RAPUBL[C    0F                                                                                                                                                                                 K ILoM E r  ER s     60
ZAI RE                                         o`z              B                                                                                                         î     g   elto  20                                    0, 40S    
'Cc          30' ICcQ2N   <   oo                                tKw



