니


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 937 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedu'Le 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Office pour la Valorisation Pastorale et Agricole-
du Mutara (hereinafter calied OVAPAM), a legal entity (organisme
d1int6r9t public dote" de la pe,rsonnalite' civile) existing under
the laws of the Borrower, will carry out Parts A, B and C of
the Project with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to OVAPAM a portion
of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) by letter dated May 22, 1979, from the Association to
the Minister of Agriculture and Livestock of the Borrower, the
Association has granted an advance to the Borrower totalling
$500,000 for the preparation of the Project (hereinafter called
the Project Preparation Advance);
(D) pursuant to the terms of the aforesaid advance the
aggregate amount thereof is to be refunded to the Association out
of the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement;
(E) the Borrower bas agreed to contract with International
Development Association as Administrator of the Special Action
Account established with funds contributed by the Member States of
the European Economic Community 'hereinafter called the Adminis-
trator) for a credit (hereinafter called the Special Action
Credit) in an amount equivalent to about $1,650,000, to assist in
financing Parts A, B and C of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
Special Action Credit Agreement) between the Borrower and the
Administrator; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
OVAPAM;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association, the Administrator and OVAPAM of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and OVAPAM pursuant to Sections 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement and the Special Action Credit Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement;
(c) "RwF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(d) "1973 Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement (Agricultural Development Project) (Credit Number
439 RW) (the so-called Mutara Agricultural Development Project
- Phase 1) between the Borrower and the Association dated Novem-
ber 29, 1973;
(e) "1977 Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement (Bugesera and Gisaka/Migongo Project) (Credit Number 668
RW) between the B.orrower and the Association dated March 31,
1977;
(f) "Project Area" means a territory of about 60,000 ha in
the northwest portion of the Borrower's Prefecture of Byumba,


﻿-3-
consisting of approximately 51,000 ha partially developed pursuant
to the terms of the 1973 Credit Agreement plus the Ngarama and
Kigasha administrative sectors in Ngarama Commune and the Karuma
administrative sector in Muvumba Commune;
(g) "Statuts" means the Borrower's Arrete Presidentiel
No. 50/12 of March 4, 1974 establishing OVAPAM, as amended
from time to time;
(h) "MINAGRI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock, or any successor thereto;
(i) "Beneficiaries Committee" means the Committee estab-
lished pursuant to Section 3.10 of this Agreement and Section 3.09
of the Special Action Credit Agreement;
(j) "Marshland Development Project" means the Borrower's
1977 to 1980 project, developed with the assistance of the Cana-
dian International Development Agency, potentially covering
about 9,000 ha in the valleys of the Kagitumba and Muvumba rivers
in the Borrower's Prefecture of Byumba;
(k) "Revolving Fund Account" means the account to be estab-
lished pursuant to Section 3.06 of this Agreement and Section 3.05
of the Special Action Credit Agreement;
(1) "work plan" means a plan for carrying out a portion
of Parts A, B or C of the Project, formulated pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement;
(m) "SPD" means the Studies and Project Division of MINAGRI,
or any successor thereto;
(n) "Paysannat" means approximately 23,000 ha within the
Project Area for settlement and crop and livestock development on
parcels of about two ha each;
(o) "Group Ranch" means an area of not less than 100 ha
and not more than 1,500 ha within the Project Area for settlement
and crop and livestock development by approximately 15 families;
(p) "Beneficiary" means the head of a family who has entered
into a contract with OVAPAM under Part A or Part B of the Project
either on his own behalf or on behalf of himself and his immediate
family;


﻿-4-
(q) "local authorities" means the Pr'fet and Sous-pr fets
of the Prefecture of Byumba and the Bourgmestres of the Communes
of Ngarama and Muvumba;
(r) "Project Director" means the expert appointed pursuant
to Section 3.07 (a) (ii) of this Agreement and Section 3.06 (a)
(ii) of the Special Action Credit Agreement; and
(s) "Director for Finance and Administration" means the
expert appointed pursuant to Section 3.07 (a) (iv) of this Agree-
ment and Section 3.06 (a) (iv) of the Special Action Credit
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eight million, seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars
($8,750,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) As of the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. Any unw. :hdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation
Advance shall automatically be cancelled on the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Association may establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 1989, and ending
June 15, 2029, each installment to and including the installment
payable on June 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one- and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. For the purposes of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions, the
Project Director and the Director for Finance and Administration
jointly, and any other persons authorized in writing by the
Borrower, are designated as representatives of the Borrower.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause OVAPAM to carry
out Parts A, B and C of the Project, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural,
livestock, educational, health, financial and administrative
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Under a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and OVAPAM under terms and
conditions which shall have been agreed to by the Association and


﻿-6-
the Administrator, the Borrower shall make available to OVAPAM on
a grant basis: (i) the portion of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to expenditures required for the carrying out of Parts
A, B and C of the Project, including the amounts allocated from
time to time to Categories (1) through (6) (a) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement; and (ii) the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
Special Action Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause OVAPAM
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, staff, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable OVAPAM to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Association and the Administrator and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Associ-
ation and the Administrator may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agree-
ment or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall carry out Parts D (1)
and D (2) of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate agricultural, financial and
administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associ-
ation, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and procurement schedules for Part D
of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part D of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the


﻿-7-
proceeds of the Credit with respect to Part D of the Project, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Associ-
ation's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods, works and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall cause SPD to prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and of the Association, the
Administrator and OVAPAM of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.04. By June 30, 1980 or such later date as may be
acceptable to the Association, the Borrower shall cause SPD to
prepare and furnish to the Association for its approval a Project
monitoring and evaluation program.
Section 3.05. By August 31, 1981 or such later date as may
be acceptable to the Borrower, the Association and the Admini-
strator, the Borrower, the Association and the Administrator
shall, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to each,
jointly complete a mid-Project implementation review of all
aspects of the Project.
Section 3.06. For the purpose of assisting in carrying out
Parts A, B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) cause OVAPAM to establish, maintain and manage an
account (the Revolving Fund Account) in the Banque Nationale du
Rwanda, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association and
the Administrator;


﻿-8-
(b) without any limitation on its obligations under Section
3.01 of this Agreement, deposit in the Revolving Fund Account, no
later than each February 28, an amount equivalent to such portion
of the payments reasonably estimated by OVAPAM to be made out of
the Revolving Fund Account during the forthcoming fiscal year
for expenditures under Parts A, B and C of the Project as shall
not be reimbursable from the Credit Account or the Special Action
Credit Account;
(c) use the amounts on deposit in the Revolving Fund Account
only to make payments for expenditures under Parts A, B and C of
the Project which are eligible to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or the Special Action Credit; and
(d) maintain the Revolving Fund Account at all times with
not less than thirty million RwF (30,000,000 RwF).
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall appoint to the manage-
ment and staff of OVAPAM the following experts each of whom
shall meet such qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment (including terms of reference) as may be
acceptable to the Association and the Administrator:
(i) a Director of OVAPAM;
(ii) a Project Director who shall be an agronomist/
extension specialist;
(iii) two Sub-projects Directors to head the Paysannat
and Group Ranch Sub-projects, manage the implemen-
tation of Parts A and B of the Project, respec-
tively, and coordinate with the local authorities
such implementation;
(iv) a Director for Finance and Administration;
(v) a specialist in marketing; and
(vi) a mechanic.
(b) The Borrower shall consult with the Association and the
Administrator prior to making any changes in the appointments of
the experts mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.08. Not later than 90 days after the date of
effectiveness of this Agreement or such later date as may be


﻿1                                -9-
acceptable to the Association and the Administrator, the Borrower,
the Association and the Administrator shall review the performance
of OVAPAM's financial, administrative and mechanical services and
if, as a result, the Borrower, the Association or the Adminis-
trator is of the view that any of such services require assis-
tance, the Borrower shall appoint such internationally recruited
expert or experts to assist OVAPAM as shall meet such qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment as may
be acceptable to the Association and the Administrator.
Section 3.09. (a) For the purpose of coordinating and super-
vising the general planning, implementation and evaluation of
the Project, the Borrower shall appoint the following individuals
as members of OVAPAM's Board of Directors: a senior official
of MINAGRI, who shall act as Chairman of such Board; a senior
official from each of the Borrower's Ministries of Finance,
Planning, and Social Affairs and Cooperatives; a representative of
the Banque Nationale du Rwanda; the Pr&fet of the Prefecture of
Byumba; a representative of the Beneficiaries under Part A of the
Project; and a representative of the Beneficiaries under Part B of
the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the Director of OVAPAM,
the Project Director, the Paysannat Sub-project Director, the
Group Ranch Sub-project Director, and the Director of the Marsh-
land Development Project have the right to receive notice of,
attend, be consulted and be heard at all meetings of OVAPAM's
Board of Directors.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure: (i) that the composition
of OVAPAM's Board of Directors is altered only after prior consul-
tation with the Association and the Administrator; and (ii)
that the name and occupation of each member of OVAPAM's Board of
Directors and any changes thereof shall be promptly communicated
to the Association and the Administrator.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain
a Beneficiaries Committee composed of the following individuals:
the PrefeL of the Prefecture of Byumba who shall act as the
Committee's Chairman; the Bourgmestres of Ngarama and Muvumba
Communes; the Director of OVAPAM; the Project Director; the
Paysannat Sub-project Director; the Group Ranch Sub-project
Director; the Director of the Marshland Development Project or his
deputy; a representative chosen by the Beneficiaries under Part A
of the Project; and a representative chosen by the Beneficiaries
under Part B of the Project.


﻿- 10 -
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) the composition
of the Beneficiaries Committee is not altered without prior
consultation with the Association and the Administrator; (ii) the
Beneficiaries Committee has exclusive jurisdiction to review and
rule on all applications to OVAPAM by actual or potential Benefi-
ciaries for plot allocation, Group Ranch allocation, and compen-
sation and meets, at the request of its Chairman, at least once
per month for this purpose; (iii) the Beneficiaries Committee
reviews the compliance by each Beneficiary with his obligations
set forth in his contract with OVAPAM under Part A or Part B of
the Project and meets, at the request of its Chairman, at least
once per quarter for this purpose; and (iv) the Beneficiaries
Committee makes a full report of its activities to the Board of
Directors of OVAPAM at least once per quarter.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, on a monthly basis, submit
to OVAPAM such accounts with respect to the expenditures under
Part D of the Project as OVAPAM may reasonably request in order
to permit prompt applications for disbursement by OVAPAM with
respect to the above.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the goods imported
under Part D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services under Part D of the
Project and financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.14.. (a) In accordance with guidelines satisfactory
to the Borrower, the Association and the Administrator, the
Borrower shall finance and shall cause the local authorities and
Beneficiaries to finance progressively the operating costs of the
Project.


﻿- 11 -
(b) By July 1, 1983 or such later date as may be acceptable
to the Association and the Administrator, and thereafter, the
Borrower shall ensure that all of the operating costs of the
Project are fully financed.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition
with respect to Part D of the Project.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements related to Part D of the Project for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accep-
table to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each year, (A) certified copies of the aforesaid financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such spope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements with respect to Part D of the Project and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause the works and facili-
ties included in the Project to be adequately maintained and
shall cause all necessary repairs of such works and facilities
to be made promptly, all in accordance with sound agricultural,
engineeriug and administrative practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, 'romptly as needed, the funds, services,
facilities and other resoirces required for such purpose.
Section 5.02. (a) Before starting any work or assuming
any commitment or entering into any arrangement with respect to
the Marshland Development Project or any other project which would
affect the Project Area, the Borrower shall exchange views with
AY


﻿-12-
the Association and the Administrator concerning the consequences
that such works or development could have on the carrying out of
the Project and the benefits to be derived therefrom.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the Marshland Development
Project and any other projects which may affect the Project Area
have a staff separate from that of OVAPAM's staff for purposes of
the Project and that the Directors of the Marshland Development
Project and such other projects report not less than once per
quarter to OVAPAM's Board of Directors on the implementation of
their projects.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association for its review a national agricultural credit study.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall take and cause to be taken
all necessary measures as shall be required to enable OVAPAM to
comply with all of its obligations pursuant to the Project
Agreement and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) OVAPAM shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of OVAPAM set forth in the Project Agree-
ment;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that OVAPAM will be able to perform its
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement;
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or liquidation
of OVAPAM or for the suspension of its operations;
(d) the Statuts shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed, waived, or shall cease to be enforced, so as
to affect materially and adversely the carrying out by OVAPAM of
its covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement or in the Subsidiary Agreement;


﻿- 13 -
(e) OVAPAM shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of OVAPAM set forth in the Subsidiary
Agreement;
(f) the Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its
covenants, agreements or obligations set forth in the Special
Action Credit Agreement; and
(g) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Special Action Credit shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the Special Action
Credit Agreement.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation or
termination is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations set
forth in the Special Action Credit Agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02-. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (c) or (e)
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and OVAPAM;
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (f) and (g) (i)
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(c) any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
j                                               .~-A


﻿-14-
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the accounts and financial statements with respect
to the project described in Schedule 2 to the 1973 Credit Agree-
ment have been audited by an auditor acceptable to the Association
and certified copies of such accounts and financial statements as
so audited and the report of such audit by said auditors have
been furnished to the Association;
(b) the Beneficiaries Committee and its terms of reference
have been duly established;
(c) the Special Action Credit Agreement has been duly
signed on behalf of the parties thereto and all conditions prece-
dent to the effectiveness of the Special Action Credit Agreement,
except for the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement,
have been fulfilled;
(d) the Project Director, the Director for Finance and
Administration and the specialist in marketing have been recruited
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement
and Section 3.06 (a) of the Special Action Credit Agreement;
(e) the Statute are amended so as to permit OVAPAM not
to be self-financing until completion of the Project and to
require that OVAPAM's head office be at Nyagatare;
(f) the first work plan has been furnished to the Associa-
tion and is acceptable to it;
(g) the Revolving Fund Account has been established in
accordance with Section 3.06 of this Agreement and Section 3.05 of
the Special Action Credit Agreement and the Borrower has deposited
therein an amount in RwF equivalent to $250,000; and
(h) the execution of the Subsidiary Agreement on behalf of
the Borrower and OVAPAM, respectively, has occurred.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:


﻿- 15 -
(a) that the execution of the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by OVAPAM, and the Project Agreement
is legally binding upon OVAPAM in accordance with its terms;
and
(b) that the execution of the Subsidiary Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and OVAPAM,
and the Subsidiary Agreement is legally binding upon the Borrower
and OVAPAM in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date October 15, 1979, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV and Sections 5.02 and 5.03 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.09 of
this Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower at the time respon-
sible for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Botte Postale 158
Kigali
Republique Rwandaise
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFIN                            CABPUB 04
Kigali
~---~-64


﻿- 16 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                                440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                       248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
By /s/ Bonaventure Ubalijoro
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andre R. Gue
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
A


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment, mate-             770,000         100% of foreign
rials, vehicles,                            expenditures and
veterinary chemi-                            95% of local ex-
cals and medicines                           penditures
and seeds under
Parts A, B, C and
D (2) of the Project
(2) Civil works and              370,000         100% of foreign
infrastructure                              expenditures and
development (and                             85% of local ex-
related materials)                          penditures
under Parts A, B,
C (3) and C (4) (a)
of the Project
(3) Staff salaries             1,785,000         85%
and other operat-
ing costs under
Parts A, B and C
of the Project
(4) Agricaltural                   100,000       70% of local ex-
credit fund                                 penditures
(5) Water supply devel-
opment and con-
struction under
Part C (2) of
the Project:


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(a) well deve-              1,450,000       100% of foreign
lopment                                expenditures
and 95% of local
expenditures
(b) gravity systems           520,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
and 95% of local
expenditures
(6) Technical services:
(a) under Part C (3)        1,025,000       100% of foreign
of the Project                         expenditures
and 95% of local
expenditures
(b) under Part D (1)          780,000       100% of foreign
of the Project                         expenditures and
95% of local ex-
penditures
(c) under Part D (2)          270,000       100% of foreign
of the Project                         expenditures
and 95% of local
expenditures
(7) Refunding of                   500,000      100% of amount
Project                                     outstanding at
Preparation                                 Effective Date
Advance
(8) Unallocated                  1,180,000
TOTAL          8,750,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for


﻿- 19 -
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures: (a) prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) in respect
of Category (4) until the national agricultural credit study
referred to in Section 5.03 of this Agreement has been furnished
to the Association and the agricultural credit program's lending
terms and processing procedures have been approved by the Associa-
tion; and (c) in respect of Category (5) (b) until evidence
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the
Association that the gravity systems in question are technically
and financially justifiable.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
.....................................


﻿-20-
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expen-
ditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the second phase (1979-1983) of the
Borrower's 1974 to 1984 development program for the Mutara region.
Its major objettives are to develop techniques, procedures and an
institutional environment which will help ensure that: (i) the
production potential of the Project Area is preserved; (ii) the
use of available resources is intensified; (iii) its orientation
and that of other related projects is improved as experience
is gained; and (iv) it is integrated into the local administra-
tion. The Project consists of two distinct Sub-projects as well as
of components common to both, plus other components of a more
general nature, as follows:
Part A:   Paysannat Sub-project
The development of improved extension services for
crops and livestock in the Paysannat covering about
23,000 ha and in the adjacent administrative sectors of
Karama, Ngarama and Kigasha in the Muvumba and Ngarama
Communes, including crop development, the introduction
of a livestock stall-feeding program, and staff and
farmer training.
Part B:   Group Ranch Sub-project
(1) The development of improved extension and veteri-
nary services for livestock and crops on about
63 Group Ranches covering a total of about 28,000
ha, including a pasture improvement program, an
improved veterinary and animal husbandry program,
technical support for cultivation plots, and staff
and pastoralist training.
(2) The development of a technical support center for
fodder multiplication and trials, for reproduction
of improved cattle breeds and for improved mar-
keting.
Part C:   Common Components
(1) The development of marketing services, including a
preliminary marketing study with respect to crops
and livestock.


﻿pr--I
- 22 -
(2) The construction of a water supply system adequate
for both human and livestock requirements within
the Project Area.
(3) The provision of technical services to assist
in:
(a) managing the Project;
(b) maintaining the main access roads within the
Project Area;
(c) establishing an agricultural credit program;
(d) OVAPAM staff training; and
(e) advising op. technical aspects of Parts A,
B, C (1) and C (2) of the Project.
(4) Construction, equipping and staffing within the
Project Area of:
(a) about seven primary schools; and
(b) two health centers.
Part D:   (1) Provision to OVAPAM    by the Borrower of the ser-
vices of two technicians, namely, an agronomist/
extension specialist who shall be the Project
Director and a marketing specialist.
(2) The carrying out by SPD of:
(a) Project monitoring and evaluation; and
(b) ad hoc studies as may be required for Project
implementation and the preparation of further
related agricultural and livestock projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, OVAPAM shall prepare and forward
to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. OVAPAM shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to OVAPAM of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
A                                                                                          #


﻿-24-
the territory of the Borrower may be granted a margin of prefe-
rence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the territory of the Borrower if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the Bor-
rower and the Association that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in the
territory of the Borrower equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the territory of the Borrower.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If


﻿- 25 -
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (2) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be pro-
cured in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of
this Schedule, OVAPAM may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
OVAPAM and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group
of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding docu-
ments shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by OVAPAM,
responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, equipment and sup-
plies estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000
each may be awarded on the basis of price quotations from all
suppliers represented in the territory of the Borrower who offer
adequate guarantees of service and supply of parts and in accor-
dance with the Borrower's applicable procurement procedures;


﻿-V
- 26 -
provided, however, that the aggregate amount of all contracts so
awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of $350,000.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of veterinary products, breeding
material and seeds may be procured on the basis of international
shopping or international advertisement and in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Civil works for housing, offices, and schools may be carried
out (a) by force account; (b) pursuant to contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association; or (c) on the basis of
physical and manpower resources supplied by Beneficiaries.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more and all contracts for any part of the
water supply system under Part C (2) of the Project:
(a) Before bids are invited, OVAPAM shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, OVAPAM
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform OVAPAM
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 27 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the delivery to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, OVAPAM shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of .such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform OVAPAM and
state the reasons for such determination.


