CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 937 RW
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER   21 RW
Project Agreement
(Mutara Agricultural and
Livestock Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
and
OFFICE POUR LA VALORISATION
PASTORALE ET AGRICOLE DU MUTARA
Dated July 13, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 937 RW
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 21 RW
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the
Special Action Account established with funds contributed by the
MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY (hereinafter
called the Administrator) and OFFICE POUR LA VALORISATION
PASTORALE ET AGRICOLE (hereinafter called OVAPAM).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date
herewith (hereinafter cAlled the Development Credit Agreement)
between Republic of Rwanda (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower a credit (hereinafter called the Credit) in an amount
in various currencies equivalent to eight million, seven hundred
and fifty thousand dollars ($8,750,000) on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that OVAPAM agrees to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a special action credit agreement of even date
herewith (hereinafter called the Special Action Credit Agreement)
between the Borrower and the Administrator, the Administrator has
agreed to make to the Borrower a special action credit (herein-
after called the Special Action Credit) in an amount Li various
currencies equivalent to about one million six hundred and fifty
thousand dollprs ($1,650,000) on the terms and conditions set
forth in the bpecial Action Credit Agreement, but only on condi-
tion that OVAPAM agrees to undertake such obligations towards the
Administrator as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary agreement (hereinafter called the
Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
OVAPAM, a portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement and the proceeds of the Special
Action Credit will be made available to OVAPAM on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS OVAPAM, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower and
the Administr.-tor's entering into the Special Action Credit
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obliga-
tions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Preamble to this Agreement, in the Development Credit Agree-
ment and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts A, B and C of the Project
Section 2.01. OVAPAM shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and in Schedule 2
to the Special Action Credit Agreement with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural,
livestock, administrative, financial and training practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist OVAPAM in carrying out
the Project, OVAPAM shall cause the seven experts referred to in
Section 3.07 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement and in
Section 3.06 (a) of the Special Action Credit Agreement to be
employed by it in accordance with the provisions of such Sections.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Associatior may otherwise
agree, procurement of the.goods and civil works to 't financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(b) Except as the Administrator may otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the civil works and related materials to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Special Action Credit
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) OVAPAM undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Special Action
Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by OVAPAM
to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-3-
(b) Except as the Association and the Administrator may
otherwise agree, OVAPAM shall cause all goods, works and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Special Action
Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) OVAPAM shall furnish to the Association and
the Administrator, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and work and procure-
ment schedules for Parts A, B and C of the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association and the Administrator shall reasonably
request.
(b) OVAPAM shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A, B and C
of the Project (including their cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived therefrom), to identify the goods, works
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
Special Action Credit, and to disclose their use in such Parts
of the Project; (ii) enable the Association's and the Adminis-
trator's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Special
Action Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Association and the Administrator at six-month
intervals, within one month of each six-month period, all such
information as the Association and the Administrator shall reason-
ably request concerning Parts A, B and C of the Project, their
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived therefrom,
the expenditure of such proceeds of the Credit and the Special
Action Credit and the goods, works and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) OVAPAM shall enable the Association's and the Adminis-
trator's accredited representatives to examine all plants, instal-
lations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of OVAPAM
and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. OVAPAM shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association and the
Administrator may otherwise agree, OVAPAM shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision
thereof.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. (a) OVAPAM shall, at the request of the
Association or the Administrator, exchange views with the Associa-
tion or the Administrator with regard to the progress of the
rroject, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Special Action
Credit.
(b) OVAPAM shall promptly inform the Association and the
Administrator of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit or the Special Action Credit, or the
performance by OVAPAM of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association and the Administrator
may otherwise agree:
(a) Parts A, B and C of the Project shall be carried out
pursuant to work plans acceptable to the Association and the
Administrator and formulated in accordance with the following
provisions:
(i) the first work plan shall cover the period ending
December 31, 1979;
(ii) not later than each November 1 thereafter, OVAPAM
shall deliver to the Association and the Admin-
istrator for their acceptance a proposed work
plan covering the year commencing the following
January 1; and
(iii) each work plan shall contain the items described in
Part A of the Schedule to this Agreement, shall be
accompanied by information described in Part B of
such Schedule, and shall be evaluated on the basis
of the criteria set forth in Part C of such
Schedule.
(b) Each proposed work plan delivered to the Association
and the Administrator shall be signed by the Director of OVAPAM
who shall, by so signing, certify that such proposed work
plan has been considered and approved by OVAPAM's Board of
Directors.


﻿W MEOWg
P--5-
(c) The Association and the Administrator shall promptly
inform OVAPAM of their acceptance of, or comments on, each
proposed work plan delivered to the Association and the Admin-
istrator and, if the Association and the Administrator shall
not concur with such work plan as proposed, the Association and
the Administrator shall promptly exchange views thereon with
OVAPAM.
(d) Work plans may be amended at any time by agreement
between the Association, the Administrator and OVAPAM.
(e) No work plan under Part B of the Project shall be
acceptable to the Association and the Administrator until evidence
satisfactory to the Association and the Administrator shall have
been delivered to them that:
(i) not less than 3,000 ha of marshland in the Project
Area to the north of the Cyenjojo and Kabare
hills have been made available for livestock
grazing for not less than five consecutive years;
and
(ii) the improvement of not less than 1,500 ha of
pastures and the elimination of about 500 head of
livestock within the Group Ranch zones of the
Project Area have been completed.
Section 2.09. OVAPAM shall make no purchases of crops or
livestock from Beneficiaries under Parts A and B of the Project
unless all of the following conditions are met:
(i) the purchase assists in disposing of unsold crops
under Part A or Part B of the Project or in
disposing of excess livestock under Part B of
the Project;
(ii) the total cost to OVAPAM of the purchase shall be
recovered by it from sales of such crops or live-
stock; and
(iii) a relevant sales contract has been executed
by OVAPAM and a buyer of such crops or live-
stock.


﻿-6-
Section 2.10. OVAPAM shall:
(i) ensure that the total demand for non-irrigation
water arising as a result of the Marshland Develop-
ment Project shall be met by the water supply
system to be constructed pursuant to Part C (2) of
the Project;
(ii) levy a charge against, and collect such charge
from, each user of such system's water as is
required in order to ensure that such system's
maintenance and depreciation costs are fully
covered in each year; and
(iii) ensure that, notwithstanding the generality of
part (ii) of this Section, during the first year
of such system's operation a charge of not less
than five RwF per cubic meter of water supplied
is levied against and collected from each such
user*
Section 2.11. (a) OVAPAM shall charge and collect from
each Beneficiary an appropriate fee for any veterinary service
or product provided under the Project to any livestock of such
Beneficiary or his family.
(b) OVAPAM shall ensure that the supply of veterinary
materials, drugs and medicines required for purposes of paragraph
(a) of this Section is sufficient at all times and, for this
purpose, shall maintain a revolving fund for their purchase
into which revenue from the sales of such items and any addi-
tional advances of funds required of the Borrower to cover
any deficit, including foreign exchange, shall be deposited as
necessary.
Section 2.12. OVAPAM shall:
(i) ensure that the construction of the schools
and. health centers included in Part C (4) of
the Project shall be in accordance with standards
not less than those established by the Borrower's
Ministries of Education and Health as of the
date hereof; and


﻿-7-
(ii) make arrangements, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion and the Administrator, to obtain from the
Borrower for such schools and health centers:
(A) qualified staff in such numbers as shall be
necessary for their efficient operation; and (B)
the funds necessary for their efficient operation
and maintenance and for the salaries of all staff
thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of OVAPAM
Section 3.01. OVAPAM shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
conduct its operations and undertaking, all in accordance with
sound financial and agricultural practices, and under the supervi-
sion of experienced and competent management assisted by adequate
and competent staff.
Section 3.02. OVAPAM shall:
(a) at all times operate and maintain all property owned
or operated by it and promptly make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound agricultural and
engineering practices; and
(b) not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
the property or assets owned or operated by it which are necessary
or useful for the efficient conduct of its operations and under-
taking.
Section 3.03. OVAPAM's Board of Directors shall: (i) meet at
the request of its Chairman, at least once during each quarter;
(ii) review,and approve proposed and final work plans and Project
investment and operating budgets; (iii) monitor and review Project
progress; (iv) s-upervise the Beneficiaries Committee; (v) coor-
dinate the Project with the Marshland Development Project and
any other project that affects the Project Area; and (vi) ensure
liaison between OVAPAM and the local authorities.
Section 3.04. OVAPAM shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the


﻿-8-
Association and the Administrator for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.05. OVAPAM shall take and cause to be taken all
necessary measures within its powers as shall be required to
enable the Borrower to comply with all of its obligations pursuant
to the Development Credit Agreement and the Special Action Credit
Agreement relating in any way to OVAPAM and its management and
operations.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. OVAPAM shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including those with respect to Parts A, B and C of the
Project.
Section 4.02. OVAPAM shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) including those with respect to
Parts A, B and C of the Project for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association
and the Administrator; (ii) furnish to the Association and the
Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association and the Administrator shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association or the
Administrator such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of OVAPAM and the audit thereof as the
Association or the Administrator shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, the Administrator and of OVAPAM thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
or the Special Action Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms, whichever
shall be the later; or
(ii) a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement or the Special
Action Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section,
the Association or the Administrator, as the case may be, shall
promptly notify OVAPAM of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement or the
Special Action Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action
Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H .Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For OVAPAM:
OVAPAM
B.P. 178
Kigali
Rwanda
Cable addreso:                     Telex:
OVAPAM                            CABPUB 04
Kigali
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of OVAPAM may be taken or executed by
the Director of OVAPAM or such other person or persons as such
Director shall designate in writing, and OVAPAM shall furnish to
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 11-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ André R. Gué
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION
ACCOUNT established with funds
contributed by the MEMBER STATES of the
EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By /s/ André R. Gué
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
OFFICE POUR LA VALORISATION PASTORALE
ET AGRICOLE DU MUTARA
By /s/ Bonaventure Ubalijoro
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Work Plans
A.   Each work plan shall provide documentation, satisfactory
to the Association and the Administrator, with respect to the
following:
(i) a detailed description of the work to be performed,
including the objectives of the work plan for the subsequent year,
the schedules of activities, equipment requirements, staffing
arrangements and .training plans, and the allocation of responsibi-
lities for each item included in the work plan;
(ii) a budget for the period covered in respect of each
of Parts A, B or C of the Project setting forth:
(a) the proposed capital expenditures;
(b) all proposed recurrent expenditures on salaries
and indemnities, materials, fuel, repairs and
maintenance directly attributable to activities
under such Parts of the Project, together with
a breakdown of pre-development and incremental
expenditures;
(c) a comparison of the proposed investment and recur-
rent budgets with the proposed budget and actual
expenditures for the previous year;
(d) a list of all staff employed or to be employed on a
full-time basis by OVAPAM with respect to such
Parts of the Project; and
(e) a list of proposed expenditures for technical
services, studies and training;
(iii) a financing plan, and detailed quarterly cash flow
projections including the Borrower's contributions to the
Revolving Fund pursuant to Section 3.06 of the Development Credit
Agreement and Section 3.05 of the Special Action Credit Agreement,
and disbursements under Categories (1) through (6) (a) of the
table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement and under Category (1) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Special Action Credit Agreement;


﻿- 13 -
(iv) any proposed studies to be carried out pursuant to Part
D (2) (b) of the Project, including a brief description thereof;
(v) the proposed procurement program and procedures to be
applied thereto; and
(vi) a detailed Project implementation schedule for the
year in question.
B.   Each work plan shall be supported by the following infor-
mation, as may be relevant:
(i) a detailed assessment of the previous year's achieve-
ments;
(ii) a detailed staffing analysis, including a report on
previous staffing and proposed increments or reductions;
(iii) the proposed detailed extension and training program;
(iv) the proposed detailed adaptive research program;
(v) the proposed detailed pasture improvement, steer fat-
tening and breeding program for the technical support center under
Part B (2) of the Project;
(vi) the proposed detailed marketing program under Part C (1)
of the Project; and
(vii) the proposed detailed credit program under Part C (3)
(c) of the Project,.including:
(a) the items to be financed (seeds, livestock, etc.);
and
(b) the description of potential borrowers.
C.   The criteria upon which the Association's and the Adminis-
trator's approval of a proposed work plan shall be based are as
follows:
1.   General criteria:
(a) the adequacy of such plan to develop basic infra-
structure, e.g. access and feeder roads, extension
infrastructure,  demonstration  farms, nurseries,
and veterinary installations; and


﻿- 14 -
(b) the availability of sufficient trained extension
staff.
2.   Criteria regarding crops:
(a) the adequacy of the proposed extension program;
(b) the possible implementation of results from
adaptive research; and
(c) the availability of inputs.
3.   Criteria regarding livestock:
(a) under Part A of the Project:
(i) the technical suitability of promoting stall
feeding for livestock;
(ii) the availability of on-farm fodder; and
(iii) the availability of basic animal health and
production services.
(b) under Part B of the Project:
(i) the assurance of no increase in livestock
in the relevant part of the Project Area;
and
(ii) the distribution of livestock according to
carrying capacity.
4.   Criterion regarding marketing:
The completion of the preliminary marketing study under
Part C (1) of the Project.
5.   Criteria regarding training:
(a) the suitability of the proposed training program
for extension staff and Beneficiaries; and
(b) the availability of training staff.


