Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8660
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR/INPUTS PROJECT
(LOAN 2469-PH)
MAY 23, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
TIs docunt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency                   Peso (P)
Appraisal Year Average (1984)    US$1.00 - 9 16.70
Intervening Year Average (1985)  US$1.00   1 P 18.61
Completion Year Average (1986)   US$1.00   P 20.00
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          -      Asian Development Bank
DA           -      Department of Agriculture
FPA          -      Fertilizer and Pesticide Authority
GDP          -      Gross Domestic Product
GNP          -      Gross National Product
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
IMF          -      International Monetary Fund
MAF           -     Ministry of Agriculture and Food
NEDA         -      National Economic and Development Authority
NFA          -      National Food Authority
PCA          -      Philipir.e Coconut Authority
PHILPHOS     -      Philippine Phosphate Fertilizer Corporation
PHILSUCOM    -      Philippine Sugar Commission
SRA          -      Sugar Regulatory Administration
USAID        -      United States Agency for International
Development



FOR OJTICIAL US Om
TME WORLD BANK
Washmgton. D.C. 20433
U-SA.
00k* Ci b,.cbv-Gowtu
Oplathit  EVAhtwmn
May 23, 1990
MEHOPANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on PHILIPPINES
Agricultural Sector/Inputs Project
(Loan 2469-PH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled *Project
Completion Report on Philippines - Agricultural Sector/Inputs Project (Loan
2469-PH)m prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
od n;-    W
Thi document has a restrctd distribution and may be wsed by recipients only in the performance



FOR OMCIUL USE ON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SECTORItNPUTS PROJECT
(LOAN 2469-PH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ..........- .....  i
Basic Data Sheet .ii
Evaluation Summary ..................-.-...-.-                           .    iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT.                                                      1
BACKGROUND ..                                                             1
The Economy ..                                                         1
The Agricultural Sector    ..
PROJECT DESCRIPTION..                                                     2
Objectives and Scope            ..                                     2
Project Costs and Financing           ..                               2
Procurement and Disbursement           ..                              2
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                        ..3
Disbursements ..                                                       3
Policy Refonas                         ..4
Institutional Reforms           ..                                     4
Studies .
Other Aspects ..                                                       6
ROLE OF THE BANK   6..6
SUBSEQUENT POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS         .      .              6
PROJECT IMPACT..                                                          7
Short-Term Production Impact           ..                              7
Long-Term Impact             ..                                        7
Policy Reforms ..                                                      9
Institutional Reforms    ..10
Studies                      ..11
ISSUES AND LESSONS LEARNED            ..16
Project Scope   ..16
Sustainability    ..16
Procurement and Disbursement    ..17
Institutional Reforms    ..17
ANNEXES
Annex 1:  List of Important Legal Covenants/Conditions .19
Annex 2: Action Program .21
ATTACHMENTS:
Attachment  I:  Comments from the Department of Agriculture .23
Attachment II:  Comments from the Ministry of Finance          .       .       25
MAP: IBRD 20941
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PBILIPPIES
AGRICULTURAL SECTORILOUTS PROJECT
(LOAN 2469-PB)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews implementation of the
Agricultural SectorlInputs Project, for which Loan 2469-PH in the amount of
US$150 million was approved on September 4, 1984. The original loan clos-
ing date of December 31, 1985 was extended to December 31, 1986, and the
loan was fully disbursed on February 11, 1987.
This PCR was prepared by the Department of Finance, Gbvernment of
Philippines.  The Basic Data Sheet, Evaluation Summary and Overview were
prepared by Asia Regional staff, based on the President's Report, the Loan
Agreement, Bank supervision mission reports, correspondence with the
Borrower and internal memoranda in Bank files, interviews with Bank staff
associated with the project, and the findings of a Bank completion mission
which visited the Philippines in December 1988.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments and they are attached
to the Report as Attachment I.
OED normally audits all SECAL and SAL operations.   However,
because of the security situation in the Philippines, this was not done in
this case.



- Ut -
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR/INPUTS PROJECT (LOAN 2400-PH)
BASIC DATA SHEET
As of 1281/88
Original        Disburse        Cancel led        Repaid          Outstanding
Loan 2469-PH    US81S0 1         US81SO U             -               -            US$160 1
Original Dates                 Actual Dates
Initiating Project Brief                                --                          01/19/84
Letteir of Developmnt Policy                                                        08--  /04/84 a
Negotiations                                                                        06/24-81/84
Board Approvtl                                                      -               09/04/84
Loan Agrment                                                       --               09/26/84
Effectivenoes                                        12/26/84                       10/22/84
Loan Closing                                         12/81/86                       12/31/88
Final Disbursment                                    09/30/85                       02/11/87
CUIMULATIVE LOAN OISSURSEMENT (US* M)
FY85      FY8S      FY87
(i)  Planned                                                                   186.0     150.0         -
(ii)  Actual                                                                     35.5      89.0      150.0
(iii)  (tt) as X of (1)                                                           26.1      59.8      100.0
mISSIoN DATA
No. of         No. of         Staff         Date of
Month/Year            weeks           persons        wooks         report
Preparation            11/10-29/83              a               2            6            01/19/84
Appraisal              02/8-03/02/84         Variable           7           17.5          07/17/84
Supervision I          10/28-11/25/84           1               1            1            12/12/84
Supervision It        04/19-05/08/8S            1               8            8            07/17/85
Supervision III        11/24-12/14/85        Variable           2            4            01/02/88 /b
Supervision IV        01/18-30/86               1              2             2            02/12/88
Supervision V         06/80-07/19/88            3               1            8            08/01/88
Completion             12/05-16/88            1.6               1            1.5          12/30/88
TIME RECORDED (STAFFWEEKS)
FY84       FY8S       FY86        FY87       FY88        FY89
LENP                                   24.8
LENA                                   89.7
LENN                                    4.2        1.0
SPN                                               21.7        22.8       6.8
PCR                                                                                  0.2        4.3
FOLLOW-ON AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS           (None)
/ Supplmented by follow-up letter of June 80, 1984.
/b Mid-term Revise



- iii -
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SECTORIINPUTS PROJECT (LOAN 2469-PH)
Protect Completion Rpo:rt
Evaluation Summary
Background
The Agricultural Sectorinputs Project was the Bank's first and, to
date, its only adjustment operation in the agricultural sector in the
Philippines. Vhen the project was approved in September 1984, the Philippine
economy was in a serious crisis, mainly due to the global recession, with low
commcdity prices and high interest rates on external borrowings. To cope with
the crisis the Government adopted a stabilization program supported by an IMF
standby agreement. The program included, inter elia, structural reforms in key
sectors of the economy, particularly in agriculture, which accounted for about
302 of GDP and 402 of export earnings.
Proiect Obiectives and Descrintion
The project was designed to support the Government's "Agenda for Action
in Agriculture: 1984-88' bys (a) helping to maintain agricultural production
through an adequate supply of inputs; (b) laying the foundation for future
agricultural growth by introducing improved policies and carrying out studies
that would lead to efficiency improvements, restore incentives and mobilize
financial resources for sectoral.development; and (c) upgrading the institutional
framework for the formulation and implementation of agricultural policies and
programs.
The project focussed on a Core Program outlined in a Development Policy
Letter from the Government to the Bank, dated June 4, 1984.  Some actions in the
Core Program had been implemented before the Board approvel the loan, and others
were to be implemented under the project. The latter included: (a) opening up
the import and export trade in animal feeds to the private sector; (b) phasing
out price controls on poultry, eggs and pork; (c) broadening the composition of
the Boards of the Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA) and Philippine Sugar
Commission (PHILSUCOM) through inclusion of representatives of concerned
Government ministries and farmers' interests; (d) preparing six policy studies
concerning the National Food Authority (NFA), coconuts, sugar, irrigation,
fertilizer and agricultural credit; (e) rationalizing and consolidating the
public investment plan for agricultural development (1985-88); and (f) reducing
import tariffs on poultry. Progress in implementing these actions was to be
reviewed in December 1984 prior to release of the second tranche of the loan.
The Bank loan of US$150 million was to finance both public and private
sector Imports of fertilizers, pesticides, animal feeds, veterinary products and
agricultural machinery and spare parts for the 1984-85 agricultural year. In



- iv-_
addition, technical assistance (US$0.6 million) was to be financed to help carry
out policy-related studies and institutional strengthening. The agricultural
inputs import program was also supported by the Asian Development Bank (ADB),
through a US$130 million loan approved in March 1984 following close
consultations with the Bank, and by bilateral sources, principally the United
States and Japan.
Proiect Implementation
At completion, the policy actions envisaged under the project were
implemented and studies undertaken, albeit at a slower pace than originally
expected. Implementation of the institutional measures was partial. The mid-
term review was conducted one year late in November/December 1985. Disbursements
were slow and the loan closing date was extended from December 31, 1985 to
December 31, 1986. The loan was fully disbursed on February 11, 1987.
The slow disbursement of the loan was due mainly to the economic
contraction in the country, which reduced the expected demand for agricultural
inputs, and non-utilization by NFA of its share of the loan (33X) because of a
delay in signing the subsidiary loar. agraement with the Government and
unattractive terms and conditions of the agreement. To facilitate disbursements
against private sector imports, amendments to the Loan Agreement were made
relaxing procurement procedures.   With these changes, the actual share of
procurement subject to ICB declined to about 31Z of the loan amount, compared
to 73Z envisaged at appraisal. The Bank also simplified disbursement procedures
in mid-1986.
Project Impact
By helping to finance imports of essential agricultural inputs in a
period of foreign exchange shortages, the project appears to have generated a
short-term production impact. While the Philippine economy contracted and real
GDP fell by 6Z in 1984 and 4.3X in 1985 (increasing marginally to 1.5Z in 1986),
agriculture had positive growth rates of 2.3Z and 3.3Z respectively (3.7Z in
1986).
As expected at appraisal, the medium- and long-term benefits from
policy and institutional reforms under the project would be more significant than
the project's apparent short-term production benefits. Though a quantitative
assessment of their impact cannot be made, those reforms reduced economic
distortions and increased reliance on market mechanisms. Among the significant
reforms were decontrol of prices of rice, poultry, eggs and pork; opening up of
the import and export trade in animal feeds, rice and corn to the private sector;
reduction in poultry import tariff from 50Z to 40Z; deregulation of interest
rates and phasing out of subsidies on agricultural credit; and enlargement of
the role of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAP) in sectoral policy
formulation and cooi:dination.   However, more sgn"'ficant were the reforms
resulting from the policy-related studies under the project, particularly for
coconut, sugar, NFA and fertilizers. For coconut and sugar, reforms were pursued
under the IMF Standby Agreement and, in particular, domestic sugar trading was
liberalized. The recommendations of the NFA study were mainly followed up by
USAID and, inter alia, led to divestiture of NFA's non-grain activities and



v 
transfer of wheat imports and flour distribution activities to the private
sector. The liberalization of fertilizer importation and distribution resulted
In a significant reduction in distributor margins with a consequent fall in end-
user prices and increase in fertilizer consumption.
Overall. the project was a success. A significant part of the credit
for this success was due to the new Government which assumed power in February
1986 and which was more committed than its predecessor to liberalization of the
economy.
Sustainability
While most policy reforms supported by the project have been sustained,
there are some exceptions.   First, under the project, the import tariff or.
poultry had been reduced from 50? to 402, but since April 1988, it has been
rolled back to 502. Second, the opening up of the import and export trade of
rice, corn and animal feeds to the private sector has so far been only partial:
the soybean meal trade has been deregulated but trade in other animal feeds such
as fish meal, barley, etc. is regulated by the NFA and import and export of rice
and corn continues to be handled exclusively by the NFA (though quantities
involved have been small).
An issue could be raised as to whether the policy and institutional
reform package of the project was substantive enough, or whether the Bank could
have gone furtiter in the pursuit of reforms. The project was formulated under
the previous Government, when resistance to economic liberalization and
dismantling of monopolies was formidable. Under the circumstances, the aim of
the project was to provide a framework for continuing policy aialogue and to set
in motion a process of change through some policy reforms, accompanied by studies
which would lay the basis for future reforms. This aim was achieved. The lesson
is that an initial adjustment operation can be used to initiate change and
studies can be important vehicles for further reforms.   The project also
demonstrated the importance of coordination with other aid agencies and IMF.
Procurement and disbursement problems delayed loan utilization. In
retrospect, a negative list would have facilitated faster disbursements.   The
arrangements for NFA's utilization of its portion of the Bank loan should have
been worked out much earlier in the project cycle.
The scope and impact of institutional reforms under the project were
at best limited. The technical assistance (TA) for strengthening the MAF (now
Department of Agriculture (DA), and for setting up a sectoral planning,
programming and budgeting mechanism, was not utilized. The planning capabilities
of the DA remain weak. The organizational and financial situation of NFA, which
is responsible for price support and buffer stock operations for rice and corn,
continues to be a complex sectoral issue.   The lesson is that a major
institutional impact is unlikely to be achieved through a single adjustment
operation.



PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR/INPUTS PROJECT (LOAN 2469-PH)
Proiect Completion Report
Background
1.       The Economy.   When the project was approved in September 1984, the
Philippine economy was in serious crisis, mainly due to the global recession, with
low commodity prices and high interest rates on external borrowings. Real GDP
growth had fallen from an average 6.22 p.a. in the 1970s to 3.92 in 1981, 2.92 in
1982 and 0.92 in 1983.   Capital flight had accelerated and a cessation of
commercial credit eventually led to a debt moratorium in October 1983. To cope
with the liquidity crisis and restore balance of payments and price stability, the
Government adopted a stabilization program supported by an IMF standby arrangement,
which included, inter alia, structural reforms in key sectors of the economy,
particularly in agriculture. Success of the program hinged partly on maintaining
or increasing the level of agricultural production in the face of projected input
shortages.
2.       The Agricultural Sector.  In 1984, agriculture accounted for about 302
of GDP, hal? of the labor force and some 402 of export earnings.  During the 1970s,
sectoral growth had averaged about 4.52 p.a., but the rate declined to 4? in 1981,
3.1? in 1982 and became negative (-2.l1) in 1983.  Although low inter2lational
commodity prices and a prolonged drought in 1983 were important factors underlying
declining sectoral performance, other constraints also played a role (e.g.,
organizational and management weaknesses, pricing policies which dampened
investment incentives, and excessive government intervention in both crop marketing
and input supply).
3.       To arrest and reverse declining sectoral performance, the Government
formulated a program entitled "Agenda for Action in Agriculture: 1984-88n
(hereinafter referred to as the Agenda), which addressed the following issues:
(a) government interventions that adversely affected production incentives; (b)
institutional weaknesses; (c) land use policies; (d) irrigation strategy; (e)
the lack of a well-defined public investment program; and (f) agricultural credit
policies and programs. The Bank made major informal contributions, as well and
formal inputs to the Agenda through sector studies, includingt  'Philippines
Irrigation Program Review' (Report No. 3545-PH, December 1982); 'Philippines
Agricultural Sector Memorandum' (May 10, 1983); *Philippines: Agricultural Credit
Sector Review' (Report No. 4117-PH, May 12, 1983); and 'Philippines Agriculture:
Issues in Pricing Policy' (Report No. 4845-PH, July 10, 1984).



-2-
Proiect Description
4.       Objectives and Scope.  The project was the Bank's first and, to date,
its only agricultural sector adjustment operation in the Philippines.   It was
designed to support the Government's Agenda (para. 3) by: (a) helping to maintain
agricultural production through an adequate supply of inputs; (b) laying the
foundation for future agricultural growth by introducing policies and requiring
studies leading to reforms that would improve efficiency, restore incentives and
mobilize financial resources for sectoral development; and (c) improving the
institutional framework for the formulation and implementation of agricultural
policies and programs.
5.       The Bank's immediate efforts *ere focussed on a Core Program outlined in
a Development Policy Letter from the Government, dated June 4, 1984. Some actions
in the Core Program were implemented before the Board approved the loan:  (a)
adoption and implementation of organizational changes to improve the coordination
of policies and programs in the food and agricultural sector, including the
redesignation of the Ministry of Agriculture as the Ministry of Agriculture and
Food (MAF); (b) adoption of a phased program of adjustments and decontrol of prices
of poultry, eggs and pork; (c) trade liberalization by allowing the private sector
to export rice and corn; and (d) adoption of measures to realign rediscount rates
for agricultural credit more closely with those for other sectors and to allow
rediscount rates to vary in accordance with market rates.
6.       A mid-term review prior to release of the second tranche of the loan was
scheduled for December 1984 to assess Government performance in implementing other
actions under the Agenda and the Core Program, including progress in: (a) opening
up the import and export trade of animal feeds to private entities; (b) phasing
out price controls on poultry, eggs and pork; (c) broadening representation on the
Boards of the Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA) and Philippine Sugar Commission
(PHILSUCOM) through inclusion of concerned ministries of the Government and
farmers' interests; (d) preparing six policy studies concerning the National Food
Authority (NFA), coconuts, sugar, irrigation, fertilizer and agricultural credit;
(e) rationalizing and consolidating the public investment plan and related budget
for agricultural development (1985-88); and (f) reducing import tariffs on poultry.
7.       Proiect Costs and Financing.  The project was part of an overall program
of financial assistance, estiw.' 1d to cost about US$458 million, design6d to ensure
the availability of essential ogr4cultural inputs for the 1984-85 agricultural
year. The Bank loan of US$150 million (including front-end fee of US$0.4 million)
was to finance both public and private sector imports of fertilizers, pesticides,
animal feeds, veterinary products and agricultural machinery and spare parts. In
addition, technical assistance (US$0.6 million) was to be financed to help carry
out policy-related studies and institutional strengthening.   The agricultural
inputs import program was also supported by the Asian Development Bark (ADB), which
approved in March 1984 a loar. of US$130 million folloing close consultations with
the Bank, and by bilateral sources, principally the United States and Japan.
8.       Procurement and Disbursement.  Procurement of US$110 million (or about
73Z of Bank loan amount) was to be through ICB and the rest through other methods.
The Bank loan would reimburse 1002 of the foreign exchange cost of eligible imports
and 1002 of the cost of consulting services. The loan was to be disbursed over



-3-
a one-year period in two tranches of US$75 million each -- the first upon loan
effectiveness and the second after the mid-term review (pars. 6).
Proiect imnlementation
9.       At completion. the policy and institutional actions envisaged under the
project had been largely implemented and all studies had been undertaken, albeit
at a slower pace than originally expected. The mid-term review vas conducted one
year late in November/December 1985 and the second tranche was released in March
1986. The original loan closing date was December 31, 1985, but as of January 21,
1986 only US$56.9 million (38Z) of the loan had been committed and US$45.9 million
disbursed. The loan closing date was, therefore, extended to December 31, 1986,
and the loan was fully disbursed on February 11, 1987.
10.      Disbursements.  Disbursements on inputs were about the same as envisaged
at appraisal, but there was a significant underutilization of funds for consul-
tants' services, since the Borrower decided to use its own staff to undertake most
of the studies.  The f.nal disbursement position was as follows:
Appraisal               Actual
Category               estimate              disbursement
(US$)                  (US$)
1. Agricultural inputs            149,025,935            149,621,9Z5
2. Consultant's services              600,000                  4,000
3. Front end fee                      374,065                374,065
Total                       150,000,000           150.000,000
There were several reasons for the slow disbursement of the loan.  First, the
economic contraction experienced by the Philippines reduced the expected demand
for imported agricultural inputs.  Second, the NFA did not use its allocated share
of US$50.0 million (33? of the loan amount) to finance imports, both because of
a delay in signing the subsidiary loan agreement (signed only on April 10, 1985,
six months after the date of the Loan Agreement with the Bank) and because the
terms and conditions of the agreement were not as attractive as those of
alternative financing available to NFA. Third, there were some difficulties in
gathering the supporting import documentation for some eligible private sector
imports, and this delayed the submission of withdrawal applications to the Bank.
11.         To facilitate disbursements against private sector imports, the Loan
Agreement provisions regarding procurement procedures were amended. For generic
pesticides, veterinary products, breeding stock and agricultural machinery and
spare parts, the threshold for ICB was raised from US$300,000 to US$1,000,000;
only three quotations were required for contracts between US$500,000 and
US$1,000,000; and direct negotiations with suppliers was allowed for contracts
below US$500,000 and for proprietary items. For fertilizers costing US$5 million
or less per contract, standard commercial practices were allowed. With these
changes, the actual share of procurement subject to ICB declined to about 31? of
the loan amount, compared to the 73? envisaged at appraisal.   The Bank also
simplified disbursement procedures in mid-1986 by requiring only letters of credit



-4-
and proofs of payment for disbursement, with copies of bills of lading and
contracts retained by the Borrower for review by supervision missions.
12.   Policy  Reforms.    The  policy  reforms,  envisaged  at  appraisal,  were
implemented, as summarized below (see Annexes 1 and 2 for details):
(a)   Rice.  The export trade in rice was opened up to the private sector
in mid-1984 and retail rice price ceilings were lifted on October 1,
1985.  Though the Action Program matrix in the President's Report
(page 15) includes stabilization of rice prices 'through buffer stock
operations rather than mandatory price ceilings', the actual removal
of retail rice price ceilings does not appear as a formal condition,
either of Board presentation or first or second tranche release or as
a covenant in the Loan Agreement.
(b)   Corn.  The import trade in corn was opened up to the private sector
in October 1984 and the export trade in September 1988.
(c)   Animal Feeds and Livestock.  (i) The import trade in animal feeds was
opened up to the private sector in October 1984; (ii) pr!cr  controls
on poultry, eggs and pork wire removed (Presidential Order of October
1984) two months ahead of appraisal expectations; (iii) the poultry
import tariff was reduced from 502 to 402 in November 1985; and (iv)
the preferential treatment of NFA over the private sector in feed grain
imports was removed (tariffs and taxes equalized) in late 1986. One
reason for the speedy implementation of item (i) was that actual market
prices for these commodities tended to be below the controlled prices,
largely because of a significant demand contraction (Z0-30S).  The
President, acting on recommendat.'ns of the Price Stabilization
Council, removed price controls from all products except rice, because
of a "market normalization".
13. Institutional Reforms. As agreed during negotiations, through the Executive
Orier (E.O.) No. 965 of June 30, 1984, the Government, had implemented prior to
Board presentation the recommendations of the Presidential Commission on
Reorganization concerning organizational changes in the agricultural sector.
According to the provisions of E.O. 965, the Ministry of Agriculture was given a
larger role in policy formulation and coordination in the agricultural sector, as
followsz (i) the Ministry of Agriculture was reorganized as the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food (MAP); (ii) the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
and the Philippines Fisheries Development Authority were transferred from the
Ministry of Natural Resources to the MAF; (iii) prior concurrence of the MAP was
required for the issuance of forest land grazing lease arrangements; (iv) the
Minister/Deputy Minister of the MAF became a member of the governing Boards of
various commodity boards/authorities, including PCA and PHILSUCOM; and (v)
coordination of the food policy and programs functions of the NFA with the MAF
was improved. With respect to the last measure, the original proposal discussed
during negotiations (and confirmed in the June 4, 1984 letter from the Prime
Minister to the President of the World Bank) was to transfer NFA from the Ministry
of Human Settlements to the MAP as an attached corporation with a large degree of
autonomy. This was not done, however, as the Government decided to implement what
it considered to be a more drastic organizatibnal change, involving a transfer of
NFA' s food policy and p.ograms functions to the MAF and plans to transform NFA into



- 5 -
primarily a food marketing corporation (letter from the Prime Minister to the
President of the World Bank dated July 5, 1984). The findings of the project study
were to be considered in the final reorganization of NFA. The Bank agreed to this
approach.   Some reorganiuation of NFA did occur as a result of the study (see
paras. 15(e). 40 and 47) and NFA was eventually attached to the MAF when the new
Government abolished the Ministry of Human Settlements.
14.   As envisaged at appraisal, a medium-term agricultural investment plan (1985-
88) and consolidated annual budgets relating to the plan were also prepared during
project implementation. However, the National Economic and Development Authority
(NEDA) appears to have played the major role in this process, and there is scanty
documentation in the files regarding the project's contribution in this area.
Clearly, the project's role in improving the MAF's planning, programming and
budgeting capabilities was minimal (see further paras. 32-33 and 47).
15.         Studies.  The six studies were satisfactorily completed and were of
generally high quality:
(a)   Coconuts and Sugar.  These two studies, prepared by NEDA in February
1985, were reviewed by independent consultants, hired and paid by the
Bank, in March 1985. The consultants' reviews were comprehensive and
raised good issues regarding the studies' recommendations and data
analysis. The studies and the consultants' reviews provided the basis
for an action program developed by the Bank in May 1985 (see further
paras. 36-37).
(b)   Irrigation.    This  study,  prepared  by  the  National  Irrigation
Administration (NIA) in November 1984, made recommendations on NIA's
cost recovery policies and financial requirements and provided a basis
for the Bank-financed Irrigation Operations Support Project (Loan 2948-
PH, signed on June 13, 1988).
(c)   Fertilizer.  An ADB-financed consultant study prepared in May 1985
had to be revised by another team of consultants and was eventually
completed in March 1986. The study made important recommendations on
fertilizer production, consumption, imports/exports and marketing (see
further paras. 41-42). To remove a conflict of interest situation,
in April 1986 the new Government appointed separate chief executive
officers for the Fertilizer and Pesticides Authority (FPA) and
Philippine Phosphate Fertilizer Corporation (PHILPHOS), a large Govern-
ment-owned fertilizer firm, (this measure was originally expected by
November 1984).
(d)   Credit.  The recommendations of this study, prepared by the Technical
Board for Agricultural Credit in April 1985, provided a basis for the
Agricultural Credit Project, financed by the Bank (Loan 2570-PH, signed
on June 10, 1985) and USAID. The project supported a program to phase
out credit subsidies and established an institutional framework to
channel increased resources to the agricultural sector through private
commercial banks.
(e)   NFA.  The recommendations of the March 1985 ADB-financed consultant
study on NFA (called NFA Organization and Systems Study, undertaken



- 6 -
as part of the Agro-Processing and Marketing Technical Assistance
Project) were reviewed by an independent consultant hired and paid by
the Bank. A meeting in March 1985 at NFA and attended by the Bank,
ADB and Government officials, also reviewed the study.  The study's
recommendations were followed up mainly under a US Government program
(PL-480 Assistance). Important reforms included the divestiture of
NFA's non-grain activities and restriction of NFAA's price stabilization
function to rice and corn (approved in April 1985); adjustments to
NFA's organizational structure and operating procedures; and the
opening up of NFA's wheat imports and flour distribution activities
to the private sector in April 1985, despite strong resistance from
special interest industry groups.
16.         Other Aspects. As envisaged at appraisal, the Government designated
a Project Coordinator in the Office of the Prime Minister to monitor all project-
related activities and coordinate their timely execution. A Steering Committee
was also appointed to oversee the execution of studies. Section 3.08 of the Loan
Agreement stipulated that all pesticides imported under the project would comply
with guidelines issued by the FPA and would be packaged, labeled, handled and
stored in accordance with sound environmental practices. This aspect of project
implementation was reviewed in some detail by the Bank's environmental staff, who
concluded that the selection of pesticides purchased under the project was made
with due consideration to human health and environmental safety (memo of October
22, 1985). The annual audited accounts for the project were expected to be sub-
mitted not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. However, the
1985 accounts were received nine months after the end of the fiscal year. Audited
accounts for later years were not received.  The large-scale transfer of staff
after the new Government came to power, and particularly the abolition of the Prime
Minister's office where the Project Coordinator had been located, appear to be the
main reasons for the lack of auditing of 1986 and 1987 project accounts.
Role of the Bank
17.         The Bank had contributed actively to the preparation of the 'Agenda
for Action in Agriculture: 1984-88" (para. 3), which was the basis for the project.
During implementation, the Bank's supervision effort was adequate. In addition,
the Bank took initiatives to implement some reforms in the coconut and sugar
subsectors (paras. 36-37) in collaboration with the IMF.
Subsequent Policy and Institutional Reforms
18.         The new Government not only implemented some significant reforms
envisaged under che project, but also carried the process of liberalization much
further on its own initiative. Important actions included: (a) lifting of the
copra export ban; (b) abolition of export taxes on all coconut products, lumber
(except logs for which an export ban is in effect), veneer, abaca, pineapples and
bananas; (c) abolition of the remnants of monopolies and monopolistic structures;
(d) liberalization of urea and potash imports and distribution; (e) granting of
tax and duty privileges on fertilizer imports; (f) attachment of the NFA, PCA and
the Sugar Regulatory Administration (SRA) to the MAF; and (g) restructuring of the
National Food and Agricultural Council. These measures coupled with earlier ones,
including successive devaluations of the peso from 1982 onwards, and a gradually



- 7 -
improving international market have helped to create a favorable environment for
agricultural growth.
Proiect Impact
19.         At appraisal, the project was expected to generate both short-term
production benefits, and medium- and longer-term benefits based on policy reforms
and  improved  planning  and  institutional  arrangements.    None  of these was
quantified, but all were considered vital to the process of economic recovery and
development.
20.         Short-Term Production Impact.  The loan was expected to raise produc-
tion by making imported inputs available to farmers during a period of severe
foreign exchange shortages, and thus to assist the Government's short-term economic
stabilization program.   The Bank loan was intended to finance about one-third of
the agricultural input imports in 1984/85.   The stabilization program and the
program of assistance to the agricultural sector were relatively successful in
meeting these short-term objectives. Under the stabilization program, inflation
(as measured by the consumer price index) was reduced from 50? in 1984 to 232 in
1985 and to about 12 in 1986, while the current account deficit declined from 8?
of GNP in 1983 to 42 in 1984, 0.12 in 1985 and 3Z in 1986. However, the economy
contracted and real GDP fell by 6? in 1984 and 4.3? in 1985, increasing only
marginally by 1.5Z in 1986. Despite this severe economic contraction and a sharp
drop in sugar production, due mainly to unfavorable external market conditions,
agriculture had positive growth rates (2.3Z, 3.3Z and 3.7Z in 1984, 1985 and 1986
respectively).   It is likely that the inputs financed by the Bank and other
official donors helped to achieve this performance, although it is extremely
difficult to demonstrate this in quantitative terms.
21.         Long-Term Impact.  More significant and lasting benefits were expected
from the policy and institutional reform package, designed to improve production
incentives and the efficiency of resource allocation by increasing reliance on
market mechanisms and reducing Government intervention.   The project-financed
studies were intended to lay the basis for policy initiatives which could be
implemented under future Bank projects. As for institutional reforms, two kinds
of benefits were expected. First, there would be an improvement in intrasectoral
planning, policy formulation and coordination, as a result of the integration of
several sectoral agencies under one Ministry and the institution-building program
for MAF.  The second expected benefit was an improvement in public investment
planning, programming and budgeting through better program design and allocation
of scarce investment funds in accordance with sectoral priorities.
22.         While the intended policy reforms, studies and institutional changes
were largely implemented, their precise long-term impact on agricultural sector
growth and efficiency, producer and consumer prices and agricultural incomes is
almost impossible to determine, given the difficulty of isolating project impact
from that of the world market, weather and other changes in the domestic economy.
The task is made more difficult because no mechanism for impact monitoring was
established under the project. The National Economic and Development Authority
(NEDA) was to conduct, in consultation with the Bank, periodic evaluations of the
effects of policy and institutional reforms associated with the project
(President's Report, para 75). The first evaluation was to be conducted at the
conclusion of the project, two further evaluations at six-month intervals, and a



final evaluation one-year thereafter.   The evaluations were to establisn an
analytical framework for future Bank/Government dialogue on agricultural policy.
None of these evaluations was undertaken prior to the work on the project
completion report in late 1988. The large-scale personnel changes after the new
Government came to power in early 1986 appear to be the main reasor. for this lack
of follow-up.
23.         In the absence of any precise data on the quantitative changes which
could be ascribed solely to the project, the impact assessment has to be largely
qualitative. Even in this respect, there are some complications because of the
change in Government midway through the project. The second tranche of the loan
was released in March 1986 under the new Government, although conditions for its
release had been met by the previous Government. The new Government clearly had
a much greater commitment than its predecessor did to economic liberalization,
and it therefore implemented many policy and institutional reforms (para. 18)
which had not been ircluded in the project. It is not possible to judge whether
the previous Government, had it survived, would have implemented and sustained
all the reforms contemplated under the project itself or the subsequent related
reforms undertaken by the new Government.
24.         Another point that has to be emphasized is that the project's impact
cannot be assessed in isolation from the impact of the ADB-financed Agricultural
Inputs Loan and U.S. and other bilateral programs, which were proceeding
concurrently and were complementary. In particular, the ADB and USAID played a
significant role in the process of reforming the fertilizer sector and in NFA
reorganization.
25.         With the above caveats in mind, a judgement that can be made with some
confidence is that the project provided significant support to a sectoral reform
process that has continued to this day, and that these reforms, which eimed
essentially at removing economic distortions and increasing reliance on market
mechanisms, have made a positive long-term contribution to the economy.
26.   While the project impact is considered to be positive, it is difficult to
argue that it was major.  Indeed, as the first (and only) agricultural sector
adjustment operation in the Philippines, originally expected to span one year and
eventually extending to two, by itself this project could not have realistically
been expected to bring about major changes (see further para. 44), and no such
expectations are evident in the President's Report. Prior to Board presentation,
in response to a query from the Executive Directors whether there was sufficient
conditionality attached to the loan, the staff stated that effective policy and
institutional reforms could only be carried out gradually and in a time frame
beyond the scope of any single operation (memo to Files of August 6, 1984 on
Questions from the Executive Directors). The staff viewed the proposed loan as
a means to establish a framework for longer-term reforms, some of which would be
pursued in the context of other lending operations which were then in the pipeline
(e.g. coconut rehabilitation, sugar rehabilitation, irrigation maintenance,
agricultural loan fund, etc.), and most of which have materialized into projects
supported by the Bank.
27.         It is clear that compromises were made in the process of finalizing
the project's agenda and, for some important agricultural subsectors, studies were
resorted to rather than well-defined adjustment measures.  For example, in the



-9-
Initiating Project Brief of January 19, 1984, liberalization of wheat trade was
recommended. But evidently after opposition from NFA, which earned a profit from
wheat imports and distribution, and thus covered losses on its other operations,
this conditionality was dropped. In its telex of March 21, 1984 to the Government,
the Bank stated that it was prepared to accept NFA retaining responsibility for
wheat imports, provided the Bank and the Government could agree on timing of
issuance of guidelines for rice exports, liberalization of animal feed imports and
decontrol of pork and poultry prices. In part, these compromises reflected the
staff's assessment of the Bank's leverage with the Government in promoting some
sector reforms and the strategy of keeping certain important issues alive through
inclusion of studies, in cases where immediate action was not possible   In other
cases staff did not feel that sectoral knowledge was sufficiently comprehensive
to support specific reform recommendations. In particular, for the coconut and
sugar subsectors, where distortions appeared to be the greatest (see para. 35),
there did not seem to be enough information or consensus about the policy actions
to be implemented, and these subsectors, along with complex issues related to NFA
operations and fertilizer subsector, therefore became subjects of project studies.
28.         In retrospect, the most important long-term contributions of the
project were in the coconut and sugar subsectors, fertilizer marketing and
distribution, NFA reorganization, and reduction in agricultural credit subsidies
through realignment of the Central Bank rediscount rate.  Except for the last
item, all of these emerged from project studies. On the other hand, the adjustment
and institutional reform measures included under the project probably made a
smaller contribution, as discussed below.
29.         Policy Reforms.  The policy reforms envisaged under the project (Annex.
2) were the following: (a) reduction in the interest rate subsidy on Government-
sponsored agricultural credit; (b) opening up of the foodgrain and animal feed
import and export trade to the private sector; (c) stabilization of rice prices
through buffer stock operations rather than mandatory price ceilings; (d) removal
of price controls on poultry, eggs and pork; and (e) reduction in import tariffs
on poultry.   Of the above five measures,  (b) and (e) were only   partially
implemented. Import and export of rice and corn, although theoretically open to
the private sector, continue to be handled by the NFA and the import tariff on
poultry, which had been reduced from 50? to 40S in 1985, was rolled back to 5OZ
in April 1988 (para. 45). The opening up of rice exports to the private sector had
been emphasized on the assumption that exportable surpluses would become
significant, but this has not happened so far. The opening up of rice imports to
the private sector was not discussed in the President's Report, evidently o.i the
assumption that the Philippines would remain self-sufficient in rice.
30.         The remaining three adjustment measures were implemented as envisaged,
the one relating to interest rate subsidies having been implemented before Board
approval. Whether the removal of retail rice price ceilings and of price controls
on poultry, eggs and pork had a significant favorable impact on producer prices
and investment in the rice and livestock subsectors has not been documented. It
should be noted that removal of retail rice price ceilings was not included in the
Core Program (page 21 of the President's Report), appearing only in the Action
Program matrix (para. 12 (b) above). In contrast, the removal of price controls
on poultry, eggs and pork was considered critical, as it was included in the Core
Program. The sector study "Philippines Agriculture: Issues in Pricing Policy"
(Report No. 4845-PH, July 10, 1984) had noted that enforcement of ceiling prices



- 10 -
for poultry, eggs and some pork cuts was 'uneven", and the operation of NFA's
KADIWA stores (retail stores located in low-income neighborhoods in the major
cities of the country selling food staples at regulated prices) was "too small to
affect the upward pressure on prices exerted by the tariff policy" (tariffs on
poultry and eggs were 50X and on beef and pork 5Z). The sector study also noted
that the country was almost self-sufficient in meat production and some pork had
actually been exported from time to time by the private sector.   In these
circumstances, tariff policy reform rather than removal of price controls would
appear to be more important. Reduction in import tariffs on poultry was indeed
a condition of second tranche release.  However, as noted in para. 29, only a
relatively small reduction from 50% to 40X was implemented, with a one-year delay,
and then rolled back to 40Z. Thus, the impact of adjustment measures (c) and (d)
in para. 29 cannot be called significant although, in all probability, it was
positive since the reforms removed some market distortions.
31.         It would appear that the most significant adjustment measure under
the project was the closer alignment of Central Bank rediscount rates for
agriculture with those for other sectors and a change from a fixed to a floating
rediscount rate based on prevailing market rates (implemented under Central Bank
Circular No. 994 of March 9, 1984).   The underpinning for this and subsequent
reforms had been provided by the Bank's sector study on agricultural credit in
1983. The Government's policy of providing interest subsidies through rediscounted
Central Bank funds had led many rural banks to depend on these funds rather than
on locally-mobilized savings and improved debt collection efforts.   The rural
banking system nearly collapsed as a result of high arrearages on earlier official
directed credit programs in the 1970s, compounded by the financial and economic
crisis of the mid-1980s. Removal of interest subsidies on agricultural credit was
a significant first step towards improving the rural financial market undertaken
during project processing. Agricultural credit reforms were then carried forward
and deepened under the Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2570-PH. signed on June
10, 1985).
32.         Institutional Reforms. The institutional measures envisaged under the
project (Annex 2) were the following: (a) adoption of the proposal of the
Presidential Commission on Reorganization concerning institutional changes in the
agricultural sector and issuance of appropriate implementing documentation to make
the proposal operational; (b) initiation of a long-term institution-building
program to make the new structure fully operational; (c) adoption of measures to
broaden the representation on the governing boards of PCA and PHILSUCOM; (d)
appointment of separate chief executives for PHILPHOS and FPA; (e) preparation of
a prioritized development plan and corresponding financing plan for the
agricultural sector; and (f) establisliment of procedures and systems for updating
the plan on a regular basis.   In addition, any institutional recommendations
emerging out of the six project studies were expected to be implemented.
Potentially the most significant institutional measure was (b), that is, initiation
of a long-term institution-building program, principally for the MAF. However,
this was not implemented and the technical assistance included under the project
for this purpose was not utilized (para. 47). The other institutional measures
were implemented but, although they were steps in the right direction, it is
difficult to characterize their impact as significant.
33.         Other potentially important institutional measures were (e) and (f),
that is, improvement in investment planning. One of the main objectives of the



- 11 -
Agenda for Action in Agriculture was to channel an adequate level of resources
for agricultural development purposes in accordance with well-defined investment
priorities (President's Report, p. 20). Consistent with this objective, the Agenda
provided for the formulation of a medium-term agricultural development plan (1985-
88), and a corresponding consolidated budget for 1986.   The project included
technical assistance to prepare this plan and budget and to upgrade  sectoral
planning and budgeting. The technical assistance was not utilized and this project
component does not appear to have had any impact on the capabilities of the MAF,
although NEDA did prepare a medium-term plan. The Bank also undertook a Public
Investment Review for the agricultural sector in November 1984, independently of
the project, and the review recommendations were later discussed with NEDA and
MAF.   Public  investment  in agriculture  (including irrigation,  rural roads,
forestry, and agrarian refoni) actually declined in real terms (1972 prices) from P
1,325 million in 1983 to about P 800 million in 1984-86 (increasing again beginning
in 1987). While all public expenditures were cut back during the crisis years in
the mid-1980s, the decline in agriculture-related expenditures was sharper than
the overall decline. The share of agriculture in total Government expenditures
fell from 9.6Z in 1983 to only 5.4% in 1986 - the lowest share in a decade
("Philippines: Agricultural Sector Strategy Review". Report No. 6819-PH, October
21, 1987).  As a result, the overall allocations to agriculture were inadequate
to finance new development, O&M and an efficient level of services. Therefore,
one of the main objectives of the "Agenda for Action in Agriculture", that is, to
channel an adequate level of resources to the sector, was not met during the
project implementatios period.
34.         Studies. Compared to the policy and institutional measures included
under the project, the studies led to more significant sectoral developments. In
many ways the delay in loan disbursements was fortuitous in that it provided ample
time for the Bank to pursue the recommendations of the studies, albeit with support
from the IMF, ADB and USAID. The most important resulting action programs were
for coconuts, sugar, and NFA.  In addition, significant actions in the fertilizer
subsector resulted partly from the studies.
35.         At  the  time  of  project  preparation  and  appraisal,  Government
intervention in the coconut and sugar subsectors was pervasive, and perhaps, more
significant than in other areas.   Both the coconut and sugar subsectors were
extremely important for the economy, accounting for about 20% and 8% respectively
of merchandise exports. Coconuts accounted for over 25% of the cultivated area
and provided incomes for at least one-fourth of the rural families. Government
intervention in the coconut subsector had taken various forms, including export
taxes on coconut oil, an export ban on copra, an abortive  coconut replanting
scheme, coconut levies (abolished in 1982), and vertical integration of the
processing industry. The latter was undertaken under private auspices, through
the United Coconut Oil Mills (UNICOM), the largest buyer of copra in the country
(about two-thirds of production) and virtually the only exporter of coconut oil.
While PCA was intended to be the Government's vehicle for regulating and promoting
the coconut industry, its Board consisted mainly of large-scale producers and
millers; hence there was a possible conflict of interest between PCA's regulatory
functions and its Directors' private trading/manufacturing interests. In the sugar
subsector, the National Sugar Trading Corporatior. (NASUTRA) acted as the sole buyer
of sugar from the mills and the sole exporter since 1977. The policy-making and
regulatory body was PHILSUCOM, which allocated sugar production for export and
domestic consumption, and fixed the raw sugar buying price. PHILSUCOM had also



- 12 -
acquired several subsidiaries. As in the case of coconuts, there was a conflict
between the regulatory interests of PHILSUCOM and the trading interests of NASUTRA:
their Boards comprised largely the same individuals. PCA and PHILSUCOM also
reported directly to the Office of the President and were thus independent of the
relevant sectoral ministries.
36.         There had been continuing public criticism of the situation prevailing
in the coconut and sugar subsectors, including the conflict of interest situation
in the PCA and PHILSUCOM Boards, the interlocking directorates, the lack of public
disclosure of accounts and financial accountability, the misuse of coconut levy
funds, the inadequate arrangements for the coconut replanting scheme, sharing of
sugar export proceeds with planters and millers, financial management, cost of
operations of NASUTRA, mechanics of price fixation, and the highly restrictive
trading practices.   Given this background, it would seem surprising that the
project included only studies of the two subsectors and broadening representation
on the governing Boards of PCA and PHILSUCOM. This compromise was apparently as
much as the Bank could achieve at the time, given the strong opposition from the
vested interests in the two subsectors.    However, the studies did make some
significant recommendations, on the basis of which the Bank prepared an action
program in May 1985. Just prior to this action program, Presidential Decree (PD)
1960 of January 1985 introduced some significant changes for the coconut subsector
and PD 1971 of February 1985 introduced changes for the sugar subsector. It is
probable that the sugar and coconut studies, drafts of which had been reviewed
within the Government in December 1984 - January 1985. provided the basis for the
PDs. Inter alia, PD 1960 led to dismantling of UNICOM and the reopening of the
export of coconut oil to any millers or refiners who agreed to assume a share of
UNICOM's obligations. PD 1971 ordered the replacement of NASUTRA by another agency
named Philippine Sugar Marketing Corporation (PHILSUMA) by the end of 1985,
although PHILSUMA was also to be the sole buyer and seller of sugar.
37.         The action program developed by the Bank went beyond the changes
provided for in PDs 1960 and 1971. After intense debates within the Bank and IMF,
and with some modifications, the broader action program was included as part of
the IMF Standby Agreement in 1985-86.  Under this Agreement, the Government's
"Letter of Development Policies for the Coconut and Sugar Subsectors", dated
November 13, 1985, indicated that, inter alia, the composition of the Boards of
PHILSUCOM and PCA had been restructured to ensure majority Government
representation; Government agreed to adopt measures to improve competition in the
domestic market for copra; PHILSUCOM was to be divested of subsidiaries; NASUTRA
and PHILSUCOM financial statements for the crop year ending August 31, 1985 were
to be audited and published; and domestic sugar marketing was liberalized but
PHILSUMA was to be responsible for sugar export and price stabilization in the
domestic market. Before full implementation of these reforms, in February 1986
the Government changed.   The new Government went much further and abolished
PHILSUCOM, PHILSUMA and monopolistic structures in the coconut subsector, along
with other reforms (para. 18).
38.         It is difficult to assess the impact of the coconut and sugar reforms
on subsectoral production, investment, consumer prices, and producer prices and
incomes.   In particular, coconut production and prices have exhibited extreme
fluctuations. Copra production dropped to 1.4 million tons in 1984, the lowest
level in the 1980s, but rose to 2.6 - 2.7 million tons in 1986 and 1987. Clearly,
the weather was the most important factor in this fluctuation. As the Philippines,



- 13 -
accounts for about 652 of world coconut product exports, such production changes
cause extreme fluctuations, both in international and in domestic producer and
consumer prices.   The liberalization of coconut oil and copra exports by the
previous and present Governments can be said to have removed a significant barrier
to investments in the subsector. A rehabilitation and long-term coconut replanting
program will finally begin implementation in 1990 under a project for which a Bank
loan will be negotiated shortly.
39.         The impact of reforms in the sugar subsector has been somewhat
different. The domestic and export marketing of sugar were liberalized and prices
were allowed to be determined by the market, but the SRA retains the power to set
marketing quotas, that is, the allocation of sugar production for domestic
consumption, exports to the U.S. and world market, and reserves. These powers,
coupled with the sugar import ban, have had a very significant influence on
domestic producer and consumer prices during the last few years. The Philippines
exported about 60X of its total raw sugar production in the 1970s and early 1980s.
Beginning in 1984, world sugar prices dropped sharply and the Philippines'
lucrative long-term export sugar contracts expired at the end of that year. At
the same time, the country also faced a liquidity crisis and interest rates peaked
at 45-50Z, leading to a drastic decline in sugar production. Compared to the 5-
year average (1979180 - 1983/84) raw sugar production of 2.4 million tons,
production declined to 1.7 m tons in 1984/85, 1.5 m tons in 1985/86 and 1.3 m tons
in 1986/87. Unemployment and underemployment in sugar areas became very serious.
However, even the reduced sugar production was in excess of the effective market
(domestic and US sugar quota) of about 1.2 m tons, ex-mill prices of raw sugar
therefore dropped to 6.5-7.0 US cents/lb in 1986. a level which was below the cost
of production of even the most efficient producers. With the economic recovery
in the Philippines which began in 1987, domestic sugar demand has picked up,
although there has not been a corresponding increase in production.  Since the
import ban is still in effect, domestic consumer and producer prices for sugar have
risen sharply.   At about 18-20 US cents/lb in 1988, consumers were paying
approximately double the world market price, and thus heavily, subsidizing
producers.   A related sectoral issue has been the continued arrearages of loans
by producers to financial intermediaries (despite the recent high prices) and
arrearages to the Central Bank of the major financial intermediary for sugar, the
Republic Planters' Bank, which needs rehabilitation and restructuring.
Liberalization of domestic and export marketing of sugar appears to have had a
beneficial impact in helping to strengthern private expertise in export marketing
and in promoting product diversification, such as production of blanco directo
(white) sugar by some sugar mills. However, the outstanding agenda for essential
policy reform in the sugar subsector is clearly still large.
40.         The NFA study led to some important institutional changes (para. 15(e),
although much remains to be done.  At project formulation and appraisal, the Bank
considered the policy and institutional reforms within the NFA to be *among the
most important elements in its overall package" (telex of March 26. 1984 to the
Government).    NFA was  perhaps  the most  important  Government  agricultural
institution: it implemented the support pricing and procurement system for rice
and corn; had the sole right to import and export rice, corn, wheat, and animal
feeds; undertook processing and storage of grains; operated KADIWA retail stores
throughout the country; and had numerous subsidiaries involved in a wide range of
other activities (see para. 47). Significant budgetary subsidies were channelled
to NFA, which had regulatory powers while also being a player in the market. The



- 14 _
NFA study was taken seriously by both the Bank and the ADB, with important
decisions reached in a review meeting held at NFA on March 19, 1985.
Interestingly, at the meeting NFA authorities emphasized that "the NFA could not
and would not at this time relinquish its role as exclusive importer of wheat and
rice" (Minutes of Inter-Agency Meeting on T.A. No. 493-PHI - Special Review of
NFA Organization and Systems, March 19, 1985).   However, a month later, the
Government approved the opening up of wheat imports to the private sector. Another
important decision related to divestiture of subsidiaries (see para. 47). While
these measures clearly enlarged the role of the private sector in Philippine
agriculture, their impact on NFIA's institutional efficiency is difficult to assess.
The stated objective of NFA's reorganization was to develop and adopt a more
effective system of ensuring price stability for producers and consumers through
market intervention rather than retail price ceilings. Procurement by NFA of a
sufficient volume of rice and corn to maintain adequate buffer stocks was to be
the key factor in ensuring price stability and sustained production increases
(President's Report, p. 72). Of the three objectives of NFA viz., maintenance of
sufficient stocks for food security, stabilization of consumer prices, and
stabilization of producer prices, the last was least served by NFA actions. NFA
has been under tight budget constraints and has orocured less than 5Z of the
national rice and corn crops, thus benefitting only a select groip of farmers.
Although this has probably been sufficient to influence prices in the four rice-
producing and one corn-producing provinces where NFA's procurement is normally
concentrated, the average farmgate price has rarely been as high as the support
price, even in these regions. Measures implemented under the project would appear
to have been a good first step towards rationalizing NFA's activities, but the
effectiveness and equity of NFA's policies and programs are still open to question
('Philippines:    Toward  Sustaining  the  Economic  Recovery"  Country  Economic
Memorandum, Report No. 7438-PH, January 30, 1989, pp. 73-74.)
41.         The study on fertilizers and the related policy actions which were
undertaken made a significant contribution to the agricultural sector, which does
lend itself to some quantitative assessment. At the time of project preparation
and appraisal, a sector study estimated that the domestic fertilizer industry was
receiving a total subsidy equivalent to about 50Z of the border price per unit of
domestically produced fertilizer, and that most of the burden of these subsidies
fell on the farmers who, under the system of price fixation by FPA, had paid a
premium averaging approximately 1OZ over the border price from 1973 to 1981
("Philippines Agriculture: Issues in Pricing Policy", Report No. 4845-PH, July
10, 1984). The same study estimated that in 1982, the domestic price of urea was
16Z above the equivalent world price, of ammonium sulphate 27Z above, and of
muriate of potash (used on sugarcane and other export crops) 86Z above. The study
concluded that "without quotas, tariffs, and price controls, fertilizer prices
would fall to world levels, agricultural production would be stimulated, and the
domestic fertilizer industry would become more efficient or possibly shrink in
size". Another problem was the Government's arrears to the fertilizer industry.
The arrears stemmed from an arrangement under which the Government was to reimburse
the fertilizer producers/distributors whenever the prices (fixed by FPA) at which
they sold fertilizers to farmers were lower than the actual cost. For various
reasons, those payments were not made in full by the Government and substantial
claims accumulated. To assist producers to defray interest charges resulting from
these outstanding payments, the Government allowed producers/distributors to add
a financing charge to fertilizer prices.



- 15 -
42.         As part of agreements under an ADB loan (para. 7), the Government
cleared the arrears to fertilizer companies by October 1985, which resulted in
somewhat lower prices to farmers. A much more significant reduction of fertilizer
prices occurred as a result of liberalization of fertilizer imports and marketing
and the abolition of price fixing. While a cartel of only four firms had earlier
been allowed to produce, import and distribute fertilizers, the privilege was
extended in August 1984 (Letter of Instruction No. 1419) to other companies.
However, total importable volumes and respective import allocations to companies
were still determined by FPA, which also handled tenders on behalf of the private
sector.  The new Government further deregulated the fertilizer sector.  In May
1986, FPA relinquished its control over procurement and prices and became
responsible only for quality control and environmental monitoring. There were 24
active fertilizer importers in 1987 and the increase in competition and decreasing
gross margin at all levels of the distribution chain were instrumental in reducing
in end-user prices substantially, although decreasing world fertilizer prices after
1984 were also a factor.   For urea, which accounted for about 57? of total
Philippine fertilizer imports over 1980-87, the gross margin (shared among
importers, wholesale distributors and dealer retail outlets to cover all their
expenses and mark-ups) declined sharply from 42Z of the farmers' price in 1984 to
19? in June 1987, due to these liberslization measures ("Philippine Fertilizer
Sector Study", Chemonics International Consulting Division, Washington, D.C., March
1988 (Report prepared for USAID, Manila, Philippines). The differential in the
c.i.f (P 3,600/ton) and retail price of urea (P 5,600/ton) in the first quarter
of 1985 was P 2,000/ton; by the last quarter of 1986, the differential was down
to P 600/ton (c.i.f price of P 1,900/ton, against the retail price of P 2,500/ton).
By the last quarter of 1987, the differential was still P 600/ton (c.i.f price of P
2,500/ton against the retail price of P 3,100/ton) ("Trends in Fertilizer Supply,
Use and Prices, 1980-88", Bureau of Agricultural Statistics, Department of
Agriculture,  Republic  of  the Philippines,  November  1988.)    The consequent
improvement in the relationship between grain and fertilizer prices has increased
the incentives for input use in the last three to four years ("Philippines: Toward
Sustainiig the Economic Recovery", Report No. 7438-PH, January 30, 1989, p. 66.)
Consumption of fertilizers which had declined in 1984 and 1985 to 660,000 and
710,000 tons respectively from 879,000 tons in 1983, shot up to about 1.2 million
tons in 1987 and 1988, an increase of about 37? over the 1983 level. It should
be notee though that the weighted average nominal rate of protection on all
fertilizers consumed by the Philippine farmers is still about 5?.
43.         In summary, the project, which was the Bank's first and, to date, its
only policy-based aoricultural operation in the Philippines, was an overall success
as the main policy actions, studies and institutional reforms envisaged were
implemented and the foreign exchange was used for the  import of essential
agricultural inputs. The main thrust of the project, which was "toward greater
liberalization of domestic and foreign trade in agricultural products" (President's
Report, p. 13) was achieved. The project's major contribution was that it provided
a framework for continuing policy dialogue and the recommendations of project
studies led to further policy reforms. The project-related reforms were largely
sustained and extended by the new Government. Although the project made a good
beginning, the agenda for future development of the agricultural sector remains
lengthy and complex, and other adjustment operations and specific investment
projects could be considered to address the principal development issues.



- 16 -
Issues and Lessons Learned
44.         Proiect Scope.  A familiar question raised with regard to adjustment
operations is whether the policy and institutional reform package was substantive
enough in the light of the project's long-term objectives. Policy actions under
this project centered on price and tariff reforms for the livestock and poultry
subsectors, which in 1983 accounted for only about ISZ of agricultural gross value
added (GVA).   For rice and corn. which together accounted for about 201 of
agricultural GVA in 1983, policy actions related only to opening up of the import
and export trade to the private sector.   Some other major sectoral issues,
particularly the monopolistic and monopsonistic structures in the coconut and
sugar subsectors, were to be reviewed under the project studies. Whether this
constituted an adequate agenda for an adjustment operation or whether the Bank
could have gone farther in the pursuit of reforms is a difficult question to answer
(see paras. 26-27). The rroject was formulated under the previous Government, when
resistance to economic liberalization and dismantling of monopolies was formidable.
The Bank made a significant contribution to the preparation of the "Agenda for
Action in Agriculture: 1984-88', which provided a blue-print for liberalization
in the sector, and some policy and institutional reforms under the Agenda had
already been implemented during project preparation and appraisal (para. 5). Loan
2469-PH took up implementation of another chunk of the Agenda during the project
period, with the rest of the Agenda to be taken up under subsequent operations.
The aim of the project thus was to set in motion a process of change through some
policy reforms and studies, which would lay the basis for further reforms. The
studies did provide a guide for additional reforms, particularly in coconut and
sugar subsectors, some of which were pursued under the IMF Standby Agreement (para.
37); the fertilizer subsector (paras. 41-42); and the NFA (paras. 15(e) and 40).
The project was thus an important instrument for continued agricultural sector
policy dialogue and reform in the Philippines. A significant part of this success
was due to actions of the new Government. A lesson which emerges from the project
experience is that an initial adjustment operation can start a process of change
and studies can be important vehicles for further reforms.   The project also
demonstrated the importance of close collaboration with the IMF and other
multilateral and bilateral aid agencies in resolving complex policy and
institutional issues.
45.         Sustainability. While most of the project-related policy reforms have
been sustained, largely because of the new Government's commitment to a more
market-oriented agricultural sector, two areas deserve mention. Under the project,
the import tariff on poultry had been reduced from 50S to 40S, but since April 1988
(Republic Act 6647) it has been rolled back to 50. Second, the opening up of the
import and export trade in rice, corn and animal feeds to the private sector has
been only partial:   the soybean meal trade was deregulated and is now mostly
undertaken by the private sector, but trade in other animal feeds, such as fish
meal, barley, etc. is regulated by the NFA. The import and export of rice and
corn, although theoretically open to the private sector, also continues to be
handled exclusively by NFA (quantities involved have been small). Guidelines on
the export of corn grains by the private sector have been in effect since September
1, 1988. They stipulate that the NFA Council, in consultation with the Department
of Agriculture (DA) and the Inter-Agency Technical Working Group on Cereals and
Feedgrains (headed by DA), shall determine and declare the exportable quantity of
corn surplus for the guidance of the private sector and that applicant-exporters
would be duly licensed by the NFA, would obtain permits from the NFA for every



- 17 -
transaction of corn exportation and would furnish to the NFA a copy of the contract
entered into with the importer. The same applies to rice exports, which have so
far been made in small quantities by NtA to repay an Indonesian loan. In view of
these restrictions and the small quantities involved, trade liberalization
implemented under the project for rice and corn has not yet been significant. The
equalization of tariffs and taxes applicable to NFA and the private sector for
feedgrain imports has also been without real significance, since only NFA has been
allowed to import corn.
46.         Procurement and Disbursement.  Loan utilization was delayed due to
procurement problems (para. 10). In retrospect, three aspects deserve attention.
First,  the loan was  to be disbursed against a positive  list,  principally
fertilizers, but fertilizer demand had been over-estimated at appraisal because
of inadequate forecasting of the effects of the general economic decline.  A
negative list would have facilitated faster disbursements (an understanding could
still have been reached with the Government to provide adequate foreign exchange
for agricultural inputs).   Second, given the liberalization of fertilizer and
animal feeds imports, procurement procedures, which earlier envisaged a high
proportion of ICB (73Z) for public sector importers, were too restrictive and had
to be relaxed.   Third, NFA was expected to utilize 33Z of the loan  ut its
subsidiary loan agreement with the Government was delayed considerably and the
terms were not attractive to NFA (para. 10).  This last problem should ha- been
resolved much earlier in the project cycle.
47.         Institutional Reforms.  The scope and impact of institutional reforms
under the project were at best limited (paras. 32-33).   The project included
technical assistance for strengthening the MAF and setting up a sectoral planning,
programming and budgeting mechanism, but this assistance was not utilized. The
capability of the MAF (now Department of Agriculture, DA) to undertake sectoral
planning, programming and budgeting remains weak. The new Government continued
the institutional reform process, including "attachment" of the three major
institutions in the agricultural sector, viz., NFA, PCA and SRA, to DA. However,
the extent to which DA exercises effectivs authority over these institutions is
debatable. The DA itself has recently undergone a reorganization (Executive Order
No. 116 of January 1987); planning has been given greater emphasis under the new
structure, but staff skills and coordination still need improvement.  Another
important part of the project was action relating to the NFA after completion of
the study (paras. 15(e) and 40).  This was significant and resulted in NFA's
divesting itself of its non-grain activities and concentrating on price
stabilization of rice and corn.   NFA was also to divest itself of its numerous
subsidiaries, including Food Terminal Inc. (FTI), KADIWA retail stores, Southern
Philippines Grains Complex, Northern Philippines Grains Complex, Iloilo Rice Husk
Fuel Power Station, Grains Insurance Corporation, Tabangao Bulk Storage and Ship
Unloading Complex, and National Post Harvest Institute for Research and Extension
(NAPHIRE) and production programs under General Order (G.O.) 47. However, as of
December 1988, only KADIWA stores had been divested, production programs under G.O.
47 discontinued and NAPHIRE transferred to DA.  The rest were still awaiting
divestiture. Although the first step towards improving NFL's effectiveness was
taken under the project, the organizational and financial situation of NFA
continues to present complex sectoral issues. The lesson learned from the project
experience is that a significant institutional impact is unlikely to be achieved
through a single adjustment operation of short duration.



- 19 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULYURAL SECTOR/INPUTS PROJECT (LOAN 2469-PH)
List of Imporwtant Legpl Covenants/Conditions La
Covenante/Conditlons                                Ost.                     Remarks
I.   Contltons of Board Present_aton Lb
t.  Official adoption by the Government and             Before Board        Complied with (letter from
beginning of implementation of the program of      presentation,       the Prime Minister to the
policy and Institutional reform outlined in the                        President of the World Bank,
"Agenda for Action In Agriculture:  1984-98t.                          dated June 4, 1984).
ii. *.4ptlon by the Government of the proposal of            - Do -         Compiled with (Executive
the Presidential Commission on Reorgenzantion                           Order No. 965 of June 30,
concerning organizational change  In the                                1994).
agricultural sector.
Ill. Initiation of the studies on NFA, coconut,              - Do -         Coconut and sugar studies
sugar, Irrigation, fertilizer, and agricultural                         started; arrangements for
eredit, as well as the sectoral Investment                              starting other studies
program.                                                               substantially completed
before Board presentation.
iv. Removal by the Government of existing price              - Do -         Condition modified: a three-
controls on poultry products and adoption of a                          phased program of price
program of phased reduction of the Import                              adjustments and decontrol
tariff on poultry products, and of price                                adopted before Board
controls on pork.                                                       presentation, of which the
first phase, that Is,
adjustments in the prices of
poultry, eggs and pork to
reflect recent increases In
input costs, implemented on
May 28, 1984.
v.  Appropriate mesures by NFA to turn over  ill             - Do -          Guidelines prepared by NFA
foodgrain and antmal feed Import and/or export                          before Board presentation.
trade to the private sector, with Importation
handled either directly by the letter, or
through pooled buying arrangements under the
coordination of NFA.
IT. Condition of Loan Effectiveness
1.  Opening by the Government of a Special Account    Before first          Opened In October 1984.
in the Central Bank of the Philippines, In         tranche rolease.
which the Bank would make advance payments and
replenishment .
III. Conditions of Second Tranche Releas
1. Adequate progress by NFA In opening up to           Before second        Import and export trade of
private entities the Import and export trade of    tranche release,    animal feeds opened up to the
animal feeds.                                                           private sector in October
1984, except for export of
corn, which was opened up on
September 1, 1989.
II. Adequate progress in phasing out price                   - Do -         Price controls phased out In
controls on poultry, eggs  nd pork.                                    October 1984.



- 20 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
Covenants/Conditions                                Date                    Remarks
I11. Adequate progress ln reforms of PCA and                - Do -          Representation broadened and
PHILSkUCOM to broaden representation on their                          Government majority obtainod
Boards to Include concerned ministries of the                           In November 1986.
Borrower and farmers' Interests.
tv. Satisfactory progross In preparing tho six              - Do -          All studles completed by
policy-related studies.                                                March 1986.
v.  Satisfactory progress in rationalizing *nd              - Do -          Public Investment plan for
consoitdatIng the public invostment plan for                           agriculture and consolidated
agricultural devolopment (1986-88) and the                             budget prepared In 1986.
consolidated budget.
vi, Adequacy of progreso In reducing import tariffs         - Do -           Import tariffs on poultry
an poultry.                                                             redscld from 650 to 40% In
November 1985.
IV. Other Covenants
t.  Use of the peo proceeds from the sale of            Not applicable.    Not done due to IMF
foreign exch*nge provided under the Bank loan                           restrictions.
to finance expenditures for development
program, lncluding NFA's buffer stock
operations.
II. Appointment by the Governmnt of a Steering          No date given.      Compiled with.
Colittes to overse  the execution of studies.
Ill. Designation by the Government of a Project         No date given.      Complied with.
Coordinator within the Office of the Prime
Minister to monitor all projct-r lated
activities and coordinate their timely
execution.
Iv.  Importation o  pesticide  under the project to     Not applicable.     Complied with.
comply with guidelines issued by the FPA and to
b packaged, labeled, handled and stored In
accordance with sound environmental practices.
v.  Periodic evaluation by the Government, In           First evaluation    Not complied with, xcoept for
consultation with the Bank, of the effects of       t project          the Project Completion
policy and Institutional roforms associated        completion; two     Report, which was prepared
with the project.                                  further evalu-      two years after completion.
Wtions at six-
month Intervals;
and a final
evaluation one
year thereafter.
vi. Submission to the Bank of annual sudited           Not later than      Delayed submission of 198
accounts for the project.                          six months after    accounts; accounts for later
the end of each     yrer not received.
flscal year.
la  Includes formal conditions starting from the negotlations stg..  An lmportant policy reform
Implemented much before negotiations related to agricultural credit. A Central Bank Circular (No.
994 of Marbch 9, 1984) provided for cloasr alignment of Central Bank rediscount rates for agriculture
with those for other sectors and a change from a fixed to a floating redlcount rate based on
prevailing market rate.
lb As listed In the Bank's telex to the Government of May 16, 1984.



- 21 -
AN 2
AOUA p L SrnnPIS PROJECT (LOAN 2-489-PHI
Policy Area      "edivu-Torm Objectives           Action Proposed under the Project            Timetable    Actual Implementation
National Food    Improve efficiency of   (u) Commitato open up within a raseonable period   Dec 1984    Oct. 1984
Authority        NFA operations                of time alliport and ezport trade in rice.
corn and other ani  I foeds to the private
sector.
(b)  Lhdortako to stabilize rice prices through      DeC 19$4     Retol rice price
buffer etock operatioe rather then                           coiling removed in
c)  mndatory price ceilings                                       October 1985
(c)Sub-tantiilay camIeIto study of WfA          Oet 1984     mar 1908
eiewandbegi  mlomonttlon of the                Dec 1         r  19S5
rocoemondt io      Usf h  etAsdy.
CoGonut          Efficiency and *qu ty   (a) Substantially conplet study of the coconut   Nov 1984           Feb 198
in Production                subector.
arketinv  and            (bj Adopt measures to broaden the ropreentation   Jul 1984        Nov S985
consumption                  on tho governing board o' PCA.
(c) Review and beoin Implementation of the           Doc 1984     Way 198E6
recomendstione of the study.
Sugar            Efficiency and equity   (a)  Subettnntiilly complete study of the auger       NOV 198       Feb 1945
in production                eubsector,
iarkotini  and           (b)  Adopt moesure. to b-oden the representation   Jul 198        Nov 1985
coneumption                  on the governing board of PHILSUCI4.
c) Review and begin implementation of the            Dec 19l4     Nay 1985t/
recomndatione of tMe study.
Livestock        Efficiency and equity  Cna  Remove price controls on poultry products.    Dec 1984         Oct 1984
in production,          (b)  Adopt phaosd reduction of the import tariff    Dec 1984       Nov 1985
marktintP and                for poultry product, taking into ceount
consumption                  th- competitiveness of the dooetic
industry.
(c)  Reaove price controls on pork.                 Dec 1984      Oct 1984
Ferttilizer      Efficiecay and euity   (a)  Appoint *parate chief operating executives    Nov 1984         Apr 1986
In production,               for Phiipho. and FPA.
mrketin9 and            (b)  Adopt specific seesures and a timetable to      Nov 19s84      ct 1988
consumption                  retire Governent's arrearte to fertilizer
firma.
Cc)  Complete a review of this and other related    Nov 1984      Nay 1998&
isues in a study to be undertaken in the
context of the A08 Agricultural Inputs
Program loan.
Irrigation       Achlive suffitcint       (s) Complet  the *tudy of NIA's coet recovery        Nov 1984    Nov 1984
ceot recovery                pol iciem and resource requirements.
divereify irrfgatod     (b) Review and begin impleamntetion of the           Dec 1984      Iv86,/
croppIng                      rcommendations af tho  above study.
Agricultural     Improve efficiency of   (a)  Begin a phased program of reducing the           Jun 1984     Jun 1984
credit           crodit allocation and         interest rate subsidy on Oovernment
collection                   :pon ored aoricultural credit programs in
wocordance with a timetable acceptable to
the Bank.
(b) Co ste th* study of agricultural credit          Oct 1984     Apr 1988
(c)  Review and begin implementation of the          Dec 1984     1985krc
recomAendatione of the study.
Governmaet       Improve  planing,        (a)  Issue appropriate implemnting documentation   Jun 1984       Jun 198
institutions     progressng and                to make operational the proposal of the
coordination                 Presidential Commission on Reorganization on
Institutional changee in the agricultural
sector.
(b)  Initiat e  long-term Inetitution-but Iding     Nov 1984      Not implemented
program to make tho new structure fully
operational.
Sectoral         Establilt  system for   (C)  Prnope a prioritized developent plan and         Nov 1984     1985k
investment       sectorl linvestmnt            corresponding financing plan for the
planning         planning                      agricultural sector.
ub)  Ent imh procedures and systems for             Nov 1984     1"S9i
updating the plan on a regular basis.
These dates are approximate since some revits took place earlier and  mplementation of the study ' recommendastions w   spread over
ties.  See text for a detailed discus" ion of the review and implamntation procee.
A  First draft. Thie ws revseed by aother tea of conaultonts end the study wa- completed in March 1986.
Lg  Procime dats cannot be specified se  th, proces  me spread over tim.



_ 23 -
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER                                        Attachment I
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPINES
b  DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
FERIIIUZ     AND PEST DE AUTH I
6TH FLOOR, RAHA SULAYMAN BUILDING
BENAVIOEZ ST., MAKATI. METRO MANILA
1.
30 March 1990
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C.
Fax No. 001-202-477-7658
Attn.: Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief, Agriculture, Infrastructure &
Human Resources Division
Operations Evaluation Dept.
Re: PCR (Ln. 2469-PH) - Our only comment is on para 18-e)
which should be amended as follows:   a  continuation of the
granting of indirect subsidy in the form of tax and duty
privileges on fertilizer imports." This is the case since the
*                tax privilege is not an outright exemption.
Very truly yours,
_            L       L. JR.
Kxee,,bve Director  III
I               cc:  Mr. Rolando Arrivillaga
Resident Representative
Rin. 200. CH - Multi Storey
Central Bank of the Phil.
TELW.: 60550.01 TO 03              P. O. BOX 1049                TELEX NO 23176 FPA PH



- 25 -
OOMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER                                       Attachment II
RIPUBIC OF THE PHILIIE8
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
BUREAU OF THE TREASURY
9JED      ~PALACQODELGOBERNAW&UlnVAMUROSKANRnA
3 April 1990
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief
Agricultural Infrastructure and
Human Resources Division
Operations Evaluation Department
Re : Agricultural Sector/Inputs Project
(Loan No. 2469) Project Completion Report
Dear Mr. Donaldson :
This has reference to your letter dated 6 February 1990 requesting
comments on the above-captioned subject.
We would like to express our appreciation for being one the recipients
of the draft report and one of those requested to comment on its contents.
However, may we inform you of our regret of not being able to render
authoritative and accurate comments as our participation in the project
consisted only of the submission of Application for Withdrawal and
recording of loan proceeds. We believe that the comments/observations
coming from the National Economic and Development Authority, Department
of Agriculture, National Food Authority and the Fertilizer Pesticide
Authority, who were involved in the policy formulation and project
implementation of the above-captioned loan, would be more beneficial
in your evaluation of the project.
Very truly yours,
Asst. National Treasurer-PDMS
EDMD/CCC/GRF/pml*
CC:
The World Bank
M a n i 1 a



I
MAP SECTION
i



IBRD 20M1
116    CLASSIFICATOI OF PROVNCES               1W                                              1
BY GEOORAPCAL REGIONS
I iLoCOS             VI WESTERN VISAYAS
I Roe" Norb           39 cAkle                                                       PHILIPPINES
2 Abe.                  Co9
Is 100O SW              AN                                        B                                                                             20
20'    A umo.,n*                11*40t
V CENTRAL VISAYAS                                                                  -           Roads
p,sgs,z            *4 CON
1I CAGAYAN VALLEY       .S NCeo" o.B* RX
I _ s                 48 ,m                                                                       Railroa
9                     4' S4*x---   Pits, Sowapias
K aWnga-Ap8        l EASTEV N VISAYAS
Isabela             o moftnI saw maReol
' l*ga*              49                                                                            09    BwiafO
IINomo V.4*         la 4 E'"n S ,                   1                                           in,_noREJ Soudrlar
.4 0,,noo             " Ley                  1-9te
IIINCENTRAL LUZON        52 Sounem Levu                   -
55 ""e"o 9"a     IXB WESTERN MINOANAO                Di      -
If Te&t                 z  2*omi,g   N"ei s0  2                 \
z8 P_          IXA WEzSTERNM       AO              S            \
- 9 8uc .TLbIeafti   5l
Y  8n Bl                 915                                    _I'@00
IVA NATIONAL CAPITAL       5'   r;                              1 m2  - 
REGION                              hornfld6cs    I6     I
IV SOUTHERN TAGALOG X NORThER  M ANAG                              4                             X                 t                  0
2   "'a&,o                    de,                                                                _______________________
23 Raw 6414 A5odel MM                                                                                                      IO 22
25 L,gWA                mnsa n, ,rcd&51
2 M&..Ou4W
2$ k6.m0g O'W3lh     64 AO~* del &         A0Il   78          -
29 M.1dooQ 0cc*1enal  Xi EASTEN MINOANAO      17 
32 Rn.                  S3pi g      ar o                      ! 22
V ' Paiam-A Dam. do SW                                                          3
32 Cammina.3,,M*A*    69 sa                                                                                Jbm at6
64 So*8~  Cotab1ol
1' C'r'' Sul    XII CENTRAL MINDANAO                                                    33
34 C..S*La"fl40                                                               53 NOW *4*63 - 34
3. .                      -                                          - 1g IXB de.l Xl
36 SoMWO.                 t     oto*2
.    '                                                     /3_9               Z              '      7    X x t   
AV                          _                                                                5Zn,2es'~~~~~~I    2
_ N  va440                ss                                ,       . .~~~~~~~~~~~3  3
.12                                                                                                                                                      12?
o Puoito
31
14881~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
WfUNB                                          57
CHN NOO                                                                                                                         XiI
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 1?0                                             14lt _
MAY 1988



