Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3860-PH
REPORT AND RECOMbENDATTON
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
IERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$150.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR/INPUTS PROJECT
July 17, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bh recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its cntents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:        Peso (P)
USS1  =  P 18.00     Pi = US$0.0556
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPINES FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS
ADB          -    Asian Development Bank
FPA          -    Fertilizer and Pesticide Authority
FSDC         -    Farm Systems Development Corporation
MAF          -    Ministry of Agriculture and Food
MOA          -    Ministry of Agriculture
NACIAD       -    National Council on Integrated Area Development
NASUTRA      -    National Sugar Trading Corporation
NEDA         -    National Economic and Development Authority
NFA          -    National Food Authority
NIA          -    National Irrigation Administration
PCA          -    Philippine Coconut Authority
PHILPHOS     -    Philippine Phosphate Fertilizer Corporation
PHILSUCOM    -    Philippine Sugar Commission
UNICOM       -    United Coconut Oil Mills



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR!INPUTS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan Snmmary . ......................................................... 
PART I - THE ECONOMY                    . . . ............
Performance in the 1970s               .....................
Structural Problems and Adjustment ............ ..... .................    2
The Current Economic Situation ......................................        4
Medium-Term Prospects                        ....   6
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS ......................6....  .. ....... .    6
PART III - THE AGRICULTUR-AL  SECTOR . . ........ .......    8
Stutur  ............ur .....e.                                               8
Organization .     .....            ..................................................    9
Performance ............ .........................................    10
Development Objectives and Constraints ..............................       11
The Government's Program of Sectoral Policy
and Institutional Reform ..........................................       13
Policy Framework ...................................................    14
The Progiam of Institutional Reform .................................   19
Investment Planning.................................................        20
PART IV - THE PROJECT                       ........ 20
Background .........................................................   20
Project Objectives ..      ..      .. ............................................   21
Project Description ...................... ._........... .. ......    22
Project Implementation .......................................... ...   24
Evaluation ............. ...............           ..                       25
Procurement and Disbursement ...........               ...     ...... ....... .   25
Accounts and Audits ..................... .     .      .................   27
Benefits and Risks .........            ...................s...   27
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTIIORITY .......                    .....   28
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION ......................... ....................    29
ANNEXES
I  -  Social Indicators Data Sheet and Economic Indicators .......  30
II  -  Status of Bank Group Operations in the Philippines ..........   35
III  -  Supplementary Data Sheet ..      ..     ................................   37
IV - Terms of Reference ........           ....... 39
V  -  Letter from the Borrower on Sectoral Development Policies...   62
Agenda for Action in Agricultural:  1984 - 8 8 ...............   67
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oficia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discbsed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR/INPUTS PROJECT
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of the Philippines
Amount:          US$150 million, including capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:           Payable over 20 years, including five years of grace, at
standard variable interest rate.
Loar
flescription:  The Loan would support the Government's short-term economic
stabilization program and a medium-term program of
agricultural policy and institutional reform. To support the
stabilization program, the Loan would make available US$149
million to finance the importation of essential inputs
(feedgrains, fertilizers, pesticides, veterinary products, and
agricultural machinery and spare parts) required to meet the
needs of the agricultural sector during the crop year 1984-
85. The program of sectoral policy and institutional reforms
supported under the proposed operation provides, among other
things, for specific actions concerning: (a) management and
organization in the agricultural sector; (b) Government
controls on prices of animal feeds, pork, poultry and eggs;
(c) private sector participation in the trade of foodgrains
and animal feeds; (d) rediscount rates on agricultural credit;
and (e) policy related studies to help establish the base for
future sectoral reforms. To support this program the loan
would make available US$0.6 million equivalent for (i) studies
on the operations of the National Food Authority, coconut,
sugar, irrigation, fertilizer and agricultural credit and (ii)
technical assistance services for implementing institutional
reforms and improving sectoral investment planning. The main
risks associated with the proposed project are that adverse
changes in agricultural terms of trade may depress demand for
the inputs financed and reduce the impact of the project on
the short-term economic situation. Further, after the Loan is
disbursed, some of the policy and institutional reforms may
either be shelved or diluted because of major changes in
Government or their limited impact on the pace of economic
recovery. In view of the ongoing Bank policy dialogue with
the Government, backed up by the prospect of future policy-
related lending, and the technical support to be provided for
institution building and planning, these risks would be
reduced to acceptable levels.



- ii -
Estimated                           USS million by quarter, IBRD FY85-86
Disbursements:                   1         2         3         4         1
Annual         32.0      39.0      35.0       30.0     14.0
Cumulative     32.0      71.0     106.0      136.0    150.0
Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Appraisal
Report:         None
Map:-              IBRD 17234



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR/INPUTS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $150 million,
including the capitalized front-end fee of $0.4 million, to help finance the
Agricultural Sector/Inputs Project. The loan would be repaid over 20 years,
including five years of grace, at a standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, entitled "The Philippines:  Selected Issues for
the 1983-1987 Plan Period" (No. 3861-PH) was distributed to the Executive
Directors under Sec. M82-542, dated June 16, 1982. A special report, "Aspects
of Poverty in the Philippines: A Review and Assessment" (No. 2984-PH), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on December 1, 1980 under Sec. M80-919.
Country data are given in Annex 1.
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, the Philippines followed a much more dynamic,
growth-oriented development strategy than in earlier decades. The growth rate
of GDP rose from 5.1% in the 1960s to 6.22 in the 1970s, a rate well above
that of lower middle-income oil importers (5.6%) but lower than that of conr-
parable Asian countries. During the 1970s, the agricultural sector grew at
about 4.5% p.a. and manufacturing industry at 7.2%. Manufacturing, however,
did not play a leading role in the country's economic development. Although
manufactured exports grew rapidly, the greater part of the sector remained
oriented to the domestic market and was affected by severe inefficiencies.
4.        Although economic performance was relatively good in the 1970s,
structural weaknesses held it back below its full potential. GDP growth was
achieved at a high investment cost - the incremental capital/output ratio
(ICOR) was about 35% higher than those of comparable Asian countries.
Although inherently capital-intensive infrastructure investments explain part
of the high ICOR, inefficiency of industrial investment was the more important
cause. Inappropriate trade, industrial, financial, and exchange rate policies
designed to foster import substitution provided high protection for domestic
manufacturers, and led to investments in which the Philippines did not have a
clear comparative advantage. External borrowing and imports expanded rapidly
while traditional exports and domestic resource mobilization lagged. This
1/   This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Municipal Development project which was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on May 15, 1984.



resulted in a chronic shortage of foreign exchange and increasing external
debt.
5.        Despite satisfactory aggregate growth during the 1970s, the inci-
dence of poverty remained around 40%, income distribution continued to be
skewed, and regional disparities remained pronounced. The incidence of
poverty reached 60-70% in the least developed regions. Large numbers of
people, especially in the rural areas, still suffer from malnutrition and
lack safe water, basic education, and health facilities. An increasingly
unfavorable man/land ratio, the resulting expansion of cultivation into
marginal lands, limited employment opportunities in the industrial sector, and
the sharp deterioration in the external terms of trade put downward pressure
on real incomes. Although the Government instituted several programs to
improve directly living conditions of the poor, most of these were implemented
on any significant scale only during the last few years and will require
several years to achieve a marked impact.
6.        Growth of productive employment, particularly in the industrial
sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of the labor force, and consid-
erable underemployment exists. During the 1970s, the agriculture and service
sectors had to absorb an excessively high proportion of new entrants to the
labor force. Manufacturing employment stagnated in the first half of the
decade, and picked up only slightly thereafter as labor-intensive export pro-
duction grew. Overseas employment, especially in the Middle East, increased
rapidly, providing a temporary income opportunity.
7.        Population growth in the Philippines was reduced from 3% in the
1960s to 2.5% in the early 1980s. There are indications, however, that it may
have levelled off prematurely at that level. Thus, rapid population growth
continues to strain available land resources, aggravate the already serious
u.nemployment and poverty problems, and burden the public budget with a high
growth in demand for basic public services. The Philippines has a family
planning program which expanded rapidly during the 1970s; however, partici-
pation in the program is still low by East Asian standards.
Structural Problems and Adjustment
8.        The structural weaknesses of the Philippine economy have become more
apparent in recent years as unfavorable world economic conditions have exacer-
bated the balance of payments, debt, and resource mobilization prnblems. In
the late 1970s, the country's terms of trade deteriorated sharply due to oil
price increases, accelerated international inflation, and depressed prices for
major export commodities. The continued heavy reliance on export earnings
from a few primary products (coconuts, sugar, copper, and timber) kept the
Philippines extremely vulnerable to international commodity price fluctua-
tions, while continued high dependence on imported oil further aggravated the
balance of payments problem.
9.        Excessive protection and an artificially low cost of capital led to
low efficiency of investment and stagnant employment in industries producing
for the domestic market. The industrial sector remained a net burden on the
balance of payments; although manufactured exports grew rapidly, their net
foreign exchange earnings were limited due to a high import content. Export
promotion measures induced rapid growth in nontraditional manufactured



exports, e.g., garments, electronics and handicrafts, from $50 million in 1970
to $2.4 billion in 1982. However, export expansion was concentrated on a few
items, and backward linkages were limited by high cost and low quality of
domestic inputs. As part of an adjustment program supported by SAL lending,
the Government has initiated major policy reforms designed to move towards an
industrial structure utilizing more effectively the country's comparative
advantage with respect to labor cost and raw material availability and which
is internationally competitive. The program includes a major tariff reform, a
liberalization of import controls, a realignment of industrial incentives and
improved export incentives. The implementation of the program has been good,
despite the international recession which has hampered the adjustment process
in the manufacturing sector and slowed down the growth rate from around 4% in
1980-81 to an estimated 1% in 1982-83.
10.       Financial Sector.  Although well developed, the Philippine financial
sector has not performed adequately in raising private sector savings and pro-
viding investment financing. Among the main reasons have been the level and
structure of interest rates which were not geared to mobilize sufficient sav-
ings and encourage longer maturities; their low level contributed to rela-
tively inefficient and capital-intensive investment. Further, the Central
Bank's rediscounting scheme frequently resulted in encouraging over-investment
in some sectors while others were relatively neglected. In 1981, the Govern-
ment introduced far-reaching financial policy changes. The banking system was
given greater flexibility, interest rates were deregulated, and the Central
Bank was given a stronger position in its role as "lender-of-last-resort", all
of which produced positive real interest rates (for the first time since 1978)
and a significant increase in domestic savings. Government-owned lending
institut.'ons have made less progress; as a result of insufficient autonomy in
the selection of their portfolios plus a depressed domestic economy, loan
collection rates continue to be very low and substantial government budgetary
support is required. Rehabilitation of several government-owned institutions
is necessary to reduce strains on the budget and to continue important
development banking operations.
11.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  While the performance of the
agricultural sector was satisfactory during the 1970s, some policy problems
still remain unresolved. Although the sector has made commendable progress in
food production in the last ten years, it could have made a stronger contribu-
tion to the balance of payments under a more favorable policy environment.
Trade policies have discriminated against agriculture. Similarly, pricing and
exchange rate policies have had a negative impact on agricultural incomes.
The institutional framework for agricultural policy formulation and implemen-
tation suffers from serious fragmentation. Overall, there is a need to deal
directly with the problem of the rural poor, particularly farmers engaged in
rainfed agriculture, coconut growers, municipal fishermen, and landless sugar
workers. Increasingly, investment programs will have to be directed towards
rainfed agriculture and include innovative approaches to reaching smallholder
farmers.
12.       Energy.  Since the 1973-74 oil price increase, the Philippines has
made a considerable effort to reduce its dependence on imported oil. Through
a combination of pricing, taxation, and conservation measures, the Government
exerted downward pressure on commercial energy consumption. Steps to increase
and diversify domestic energy supply, i.e., the development of hydroelectric,



- 4 -
geothermal, nuclear and coal based power sources, have contributed to reducing
import dependence. Limited domestic petroleum production also began in
1979. However, due to the long gestation period of energy projects, domestic
energy production still constituted only 32% of total commercial energy supply
in 1982. In response to the second oil crisis, the Government included in its
adjustment program policy measures for the energy sector which aim at further
reducing the country's dependence on oil imports through improving the effi-
ciency of energy use and increasing the share of domestic sources to nearly
50% of commercial energy supply by 1987. Pricing policy will continue to
sup,ort conservation and revenue objectives.
13.       Public Sector Resource Management.  The weak management of public
sector resources has been a chronic problem in the Philippines, and has been
further aggravated by the current recession.  The fiscal stress generated by
the growing imbalance between public investment and public sector resource
mobilization has manifested itself in a number of ways. Government current
expenditures (exclusive of interest payments) have been reduced to only 9% of
GNP, as compared to an average of 14% of GNP in middle-income developing coun-
tries. Implementation of projects has been stretched over longer periods than
is economically efficient. The overall oublic sector deficit has become
excessively high and has threatened the stability of the economy, particularly
in 1981-1982. 1 rapidly rising level of public investment and an unsatisfac-
tory financial performance of public corporations contributed towards increas-
ing the fiscal deficit despite a reduction of recurrent expenditures. In 1982
the public sector deficit, which traditionally had been relatively small,
increased to 5.4Z of GNP.
14.       As a short-term response, the Government is now implementing a fis-
cal austerity program. To reduce the national budgetary deficit to manageable
levels, the Government has enacted revenue measures and reduced its investment
program and equity contributions to public corporations. However, to improve
the medium-term outlook for public finances, structural problems of the system
need to be addressed.
The Current Economic Situation
15.       The economic situation of the Philippines has deteriorated
seriously in the last three years. The global recession, with low commodity
prices, high interest rates on external borrowing, and an increasingly
unfavorable trading climate has stifled economic growth, slowed down export
growth, depressed domestic demand and private investment activity and aggra-
vated the fiscal and balance of payments problems. Real GDP growth fell to
3.S1 in 1981 to an estimated 2.9% in 1982 and is projected to have been only
about 1% in 1983.
16.       During 1979-82, the terms of tra:'e deteriorated, through a combina-
tion of higher import prices, particularly for petroleum, and declining or
stagnant prices for many primary exports, such as sugar, copper and copra
products. Since 1981, the volume of exports has levelled off, reflecting the
stagnation in the world's economy and a serious drought which reduced produc-
tion of export commodities. Despite the severe external situation, the
Government launched a major increase in its investment program in 1979,
designed to make up for deficiencies in domestic infrastructure, expand
industry, and reduce the dependence on imported petroleum. As a result the



- 5 -
public sector investment program rose from less than 6% of GNP in 1979 to 9%
by 1982. At the same time, public sector resource mobilization declined,
producing a large and growing government budgetary deficit. This deficit was
covered in large part by foreign borrowings; in 1982, foreign borrowing
financed 70% of the Government's deficit and over 50% of the deficit of the
public corporations.
17.       The impact of all these factors has been a growing balance of
payments deficit and an increasingly d'fficult debt service burden. The
current account teficit rose from $2.1 billion in 1980, to $3.4 billion in
1982 (8Z of GDP) and $2.7 billion in 1983. The total debt service ratio,
including interest on short term debt, increased from 21% in 1980 to 38% in
1982. During 1983, with growing economic problems, a mounting debt burden and
major debt problems in other developing countries, foreign banks began
reducing their expos-'re in the Philippines. The Government was increasingly
forced to resort to short-term bo-rowings to finance the balance of payments
gap, which further exacerbated the debt service problem. While the terms of
trade improved in 1983 a severe drought rednced agricultural exports, and
overall export earnings fell. By the middle of 1983 it became clear that the
Government would not be able to meet the target set under an IMF standby
agreement of reducing the overall deficit in the balance of payments from S1.2
billion to $600 million. In fact, for the first three quarters of the year,
the overall deficit had already reached $1.3 billion. The situation was
further exacerbated by political disruptions, a flight of capital out of the
country, and a cessation of short-term lines of credit from the commercial
banks.  In October 1983, the Government announced a 90-day moratorium on debt
repayments, a further 21% devaluation of the peso, and new controls over the
allocation of foreign exchange for imports.  Substantial reductions were made
in the investment program, and some new tax measures were announced.  As a
result of these austerity measures, the national government deficit was
reduced to 1.7% of GNP in 1983, compared with 4.2% in the previous year.
However, because of the poor performance of the public corporations, the
overall public sector deficit remained large at 4.5Z of GNP (compared to 5.4%
in 1982).
18.       Discussions with the IMF on a new standby agreement began in June
1983, as did discussions with the commercial banks on debt rescheduling. The
agreement with the IMF has been delayed by problems involving the accuracy of
some of the basic data, and Government difficulties in reaching agreed
monetary and fiscal targets. The latter problems were caused, in turn, by the
need to provide Central Bank support to weakened public and private financial
institutions, slower than expected growth in Government revenues, and
increased spending. As a result, the money supply increased 36% between
September and March 1984, and inflation has been averaging about 40% (annual
rate). In June 1984, the Government announced a series of steps designed to
provide new sources of revenue through a series of taxes on imports and
exports, and a 5% cut in the Government expenditures for 1984. In addition,
the peso was further devalued by 22%, and prices of essential food, energy and
consumer goods were adjusted upwards. Discussions with the IMF are contin-
uing, and it is expected that once a new program is finalized it will be
followed by debt reschedulings with the official and private creditors. In
the meantime, private creditors have agreed to further extensions of the debt
moratorium.



-6-
Medium-Term Prospects
19.       The medium-term outlook for the Philippines remains difficult.  Even
with a successful completion of the IMF standby agreement and debt resche-
duling, there will be a need to make further cuts in government spending and
to reduce imports. Except for those new inflows likely to come as part of the
debt rescheduling exercise, the country is faced with little or no access to
fresh private capital flows. As a consequence, the current account deficit
will eed to be reduced from $2.7 billion in 1983 to $1.5 billion in 1984.
Even with export growth of 5%, it will be necessary to reduce the real level
of imports by over 20%. The overall result of constrained imports and
government spending will be deflationary, resulting probably in negative
growth in output during 1984, and increased unemployment. The unemployment
problem is already severe, as several plants requiring substantial amounts of
imported materials have had to close.
20.       A period of low growth is likely to last for several years after
1984, particularly in view of current reductions in the investment program.
The length of this period of slow growth, stabilization and adjustment can be
shortened somewhat if the Government can take the necessary measures to
accelerate exports, increase public and private savings, and use investment
resources as efficiently as possible. The present crisis has increased the
Government's awareness of the severity of the problems and increased its
willingness to adopt the policies necessary to correct the situation. In the
longer term, the combination of increased external assistance and Government
actions should permit a resumption of growth close to the historical average
of 6-7%. The country remains creditworthy, therefore, for new Bank borrowing
on conventional terms. In the aftermath of the current recession while the
country faces an exceptionally tight resource position, local cost financing
for selected projects will continue to be justified.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
21.       As of March 31, 1984 the Philippines had received 93 Bank loans (of
which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $3,908.3 million and six
IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled
$159.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and out-
standing is currently about 14%, and its share in total debt service is about
13%. yhese ratios are expected to be about 19% and 16%, respectively, by
1988.-   Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1984.
22.       Bank Group lending to the Philippines expanded from an average of
about $90 million per year in FY71-75 to an average of $459 million in FY79-83.
Although the Bank has financed projects in virtually all sectors of the
economy, particular emphasis has been given to agriculture, which has
accounted for almost one-third of total Bank/IDA lending. Lending for
2/   These projections are subject to revision following a debt rescheduling
which is anticipated to occur later this year.



- 7 -
industry, transportation, power, and social sectors followed in declining
order of size.
23.       In agriculture, lending initially focussed on expanding the irriga-
tion system, credit programs, and other services to support rice production.
More recently, efforts have been made to diversify agricultural production
through loans for tree-crops, livestock, fisheries, and integrated rural
development projects. Agriculture and rural development will continue to
account for a substantial share of lending, with emphasis on poverty allevia-
tion, food production, export promotion, policy reform and institution
building.
24.       In the industrial and financial sectors, lending has supported
policy reforms under the Government's structural adjustment program. Struc-
tural adjustment lending in 1980 and 1983 ($502.3 million, total) has
supported a series of reforms of the tariff structure, the system of indus-
trial incentives, energy pricing, and other important measures. An Industrial
Finance Loan sought to bring about improvements in financial sector policies
and introduced a new institutional concept to broaden the reach of Bank
lending by channelling loans through an "apex" unit in the Central Bank. In
addition, the Bank has continued to provide financial support and technical
assistance to small and medium industries.
25.       In the energy sector, sector work and the structural adjustment pro-
gram initiated under SAL II provide the basis for future lending operations.
While previous Bank lending focussed on the power subsector, the Bank now
seeks to support a broader range of activities; in addition to recent energy
exploration loans, the Bank plans to continue assisting the accelerated
development of geothermal and coal, power generation and transmission, energy
conservation, and rural electrification.
26.       Implementation of Bank-financed projects in the Philippines has been
satisfactory. Disbursements have, however, been slower than anticipated,
particularly in the last three years. The disbursement ratio (amount
disbursed during the fiscal year as compared to the total undisbursed at the
beginglng of the fiscal year) declined from 18.7% in FY79 to 14.2. in
FY83.-   The East t7ia Regional average was 20.0Z and the Bank-wide average
was 20.8% in FY83;- the comparable ratios for Pailand and Morocco were 16.9%
and 13.7% respectively in the same fiscal year- Implementation problems
increased in the last few years, reflecting in part problems caused by
inflation, tight budget constraints, and changes in the scope of the Bank's
lending operations (a substantial increase in the number of projects, new
areas of lending, emphasis on institution-building, and efforts to reach spe-
3/   Excludes disbursements under the first and second Structural Adjustment
Loan. If included, the ratio increases to 21.6%.
41   Regional and Bank-wide figures also exclude disbursements under SALs.
5/   Thailand and Morocco are useful as comparators as they have similar per
capita income levels and Bank Group lending programs. Figures also
exclude SALs.



cific target groups and lagging regions). In recognition of growing implemen-
tation problems, the Government and the Bank have instituted a process of
joint Country Implementation Reviews. Five reviews have been held since May
1980 and will be continued on a regular basis. A Special Action Program (SAP)
for the Philippines was designed to assist the Government in implementing high
priority projects which have been affected by the current shortage of counter-
part funds. Under the Bank's SAP, selected projects have benefitted from
increased cost sharing and disbursement ratios, the establishment of special
accounts and in some cases, supplementary financing. These actions have
facilitated project implementation and resulted in significant improvements in
disbursement performance.
27.       This will be the first loan to the Philippines to be presented to
the Executive Directors this fiscal year. An export development fund project
has been appraised and is scheduled fur Board presentation in the coming
months. In addition, loans for coconut rehabilitation, land settlement, agri-
cultural credit and geothermal development projects are now being processed
for Board consideration this fiscal year.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Structure
28.       Agriculture is the dominant economic activity in the Philippines.
It accounts for 30% of net domestic product, provides employment to about half
of the labor force, and generates about 40Z of export earnings. The sector
consists of four subsectors: (a) crops (mainly rice, corn, coconuts, and
sugarcane), which account for 58% of gross sectoral value added; (b) livestock
and poultry, 18%; (c) fisheries, 17Z; and (d) forestry, 7%. About three quar-
ters of the poorest 40% live in rural areas and depend on agriculture for
their livelihood. Rural income is low because of low productivity, the poor
quality of land in some areas, and the limited availability of alternative,
non-farm, jobs.
29.       Philippine agriculture is characterized by small family-operated
farms. In 1960, 80% of the namber of farms were under 5 ha averaging slightly
over 3.5 ha per farm. Since then a further 1.2-1.3 million ha of land have
probably been brought into cultivation. However, as a result of population
growth and traditional inheritance customs, the average farm size has
decreased to 2.7 ha. The distribution of cultivated land among Filipino
households is highly skewed: 61Z of farmers have less than 3 ha and own only
24% of all farmland, while 5% of farmers have more than 10 ha in production
and together account for 34% of farmland.
30.       Since 1972 the Government has been implementing a program of
agrarian reform designed to transfer land ownership to tenant farmers on rice
and corn lands. The program consists of Operation Land Transfer, and the
Leasehold Enforcement Program. Under the first, applicable to all landowners
with over 7 ha, the Government distributes land to tenants, who pay for the
land over 15 years. Under the second, for farms up to 7 ha, the Government
gives tenants serurity of tenure on the land they cultivate. Some 730,000 ha
and nearly 400,000 tenants were targeted for the Land Transfer Program, and
about 1,460,000 ha and over 1 million tenant families under the Leasehold



- 9 -
Enforcement Program. So far, the program has not yet fully achieved its
targets: Operation Land Transfer has reached 80% of its intended beneficia-
ries and the Leasehold Enforcement program some 70%.
Organization
31.       Both the public and private sectors are actively involved in
Philippine agriculture. The public sector is primarily concerned with policy
formulation and planning, research and extension, price control, marketing
(particularly of imported food and foodgrains) and rural credit. The private
sector, on the other hand, is primarily concerned with production and
distribution of inputs and outputs. It produces, imports and distributes
fertilizers, pesticides, feedstuffs and veterinary supplies; plays a major
role in purchasing, processing and distributing marketed produce; and provides
short-term credit to farmers.
32.       Within the Government responsibility for the agricultural sector is
divided among several ministries (mainly the ministries of Agriculture,
Natural Resources and Agrarian Reform) and many institutions and agencies
outside the direct control of the principal sector ministries. The Ministry
of Agriculture (HOA) is nominally the lead agency in the sector. It is pri-
marily responsible for policy and planning concerning crops and livestock;
conducting applied research and providing extension services (some 15 agencies
are involved in agricultural extension activities); producing improved seed,
plant material and animal breeds; controlling plants and animal diseases;
developing cooperatives; and soil testing. MOA also oversees the plans and
programs of four Government-owned corporations and eight other agencies
involved in crop production or regulatory activities. The Minister chairs a
coordinating body, the National Food and Agricultural Council (NFAC), and has
a role in policy formulation for the four supervised agencies.  The Ministry
of Natural Resources and its various agencies are responsible for fisheries,
forestry, mining and lands. 1. fisheries, the Fisheries Industry Development
Council is responsible for planning; the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources for regulation, research, extension and statistics; and the
Philippine Fisheries Development Authority for market.ng regulation and
development. In forestry, the Bureau of Forest Development is responsible for
reforestation and forest management. The Bureau of Lands is responsible for
land surveying and titling. The Ministry of Agrarian Reform is responsible
for the land reform program and land settlement activities.
33.       The main institutions that operate largely independently of the
principal sector ministries are The National Irrigation Administration (NIA),
the National Food Authority (NFA), the Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA) and
the Philippine Sugar Comission (PHILSUCOM). NIA, an agency under the Hinistry
of Public Works and Highways, is responsible for the development, operation
and maintenance of all national irrigation systems and for developing
externally-funded communal irrigation systems, except for those handled by the
Farm Systems Development Corporation (FSDC), an agency under the Ministry of
Human Settlements. Altogether eight agencies have a role in irrigation
development. NFA, an agency under the Ministry of Human Settlements, acts as
buyer of last resort, mainly for grains, and, through Food Terminals Inc., its
wholly-owned subsidiary for various other commodities (mainly, vegetables,
poultry, eggs, fish, oil, sugar and milk.) Two other important bodies (both
under the Office of the President) are the Philippine Coconut 'uthority and
the Philippine Sugar Commission.



- 10 -
Performance
34.       Although there has been considerable variation by subsector, the
trend growth rate of agriculture as a whole was a respectable 4.5% duiring the
1970s. Once a major importer of rice, the Philippines has exported small
amounts in the last seven years and is likely to continue to do so for years
to come. In physical terms, production of fish, pigs and poultry has also
expanded rapidly. Based on the latest available data, root crop, vegetable
and legume production grew at well above average rates through the 1970s and
corn (used for food and feed) averaged about 4% a year. Both coffee and
rubber production rose by over 10% a year from a small base, but among other
internationally traded crops, cocoa production probably fell, abaca and
tobacco production stagnated, and sugar production rose under 2.52 a year.
Growth in coconut production, the country's major export crop, is difficult to
assess because of inadequate data. However, the producing area grew at some
5% p.a. over the decade. The growth rate for the sector as a whole has been
slower in the 1980s than it was in the 1970s. It reached a level of 3.5% in
1982 and, because of a prolonged drought, fell to an estimated 1% in 1983, a
rate below that of population growth.
35.       The contribution of agriculture to total export value has fallen
from 73Z in 1970-72 to about 50% in 1978-80, and 38.3% in 1981-83. In 1969,
forest products were the most important export group (30% of total), followed
by coconut products, sugar and mineral products (each with about 19%). By
1978-80 coconut products were the most important agricultural group, accounc-
ing for 20Z of total exports, while sugar accounted for 8X, forest products
10.3%, and fruits, vegetables and all other agricultural exports combined
(fish, tobacco, abaca, coffee, rice) a total of 11%.
36.       Bank Experience with Past Lending.  A total of 39 loans and credits
have been granted to the Philippines for investments in agriculture, fisheries
and rural development. Of these loans, 12 were for irrigation development or
rehabilitation and another 12 were for agricultural credit. The current rural
portfolio comprised, by the end of 1983, 20 projects including seven in area
development, five in irrigation, three in support services, two in agricul-
tural credit, and three others in watershed management, fisheries and tree
crops. The experience with lending for agriculture has been mixed. The
Bank's Operations Evaluation Department Report (1982) on the agricultural and
rural development program in the Philippines states that "the lending
portfolio has reflected well the major objectives and priorities of national
development plans." Developments in irrigation have been positive, including
the establishment of a strong institution (the National Irrigation
Administration) and an expansion of irrigated areas. In credit, operations
have been largely successful in providing funds for onfarm investment, but
serious institutional and loan recovery problems remain. Ongoing area
development projects such as Mindoro Rural Development (Loan 1102-PH), Land
Settlement I (Loan 1421-PH), Samar Island Rural Development (Loan 1772-PH),
and Rainfed Agricultural Development (Loan 1815-PH) have encountered
implementation delays due to problems of interagency coordination and lack of
authority at the local level but, nevertheless, appear likely to attain their
objectives. Institutional weaknesses in the Ministry of Agriculture and a
shortage of local funds have hampered implementation of the ongoing National
Extension and Agricultural Support Services projects.



Development Objectives and Consiraints
37.       Development Objectives.  The Government's development objectives, as
set out in the current development plan, emphasize production, distribution,
and environmental protection. In particular, the plan aims at: (i) reducing
the unemployment rate by creating each year about 750,000 new jobs to absorb
new entrants to the labor force; (ii) improving farm yields to increase farm
income and export earnings; (iii) improving industrial productivity to make
goods more competitive internationally; (iv) improving the lot of people
living in depressed areas such as upland farming locations and fishing areas,
and special groups such as landless workers and shifting cultivators
(kaingineros); (v) reducing the country's dependence on imported oil; and (vi)
establishing an adequate infrastructure to expand economic opportunities and
facilitate the marketing of agricultural products. The plan also stresses the
need to reduce the Government's involvement in those economic activities that
car be more effectively carried out under private sector auspices.
38.       Constraints.  In the medium-term, the agricultural sector would have
to grow at a rate of at least 5.0% to facilitate economic recovery and to
absorb the rapidly growing labor force. To approach this growth rate it will
be necessary to overcome various constraints and problems, particularly:
(a) organization and management weaknesses that are affecting planning,
resource management, and program implementation; (b) suboptimal pricing
policies which dampen investment incentives; and (c) excessive and sometimes
unjustifiable government interventions in crop marketing (including export)
and input supply (including seed, feed and fertilizer), both of which could be
undertaken by the private sector on a more efficient basis. These problems
are discussed below.
39.       Organization and Management Problems.  The existing institutional
framework is not conducive to an accelerated development of the agricultural
sector. First, the organizational structure is complex and responsibilities
for policy direction are dispersed among too many Ministries and agencies, as
noted in paragraphs 31-33 above. As a result, conflicts occur and coordi-
nation suffers. To deal with this problem, the Government has established a
number of coordinating committees. This solution has not been too effective,
however, because the number of committees is too large for nominal appointees
to attend meetings regularly. There is therefore an urgent need to take
appropriate measures to reduce the dispersion of authority and responsibility
for policy formulation in the food and agriculture sector.
40.       Second, there is a costly overlap of responsibilities and a duplica-
tion of functions. Overlapping responsibilities cause confusion and, in the
absence of viable coordination mechanisms, inefficiencies. For example, in
area development programs, the National Economic and Development Authority
(NEDA) and the National Council on Integrated Area Development (NACIAD) are
involved in regional planning. Furthermore, Executive Order 803, issued in
May 1982, also gives the Ministry of Agriculture authority for coordinating
delivery of inputs and services in rural areas within the context of area
development projects. Similar problems also characterize other critical
aspects of agricultural development, most notably research and extension,
irrigation services, land use, and forest resources. There is therefore a
urgent need for carrying out a program of institutional reforms to reduce the
duplication of functions and the overlapping of responsibilities.



- 12 -
41.       Third, some important and powerful bodies have a level of autonomy
which makes it difficult for the concerned Ministries to influence policies
and programs with regard to key development activities. The most important
among these are the Philippines Coconut Authority (PCA), which operates
independently from the Ministry of Agriculture, and the National Food
Authority. Similarly the Philippine Sugar Commission, the Philippine Crop
Insurance Corporation and the National Nutrition Council - all important
bodies in the agricultural sector - report directly to the Office of the
President and do not even have MOA representation on their boards. Although
coordinating mechanisms do exist, there is little incentive for agencies such
as PCA, which have independent budgets, to be orgari'ationally linked to the
principal agricultural Ministries. To deal with this problem, there is a need
to take appropriate action to strengthen the role of the lead agency, to
enable it to play a more effective role in the formulation of policies and
programs in the food and agriculture sector.
42.       The complex organizational and diffused management structure has
also hindered government efforts to develop an effective sectoral planning
mechanism. Although the National Economic and Development Authority is
responsible for the sectoral plan, responsibility for planning and setting
investment priorities is divided among several institutions which focus
narrowly on their specific subsectoral or commodity problems. The current
system leads to the formulation of sectoral investment plans which do not have
well defined priorities. Appropriate action is therefore needed to strengthen
the sectoral planning, and programming and budgeting systems.
43.       Policy Deficiencies.  Macro-economic and commodity-specific policies
(export taxes, export quotas, and parastatal control of marketing) have on
balance tended to favor industry and to penalize agriculture, thus reducing
the relative incentives and rewards in the sector. The results have been to
shift resources out of the sector faster than would otherwise have occurred,
and to reduce the level of exports below their full potential. Under a more
neutral set of policies, it should be possible to improve the productivity of
the country's agricultural resources.
44.       Public and Private Sector Roles.  Although the 1983-87 Development
Plan stated that the Government would withdraw progressively from those areas
in the economy where the private sector can operate efficiently, the National
Food Authority (NFA) has had a virtual monopoly to export rice and to import
corn, soybean meal and wheat even though some of these activities could be
carried out with equal or greater efficiency under private auspices. There
is, therefore, a need to reduce NFA's market activities and to expand the role
of the private sector, especially at a time when the Government needs to
drastically reduce public expenditures.
45.       Recent Sectoral Adjustments.  The Government has begun to adopt
several measures to stabilize the economy. Some of these actions have helped
correct policy distortions that tended to turn the terms of trade against
agriculture. The most important policy adjustments in this regard are the
tariff reforms carried out under the structural adjustment program and, more
recently, adjustments in the exchange rate and agricultural prices. Con-
cerning tariff reform, a mid-term review of SAL II showed that the Government
is making satisfactory progress towards the objective of lowering effective
protection rates from 442 in 1980 to 282 in 1985.  This should have positive



- 13 -
effects on the agricultural sector by lowering industrial product prices.
Similarly, recent devaluations have reduced a distortion in the exchange rate
which until recently adversely affected incentives in the agricultural
sector. Other important measures are the Government's decision to eliminate a
controversial coconut levy, which for years dampened prices and investmient
incentives in the coconut industry and to end the monopoly trading power of
the National Sugar Trading Corporation. However, further adjustments are
still needed to align domestic agricultural prices more closely to border
prices and to establish more appropriate conditions to accelerate the sector's
development.
The Government's Program of Sectoral Policy and Institutional Reform
46.       To arrest and reverse a recent deceleration in the rate of growth of
agricultural production and exports and to build and sustain momentum in the
process of economic recovery, the Government has formulated a program entitled
"Agenda for Action in Agriculture: 1984-88," hereinafter referred to as the
Agenda. This program aims at helping establish appropriate conditions for the
development of the rural economy to generate an urgently needed supply
response to the policy adjustment measures provided for in the Government's
economic stabilization program.
47.       To promote an orderly and sustained development of the rural
economy, the Agenda provides for specific policy actions and institutional
reforms to gradually Improve production and investment incentives, strengthen
the institutional framework for sector management, mobilize an adequate level
of financial resources to meet the sector's needs, and improve the allocation
of scarce public resources. These measures are designed to address the key
constraints that have impeded the full realization of the development poten-
tial of the agricultural sector. Tne Agenda addresses, among others, the
following issues: (a) government interventions that adversely affect pro-
duction incentives; (b) institutional weaknesses that hinder the Government's
ability to establish an appropriate policy framework favorable to sector
development - in particular, a dispersion of responsibilities for policy for-
mulation and implementation, an inefficient duplication of functions and
programs, and a lack of a clear line of demarcation between regulatory and
operating/trading functions of public corporations dealing with key agricultu-
ral commodities and inputs; (c) land use policies; (d) irrigation; (e) the
lack of a well-defined public investment program; and (f) agricultural credit
policies and programs. The proposed project is designed to support the key
elements of the Government's program (see Annex V - Letter from the Prime
Minister outlining a Core Program).
Policy Framework
48.       Concerning policy reforms, the Agenda aims at phasing out Government
controls and interventions that dampen production and investment incentives
and that stifle private sector initiative. This strategy applies both to
input and output prices, with partl'ular emphasis on rice, corn, animal feeds,
coconut, sugar, pork, poultry, irrigation fees, fertilizer and agricultural
credit.
49.       The main thrust of the proposed policy reforms will be toward
greater liberalization of domestic and foreign trade in agricultural products.



- 14 -
Although the Government considers that same form of intervention is required
in some cases, in general it acknowledges that there should be greater
reliance on competitive market forces as the main determinant of prices and as
the primary means of stimulating production. Table 1 summarizes the most
important measures of the proposed program, which are discussed in more detail
below.
50.       Rice.  Over the years, the Philippine Government has continually
made significant efforts to improve efficiency in the production of rice.
During the last decade, the development of high yielding varieties, the imple-
mentation of comprehensive credit and extension programs, and the expansion of
the area under irrigation enabled the country to achieve self-sufficiency and
generate small exportable surpluses. To maintain self-sufficiency at least
cost to the economy, the Agenda outlines various actions concerning the pro-
duction and marketing of rice. These actions are designed to meet two key
objectives: (a) improving production and marketing efficiency, including an
efficient disposal of exportable surpluses when they occur; and (b) ensuring
steady supplies to consumers. Consistent with these objectives, the Agenda
stresses the need to sustain the momentum of the Government's rice production
programs and to establish a higher, although gradual, degree of interaction
between the domestic rice industry and the world market. It also stresses the
need to manage strategic stocks effectively in order to dampen excessive price
fluctuations. Concerning the latter problem, the Government has sought to
stabilize both producer and consumer prices by buying from farmers at
guaranteed prices, releasing stocks to dampen price increases and imposing
controls on retail prices. Although Government efforts appear to have been
successful at the consumer level, they have been relatively less successful at
the producer level.
51.       In particular, the Agenda provides for two specific policy
actions: (a) the removal of restrictions that constrain the private sector
from exporting rice, when there are exportable surpluses; and (b) the design
and adoption of a system to moderate seasonal price fluctuations at the pro-
ducer and consumer levels through market intervention (through buffer stock
operations), rather than mandatory price ceilings. These actions are linked
to an institutional reform program of the National Food Authority (para. 61) -
the agency responsible for price stabilization - and to related studies on
price support criteria for basic grains (rice and corn).
52.       Yellow Corn.  The Philippines has the potential for efficiently
replacing imports and eventually for generating an exportable surplus of
yellow corn, which is used entirely by a rapidly expanding livestock
industry. However, the country has not yet been able fully to realize this
potential because of inadequate production incentives and, until recently, the
lack of viable technological packages. At present, the National Food
Authority (NFA) has the sole responsibility for importing yellow corn, which
it brings into the country free of duty. Also, under a price support program,
NFA purchases a small proportion of domestic production from local farmers at
a guaranteed price. It then sells both domestic and imported corn to com-
pounders and millers. While effective in meeting domestic requirements, NFA
trading operations have been costly to the Government and its price support
system largely ineffective in improving farmgate prices. To address these
problems, the Agenda provides for the following measures: (a) opening of the
import and export trade in yellow corn to the private sector; and (b) aligning



PHILIlPPlNES
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR/INPFLTS PRWJECT
Table Ii  At ion Program
Policy are4                        Mt1diLu-lter  objectives           Proposed action                                                                          Timetable
hatiolal Food Auithority           Improve efficiency of               (a)  Commit to open usp within a raisonable period of time  All Import                   Dec 194
N/A operation,                           and export trade in rice  cor i 4nj other animal feedJ  to the
private sector.
(b)  LnJertake to mtabilise rice  price. through biffer stock                            Dec [914
operations rather than n4idatory price ceilings.
(c)  SubstAntially complete  .tudy of NrA operations.                                    9ic 19U4
Id)  Reviev and begin implcuentation of the recomendstions of the                       tDac 1984
atudy
Coconut                            Efficiency and equiity in           (4)  SubstAntially  complete study of the coconut subsector,  l                          Now 19S4
production,  MArketinit            lb)  Adopt measurem  to broaden the representation  on the goveTning                      Jul 1SdA
and consuepilon                          boArd of PCA.
(c)  Review and begin implementation of the ret'omuendAtlons of the                      Dec 1984
study.
SugAr                              tfticitncy and equity In            (a )  &,betant tlly complete  tudly of the  usuir suhsector. /s                          Dec I194
production, marketing              (b)  Adopt measures to brntdsn the representation on the governing                        Jul 19St
and consLuption                          body of PHIlSl'CO.
ec)  Rvevew and begin implementation of the recosmendat tons of the                      Nov 19A4
study.
Livestock                          Efficiency and equity tn            (a)  Remove price controls on poultry products.                                          Dee 1984
production, marketing              (b)  Adopt phased reduction of the import tariff for poultry pro-                         Dec 1984
and conlatptioll                         Jucts, taking  Into account the roaprlitivenesi of the domestic
Industry.
Cc)  Remove price controls on pork.                                                      Dec 1984
Fertilizer                         Efficiency and equity In            (a)  Appoint separate chief operating executives for Philphks and                        Nov 1984
production, imrketing                    FrA.
and consumption                    (b)  Adopt specific meAsures and A timetable to retire G;overnment's                      Nov 1984
arrears to fertilizer fIrms.
(c)  Complete a review of this and other related Issues tn a study to                    Nov 1984
be undertaken In the content of the ADD Agricultural Inputs
Progro  IloAn.  Ia
Irrigation                         Achteve sufficient cost             (a)  Complete the atudy of NIA's cost recovery policies and resource                     Nov 19114
recovery, diversity                      requitrements  /a
Irrtiated cropping.                (b)  Review and begin iapleientation of the recoiendstions of the                        Dec 1984
above dtludy.
Agricultural credit                Improve effictency of               (a)  kvgin a phased progr,a  of reducing the tnterest rate subsidy on                    Jun 1984
credit allocAtion and                    Government sponsored  Agricultural credit programs  in accordance
collection                               with A timetable acceptable to the  inok.
Cb)  Complete the study of agricultural credit mechantims,  /a                           Oct 1984
(c)  Revtew and begtn tsplementation of the recomendations of the
study.                                                                             Dec 1954
C'overnent institutions             Improve planning,  pro-            (a)  Isoue Appropriate lopleaenting docsuen:ation to make operationaI                    Jun 1914
gramming and coordina-                   the proposal of the PresIdential Comf.slon on Reorgantcacon on
tion                                     tnstttutional changes  in the aSricultural sector.
Cb)  Initiate a long-term tnotitutlon-building program to mAke the
new structure fully operational.                                                   Nov 1954
Sectoral Investment                Establish system for                (a)  Prepare a prioritIzeJ Jdvelopment plan and corresponding                            Nov 1914
plannInS                           sectoral investment                       financinS plan for the agricultural sector.
planning                           (b)  Esabliah procedures And systems  for updating the plan an a                         Nov 1954
regular basis.
la Annen IV contains detailed terms of reference for the proposed studies,



- 16 -
domestic prices with world prices through active trade but subject to a
minimum level of tariff protection for local producers consistent with the
Government's program of structural adjustment.
53.       Animal Feeds and Livestock.  Government policy in the industry has
attempted to stabilize consumer prices by intervening in both output and input
markets. Controlled output prices have not adequately reflected border prices
and domestic inflation and thus have tended to dampen production incentives.
Both pork and poultry producers have, however, reached a stage of development
which would enable them to conduct their operations more efficiently under
market determined prices than under controlled ones. In recent years, the
private sector has been able to export small quantities of pork. Similarly,
NFA regulates input prices and retains the exclusive right to import (duty
free) and distribute animal feeds at controlled prices. These activities
could also be handled more efficiently by the private sector. To address
these problems, the Agenda provides for the gradual deregulation of the animal
feed/livestock industry to increase its reliance on market forces. The
specific actions proposed are as follows: (a) opening the import trade of
yellow corn (see para. 52 above) and other animal feeds to the private sector,
subject to an import tariff of not less than 10%, which is consistent with the
tariff reform being carried out under the structural adjustment program; (b)
removing price controls on poultry and eggs; (c) adopting a program to
gradually reduce the import tariff for poultry, taking into account the
competitiveness of the domestic industry; and (d) adopting a program to
gradually remove price controls on pork.
54.       Coconut.  The coconut industry in the Philippines is one of the
largest users of agricultural land and an important source of income for a
large proportion of the country's population. It is a major source of foreign
exchange earnings, accounting for about 20% of total exports. The Philippines
is the world's major producer and exporter of coconut products, accounting for
about 67% of world exports. Over the last decade government intervention in
the industry has been in the form of export taxes, levies (abolished in 1982),
a coconut replanting scheme, and a vertical integration of the processing
industry. The latter was undertaken under private auspices, through the
United Coconut Oil Mills. (UNICOM), the largest buyer of copra in the country
(about two thirds of production) and virtually the only exporter of coconut
oil. At present, one of the main issues facing the industry is that while PCA
is intended to be the Government's vehicle for regulating and promoting the
coconut industry, its Board consists mainly of large-scale producers and
millers associated with COCOFED and UNICOM; hence there is a possible conflict
of interest between PCA's regulatory functions and its Directors' private
trading/manufacturing roles. Because of the critical role of the coconut
industry in the overall economy, the strtucture of the industry, and the
growers' perception that the Government's programs and policies have not
adequately safeguarded their interests, it is important to ascertain how
government interventions and existing marketing arrangements affect producers
prices and incentives. To address this problem, the Agenda provides for a
study to determine (a) the appropriate role of the Government in the coconut
industry; (b) the most effective means of reducing costs and margins in
domestic marketing and processing of copra; and (c) appropriate measures to
ensure that farmers get a fair share of the proceeds of exports and domestic
sales. The Agenda also calls for broadening the representation on PCA's board
to ensure that the interests both of the participants in the coconut industry
and the public are fully served.



- 17 -
55.       Sugar.  Sugar is a major source of foreign exchange earnings for the
economy, accounting for about 8% of exports. In the past, Government has
controlled sugar marketing to protect producers and consumers from excessive
price fluctuations. From 1974 to 1984, the National Sugar Trading Corporation
(NASUTRA) acted as the sole buyer of sugar from the mills and the sole
exporter, under the principle that a single trading entity has greater
marketing power in the global arena. In February of 1984, the Government
adopted some measures to allow other private sector entities to participate in
the sugar trade. These measures, however, are not yet effective. The policy
making and regulatory body is the Philippine Sugar Commission (PRILSUCOM),
which aliocates sugar production for export and domestic consumption. It also
fixes the law sugar buying price on the basis of the average of liquidation
price on thea domestic and export markets. As in the case of coconuts, there
is a conflict between the regulatory interests of PHILSUCOM and the trading
interests of NASUTRA: their Boards comprise largely the same individuals. To
deal with these problems, the Agenda provides for a comprehensive study of
the sugar industry to determine the scope and appropriateness of government
intervention, and the relative efficiency of the current system by comparison
with possible alternative approaches. The study will, inter alia, review and
analyze the impact of current price setting, market allocation and revenue
liquidation arrangements, the cost of PHILSUCOM's and NASUTRA's operations,
the need for separating the regulatory from the trading functions and for
establishing public financial accountability, and the factors affecting
incentives to millers and growers. It will also recommend appropriate
solutions to the other problems affecting the industry. As in the case of
coconuts the Agenda provides for appropriate action to broaden the
Government's representation on the Board of PHILSUCOM.
56.       irrigation.  While NIA collects irrigation fees to help defray the
cost of developing, maintaining and operating irrigation systems, in practice
the Government has subsidized irrigation services to farmers directly through
low fee assessments and indirectly through poor collection performance. To
minimize the burden on scarce public resources and spur NIA to undertake a
more energetic collection effort, the Government has asked NIA to assume
responsibility for servicing all its debt obligations, including repayment of
principal. However, NIA's internal cash generation falls significantly short
of its needs. To deal with these problems, the Agenda provides for the
adoption of a policy of variable irrigation fees (a fee based on the volume of
water used in the production of a particular crop), and for a study to assess
NIA's financial requirements during che next decade for construction, opera-
tion and mainten..nce of the national systems, and debt service. The study
would evaluate whether NIA can realistically expect to generate the needed
resources through irrigation fees. In the event that this is not deemed
feasible, the study would examine (a) other possible ways of ensuring adequate
resources for these purposes, including the accelerated transfer of respon-
sibility for operations and maintenance to irrigators' associations, even in
the case of national systems; (b) means for strengthening the rules and
procedures for improving fee collections; and (c) further adjustments to a
recently adopted policy of variable irrigation fees to encourage crop diver-
sification and improve water use efficiency.
57.       Fertilizer.  The Government's approach to fertilizer policy is to
achieve a balance between two conflicting objectives: maintaining low
fertilizer prices to farmers and giving adequate incentives to domestic ferti-



- 18 -
lizer producers. The Fertilizer aa. Pesticide Authority (FPA), formed in
1977, regulates the agro-chemical industry through a system of quota alloca-
tion both for imports and domestic production and through adjustments of
duties and taxes on raw materials used by local fertilizer producers. At
present, FPA imports fertilizer on behalf of the private sector under a pool
buying arrangement to minimize prices and handling costs. Several problems
confront the industry. One of these is the high production cost of existing
plants due to the use of outdated technologies. Another problem is the
Government's arrears to the fertilizer industry. The arrears steLn from an
arrangement under which the Government asked the fertilizer producers/
distributors to sell fertilizers to farmers at prices well below those pre-
vailing in the world market with the assurance of compensating them. For
various reasons these payments have not been made in full, and substantial
claims have accumulated. To assist the producers to defray interest charges
resulting from these outstanding payments, the Government has now allowed
producers/distributors to add a financing charge. This has led to relatively
high prices to farmers and possibly to reduced fertilizer use. There is also
a potential conflict of interest between FPA and one of the companies,
PHILPHOS, which will soon begin production, sin-e both organizations have the
same top management personnel. To gain a better understanding of these
problems and recommend appropriate measures to improve the marketing, pricing
and use of fertilizers, the Agenda provides for (i) a comprehensive study of
problems and issues concerning fertiizer trade, production and use (which will
be carried out in the context of a recently approved ADB loan); and (ii) for a
separation, in due course, of the management of PHILPHOS and FPA. In
addition, within the context of an ADB loan (para. 68), the Government has
agreed to take appropriate action to deal with the problem of arrearages.
58.       Credit.  Several problems affect the rural financial system in the
Philippines. The most important among these are the large interest subsidy in
government-sponsored agricultural credit programs and the regulations affect-
ing formal rural lenders. Concerning interest subsidies, Government policies
have led rural banks to depend on rediscounted Central Bank funds rather than
on locally-mobilized savings and improved debt collection efforts. Subsidies
have also encouraged borrowers to adopt capital-intensive production
techniques, to divert funds to non-productive uses, and to feel little
obligation to repay what they perceive to be government handouts. As for the
regulation of rural lenders, the complex set of regulations governing rural
banks has reduced the banks' ability to meet farmers' needs for timely and
flexible credit. Informal lenders charging high interest rates have met a
growing proportion cf the farmer's credit needs, but the cost of their loans
may have discourage.i some otherwise viable investments. To address these
problems, the Agenda provides for: (a) a timetable for phased reduction of
interest subsidies on Government-sponsored agricultural credit through a pro-
gressive reduction in the rediscount rate subsidy; and (b) a study of rural
credit delivery mechanisms which would seek to (i) reduce, simplify or
eliminate restrictions and regulations which reduce the competitiveness of
formal lenders vis-a-vis informal lenders, (ii) explore the possibilities for
utilizing informal lenders to channel public credit funds, and (iii) recommend
ways of promoting rural credit programs based increasingly on mobilization of
rural savings.



- 19 -
The Program of Institutional Reform
59.       The main objectives of the institutional reforms outlined in the
Agenda are to reduce the dispersion of authority and responsibility for policy
formulation, to establish a more effective coordination of food and crop pro-
duction programs, and to improve the sectoral planning, programming, and
budgeting systems. In particular, the Agenda provides for the integration of
various agencies under a new ministry.
60.       Organization and Management.  Excessive fragmentation of ministries
and parastatal institutions within the agricultural sector, and the lack of a
clear and recognized mechanism for determining broad directions and for defin-
ing needs and priorities inhibits the formulation of optimal agricultural
policies and investment programs and complicates the implementation of sec-
toral development programs. To address these problems, the Agenda outlines a
proposal which provides, among other things, for the following:
(a) redesignating the Ministry of Agriculture as the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food (MAF);
(b) designating the Minister of Agriculture and Food as the ex-officio
Chairman of the National Food Authority and of the Philippine
Fisheries Development Authority;
(c) transferring the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources from the
Ministry of Natural Resources to the MAF and integrating it fully
illto MAF's organizational structure and operating format;
(d) transferring and attaching to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
the National Food Authority and the Philippine Fisheries Development
Authority;
(e)  appointing the Minister of MAF as ex-officio member in the governing
Boards of PHILSUCOM and PCA; and
(f) revamping the responsibilities, membership, staffing and operational
mode of the National Food and Agriculture Council (NFAC) to make it
a more effective instrument for developing policy consensus and for
implementing major agricultural programs which involve ministries
and entities outside the formal boundaries of the MAF.
The Bank has carefully reviewed the proposed institutional arrangements and
considers them to be a significant improvement over the existing ones. They
are practical and feasible and provtre a satisfactory basis for carrying out
the policy reforms supported under the proposed project. In a second phase,
the Government will begin a long-term program of institution-building to
strengthen the capability of the proposed Ministry of Agriculture and Food to
carry out its mandated functions.
61.       National Food Authority (NFA).  At present, NFA is entrusted with a
multiplicity of functions which has tended to detract from its basic role of
safeguarding the interests of producers and consumers through price support
operations, distribution of vital cereals, and operation of a strategic food
reserve. Moreover, the Government has had to commit a massive amount of



- 20 -
scarce public resources for NFA's activities, some of which could be readily
transferred to the private sector. The Agenda, therefore, provides for
transfer of NFA's internaticonal trading activities in rice and animal feeds to
the private sector and for a review of NFA's present role, organization and
functions, including: (a) the extent to which some of its present activities
could be scaled down or transferred to the private sector, to make it more
efficient and viable; and (b) the financial results of each of the activities
for which NFA is currently responsible and, in particular, the extent of cross
subsidies which occur among these activities to identify opportunities for
further efficiency improvements. The proposed study supplements another study
on NFA being supported under the ongoing ADB Agricultural Input Program Loan;
the Bank and ADB have agreed to a joint review of the findings of the two
studies.
Investment Planning
62.       One of the main objectives of the Agenda is to channel an adequate
level of resources for agricultural development purposes in accordance with
well defined investment priorities. Consistent with this objective, the
Agenda provides .or the formulation of a medium-term agricultural development
plan (1985-88), and a corresponding consolidated budget for 1986. The
proposed project would provide technical assistance for preparing this plan
and budget and for building up the sectoral planning mechanism and budgeting
systems.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
63.       The Government and the Bank formulated the propos-!d operation as a
means of addressing in part the critical financial situation confronting the
Philippine economy. It is part of the Bank's Special Action Program. An
identification mission visited the country in November 1983 for detailed
discussions concerning the objectives and principal thrusts of the project.
The Government actively participated in its design and preparation. A mission
appraised the project during February-March 1984. Negotiations with the
Government were held in May 24 to 31, 1984. The Government delegation was led
by H. E. Benjamin Romualdez, Philippine Ambassador to the United States and
Mr. Arturo Tanco, Minister of Agriculture.
64.       The project seeks to build on the recommendations of several sector
studies completed in the last two years. These studies have laid the founda-
tion for various reforms in the agricultural sector, now included in the
Government's program of policy and institutional reforms. The studies are
"Philippines: Irrigation Program Review" (Report No. 3545-PH, December 1982);
"Philippines: Agricultural Sector Memorandum" (May 10, 1983); "Philippines:
Agricultural Credit Sector Review" (Report No. 4117-PH, May 12, 1983); and
"Philippines: Issues in Pricing Policy" (Report No. 4845-PH) to be distributed
shortly).



- 21 -
Project Objectives
65.       The project has three objectives:  first, to help maintain agricul-
tural production by ensuring an adequate supply of inputs; second, to lay the
foundation for future increases in agricultural production and productivity by
introducing policies, or requiring studies leading to policy reforms, which
would improve efficiency, restore incentives and mobilize financial resources
for sectoral development; and third, to improve the institutional framework
for the formulation and implementation of agricultural policies and programs.
In particular, the project will support a program of policy and institutional
reform outlined in the Government's "Agenda for Action in Agriculture: 1984-
88" as described in paras. 46 to 62 above.
btz.      While the proposed operation will support the overall program as a
framework for longer-term action and policy dialogue, the Bank's immediate
efforts will focus on a core program outlined in a letter from the Borrower
dated June 4, 1984 (see Annex V). The Core Program consists of the following
priority measures:
(a) the adoption and implementation of organizational changes to improve
the coordination of policies and programs in the food and agriculture
sector, including the redesignation of the Ministry of Agriculture as
the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the change in composition
of the governing Boards of the Philippine Coconut Authority and the
Philippine Sugar Commission to provide for representation of the
concerned Ministries and farmer interests (paras. 54 and 55);
(b) the adjustment and gradual decontrol of prices of animal feeds,
pork, poultry and eggs (paras. 52 and 53);
Cc) the opening of all import and export trade in foodgrains and animal
feeds to the private sector, with appropriate measures to facilitate
the free entry of private firms into the trade (paras. 51-53);
(d) the adoption of appropriate measures to align more closely
rediscount rates on agricultural credit programs with those for
other sectors, and a change from a fixed to a floating rediscounting
rate based on prevailing market rates (para. 58);
Ce) the implementation of a program of studies concerning NFA (para.
61), coconuts (para. 54), sugar (para. 55), irrigation (para. 56),
fertilizer (para. 57), agricultural credit (para. 58); and
(f) the adoption of appropriate measures to improve the sectoral plan-
ning system, including appropriate mechanisms for the review of
intrasectoral agricultural investment proposals and priorities
(para. 62).
67.       The Government has taken appropriate action to adopt and begin
implementing the "Agenda for Action in Agriculture: 1984-1988," and the "Core
Program." The Government has issued Executive Order No. 965 of June 30, 1984,
implementing organizational changes in the Agricultural sector (para.
66(a)). It has adopted a three-phased program of price adjustment and
decontrol which provides for the following (para. 66(b)): first, adjustments



- 22 -
in the prices of poultry, eggs and pork to reflect increases in input costs -
these adjustments were made on May 28, 1984; second, periodic review of the
prices of poultry, eggs and pork, and adjustments as necessary during the
remainder of calendar year 1984; and third, commencement of (i) a six month
program to phase out price controls on poultry, eggs and pork, and (ii) a two
year program to reduce import tariffs on poultry. In the area of trade
liberalization, the Government has adopted specific measures to allow the
private sector to export rice and corn (para. 66(c)). It expects to phase out
controls on imports by the end of calendar year 1984. Concerning agricultural
credit policies (para. 66(d)), the Government recently adopted specific
measures to realign rediscount rates on agricultural credit more closely with
those on credit programs for other sectors and to allow rediscount rates to
vary in accordance with changes in prevailing market rates. Finally, the
Government has confirmed that it has made all necessary arrangements to begin
the policy related studies in accordance with the terms of reference agreed
with the Bank (see Annex IV). The aforementioned actions, and others already
being implemented, confirm the Government's commitment to the program of
policy and institutional reforms supported under the proposed project.
Project Description
68.       The project is part of an overall program of financial assistance,
estimated to cost about USS458 million, designed to ensure the availability of
essential agricultural inputs for the 1984-85 agricultural year. On the basis
of the policy and institutional reforms agreed with the Bank and ADB, the
Government has sought other official development assistance to meet the
estimated financing requirement. The Asian Development Bank approved in March
a loan of US$130 million for these purposes following active consultations
with the Bank on conditionality, the list of items to be financed, and the
studies to be undertaken. Bilateral sources including the United States,
japan, Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom also have approved or are
considering trade credits or grants to help finance the proposed import
program. The estimated input needs and their proposed financing sources are
shown in Table 2 below.



- 23 -
Table 2: DMPORT REQUIREMENTS OF ESSENTIAL
AGRICULTURE INPUTS, 1984, AND THEIR FINANCING/a
(Millions of US$)
Sources of financing        IBRD as Z
Input                    Total value    IBRD   ADB   U.S.A.  Others   of total
Fertilizer                  150.0        40    105       -        5.0     26.7
Pesticides                   33.0         15     10      -        8.0     45.5
Animal Feeds                194.9         60/b    -     73       61.9     30.8
Biologics & Vet. Prod.       14.0         14      -      -         -     100.0
Breeding Stock                5.0          -      -      5         -        -
Raw Mat. for bags            20.1          -     15      -        5.1       -
Seeds                         1.0          -      -      I        -         -
Ag. Mach. & Spare Parts      40.0         20      -      -       20.0     50.0
Total                  458.0       149    130      79     100.0      32.5
/a Estimated on the basis of foreign exchange requirements and CIF prices.
/b Bank financing would be applied to any item in the animal feed category.
69.       The project would have two components:  one designed to support
production-oriented acrivities, and the other to support a program of policy
and institutional reforms. Under the production component, the proposed Bank
loan would make available $149 million to help finance the country's
agricultural input needs in accordance with a well-defined financing plan.
Extensive discussions have been held with ADB and the concerned Philippine
agencies with regard to the items proposed for Bank financing. A considerable
effort has been made to avoid possible overlaps with other potential donors.
Items eligible for financing would comprise imported feedgrains, fertilizers,
pesticides, veterinary products, breeding stock, and replacement machinery and
spare parts. The amounts allocated to each item would be adjusted as needed
depending on the assistance provided by other donors. The Government and the
Bank will review from time to time the list of eligible items to be financed
under the Loan. Some of these items, particularly pesticides, would need to
meet sound environmental guidelines. Assurances were therefore obtained
during negotiations that the Government would: (a) limit the importation of
pesticides to those that comply with FPA guidelines; and (b) take well-
identified steps to ensure the safe packaging, labelling, handling and storage
of pesticides (Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement). As for the technical
assistance component, the loan would provide up to US$0.6 million for
consulting services to: (a) carry out studies concerning NFA operations,
coconuts, sugar, irrigation, fertilizer and credit as described in paras. 50-
58 and 61 above (see Annex IV for Terms of Reference); (b) help formulate
policy reform proposals; tc) assist in strengthening the new proposed Ministry
of Agriculture and Food; and (d) assiot in setting up a sectoral planning,
programming and budgeting mechanism. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that the Borrower would employ consultants on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement).



- 24 -
Financ'^
70.       The proposed loan of $150 million equivalent (including front-end
fee of US$0.4 million). will finance about a third of the country's antici-
pated needs for agricultural inputs in 1984-85. All production component
costs and about 40% of the technical assistance component costs would be in
foreign exchange. The Bank would finance the equivalent of US$0.3 million of
local expenditures for technical assistance.
Project Implementation
71.       Coordination.  To coordinate and oversee project implementation, the
Government will designate a central project coordinator in the Office of the
Prime Minister. He will be responsible for (a) monitoring all project related
activities and ensuring that they are carried out in accordance with
arrangements acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement);
(b) overseeing and monitoring the implementation of the policy and
institutional reform program; and (c) regularly reporting to the Bank on
progress in the implementation of the program.
72.       Production Component.  Under this component, it will be necessary to
make appropriate arrangements to import various agricultural inputs that would
be distributed to farmers through existing commercial channels. Several
agencies, including the Fertilizer and Pesticide Authority, the National Food
Authority, and the Bureau of Animal Industry, now oversee the importation of
the items eligible for financing under the loan. Each of these agencies would
be responsible for ensuring that importers comply with the Bank's procurement
guidelines for the items under their respective jurisdiction.
73.       Technical Assistance Component.  The project coordinator would
supervise all aspects of this component and would be responsible for ensuring
that the responsible agencies assign all studies to competent consultants,
that these agencies cooperate with the consultants, and that the studies are
completed on schedule. The Director General of NEDA would be responsible for
the project-financed technical assistance in agricultural sector planning,
programming and budgeting, as well as for the studies dealing with coconuts
and sugar. The NFA studies and those pertaining to irrigation and credit will
be conducted under the auspices of t..c Office of the Prime Minister; and the
technical assistance on institution strengthening would be executed under the
direction of the Presidential Commission on Reorganization, and with the full
cooperation of the proposed Ministry of Agriculture and Food.
74.       For each of the studies to be carried out under this component, a
steering committee would be appointed to oversee the work of study teams,
periodically monitor progress, and review the draft and final reports. The
steering committee will include the project coordinator, representatives of
NEDA and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and an independent expert
acceptable to the Bank. For the studies on NFA, coconut, sugar, irrigation,
fertilizer and agricultural credit, the concerned government agencies would
also appoint one member to the corresponding committee (Section 3.10 of the
Loan Agreement).



- 25 -
Evaluation
75.       The National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) would
conduct, in consultation with the Bank, periodic evaluations of the effects of
policy and institutional reforms associated with the project. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that NEDA will
conduct the first evaluation at the conclusion of the project; two further
evaluations at six-month intervals; and a final evaluation one-year thereafter
(Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement).  The evaluations would establish an
analytical framework for future Bank/Government dialogue on agricultural
policy.
Procurement and Disbursement
76.       Procurement.  Procurement arrangements would vary by class of item,
as follows:
(a) Animal Feeds. All animal feeds would be procured through inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) with suitable modification to
reflect market practices for the commodity.
(b) Fertilizer. Fertilizers will be procured following International
Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB) in conformity with Bank
guidelines.
(e) Pesticides. Generic items shall be procured through International
Competitive Bidding under Bank Guidelines, except for contracts
below US$300,000 which will be procured following limited inter-
national bidding (LIB) from a list of not less than three qualified
firms. Pesticides which are proprietary and for which other generic
or proprietary products are not available will be procured through
direct negotiation on single source basis. For other pesticides for
which alternatives are available procurement shall be through ICB
under Bank guidelines, the selection being based on relative effec-
tiveness and cost per unit area, according to criteria specified in
advance.
(d) Veterinary Products. The same procedures as for pesticides.
(e) Machinery and Spare Parts. The actual import shall be handled by
importers/distributors who shall be prequalified by open advertise-
ment on the basis of agreed criteria in respect of capabilities for
service, spare parts and maintenance. Items of machinery shall be
grouped to the extent possible and contract packages in excess of
US$500,000 shall be awarded on the basis of competition among the
preselected firms. For other items, the amounts shall be allocated
based on fleet size for the type of equipment handled by each of the
importers and other similar criteria.
(f) Consultant Services, Locally and internationally recruited consul-
tants acceptable to the Bank will be selected following Bank guide-
lines.
Table 3 below summarizes the procurement arrangements.



- 26 -
Table 3: PROCUREMENT OVERVIEW
($ millions)
Type of procurement
Project                   ICIB        IS        Other         Totar cost
Animal feeds                       60         -           -               60.0
Fertilizer                         40         -           -               40.0
Pesticide                           3         3          9.0              15.0
Veterinary products                 3         3          8.0              14.0
Agricultural machinery              4         6         10.0              20.0
Technical assistance                -         -          0.6               0.6
Total                        110         12         27.6             149.6
77.       Disbursements.  Disbur3ements would be made against the CIF costs of
eligible imports, subject to documentary evidence that expenditures have been
incurred after July 1, 1984, and against statements of expenditure covering
the costs of eligible consultant services. The loan would reimburse 100% of
the foreign exchange cost of eligible imports procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines, and 100% of the cost of consulting services. Both private and
public sector imports would be eligible for financing.
78.       Special Account.  To facilitate project implementation, the Bank
would make advance payments into a Special Account. The Special Account would
be in US dollars in the Central Bank of the Philippines. The amount of the
Special Account on deposit would at no time exceed US$25.0 million.
Replenishment of the account by the Bank would be subject to review and
approval of withdrawal applications justifying expenditures from the account
(Section 2.02(b) of the Loan Agreement).
79.       Tranching.  The loan would be disbursed over a one-year period in
two tranches of $75 million equivalent each. Disbursement of the first
tranche would be released upon loan effectiveness. The second tranche would
be available for disbursement after a review of performance in implementing
the Government's "Agenda for Acticn in Agriculture: 1984-88" with particular
attention to be paid to the following (Schedule 1, paragraph 3 and Schedule 4,
of the Loan Agreement):
(a)  The adequacy of progress of NFA in opening up to private entities
the import and export trade of animal feeds.
(b)  The adequacy of progress in phasing out price controls on poultry,
eggs and pork.
(c)  The adequacy of progress in reforms of PCA and PHILSUCOM to broaden
representation on their Boards to include concerned ministries of
the Borrower and farmers' interests.
(d)  Satisfactory progress in preparing the policy-related studies.



- 27 -
(e) Satisfactory progress in ra:ionalizing and consolidating the public
investment plan for agricultural development (1985-88) and the
consolidated budget therefor.
(f) The adequacy of progress in reducing import tariffs on poultry.
The mid-term review is expected to take place in December 1984.
80.       Use of Peso Proceeds.  The foreign exchange made available to the
Borrower under the project would generate peso funds. These funds would be
deposited in a special account at the Central Bank, and would be allocated to
finance expenditures for development programs, including NFA's buffer stock
operations. The funds will be made available to implementing agencies in
accordance with local budget procedures (Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreament).
Accounts and Audits
81.       The Government will maintain financial records of all transactions
under the loan in accordance with sound accounting practices. Implementing
agencies will also maintain separate accounts of their respective transactions
under the loan (Section 3.04(b) of the Loan Agreement). These accounts would
be reviewed at the time of the mid-term review. Not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, all accounts will be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.04(d) of the
Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
82.       The project would generate two types of benefits:  (i) short-term
production benefits, and (ii) mediumr and long-term benefits derived from
policy reforms, improved planning, and institutional arrangements. None of
these benefits lend themselves to detailed and accurate quantification but all
are vital to the process of economic recovery and development.
83.       Short-term Production Benefits.  The foreign exchange resources made
available under the loan would have both direct and indirect production bene-
fits. Directly, the loan would help maintain agricultural production and
productivity by ensuring that imported inputs are available to farmer during a
period of severe foreign exchange shortages. The inputs financed under the
loan will help sustain the momentum of ongoing agricultural development
programs, which are basically designed to improve production and productivity
through a more intensive use of modern agricultural inputs. The indirect
production benefits would derive from the generalized support which the loan
would provide to meet the country's external financing needs in accordance
with the Government's short-term economic stabilization program.
84.       Long-term Benefits.  More significant and more lasting benefits are
expected from the policy and institutional reform package, based on specific
actions as well as on studies designed to lay the groundwork for further
reforas. The policy reforms implemented under the proposed program would
improve production incentives and the efficiency of resource allocation by
increasing the reliance on market mechanisms while moving to reduce the
Government's role in areas where it is not necessary. Allowing private sector
participation in rice and feedgrain trade, relying on selective Government



- 28 -
market operations rather than price controls for rice, removing price controls
on poultry and pork, reducing interest subsidies, providing a minimum level of
effective protection for domestic animal feed production, and eliminating the
burden on farmers imposed by the Government's arrears to fertilizer firms are
all expected to enhance production incentives or improve resource allocation.
Most of them would also help reduce government deficits by curtailing or
eliminating costly activities being promoted under Government auspices, which
could be performed equally well by the private sector. Substantial benefits
are also expected frot the policy-related studies financed under the proposed
loan; each of these is designed to recommend policy initiatives to be
discussed with the Bank and implemented in the context of future Bank lending
operations. As for the institutional re.orms, two kinds of benefits are
expected. The first is an improvement in intrasectoral planning, policy
formulation and coordination as a result of the integration of several sec-
toral agencies under one Ministry and the institution-building program asso-
ciated with MAF. The second is an improvement in public investment planning,
programming and budgeting through a better mechanism for designing programs
and allocating scarce investment funds in accordance with sectoral priori-
ties.
85.       Risks.  Although the production component and the program of policy
and institutional reforms supported under the proposed project are relatively
straightforward, they involve risks. First, in the production component,
there is a risk that input prices may increase faster than output prices and
thus depress demand for project-financed inputs, thereby reducing the short-
term production impact of the project. To deal with this possibility, the
program of policy reforms provides for price adjustments and the removal of
controls that may hold output prices artificially low. Second, the commitment
to the policy and institutional reform package may be weakened over time
because of organizational and sectoral management changes within the
Government. This risk will be addressed through both a continuing Bank policy
dialogue with the Government to maintain policymakers' awareness of the
benefits of the reforms, as well as by linking Bank support for future
operations to a satisfactory performance in the implementation of the agreed
reforms. Third, the institutional reform benefits depend on more effective
management of the new Ministry of Agriculture and Food and on a much more
objective and practical interagency approach to sectoral planning and
budgeting than has been the norm in the past. Neither condition can be
guaranteed, but to minimize this risk the project would provide support for
the institution-building of MAP and for strengthening sectoral planning and
coordination among the various ministries and agencies.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
86.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. In addition to the special conditions of this
loan listed in Section III of Annex III, of this report, a condition of loan
effectiveness would be: that the special account referred to in para. 78,
above has been opened (Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement).



- 29 -
87.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
88.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
July 17, 1984
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-30-                                          Page I of 5
TABLE  3A
NIILIPPINS            - SOCIAL ZNICATIRS DATA SHET
PHtIP"Mir                           RERPNCE GOUPS (ZIO4TED AVERAS) 
MOST                     (POST RECENT  eSrmATE) /b
I~~~ 96,f It 70-bkc    b        MIDLE,  1C             NDDLLt INCW
1960-      197t ESTlfAT-            ASIA   P PACrFIC    LAT. ANERICA  CAR15T
AM  CT DW M S -                                                  l
TOTAL                             300_0       300.0      300.0
AQICULTURAL                        98.8       104.0      109.2                 .
CWYN CATA (CM3)                      160.0       260.0      790.0             1028.6                   2068.2
ENO    1DSWW   I CAitXD
(KILOGRAMS Or COAL  UJUIVALENT)   159.0       333.0      380.0              792.8                   1407.S
naaLnou AM  VnAL SuTtSTCs
FOPULATION.HID-TEAC (THOUSANDS)  27394.0    36848.o    49558.0
URJAN POPULATION (- OF TOTAL)      30.3        32.9       36.7               32.9                     65.9
POPULATION PROECTIONS
POPULATIoN IN TEA2000 M ( .)                             76.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (NUML)                            137.2
TEAR STATIONARY POP. RACOED                             2105
POPULATION DENT5
PER Sq. KM.                      91.3       122.9      161.0              260.7                     15.S
PR 5. 10. ACE?. LAOD           277.3       354.3      442.3             1696.5                     93.2
POPULATnON ACE STIPCTURE (S)
D-1 IRS                        44.6        45.5        43.6              39.,                     *a.1
15-4' IRS                        52.4        51.6        53.3              57.2                     55.9
65 ANID ADOVE                     3.0         2.9        3.1                3.3                      4.1
POPULATION CRQI RATE C?)
TOTAl.                            3.0         3.0        2.7                2.3                      2.3
URBAIN                            4.1         3.8         3.7               3.9                      3.7
CNUE BIRTH RATE (PER 104)          46.7        44.0        33.9              31.3                     31.5
CRUDE DEATh RATE (PER THOUS)       14.6         9.8        7.3                9.6                      8.1
CROSS REPROOUCTIOS RATE             3.4         3.1        2.3                2.0                      2.0
TAMMl  PLANNING
ACCErOS. ASOMAL (T110S)             ..      191.7       375.0
USELS (: OF HURRIED VOEN)          ..         2.0       48.0               46.6
FMo -M TRIIIO
INDeX OF POoP POD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     102.0       101.0      124.0              125.2                    113.0
PER CAnTA SUPFT OF
CALORIES (I OF R UlItENTs)       99.0        99.0       116.0             114.2                    111.3
PROTEINS (CUM PR DAY)            46.0        48.0       53.0               57.9                     67.9
OF iUtCH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0       19.0       21.0/c             14.1                     34.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATr RATE        13.8         7.9        4.3                7.6                      5.3
IWLTR
LIFE EUXCT. AT NIRTH (TEARS)       52.8        59.0        63.2              60.2                     64.4
INFANT 'DENT. RATE (PER TRDiS)    105.8        75.0       53.0               68.1                     626
ACCeSS TO SAE VATLER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                               -        36.0        43.0/d            37.1                     64.8
RBA                                ..          ..       66.067             54.9                     77.8
RURAL                              ..          ..       33.07d             26.4                     44..3
ACCESS TO EICTA DISPOSAL
(: OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-        57.0        56.0/d            *1.4                     54.6
URBAN                              ..          ..       76.o7d             47.5                     69.e
RNAL                               ..          ..       *4.od7             33.4                     29.8
POPULATION PER PTSICLIAN         6940.0    9n00.0       7970.0             7771.9                   1776.0
POP. PCR NUsiNc fRS0N                ..      5390.0     6000.0             2462.6                   1012.2
POP. PIN NosPITAL M-
TOTAL                           121o.0      820.u       560.0/.          1047.2                    477.0
URBANS                          540.0       390.0          ..             651.1                    667.5
WRAL                               ,,          ,,          ,,            2591.9                   1921.6
AUHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL  D.                    30.0          .               27.0                     27.Z
AVERAGE SIZE ONf DSENLD
TOTAL                              5.8        5.9
URBN                               ..         6.2
RURAL                              *-         5.8
AVERACE NO. OF PESONSIROaG
TOtAL                              ..         2.3
UR                                 ..         2.1
RRAL                               ''         2.4
ACCESS To ELaCT- (S OF DWEL LYCS)
TarAL                            16.5        22.7       36.0
U                                  ..        59.9       82.6
RUAL                               ..         6.7       10.0



ANNEX I
- 31 -                                                Page 2 of 5
T A B L E 3A
PRILIPPINES            - SOCIAL INDICATCIRS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                          REFERENCE (ROUPS (SEIGrTED AVERAGE5) /s
IEDST                    (tDST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
I  RECENT             I CrDDLE INCOPME        IDDLE SNCQtE
19 1970  ESTInAT6 b      ASIA & PACIFIC      LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADlUSTED ENROLLNEKT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTCAL                  95.0       108.0       i10.o             101.2                     In5.0
MALE                   98.0       115.0       111.0              106.0                    106.3
FETALE                 93.0       113.0       108.0              97.5                     103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  26.0        6.0        63.0              44.9                      0.0
MALE                   28.0        52.n        58.0               50.0                     38.6
FE!SALE                25.0        9.0        68.0               44.6                     41.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)         1.3         8.9/f      33.91c            18.5                      34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRItARY                           36.0        29.0        30.0              32.7                      30.7
SECONDARY                         27.Og      33.0        34.0              23.4                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (S)             71.9        82.6        75.0               72.9                     79.5
CtlImrro
PASSENGE-R CARSITHOUSAND POP         3.2         7.6        10.2/e             9.7                      45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP        21.9        40.7        3.5             113.7                     228.2
TV RECErVERS/7TOUSAND POP            1.4        10.9        20.7              50.1                     108.3
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY CENERAL
INTERESr) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULTION             17.7        13.6        20.7               54.0                     64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA      0.6fh                   7.41/d            3.4                       2.9
LAMl TONRC
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)        10915.0    13477.0    17667.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  34.2        33.1        32.3              33.6                      24.8
AOtICITLTURE (PERCENT)            61.0        53.0        6.0              50.9                      31.3
tiDUSTRY (PERCENT)                15.0        16.0       17.0               19.2                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTA.                             39.8        36.6        35.6               38.6                     31.3
MALE                              52.1        48.6        7.8               50.7                     49.8
F- 4ALF                           27.4        24.4       23.2               26.6                      14.8
ECONIOIC DEPENDEC it RATIO           1.2         1.3         1.3               1.1                       1.4
3flU DIMS1tU=tIoN
PERCENT OF PRIVATE lINCKE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5Z OF HOUSEHOLDS          30.1        25.1         ..               2Z.2
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS         56.3        54.0         ..               48.0
LOWEST 20l OF HOUSEHOLDS           4.2         5.Z         ..                 6.4
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS          12.0        14.2          ..              15.5
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY I MCCE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..       260.0              194.5                    289.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       195.0             155.0                     184.5
ESTIMATED RESATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVIL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBA.                                .           .       266.0             178.0                     519.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       200.0             164.8                     372.1
ESTIMATID POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (1)
URBAN                               ..          ..        32.0              24.4
RURAL                               ..          ..        41.0              *1.1
.NOT AVAILABLE
MO! APPLICANLE
N o T E S
/a The group averages for each Indicator are populatlon-ne4thted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb Unless otherwise noted. -Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961: Data for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for -flot Recent Estlte- between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977: Id 1975: Ie 1978: /f 1972: L/  1962  /h 1958.
iay 1983



32                                                                                       AN____I
Page 3 of 
attn.    *tt 00 dat. -.   oan- it- asan   gpacalp  ldaso  It oo  ont  aOfl..          -     tad -II .. t inOl  slt. --  t.   tt     -                  b0  Io.-oattoall
4d.tu drat  at _.a5otdao.  "latat  W=od.. -           tAtot          .-L. nSt eajo  dlfoWii..aa   W.5-0   tt
tia rat.'.... stS -.  llt                -.ot  Alg    ti tOo' oob4500 coo   -A (ii .          5r" get. .4h              is-at .aa.    1 n io- *Sa, t y  saool .9 atOo
~Jn  co-or, fo p.r  tan -tag. tI-' Ott "9O-o't s,o~Ao data   dlo Lt-t a-t   d.t-c.  d 51441. 1.ott 1. it ... 0.aa                                 -qi t~a Notool
etlflttl.oo.  In *t  tOl-.tt stoOdol,        SOt ". 0to.    -r   3.r.lO  In -4to"" .djiotals  to   a  aan  tetratot an  t             a     -o    raaSya  .%. sa.Ftaao a
SO-l tad  dot. ins tOo  tdtc.-e   Stgt   uO  -ant.  rt ca-i &-                  tia~ didlttoo-    ood    to     so *L1Ka.tey.  Eaca  llI    - oaf-r   cAoo - c            W.
r-.1ln -. Te-l.tlqa.t -          1  -9"   L.odtat ...  a-cOt   lOnttogna.tosl..1S   ogat   0 It14ta aF                        -  Idas-ot otta =90 
S   (tattad.q.o.                                                                             orIIAiflttyA!- orot-od otada                            W-1k.O Otattsta
- i.t.   trFa. ac  sootat. San  a.oe-     ttn  atioto;  iftt.                       -                           sattl not     ilat.ss  tati
altO -  tO  data.                                                     ta..Lo.ioot.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WM,-  I "r   -.ini.    -    - lolloltato (tat~..
-.11-" 1.  ~~I         t al   'osanSts    la Ioitni3  ad.
Os Oat tat.. -. I-coat tttoo*                     eoatttta it tatle t.S      ftat  ~[oat  d-a.  *Ogo*latd tototta!.~atlo
answr ousumsm PED CAPI. - Moo.0'olplo-_     -"Lo .1  ..I                          .  --  -totlodob. I..    nptt.               pestot  totted. teSt   - aa
-   soori al s.   .t,Stt  . "Io.eo  at tttoa.l.                 .-eta                             o! * tiottd tao. of -tAL-  fr-.t,tto    o   ooaS                    -soo
1510. tyO0_1Sl   aa                                                                                at        tal   otd  -a   orabhe.g!IoS- ats. o"-  .
9-1ttt.  ao                          - oaeopta.aaodclA -  oot-actty at.
PIOYLE1   a- Pit!. utaSS?ITC                                                                   `.tot.i0.pOS.aaS.ttodal                     an_ .tatat
i..oUNiotat S..  Md-loir Titeeada.t . -  -  Ja, S; tIOC Irt.   age,                      ott   tm.cl e      oe   tS.a   d.ato        rd.ttt
foarSa.; SitO* IitO~~~~~~ -   tt  at...  ~ ~          ~         ~           a  Ste -. 1      . Aeabt  iao..d., eat oceald   - c Fo'a ota. .   twa!.
totat ootata  ptiat aa.  Wel-t-fa,a!   tl.aSadt-td.   t   r-  -.-tltt*
t~iiI~Iatj.oy  tat and   Ltea  tSt   ntat,         Ft tS,9. aat                                                Io. ta  rorroao.
ta-t.  Io,aatesfatt    tn,.tcrt.cora   9ttttata.i.t.   o   n.-ttl.                                                                                  n   oa   trg         
.1        otoaooa    Wt :-Itt to tIn  ao.t a--o    I.t   t   .5..                              tt. '. oss  otliStaalt  *Wtttot.  11C-...Iaet.   an -  I.sic.w
Oat-so-   . ta t           ?ort (-t. .tr             ...t .. It  Ottoo                          t=ota- a   "l-od la  ot tanr- rrnytt-Ot.tot   foaot
t_otS,t  -orrat.1-a- 000              . fotIu    -      a.a  tN- t2at   o   alaa    a S  is.                                            -II.t  - o  -ttasta   lotaa. po-,
ioct!t, at. a  arlta...   ta.                                                         ttattoseit  ttotOaledoi. .M.ttoa   Oa  tae t.tP-"t-.F
rllild..tattatooolly      .    et-O      io,a    a   ttar                                            tt         ata  s   sn 1        d       Ott -W-ttta  atolti   .ol tl
r.~~latta. stat ...: trim .                              I                         toad1tt ac.!-ott-ot  -               - 1e!    litaretod a -lt...   taeaet
PoaslIat!..              Iva ttr                                                            dan-p a  tqt -1     *9 Inst II   _t Oaogaro     tta;ioa,lttoiSn
5950oo   A .  til0.  tad tlid dt.".                                                    pow! * ,    .-.l lots.  ii?..It IOwaof .'e caratodwat.1 -od
P= ,!:.q.-    StotriSad-                 a       S.  o  agtto tt          I t.ad            ~          nt.tti oo.lodad.
-          fl~~~~!d~~.                                              iOtatttoll .0,.! Ot  os.s   ittrc       oata    ttt
Oh itact!.        tattiod (t  coot. -  wil an ctttOtaat oF Ot-.a              -..  xif  .-   .ettt   a (     essasy  .a It . ta..-     I.
tatals   W.17. l                U    aa                                                         sniett.  ol                a    tdotdav.iot ftnd.a..               tat.! tad So
toeltaotrsO  ot   oo,..;.t.a -Wo.l  aot   oa  o   ttt  t- rlnt  dooL--.tco.tttddSyoatat   9  oattoSot    lt
I.an   ,-o t.nt B.1. 9  t.t   1al.-atst5otStt.O   att.                                           MoL gt-o   tt   ttaat-Uotaaot   atot   oSsdaSe 
tomnlaltto; tilt. 1070. sot tOts data,                                              tar1.,  ot'losat   tlosst.   lt    tOa   ald.ttlat.tse 
Ma.  otdtinSt      nco.0.  2dehto*                               et   Ott                         ott S..setl.
toitta                                                                                        ftU":P.-9     t o. S  .,I.ott - tttoaa   attcto      Octt.    ntodst0
Feti fee..-  ati  ot,..?    ttd  1     tttoctoo  et.lt                          o.eott.ts   ortn Oatoot. oo  anld.  nt.naod  o  otttt
ofrtSdtatO    at7 inimc.  taOtt-.n-.  d.ta  eSe..tta   Stq7...ae  atttcLAt"i ot rtamiat
-a,i Iard          o       a. rO.a.oa    St;.t.    .tn.oo   o.tosl-un   t  oca
tan  de  hfol in.!t.Ja  lt i   ta.t  ans,   otoattatteo                                                                                   dot.a   -   ootndcr
ti-d-   too et  eat-dodb.   af.st   FSet a              i o.-I O titZ   te, --oll   ttt
data.                                                                                      St. t.ft.
toc oartta aeatt, tftal  ortan  !t.oo. -1 tyt e-I"  so W---,a   (to 1-rUt   tiot-                               taeal-ioo         ncLty   nti.t  on.tondt   t
R-.1,eqtol    I .9 -t ita  a.,   .etlrat   .ttrttttt   n                                  tta   n   ara           o  *t.tdgo         nt t J. ca atc. sot . a  11o.
tua t. anoistl  enal   tpctta detat!  grodttta.  i                    -tt toe-Pi.                   ooaitta oF alt et.      ttaia    ttsoa.s..    o   t
tat..   ta.aot  So otn. -   -,t eroiaF." tio    eta.; fond. and.                             eotta;f  t   tf   ndls   aa
toti  t-lotdt   e  ee -r  ttyotolo,.tt t  ositOia 215syryy       ao 4-ntoro tto-oS  Fandt7                                                               -,-i.g end
o.a oa  on dtshitdatao -   .tolat-. eodtao, o   iss.tin...bsot   tcsol-ittf.t  tootto.Ioecatt`n.   aoZofotio
et t.sad`   tSot  t- 'At-40    ti)-.         -dt.ed.eotlp   se   o    t    tO soeolof-.0! Sta  Fo-to  Wti
Pa tpo, ti-  10001  etetMIA         t data -" tdot.  oot ... *t sot tapitot"tOtS a"ol lii-Adata.
-t .t.t~ .k6~.s o~ day, tat  datyod  toad SoCFt  -p1 oto.                               f.O.ato   .ttto-tl-oel  a.                           ot  -rfttoio
ooZe ptoclo. oF ato  ii sta   tootd - tt..; toss!..  Otna                      ItO   O!  o   0!Ct.   ot   t   eda   t.oo,dtt..ct.go ret..
-  elanI rate!, an  ~-aoca F.f.  tt. otd. cc..n _ t S "       otILs  Otat   teIt   .taniaOtO
ftt      o foe.    -~1500  Sate (ot tF a          totdteattO dt                                    -.-7VWA,         t tdota-nZa 7 4oi So-coa   -  nat, . Ste -  Sr toaa
dtlt          P9liotit oolW 1t-lCaoO F0
If loanto   ot-Sstt oo.d..) - taanmn  ssti FoF oacI.9 1S.  rnoo -fT~foeo. or  t.r afl-tni.ats .oeet M-                                                   ttr      Oat..,tao!. o
at .imn; 1040. Stci end tOO; data.        a7 too r-- to  ft --tton   otP  tonidoottta .sSa
toso  Iotoli   i.cotOtsedl       tdafSo.  tfai n          toafOaOt 50.5tctt Ooott. -i    ctpif-  tom                                                          os 
lotods  atttoae    t.  ttt;  W.  t)od   Og   at.atsot   otr,  oa  etW-..o   ten105  h..  to.0oltt
tIstOt   osOt.'oto   Fortte      oe.ai..atnl.*ttlnt    dt    ttrt odtatl  saFa datttoeei 



- 33 -
AIINX I
Fage 4 of 5
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(uillion US$ at                      Annual srowth rates (Z) (constant price)
current pritce)               Actual                   a t.                   Projected
Indicator                             1983          1979    1980    1981    1982       983      I 9    198      1988    1987    1988
NUTIONAL ACCEDN1S
Cron doto tic product               34.266         5.9      4.9     3.8      3.0      1.0    -2.2     0.8      2.2     3.5     4.5
Agriculture                       7.388          5.3.    S.0      3.6      3.1    -2.1      2.0     2.0      3.0     3.5     3.5
Industry                          12.364         6.7      3.5     4.7      2.4     0.7    -5.0    -2.0       1.0     3.5     4.5
Services                          14,514         5.5      6.3     3.0      3.5     3.5    -2.0      2.5      2.7     3.5     5.0
Cona_ption                          26,959         4.8      4.8     4.0      3.5     2.6    -4.7    -0.3      0.6      0.7     2.5
Cross investment                     9,15L         7.4      1.0     2.3    -2.9    -4.4   -16.0       1.1      4.2     9.1     7.6
Exports of GNMS                      6,650         7.4    16.0      1.6    -2.6.    1.7       4.9     5.1      6.0     6.3     6.7
Imports of CNQS                     8,882         10.3      3.7     -.9      3.5    -2.0   -24.0      0.2      1.5     2.1     2.6
Gross uatlonl savings                7,400         7.7      3-4     3.1    -6.5    -3.1        -       -       -        -       -
nCiS
cDP deflator (1972 - 100)                        249.4   286.9   317.3   343.5   380.4         -       -       -        -       -
Eachang  rate (USSI -   )                          7.4      7.5     7.9      8.5    11.1       -       -       -        -       -
2xport price indez (19S0 - 100)                   98.9   100.0    99.4    87.9    92.0        98     103      113     123      134
I ort price indez (1980 - 100)                    81.6   100.0   112.7   101.6    95.0        99     105      114     125     136
Term  of trade index (1980 - 100)                121.2   100.0    88.2    86.5    97.0    101         98       99      98      99
Share of CDP at *mrket prices (Z)                       Average annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices) /a                                   (constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990       1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-9O
Crose douastic product              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0         5.1         6.1        5.9       1.3        4.0
Agriculture                       28.1    27.8    29.0    23.2    24.3    22.0         -4.3         4.3       4.8        2.3        3.5
Industry                          25.8    29.6    33.5    36.9    36.1    38.9          6.0         8.6       7.6        0.7       4.5
Servicee                          46.1    42.6    37.5    39.9    39.6    39.1          5.2         5.4       5.7        2.7       4.0
Conaptiaon                        85.3    79.2    75.8    73.8    79.0    76.0          4.8         5.5       5.2        1.0        1.9
rog. inwestDut                     16.3    21.5    31.0    30.5    21.0    22.0         8.2        11.5       6.5       -3.2        6.5
xorts of CMJS                      10.8    19.4    18.5    20.1    23.0    25.0         5.8         3.2       10.0       4.7        6.7
Imports of GNES                   10.6    19.7    25.3    26.4    21.0    22.0          6.8         6.8       8.0       -1.7       2.4
Gro  astio  l *avisga              16.2    20.5    25.3    22.1    18.0    19.0         7.4         9.7       5.8         -         -
Am Z of CDP
1960    1970    1975    1980    1983                 Labor force in 1983        Millions       (7)
PUULIC PINANCK                                                                           Agriculture                   9.8         48.8
Current revenue                   9.8      9.:    15.0    13.1    12.1                 Industry                      9 3         46.2
Current *xpenditures              9.6    10.9    13.2       9.3     9.6                Servicc s
Surplus (+) or deficit ()         0.2    -1.4      1.8      3.7     2.5                Unmployed                     1.0          5.0
Capital expediture                2.3      1.9     3.2      5.2     4.5
Foreign flnumcing                   -      0.1     0.3      1.5     2.0                   Total Labor Force         20.1        100.0
1960-70         1970-75        1975-80         1980-85         1985-90
CTIER DzMnCRS
Anaal GMl Lrith rate (Z)                                        5.1            6.1             5.9             1.3            4.0
Aml GO? per capita growth rate (2)                              2.0            2.7             3.2           -1.1             1.7
AMuiaL earE*   consoptlou growth rate (1)                       7.4            6.2             4.2             0.7            4.0
ICOR                                                            3.7            4.3             5.2           23.8             7.1
Marg l    ing. rate                                             0.29           0.33           0.26            0.35            0.62
IWort elasticity                                                1.33           1.12            1.20          -1.3             0.6
/a   Projected yerc  at constant price&.
East Asia and Pacific Ragoln
MLrch 1984



- 34 -
AMNNE I
Page 5 of 5 pages
PEILIPPtNES - BALANCE o0 PAYNENTS AND EXKTWAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(S million, at current prlce.)
Actual                  Net.                     Pro1ected
1979     1980      1981     1982                1984    1985S  1986         1987     1988
Summary of Balance of Pay_ent.
Exports of goods and wervices          6,177    7.863    8.624    7.837    8.072    8,280   8.891   10.101   11,572   13.336
Of which:  exports of goods          4,602    5.788    5.722    5,021    5,005    5.510   6,097    7,059    8,212    9.565
Imports of goods and services          8.108   10.348   11.389   11,683   11,170   10,310  10.490   11.535   12,658   13.922
Of which:  imports of goods          6.142    7,727    7.946    7.667    7,469    5.990   6,236    6,919    7,738    8,709
Tran.fers (net)                          355       434       472      498       399       490     450       480       500      550
Current Account Balance             -1,576   -2.051   -2,293   -3,348   -2,699   -1.540  -1.149         -954      -586       -36
Direct investment (net)                   99        45       407      292         4
ILT loans (net)                        1,091    1.032    1,382    1,721    1.427
OffLcial-source loans (net)            449       375       691      434    1.177
Private-source loans (net)             642       657      691    1,287        250
other capital (net) /a                  -193       593       -56      146   -1,196
Overall Balance lb                    -579      -381     -560   -1,189   -2,464
International reserves (end-year)/c  2,423    3,155    2.707    2.543           903
Reserves as months of imports            3.6       3.7       2.9      2.6       1.0
External Capitel and Debt
Croas disbursements                    2,134    1,887    2.136    2.693
Concesslonal Loans                     185       168      212       176
Bilateral                            113       107      198       159
UKA                                    3         2        7         8
Other  ultilateral                    69        59        7         9
ognconcesstonl Loans                 1,949    1,719    1.924    2,518
OffLcial export credits              152         8       58        66
IBRD                                 210       229      441       251
Other multilateral                      81        83       119      125
Private sources                      1,506    1,399    1.306    2.076
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed       7,204    8,415   10.148   12.145
Official-source                    2,286    2,730    3.355    3.971
Private-aource                     4,918    5.685    6,793    8,174
UndLsbursed debt /d                  3,645    4,086    4.546    3,999
Debt Service
Total service payments /e            1.480    1,013    1,560    2,048
Of which:  Interest                  488       568      806    1,076
Payments *s 2 of exports of goods
and services le                     24.0       1.9     18.1      26.1
Average Interest rate on new loans
Official-source                          5.5       7.4       7.7  f
Privates_ource                          10.5      14.3      15.5  1  14.4
Average maturity of new loans
Official-source                         23.4      20.2     20.9
Private-source                          11.1      10.1      10.0      9.0
fo  g3oroe#tary short-term capital. monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs. and errors and onuisions.
T7  [quala change in not international reserves, plus arrears.
7   Grocs reserves of the rAntral Bank ("International reserves," IFS).
71  Public and publicly guaranteed only.
7W  Includes prepayments of S401 million in 1978. 5492 million in 1979 and $92 m1illon In 1980.
Note: Since the Philippians is in the process of reschedultaig its debt, it to not possible to project capital inflow figures
in detail.
Est Asia and Pacific Region
March 1984



- 35 -                                                AKNfX II
Page I of 2
THE STATUS OF SANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A.  STATEMENT OF DANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
As of March 31, I84
Loan or
credit                                                                                     Amount (less cencellation!)
number       FY    Borrower                     Purpose                                    Bank      IDA      Undiubursed
Thirty-nine loans snd three credits fully disbursed                                       1,192.02    32.22          -
1080-PI     1975   Rep. of the Philipptnes    Terlac Irrigation                              17.00      -           0.01
1102-PIt    1975                                 Rural Development                          25.00       -           0.09
1227-PH     1976                                 Ctico Irrigation                            50.00      -           4.90
127Z-T-PH   1976                                Manila Urban                                 10.00      -           0.36
1282-PH     1976                                 Manila Urban                                Z2.00      -           0.80
1353-PH     1977                                Third Eighwvay                              95.00       -          18.75
1367-PH     1977                                Jelaur Irrigation                            15.00      -           0.58
1374-PH     1977                                 Fourth Education                           25.00       -           2.32
1399-PH     1977   Central Bank of the Phil.  fourth Rural Credit                            36.50      -           0.06
1414-PH     1977   Rep. of the Philippines    Net. Irrig. Systems Improvement                S0.00      -          21.95
1421-PR     1977                                 Rural Dev. Land Settlement II               15.00      -           2.81
1460-PR     1978   National Power Corp.          Seventh Power                               58.00      -          11.44
1506-PH     1978   Rep. of the Philippinee    Stmllholder Tree FaPring                        8.00      -           4.46
1514-PH     1978   Philippine National Bank   PDCP V                                         30.00      -           0.75
1526-PB     1978   Rep. of the Philippines    Net. Irrig. Systems Improvement II            S5.00       -          35.42
790-PH     1978                                 Rural Infrastructure                          -      28.00        13.84
1555-PH     1978   Philippine National Bank   ?ISO                                           15.00      -           0.01
1567-PH     1978   Rep. of the Philippines    Nagat II                                      150.00      -           5.87
1572-PH     1978                                 Industrial Investment III                  80.00       -          11.56
:615-PR     1979                                 Maniat  Water Supply 1I                    88.00       -          36.89
1626-PH     1979               "                 National Extension                          35.00      -          21.47
1639-PH     1979                                Magat liver Multipurpose                    21.00       -           1.06
1646-PH     1979               "                 Small Farmr Dev. (Land lank)                16.50      -           3.94
1647-PF     1979                                 Second Urban Development                    32.00      -           7.28
1661-PH     1979                                 Highvay. IV                                100.00      -          47.84
1710-PH     1979               "                Water Supply II                              16.00      -          i6.00
920-PH     1979                                 Water Supply II                               -      22.00        11.88
923-PH     1979                                 Population It                                 -      40.00        31.20
1772-PH     1980                                 Sassr Island Rtral Development             27.00       -          18.83
1786-PR     1980                                 Fisheries tr-aning (Educ. VI)              38.00/c    -           29.08
1809-PH     190O0                                Hedlum-Scale Irrigation                    71.00       -          55.83
1814-PH     1980                9               Manila Sewerage & Sanitation                63.00       -          38.27
1815-PH     1950                                 Rainted Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)                12.00      -           7.48
1821-PH     1980                I               Third Urban                                 72.00       -          42.79
1855-PH     1980               "                 Third Porte                                67.00       -          40.26
1860-PH     1980                                 Rural Roada Improvement                    62.00       -          39.24
1890-PH     1981                                 WaYtersbed Management                       38.00      -          25.10
1894-PH     1981                                Third Livestock & Fisheries                 45.00       -          25.63
1903-PH     1981                                 Structural Adjustment                     200.00       -           0.85
1984-PH     1981   Central bank of the Phil.  Industrial Pinance (Apex)                     150.00      -         137.21
2030-PH     1981   Rep. of the Philippines    Elementary Educ. Sector Loan                  100.00      -          94.56
2040-PH     1982                                 Agric. Support Services                    45.00       -          44.30
2067-PH     1982                                 Urban Engineering                            8.00      -           2.74
2127-PR     1982                                 Textile Sector Restructure                 157.40      -         114.17
2156-PH     1982                                 National Fisheries Development              22.40      -          22.07
2169-PH     1982                                 SKI III                                    132.00      -         120.72
2173-PH     1982                                 Comm 1nl Irrigation                         71.10      -          62.64
2181-PH     1982   National Power Corp.          Coal Exploration                            17.00      -          14.83
2200-PH     1983   Rep. of the Philippines    Education VIII                                 24.40      -          21.69
2201-PH     1983   Philippines Net. Oil Co.   Petroleum Exploration Promotion                13.50      -           9.72
2202-PH     1983                                 Petroleum Exploration Promotion             24.00      -          20.71
2203-PH     1983                                 Ceothermal Explorstion                      36.00      -          31.33
2206-PH     1983   Rep. of the Philippines    Water Supply and Santation                    35.50      -          29.01
2257-PH     1983                                 Regional Cities Development                 67.00      -          66.47
2360-PH/b   1984                                 Central Viaayaa Regional Developdent        25.60      -          25.60
1282-Ilb    1984               "                  nntila Urban Development Supplement        10.50      -          10.50
1639-l7i   1984                                  Magat River Multipurpose Supplement         5.10       -           5.10
Total                                                                        3.906.01   122.22    1,468.27
of which hba been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                                     382.75     0.39
Total now outstanding                                                        3,523.26   121.83
Amount sold                                               31.94
Of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                         25.98                  5.96      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                                      3.517.30   121.83
Total undisbursed                                                            1.411.35    56.92    1,468.27
/s  The status of the projects listed In Part A is d-ecribed In a separate report on all bank/IDA-financed projects
in execution, which Is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
/b Not yet effective.
7W Includes $7.6 milLIon NORAD fueds.



ANNEX II
-36 -                            Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF 1FC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1984
Fiscal
year                 Company                              Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Dev. Corp. of the Philippines         15.0     4.4    19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                        8.0      -      8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                  -      4.0     4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co.         3.7     0.8     4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                   0.8     0.4     1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corp. of the Phil.             -      2.2     2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation               6.2     2.1     8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial Corp.        15.0      -     15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9     0.3     2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5      -      1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.    1.6       0.6     2.2
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2      -      1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial Corp.          7.0      -      7.0
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6     0.2     2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3     1.2     3.5
1977         Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5      -      3.5
1978         Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.    2.1        -      2.1
1979         General Milling Corporatior                    4.0     1.1     5.1
1980         PISO Leasing Corporation                      10.0     0.2    10.2
1980         Ventures in Industry and Business               -      0.3     0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980         Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.            4.5      -      4.5
1981         Loans to Seven Corp. for SMSE                 18.5     0.6    19.1
1981         Pbilippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp.   -        5.0     5.0
1981         Davao Union Cement Corp.                      16.0      -     16.0
1982         NDC-Guthrie Plantations                       11.0      -     11.0
Total Gross Commitments                     136.4    23.4   158.8
Less sold, acquired by others,             86.1    14.5   100.6
repaid or cancelled
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC            50.3     8.9    59.2
Total Undisbursed                            17.62    0.02   17.64



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTUR-IL SECTOR/INPUTS PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Date of presentation to the Bank:                  September 1983
(b)  Date of identification mission:                   November 1983
(c)  Date of appraisal mission:                        February/March 1984
(d)  Completion of negotiations:                       May 31, 1984
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:                    August 15, 1984
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government would ensure that pesticides financed under the loan
comply with FPA guidelines, and are packaged, labeled, handled and
stored in accordance with sound environmental practices (para. 69
and Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement);
(b)  The Government would designate and maintain a Project Coordinator
within the Office of the Prire Minister to monitor all project
related activities and coordin.te their timely execution (para. 71
and Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement);
(c)  The Government would appoint a Steering Committee to oversee the
work of the Loan-Financed studies and review the draft and final
reports (para. 74 and Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement);
(d)  The Government would conduct, in consultation with the Bank,
periodic evaluations of the effects of policy and institutional
reforms associated with the project (para. 75 and Section 3.07 of
the draft Loan Agreement);
(f)  The Government would open a Special Account in the Central Bank of
the Philippines, in which the Bank would make advance payments and
which would be replenished by the Bank subject to review and
approval of withdrawal applications (para. 78 and Section 2.02 (b)
of the draft Loan Agreement);



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g) The Government would use the peso proceeds from the sale of foreign
exchange provided under the Loan to finance expenditures for
development programs (para. 80 and Section 3.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement); and
(h) The conditions of second tranche release would be as follows (para.
79 and schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement):
(i) The adequacy of progress of NFA turning over responsibility
to private entities for import and export trade of animal
feeds.
(ii) The adequacy of progress in phasing out price controls on
poultry, eggs and pork.
(iii)  The adequacy of progress in reforms of PCA and PRILSUCOM to
broaden represent;tion on their Boards to incli-e concerned
ministries of the Borrower and farmers' interests.
(iv) Satisfactory progreqs in preparing the policy-related
studies.
(v) Satisfactory progress in rationalizing and consolidating the
public investment plan for agricultural development (1985-88)
and the consolidated budget therefor.
(vi) The adequacy of progress in reducing import tariffs on
poultry.



- 3S -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 24
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL/SECTOR INPUTS PROJECT
National Food Authority Organization, Policies,
Operations and Finances: Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.        National Food Authority (NFA) is the government agency of the
Philippines that is responsible for ensuring availability, quality and fair
prices of food products in the consumer market, reasonable price to the
producers and an orderly development of the food industry. Over the years, it
has grown into a mammoth organization with assets totalLing $700 million,
turnover of $600 million, 12,000 employees, and 1,000 offices and outlets
spread all over the archipelago. NFA performs two distinct roles: one, as
part of the Government, undertaking the regulatory role of maintaining the
required discipline in food business (such as quality, price and stock
controls, licensing the intermediaries, etc.), and two, as a participant in
its own right in the food market, undertaking imports and exports of food,
processing and storage of grains, food retailing and grain procurement, etc.
NWA is thus an extension of the Government and concurrently, an economic
enterprise as well. Operationalization of these dual functions in an optimal
manner is complex, and there has been a growing perception that these
functions conflict with one another and lead to sacrifice in efficiency. It
is argued that a higher level of efficiency could perhaps be achieved if this
duality is avoided or minimized or an increased share of some of the economic
enterprise functions are delegated to other agencies including the private
sector. The proposed study was conceived in this context.
Objectives of the Study
2.        The study aims at evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of
NFA's policies and performance.  It should identify any possible improvements
in these, including any desirable changes in the scope of NFA's activities.
It should specify the steps by which recommended changes should be
accomplished.
Terms of Reference
3.        The consultant shall review NFA's role with regard to the following
aspects.
Roles and Performance
(a) Identify the current scope of NFA's roles.
(b) Identify NFA's objectives under each role.



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 24
Cc)  Evaluate the policies, programs and instruments employed towards the
achievement of each objective, and the impact of these on producers,
traders, consumers and government resources. Pay particular
attention to:
(i)    NA's role in international trade;
(ii)   Determination and maintenance of support prices and retail
price ceilings;
(iii) Food stock management for security and price stabilization;
(iv)   Procurement, processing and distribution of food; and
(v)    Deployment and management of post-harvest facilities.
(d)  Assess the reasons for any shortfalls in the accomplishment of
objectives, and reco-mend desirable changes in:
(i)    Scope of activities;
(ii)   Objectives; and
Ciii) Policies, programs and instruments.
4. Finance, Accounting and Control
Ca)  Recommend an appropriate debt-equity norm for NFA's capital
structure and the means and stages by which the present capital
structure should be brought within the recommended norm.
(b)  Review the existing budgetary control system  and recommend
desirable changes that would ensure effective cost and expenditure
control.
(c)  Recommend an appropriate system for measurement and reporting of
profits by activity, and functional and spatial grouping.
(d)  Review the cost and management accounting system and recommend
improvements.
(e)  Examine the desirability of regionalizing the account system.
(f)  Recommend a system for promoting financial efficiency in the manage-
meat of NFA's international trade, paying special attention to the
feasibility of engaging in future transactions.
(g)  Review the management of liquid assets and receivables and recommend
an appropriate control system.
(h)  Review existing practices and methodologies employed by NFA on
build-up and maintenance of a Data Base System for its operational,
financial, and administrative activities and recommend needed
changes to enhance efficiency and effectiveness of the system.



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 24
5. Management of Post-Harvest Assets
(a) Review the present system of managing post-harvest assets,
particularly mills, warehouses and driers; analyze causes for low
capacity utilization; and recommnend policies and systems that would
maximize an efficient use of these assets.
(b) Examine the existing system of scheduling and coordinating
procurement, processing and distribution of food, paying attention
to its impact on the development of private sector capabilities, and
recommend measures to improve NFA's cost-efficiency while providing
incentives to private sector development.
(c) Identify the most efficient capacity, type and area distribution of
NFA processing and storage facilities, based on cost minimization
subject to the requirements of an optimal buffer stock.
Cd) Identify and evaluate other measures to enhance the joint economic
efficiency of the use of NFA's resources and corresponding private
sector resources.
6. Organizational Structure and Staffing
(a) Examine the compatibility of the structure of NFA's present
organization with its roles, functions and lines of activity -
present and projected - and recommend desirable changes; review, in
particular, the desirability and feasibility of fully separating the
governmental and economic enterprise functions from one another, and
subsidiarizing some major groups of its commercial activities - as
Kadiwa operations, rice milling, etc.
(b) Review the existing delegation of powers and associated systems for
assuring accountability and recommend needed changes.
Reporting Requirements
7.        The consultant shall prepare an inception report within one month
upon issuance of the Notice to Proceed, summarizing the tentative findings. A
preliminary draft report of the study results will be due on the sixteenth
(16th) week from the date of the Notice to Proceed. The preliminary draft
report shall be presented by the consultant to draw out comments which may be
incorporated in the final report. Comments will be transmitted to the
consultant four weeks from the receipt of comments.
Cost Proposal
8.        The cost proposal shall be specific and shall present in detail the
budget requirement for the conduct of the study. it shall be itemized accord-
ing to the number and expertise of personnel to be utilized and man-month
rate, number of travels and per diems. Overhead costs as well as other
contingencies shall likewise be presented in detail.



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 24
Manpower and Timing
9.        The consultant shall mobilize a team of five (5) with expertise in
the following disciplines: Agribusiness Management with experience in inter-
national trade (Team Leader) - to supervise and coordinate report prepar-
ations; Agricultural Economics - to analyze and formulate pricing and market-
ing policies, stock management and international trade policies; Agricultural
Marketing - to work with the Agricultural Economist in the analysis of marke-
ting matters; Cost Accounting - to undertake cost analysis; and Agribusiness
Organization and Management - to assess options for organizational stream-
lining. The consultant shall submit its comments within four (4) weeks from
receipt of the draft report. The team's report is due vithin four (4) weeks
fr- its receipt of the Review Committee's comments on its draft report.



- 43 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 24
Coconut Study: Terms of Reference
Background
1.        The coconut industry of the Philippines is shaped by a complex
pattern of interactions between coconut producers, the several levels of copra
traders, processors, brokers, and government or governemnt-sponsored
institutions. The principal institutions in the coconut subsector are the
Philippine Coconut Authority (a reguLatory and promotional agency of the
Government), COCOFED (a federation of coconut growers with branches in all
parts of the country) and UNICOM (a group of privately-managed processing
establishments nominally owned by the coconut farmers, and whose acquisition
was financed largely from levies imposed on coconut farmers). Over the years,
there has been a growing public debate concerning the activities of these
institutions, particularly with regard to the perceived deficiencies in the
manner in which the larger producers and processors have shared the proceeds
of coconut product sales with the large majority of smaller producers. The
highly controversial coconut levy was lifted in 1982, but the subsector is
characterized by the presence of large numbers of farmers, who are also among
the poorest in the country. Nevertheless, because of the vast area under
coconuts, the two million farmers who are largely dependent on coconuts for a
living, and the importance of coconuts as a source of export earnings, the
satisfactory progress of the subsector continues to be of critical importance
to the Philippine economy.
Objectives
2.        A comprehensive study of the coconut subsector is needed to
determine whether the present institutional, marketing and processing
arrangements are serving the needs of the various participants in an efficient
an equitable manner. The study should pay particular attention to the
improvement of rural welfare to be achieved through increased agricultural
productivity, streamlined market mechanisms and procedures, and the
mobilization of adequate financial and managerial resources to the sector.
Terms of Reference
3.        The consultant will undertake a brief historical demand/supply
analysis of recent years, identifying general determinants and specific events
which have influenced prices and assess the present demand situation for the
coconut industry, to arrive at indications of the industry's prospects for the
next five years. This component of the study will also require an analysis of
the systems and procedures that are prevailing in the industry, as well as of
those systems and procedures which have been modified. The consultant shall
assess the efficacy of these systems and present recommendations for specific
measures to improve efficiency and production incentives and to increase
producers' incomes.
4.        The consultant will review the organization and functions of the
Philippine Coconut Authority as well as the composition of its Board, and
recommend measures to broaden the membership of the Board, with particular
attention to the representation of relevant Government agencies.



- 44 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 24
5.        The consultant will identify the specific participants in this
industry over the years, the extent of their respective spheres of influence
and the reasons for the shifts that have occurred in this industry. Wherever
necessary, the sociological underpinnings of the industry will also have to be
identified.
6.        The consultant will describe the roles, functions and impact of
corporate interests in this industry in recent years.
7.        The consultant will conduct a market analysis reflecting the
following:
(a) Apparent consumption of total edible oils, coconut oil component,
and of the main replacements (if any) for coconut oil in the local
and world markets, over a reasonable span of years.
(b) Analysis of the changes in prices that have occurred in recent
years, with particular emphasis an the influence of export
activities or the lack thereof. This should take into account the
buying prices and operating costs of the different levels of the
industry in order to arrive at indications of the traditional margin
structures.
(c) Identification of laws and regulations that have affected the
industry in recent years, including duties, restrictions, subsidies,
taxes and levies, and other such events.
(d) The consultant will evaluate the various interventions by
government, semi-government, and private interests and their
interrelatiorships indicating, wherever possible, the strengths and
shortcomings of such interventions or interrelationships. This will
be done with a view to eliminating or streamlining, where necessary,
certain costs centers or activities at various levels of the
industry.
(e)  The consultant will assess other major market considerations such
as: the competition for copra among the different oil milling
groups, the pressures to sell unrefined oil to the export markets
vis-a-vis the sales of refined oil for the local market; anticipated
changes in the market that could arise and the stimuli required to
bring about such changes; etc.
Reporting Requirements
8.        The consultant shall prepare the following reports:
(a) An inception report, within one month upon issuance of the Notice to
Proceed, stmarizing the work plan of the consultant.
(b) Preliminary draft report of the study results due on the sixteenth
(16th) week from the date of the Notice to Proceed. The preliminary
draft report shall be presented by the consultant for comments which



- 45 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 24
may be incorporated into the final report. Comments will be
transmitted to the consultant four weeks after the date of
presentation.
(c) Final report, due eight weeks from the receipt of coments.
Cost of Study
9.        The consultancy proposal shall present in detail the budget require-
ment for the conduct of the study. It shall be itemized according to the
costs and expertise of personnel and man-month rate, number of travels and per
diems. Overhead costs as well as other contingencies shall likewise be
presented in detail.
Manpower and Timing
10.       The consultant shall mobilize a team of four (4) with expertise in
the following disciplines: Agribusiness Management with experience in
international trade (Team Leader) - to supervise and coordinate report prepar-
ations; Agricultural Economics - to analyze production and marketing costs;
Agricultural Marketing - in consultation with the Agricultural Economist, to
study marketing costs; and Cost Accounting - to undertake cost analysis. The
consultant shall submit its draft report within sixteen (16) weeks from the
date of the Notice to Proceed.  The Review Committee shall submit its comments
within four weeks from receipt of the draft report. The team's report is due
within four (4) weeks from its receipt of the Review Committee's comments on
its draft report.



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 24
Sugar Study: Terms of Reference
Background
1.        The Agricultural Sector Inputs Project calls for a comprehensive
study of the sugar industry in the Philippines. Particular emphasis is to be
placed on the production, processing and marketing aspects of this industry.
The study is to analyze the nature, extent and cost of government invo vement
in this industry from economic, financial and institutional points of view and
to propose possible alternatives or options on how economic efficiency in the
sugar sector can be maximized.
Objectives of the Study
2.        The major objective of the proposed study is to analyze and evaluate
the efficiency of the different systems currently utilized by the Philippines
in cane production, processing and in the marketing of sugar for domestic and
international consumption. The results of the study should provide a set of
conclusions and recommendations on the long-term objectives, strategy, and the
policies that will have to be adopted by the Philippine Government in relation
to the sugar industry in order to optimize the country's income from this
commodity, and the incomes of producers as well.
3.        Among the specific objectives that emanate from this major objective
are:
(a) To determine how best the Philippines should market its sugar both
domestically and internationally, and in particular determine the
areas and scope for private sector participation in international
sugar marketing.
(b) To review and evaluate the performance of PHILSUCOM as a government
regulatory agency, and of NASUTRA as a marketing corporation.
(c) To review the most recent system of price setting and assess its
efficiency from the points of view of different industry
participants.
(d) To analyze the history, nature and rationale of such liens as
collections for the Stabilization Fund and the 10% retention for
payments of NASUTRA's loans, among others, and make recommendations.
(e)  To study the cost structure of PHILSUCOM and NASUTRA to determine
whether there are possibilities for cost reduction.
(f) To assess the impact of price fixing on the domestic wholesale and
retail trade, and the effects of limiting the number of traders in
this market, and make recommendations.
(g) To determine the appropriate economic, technological, and financial
recuirements for attaining higher levels of cane production, greater
efficiency in milling recovery and effective marketing at the least
cost.



- 47 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 24
(h)  To make recommendations on the most appropriate means of
distributing benefits among the various industry participants.
Specific Terms of Reference
4.        The consultant will conduct separate analysis of income, costs and
productivity of the different entities in this industry, namely, cane
producers, the milling sector, the traders and the Government itself.
Specifically, the study should include the following:
(a) The International Setting.
(i)   In the light of the history and features of the sugar market,
the consultant should assess the arguments for and against the
single agency system and the free market method, and assess
whether intermediate methods such as commodity exchanges,
commodity associations under treaty terms, cooperatives and
the like would be more appropriate.
(ii) Description of the relative position of Philippine sugar pro-
duction in the world market and the United States market,
including the mechanisms and policies required for successful
participation in these markets.
(b)  (iii) Elements of the Philippine Sugar Debate.  The components of
the sugar controversy should be identified and analyzed,
bringing the opposing arguments to bear on specific issues.
Among those issues that have to be considered are:
Ci)   The composite liquidation price;
(ii) The producer's share in the obligations to NASUTRA;
(iii) Accountability of NASUTRA to industry members;
(iv) The relationship between NASUTRA and Philex and settlement of
the Philex debt;
(v)   Ownership the long-term contract with US buyers in 1979-84;
(vi) Export profit differentials and service levies;
(vii) Cost of PHILSUCOM operations and their financing;
(viii) Domestic trading fees, and licensing of traders
(c)  An Overview of NASUTRA's Operations.  The consultant should:  (a)
compile a description of NASUTRA's operations, review its
objectives, assess the nature and the consequences of its
relationship with PHILSUCOM and analyze its yearly operating budget
for the last three or four years; (b) may provide guidelines and



- 48 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 24
recommendations for operational improvements in NASUTRA's operations
and indicate remedial actions if necessary.
(d) Conclusions and Recommendations. On the basis of the foregoing
analyses, the consuLtant will formulate a set of conclusions and
recommendations with regard to the long-term objectives, strategy
and policies of the Philippine Government in relation to the sugar
industry.
Manpower and Counterpart Requirements
5.        The consultant shall mobilize a team of at least four (4)
individuals with expertise in the following fields: (a) Agribusiness
Management with experience in international trade. The Agribusiness extent
will probably be the team leaders. He will supervise and coordinate report
preparation; (b) Agricultural Economics; (b) Agricultural Marketing - for the
evaluation of the sugar marketing system prevailing immediately before the
issuance of PD 1905; and (d) Cost Accounting - for the analysis of the cost
accounting system of agencies involved in sugar marketing.
The consultant should specify the counterpart activities, information, staff
assistance, etc. which will need to be provided by government agencies.
Cost of Study
6.        The cost proposal shall present in detail the budgetary requirements
for the conduct of the study. It shall be itemized according to the number of
personnel and expertise to be utilized and the corresponding rates per man-
month, the number of travels and per diems to be incurred, estimates of the
cost of supplies and other operating expenditures. Overhead costs, out of
pocket expenses as well as other contingencies shall be presented in detail.
Reporting Requirements
7.        The consultant will make an oral report to the inter-agency
comnittee at the end of each month that the engagement is in progress. These
sessions will be held mainly to review the progress of the study resolve
problems that the consultant may have encountered, and formulate alternative
approaches whenever necessary.
8.        A preliminary draft report of the study results should be submitted
by the consultant in or before the sixteenth (16th) week from the date of the
Notice to Proceed. This preliminary draft report shall be reviewed and
commented upon by PHILSUCOM, NASUTRA, the Ministry of Agriculture, NEDA and
other related entities as determined by the inter-agency committee. Comnents
will be transmitted to the consultant within four (4) weeks from receipt of
the draft report. The consultant's final report will be due within four (4)
weeks from its receipt of Government's comments on its draft report.



- 49 -
ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 24
Fertilizer Study: Terms of Reference
Objectives and Scope
1.        The objective of the study is to analyze and assess the present
fertilizer marketing and distribution system as well as related policies with
a view to formulating long term fertilizer development strategy. The purpose
is to ensure an efficient operation and management of the sector facilities
and to provide fertilizer at the least cost to farmers. The study will result
in identification of strategies and policy recommendations leading to rational
planning of fertilizer supplies, improved efficiency of the distribution and
marketing system, delineation of the respective roles of the public and
private sectors, improved efficiency of fertilizer use, and an equitable
pricing structure. The scope of the study will include:
(a) a review and assessment of the fertilizer sector including produc-
tion, distribution marketing, use, and pricing policies over the
period 1970-83;
(b) fertilizer supply and demand balance over the pa!riod 1984-95; by
types of fertilizers and sources of supply;
(c) analysis and assessment of the existing marketing and distribution
system and related policies;
(d) devising a logistical plan to minimize distribution costs;
(e) measures to increase effectively agronomic efficiency of fertilizer
at the farm level to maximize return on fertilizer use and reduce
import requirements;
(f) identification of the cost effective means of utilizing the existing
and planned production capacity;
(g) assessment of controlled versus free competition in the market place
and its consequences and benefits to producer, importer, distributor
and farmer;
(h) review of the present Government policies that related to the opera-
tion and regulation of fertilizer sector and recommendations for
improving these policies with a view to developing cost effective
fertilizer sector estimate on funds currently being spent on this
type of research and extension programs.
2. Fertilizer Use Aspects
(a) Determine the current levels of fertilizer use for each major crop
by nutrient, fertilizer type, region; their proportion to recommend
levels; identify and analyze major constraints responsible for
stagnation in fertilizer use and make recommendations to overcome
these constraints.



- 50 -
ANN  IV
Page 12 of 24
(b) Review and evaluate relevant research findings concerning response
to major crops to various types and levels of fertilizer application
under specific production environment with a view to synthesizing
appropriate parameters for quantifying returns to fertilizer use
over wider areas of the country.
(c) Present and analyze historical data on fertilizer use (by type and
nutrient); identify by region trends in consumption for 1973-83, and
compare tnese data with earlier forcasts on use. Determine antici-
pated fertilizer demand by major crops and markets using at least
two scenarios; this should reflect annual fertilizer consumption (on
nutrient and product basis) for 1985-95.
(d) Make a detailed evaluation of fertilizer application technologies
that can increase agronomic efficiency of fertilizer use, determine
their applicability to field conditions and recommend a program for
their widespread adoption by the farmer. Special attention should
be directed towards technologies that will increase the efficiency
of nitrogen on rice or its past replacement with materials such as
azolla. The program proposal should include identification of
funding requirements, manpower needs, implementation arrangements,
coordinating body, and a plan of action.
3. Fertilizer Supplies
(a) Review historical trends in domestic production of fertilizer in the
Philippines, percent capacity utilization and import levels over
past ten years on an annual basis to meet national requirements.
Estimate local production by product and factories for the period
1984-95 and estimate import requirements.
(b) E-amine the present and projected production cost profiles (giving
detailed breakdown of costs) of each domestic fertilizer plant, and
determine its cost competitiveness on the basis of projected c.i.f.
costs of imported fertilizer (ex-Philippine port) and anticipated
realization price, i.e., the export price level which would be
sufficient to entice new investment from the more favorably situated
producers.
(c) Estimate year-wise import requirements of fertilizer by nutrients
and products, review the existing government agreements for supply
of fertilizers, if any, and examine possible sources of supply,
incLuding the possibility of cost-savings through a long term
bilateral agreement to buy urea from gas-based plants in the
neighboring countries.
(d) Make recoimendations in production strategy for the new Philphos and
existing plants with the objective of supplying the domestic market
with most economical fertilizers and maximizing foreign exchange
earnings from export of phosphoric acid.



- 51 -
ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 24
4. Fertilizer Marketing and Distribution
(a) Review the fertilizer marketing and distribution system for both
domestically produced and imported fertilizers, indicate steps
involved at various leveLs from production/import to wholesale and
retail; identify the dominant market channels, the relevant
marketing costs (covering transport, storage, handling, distribu-
tion, marketing, etc.), and as applicable, the level of direct
and/or indirect subsidy given to importer/producers and farmers.
Assess the adequacy of present distribution system to handle future
volumes and make recommendation for improvement.
(b) Examine the feasibility of building up and operating a buffer stock
(as distinguished from operational stocks) of fertilizer at identi-
fied locations, and if found feasible, recommend a suitable level of
buffer stock method of turn over the stock and work out the cost of
operation and suggest how it should be met.
(c) Describe in sufficient detail movement of major fertilizer products
(urea, ammosul and 14-14-14) for each importer/distributor in period
1981-84 so that costs and logistical efficiencies of the present
system can be assessed.
(d) Compare costs of the present distribution system for local produc-
tion using a limited number of supply points with those of a more
decentralized system of strategically suituated supply points having
capabilities to convert local and/or imported intermediates (or
straight finished materials) into compound or blends of NPK
fertilizer. Based on these findings, propose alternative and assess
the most rational and cheapest system of future distribution of
fertilizer.
(e) Make suggestion in the changes that might be possible in the
marketing structure of the Philippines with the implementation of
either a centralized or decentralized system of supply points.
5. Strategy for Future Development of the Fertilizer Sector
(a) Taking into account the needs of the Philippine market and the
importance of a safe and stable supply of nitrogen, recommend a
strategy for procurement of urea, ammonia, and the production of
ammonium sulfate. This strategy should take into account the
economics of imported urea vis-a-vis the local production of
ammnonium sulfate based on local sulfuric acid and imported ammonia.
(b) Assess controlled versus free competition in the market place;
identify the consequences and benefits of each to the producer,
importer, distributor, retailer and farmer; and suggest a suitable
blend of controlled and free competition that will lead to orderly
growth of the industry and make fertilizer avilable to the farmer at
reasonable price.



- 52 -
ANNEX IV
Page 14 of 24
(c)  Review present Government policies that relate to the operation and
regulation of the fertilizer sector; examine the role of the private
sector in developing a cost-effective fertilizer sector and identify
areas where Government policies might be reoriented to promote these
roles. Review FPA's charter, its organizationaL setup and its role
in regulating production, import, distribution and use of
fertilizer. In this context, review the system of licensing
fertilizer retailers and suggest ways of enlarging competition.
6. Role of Government Institutions
(a) Identify the government institutions and determine their capacities
to implement proposed strategies and programs resulting from this
study. Specific attention should be directed towards FPA, Bureau of
Agricultural Extension, PCARRD, Bureau of Soils, Bureau of Plant
Industry, Bureau of Agriculture Economics and Bureau of Cooperative
Development under the reorganization of MOA.
(b) Where appropriate, suggest changes in fertilizer-related responsi-
bilities and suggest new roles for present Government institutions
providing support to the fertilizer sector. For those institutions
that are Likely to play an increased role in serving the fertilizer
sector, suggest concrete measures for strengthening their
capabilities. Identify equipment needs and training programs
required over the next five years.
Kanpower Requirements
7.        FPA will engage a competent consulting firm to provide about 20
man-months of consultants' input in the fields of agronomy/soils, agricultural
economics transportation, marketing, distribution and chemical engineering.
In addition, about 55 man-months of local counterpart staff including 27
man-months of technical staff, and 28 man-mnths of survey and support staff
will be provided by FPA. FPA will also set up a Fertilizer Advisory Group to
provide guidance/directions for the study and review of its progress. Bank,
in conjunction with the Asian Development Bank, will closely monitor the study
and participate in review of the interim and final draft report.
Cost Proposal
8.        The cost proposal shall be specific and shall present in detail the
budgetary requirements for the conduct of the study. It shall be itemized
according to the number of personnel and expertise to be utilized and the
corresponding rates per man-month; the number of travels and per diems to be
incurred; estimates of the cost of supplies and other operating expendi-
tures. Overhead costs, out-of-pocket expenses as well as other contingencies
shall likewise be presented in detail.



- 53 -
ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 24
Reporting Requirements
9.        The consul -nt s shall make an oral report to the interagency
committee at the end o- aach month that the engagement is in progress.  These
sessions shall be held mainly to review the progress of the study thus far,
assess problems that the task force/consultants may have encountered, and
formulate alternative approaches whenever necessary.
10.       A preliminary draft report of the study results shall be submitted
by the consultants by the end of October 1984. This preliminary draft report
shall be reviewed and commented upon by the Ministry of Agriculture, NEDA and
other related entities as determined by the inter-agency committee. Comments
shall be transmitted to the consultants within two (2) weeks from receipt of
the draft report.
11.       The final report shall be due by the end of November 1984.



- 54 -
ANNEX IV
Page 16 of 24
Irrigation Study: Terms of Reference
Background
1.        The National Irrigation Administration (NIA) has evolved from a
relatively small government bureau in charge of installing and operating irri-
gation facilities to a fulL-fledged Authority that has to generate fee
collections for its corporate fund to support maintenance operations. Its
credit management, collection and fund administration have had to be
significantly strengthened. The Authority is now required to sign all loan
agreements for funds borrowed for irrigation projects, and assume
responsibility for debt service.
2.        Meanwhile, the NIA has been collecting, on the average about 55.0%
to 60.0Z of the fees actually due against a break-even target of 85.0%. The
NIA is also being asked to re-evaluate its fee structure with a view towards
devising and promulgating a variable scale of charges according to the type of
installation and crop, in order to promote crop diversification.
Objectives
3.        The proposed study is therefore intended to assess the viability of
the NIA, considering its existing and projected debt scrvice, the present and
future levels of operating costs and maintenance expenses. Crop
diversification therefore becomes an attractive alternative for increasing
NIA's revenues considering the opportunities for higher productivity uses, the
prospect of generating rice surpluses when rice export is not the primary
objective, and the need to match water usage with the scale of facilities to
maximize the use of irrigation canals.
Terms of Reference
4.        Emanating from the overall study objective broadly outlined above
are a number of specific objectives and areas of investigation which the study
should address. These are:
(a) to determine the alternative levels of revenue generation that may
be attained over a projection period of ten (10) years, given the
existing and proposed irrigation rates and collection efficiencies,
and other sources of income. The estimation of NIA revenues should
be based on three assumptions, namely, under conditions as at
present, under realistically attainable improvements in collection
efficiency, and at the maximum possible level;
(b) to analyze and project the financial status of NIA under each
revenue expectation, including the need for continuing government
equity contributions to the NIA's corporate fund whenever shortfalls
occur, considering the levels of debt services, operations and
maintenance expenses that the NIA has to support over the projected
period. The effects of the various revenue assumptions on capital
expenditures, operations and maintenance cost will have to be
demonstrated;



- 55 -
ANNEX IV
Page 17 of 24
(c) to evaluate options and mechanisms for improving fee collections,
cutting costs and otherwise improving NIA's financial status,
assessing the implications from the viewpoint of farmers, NIA and
the public treasury;
(d) to evaluate the effects of the proposed variabLe irrigation fee on
crop diversification, value-added from irrigation, cropping
intensity, and fee collections;
(e) to propose a crop-specific regime of irrigation fees, with
procedures for setting and collecting fees, and to assess the
expected impact on farm productivity, collection efficiencies and
overalL financial position of the NIA; and
(f) to evaluate the prospects for irrigation of crops other than rice,
and policies which would affect these prospects.
Manpower and Counterpart Requirements
5.        The consultant shall mobilize a team of at least three (3)
individuals with expertise in the following fields: Agricultural Economics -
for the supervision and coordination of report preparation; Financial and Cost
Accounting - for the projection of NIA's financial status; and Agronomy - for
the analysis of the impact of variable irrigation fee policy. The consultant
should also indicate the data needed as well as other support from government
agencies both before and during the conduct of the study.
Study Costs
6.        The consultancy proposal shall present in detail the budgetary
requirements for the conduct of the study. It shall be itemized according to
the number of personnel and expertise required and the corresponding cost
rates per man-month, the number of travels and per diems to be incurred,
estimates of the cost of supplies and other operating expenditures. Overhead
costs, out-of-pocket expenses as well as other contingencies shall likewise be
presented in detail.
Report Requirements
7.        The L_nsultant will make an oral report to the inter-agency
committee at the end of each month that the engagement is in progress. These
sessions are intended tc review the progress of the study thus far, assess
problems that the consultant may have encountered, and formulate alternative
approaches whenever necessary.
8.        A preliminary draft report of the study results should be submitted
by the consultant on or before the twelfth (12th) week from the date of the
Notice to Proceed. This preliminary draft report shall be reviewed and
conmented upon by NIA, the Ministry of Agriculture, NEDA and other related
entities.  Comments will be transmitted to the consultant within four (4)
weeks from receipt of the draft report.



- 56 -
ANNEX IV
Page 18 of 24
The consultant's final report wiLl be due within four (4) weeks from its
receipt of committee's comments on its draft report.



- 57 -
ANNEX IV
Page 19 of 24
Agricultural Credit Study: Terms of Reference
Introduction and Study Objectives
1.        Improvements in the agricultural terms of trade are expected to
result from the recent exchange rate realignment. In addition, adjustments in
policies regarding government interventions in agricultural input cost levels,
commodity price ceilings and support mechanisms will remove the existing
depressants to producer incentives by eliminating the extrinsic pressures that
have held down average farmgate prices. These adjustments may eliminate the
need for subsidizing interest rates on agricultural credit to offset low farm
prices. In recent years, low interest rates actually turned negative in reaL
terms during the inflation of the 1970s resulting in a significantly reduced
flow of credit to the agricultural sector, especially to the small farmers
where costs of loan adr nistration and risk factors are relatively high.
2.        A special study on agricultural credit should therefore be conducted
to determine how the volume of credit going to the agricultural sector may be
increased, and how the average cost of delivering such credit to farmers may
be reduced.
Specific Terms of Reference
3.        Emanating from the overall study objective broadly outlined above
are a number of specific areas of investigation.
(a) To obtain a descriptive profile of the major or important sources
and conduits of agricultural credit, both formal and informal, that
are accessible to different types of farmers, and for different
types of farm financing needs;
(b) To identify the different components of the costs to deliver
agricultural credit for each type of source;
(c) To identify and evaluate all regulatory and administrative
requirements in the procedures of the formal credit sector which
could be reduced, eliminated or altered in order to reduce the cost
of credit delivery, and to improve the timeliness and flexibility of
credit delivery to farmers by this sector;.
(d) To formulate a set of saeasures for reducing the costs of credit
delivery and evaluate the effects of such measures on the effective
cost to farmers, their impact on credit utilization and the farmers'
ability to service the costs of borrowing;
(e) To identify constraints on collection of loans and on savings
mobilization by rural credit institutions, and propose remedial
measures which Government and rural credit institutions can
undertake; and
(f) To identify measures by which informal lenders could be utilized as
conduits of credit from the non-farm sector to agriculture.



- 58 -
ANNEX IV
Page 20 of 24
Manpower and Counterpart Requirements
4.        The consultant shall mobilize a team of at least three (3)
individuals with expertise in the following fields: Agribusiness Management
with experience in Rural Credit (Team Leader) - to supervise and coordinate
report preparation; Agricultural Economics - to identify costs of credit
delivery; and Agricultural Finance - to identify all regulatory and
administrative requirements in the credit sector.
5.        The consultant should also specify the counterpart activities,
information, staff assistance, etc., which will be provided by other
government agencies and instrumentalities.
Cost Proposal
6.        The cost proposal shall be specific and shall present in detail the
budgetary requirements for the conduct of the study. It shall be itemized
according to the number of personnel and expertise to be utilized and the
corresponding rates per man-month, the number of travels and per diems to be
incurred, estimates of the cost of supplies and other operating
expenditures. Overhead costs, out-of-pocket expenses as well as other
contingencies will likewise be presented in detail.
Reporting Requirements
7.        The consultant will make an oral report to the inter-agency
committee at the end of each month that the engagement is in progress. These
sessions will be held mainly to review the progress of the study thus far,
assess problems that the consultant may have encountered, and formulate alter-
native approaches whenever necessary.
8.        A preliminary draft report of the study results should be submitted
by the consultant on or before the twelfth (12th) week from the date of the
Notice to Proceed. This preliminary draft report shall be reviewed and
commented upon by the Ministry of Agriculture, NEDA, Central Bank and other
related entities. Comments will be transmitted to the consultant within four
(4) weeks from receipt of the draft report. The consultant's final report
will be due within four (4) weeks from its receipt of Government's comments on
its draft report.



- 59 -
ANNEX IV
Page 21 of 24
The MAF Institution Building Program: Terms of Reference
Background
1.        By April 1984, the Presidential Commission on Reorganization (PCR)
completed its plans concerning organizational changes in the agricultural
sector. The plans envisage the creation of a new Ministry of Agriculture and
Food whose Minister would be the Chairman of the National Food Authority
(NFA). This new Ministry will have charge of all the functions of the present
Ministry of Agriculture as well as of fisheries and pasture leases and have
adequate representation in the sugar and coconut regulatory bodies. The PCR
plans also indicate the functions to be performed by the National Food and
Agriculture Council (NFAC) and the National Economic and Development Authority
(NEDA) and specify how responsibility for sector-wide planning will be
assigned. Implementing documentation for the organizational structure of the
new Ministry will be completed and issued by June 1984.
2.        Tne objective of unifying the top management of the present Ministry
of Agriculture and the NFA is to improve the overall coherence and unity of
management of the agricultural sector, particularly in policy analysis and
formulation, setting intrasectoral investment priorities, and implementing
agricultural projects and programs. In line with this objective, a program
for long-term institution building shall be initiated by October 1984.
Objectives
3.        The objective of the MAF Institution Building Program is to install
the necessary managerial capacity and systems within the MAF to carry out its
assigned responsibilities effectively and efficiently.
Specific Terms of Reference
4.        Specifically the consultant will analyze the institutional strengths
and weaknesses of MAF in such areas as:
(a) Agricultural policy analysis and formulation, including research and
development capacities;
(b) Preparation and review of programs and projects which are within the
organizational boundaries of MAF;
(c) MA? Budgeting and Financial Management systems and practices;
(d) Support required by the Minister, MAF, to carry out responsibilites
beyond the Ministry's boundaries, such as reviewing and recommending
intra-sectoral investment priorities, chairmanship of the NFA,
chairmanship of the NFAC, and instructing MFA representatives on the
Boards of the sugar and coconut authorities;
(e) Program and project management techniques and practices;
(f) Staffing and organization support for the NFAC;



- 60 -
ANNEX IV
Page 22 of 24
(g) Personnel management in the MAF;
(h) Management communications, decision-making and information systems
and practices with particular reference to fully realizing the
objectives of MAF's regionalized organizational structure.
5.        In carrying out the assessment of institutional strengths and
weaknesses, the consultant will consider all dimensions of managerial
capabilities, e.g., the effectiveness of the organizational structure;
staffing requ.rements both quantitatively and qualitatively; effectiveness and
efficiency of management and administrative policies, systems and procedures;
data processing support; secretarial and clerical support; and management and
leadership style.
6.        In formulating the proposed institution building program, the
consultant will prepare separate proposals for each component of the program
including an estimate of compLetion cost and time and the priority it should
receive. Whenever possible the components should be ready for immediate
implementation, although it is recognized that certain instances further study
may be necessary.
7.        To assess institutional capabilities and develop an improvement
program, each part of the institution must be reviewed along the following
lines:
(a) the policy or doctrine which guides staff action;
-b) the work program, systems and procedures which are used to convert
policy/doctrine to product;
Cc) resources: human, financial, technology;
Cd) structure, including the distribution of authority; and
(e) coherence or fit among the various functions; and
(f) leadership and management style at various organizational levels
used to direct, monitor and control staff action.
8.        Based on the results of the above analysis, a long-term Manpower
Development Program will be designed. This program will fall under the
umbrella of Career Development, and will include training (on- and off-the-
job) as well as performance evaluation which should be an integral part of the
institution-building program.
9.        Putting together the task requirements, work standards, systems and
procedures, training needs, and performance evaluation will require a Manage-
ment Information System, which will also be part of the total package of
recomaendations.



- 61 -
ANNEX IV
Page 23 of 24
Methodology
10.       The approach to be used will be akin to a management audit, where a
team of consultants will study the present systems and procedures from a
management point of view. The operative question would be "how can the new
ministry better accomplish its goals and objectives."
11.       The consultants will need access to records and documents.  They
will also interview the people in the Ministry, from the Minister down to the
lowest levels (on a stratified sampling basis). Conceivably, they will also
need to look into the systems and procedures of other organizations (ministries,
agencies. etc.) with whom the Ministry will interface regularly.
12.       The study should take from two to three years.  The data-gathering
should be accomplished over the first six months. Months seven to twelve will
be devoted to designing the Manpower Development Program and the Systems and
Procedures. In month thirteen, the design for the Management Information
System and the Performance Evaluation System will be initiated and should be
ready for implementation by month nineteen.
Implementation Requirements
13.       The formulation of such an institution-building program will be
undertaken by qualified consultants who are familiar with the agricultural
sector, particularly the Ministry of Agriculture and the NFA. Since the study
will essentially focus on the question of how to better manage the new Ministry,
the consultants should also be well-versed on management systems, structures,
and issues.
14.       Furthermore the consultants should also be prepared to undertake a
continuing relationship with the new Ministry in order to help in the
Implementation of the program.
15.       The consulting team should include specialists in Agriculture and/or
Agribusiness, Organizational Development, Management Education and Training,
and General Management.
Cost Proposal
16.       The cost proposal shall be specific and shall present in detail the
budgetary requirements for the cnnduct of the institution-building program.
It shall be itemized according to the number of personnel and expertise to be
utilized and the corresponding rates per man-month, the number of travels and
per diems to be incurred, estimates of the cost of supplies and other operating
expenditures. Overhead costs, out-of-pocket expenses and other contingencies
shall likewise be presented in detail.



- 62 -
ANNEX IV
Page 24 of 24
Reporting Requirements
17.       The consultant will make an oral report at the end of each month
that the engagement is in progrecc. This session will be held mainly to
review the progress of the study and to assess problems that the consultant
may have encountered and formulate alternative approaches whenever necessary.
18.       Written progress reports will be submitted at key time periods
to be agreed upon by the MAF representative(s) and the consultant. Comments
will be transmitted to the consultant within two (2) weeks from receipt of the
draft progress reports. The consultant's final report will be due in the third
year upon completion of the evaluation and revision phase.



- 63 -
ANNEX V
pNbiac irof1e* ig                    Page 1 of 34
__            offi*e oFtIe Vru  c[it~er
4 June 1984
IY. A. W. Clausen
President
The lbrld Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Wa2shington, D.C.
U. S. A.
Dear Mr. Clausen:
Be: ProDosed Agricultural Sector/Inputs Loan
1. The global recession, with low cwnmodity prices, high interest
rates on external borrowing, and an increasingly unfavorable trading
climate has slowed down economic and export arowth, depressed domestic
demand and crivate investment activity, and. aggravated the fiscal
and the balance of payments problems in the Philippines for the past
three years. Real GDP growth fell fran 6.3% in the 1970's to an
estimated 2.9% in 1982, and only 1% in 1983.
2. Although the Goverxrnnt has made substantial efforts to put together
a sound short-term ecorxxnic stabilization 1proaram, it wiAll take
some tize to put all the elements of the program into place, as also
borne out by recent exneriences in other countries facing similar
problems. In the interil, essential trade flows have been disru ted
by major contraction of trade credits. Until nornal trade financing
is restored, the country will lack sufficient foreion exchannre
resources to finance the imoortation of essential inruts to
efficiently utilize existing productive capacity. Failure to meet
the urgent import needs of the productive sectors, rarticuJarly
that of agriculture which constitutes the Pain source of foreicn
exchange earnings, wrill seriously joepardize the iiplementation of the
econmiic stabilization procrarn and imoede our efforts towards
economic recovery. This is a particularly unsettling prospect
at a tire when the alobal conditions have begun to improve.
3.  'Ib give mcalentum to the economic recovery, the Government will seek
to establish approDriate conditions to promote an orderly and
sustained development of the rural econcmy and to rerove bottlenecks
to production, in particular shortages of imported agricultural
inputs. Ie consider that agriculture can play a leadinS role in the
process of economic recovery, as the sector (including forestry and
fisheries) is the main source of livelihood for the 35 million
people (70% of total population) who live in the rural areas and



- 64 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 34
a major source of foreign exchange earnings for the econamy. Ikreover,
since food expenditures alone acctunt for nearly half of the conswrpr
basket, food production will continue to play a decisive role in
cubing inflation. Consistent with this strategy, the Goverment
will seek to gradually imrove production and profitability through
appropriate policy measures, strengthen the institutional framewrk
for sector rnanagert, irobilize an adequate level of finanrial
resources to meet the sector's needs, and iinprove the allocation of
scarce public resources.
4. This letter is to request assistance from the Bank in the fiDancing
of critical inputs required to maintain agricultural production at
acceptable levels and technical assistance essential to the
iirlementation of a program of policy and institutional reforms in
the sector. Bank assistance for these  nuroses will help safequard
the viability of the short-tern econonic stabilization program, and
mobilize  an increased level of official developent assistance to eet
our external financial needs. M:,st significantly, it will help create
an adpropriate policy and institutional ervirment for a more
rted developent of the sector. To this end, the Government
is cxxnnitted to the iirleentatian of a progran of policy and
institutional reforms described in the attached paper entitled
"Agenda for Action in Agriculture: 1984-88".
5. 7Ie Agenda for Action in Agriculture provides for action in several
areas, including an=ng other things, (a) the production and maruketing
of key crops and essential inputs; (b) irrigation; {c) credit;
(d) fisheries; (e) land use policies; and (f) organization and
of agricultural develoFment programs.  In this regard
and pursuant bo our loan request to finance the Agricultural Sector/
Inputs Project, we would like to reaffirim our intention to proceed
with the iuplementation of the aforementioned program, and in
particular to consider (i) the management and organization in the
agricultural sector including the modification of the mrmbershis
of the supervisory Boards dealing with the marketing and/or production
of various agricultural comaudities;  (ii) governzrent controls Cn
prices of animal feeds and meat products such as pork and poultry;
(iii) private sector participation in the trade of coodgrains and
aninal feeds; (iv) rediscount rate on agricultural credit; and
(v) the adequacy of studies to address key subsectoral issues.
6. Concerning the managenent and organizational problems of the
agricultural sector, I would like to confirm that the President will
organize the sectoral ministries such that:
(a) the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (r,%F) -will be
formed by merging the Ministry of Agriculture and
the National Food Authority, including the transfer
of the Bureau of Fisheries and Aouatic Resources fran
the Ministry of Natural Resources to the MAF and its
integration into MIF's organizational structure.  In line



- 65 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 34
with exisg practice, the Minister/Deputy Minister
for Agriculture and Food shall also be the ex-officio
chairman of the various cnuodity boards/authorities;
(b) the gover nwill take appropriate measures to
improve the sectoral planing system for agriculture
including appropriate neasures for the review of intra-
sectoral agricultural investment proposals; and
(c) the gvrunt will initiate measures to strengthen and
reorient the operations of the Naticnal Food and Agriculture
COuncil (NEAC) for us to make a more effective instrument
for develcping inter-sectoral policy cnsensus and for
coordirating the anplementation of major agricultural
proTr2ms which involve ministries and entities outside the
formal boundaries of IIF. NFAC recauerendations will be
referred to the Cabinet and NFDA.
These actions will become effective not later than July 1, 1984.
7. In line with existing policies concerning price controls, the
Gbvernmcnt intends to gradually deregulate the animal feed and
livestock industries and increase its reliance on narket forces.
Cecidfically, we have adbpted a three-phase program of price
adjustment and decnmtrol, ccsisting of the following:
(a) First Phase
Adjustments in the prices of poultry, eggs and
pork to reflect recent ircreases in input cost. Ihese
adjustments took effect mn May 28, 1984.
(b) Second Phase
Periodic review of the prices of poultry, eggs
and pork and adjustments as necessary during the remairnder
of CY 1984.
(c) Third Phase
(i) courence a six-rcnth program to phase out
price controls on poultry, eggs and pork; and
(ii) cmmence a two-year program to reduce inport
tariffs on poultry.
The third phase will be iuplentect wien econcxnic
and financial conditions stabilize which the governt
aims to achieve towards the end of CY 1984.
8. Cist with the aboventioned price liberalization progran in
the livestock industry and concerning Goverment restricticns mn
private sector activities in the trade of rice, corn, and animal
feeds, the G wernrent intends toirrplement a program designed to
cpen up by not later than the end of 1984, import trade of yellow



-66 -                       ANNEX V
Page 4 of 34
corn and animal feeds to the private sector, except when private
sector inorts are inadequate to meet darestic requirements at
reasoable prices. I would like to note, however, that we will
maintain an =rort tariff of not less than (10%) on such inports
to provide the minimn level of prctection to dcrestic producers.
As for rice exports, the Government intends to issue apprcpriate
guidelines to allow the private sector to participate in the
export trade, except in cases when WAF has determined that there is
a dciestic shortage. These guidelines will be issued on or before
July 1, 1984.
9. COncerning rediscxunt rates on agricultural credit, I would like to
informn you that an March 9, 1984 the Central Bank issued Circular
No. 994, which provides for closer alignment of rediscunt rates
for agriculture with those for other sectors and a change frrn
a fixed to a floating rediscout rate based on prevailing market
rate.
10. As for the studies, I wold like to stress that the Governt
attaches particular significance to each of the stuxies to be carried
out urxner the proposed program. We have made the necessary
arrangzrents to start the studies on NA, cocnut, sugar, irrigaticn,
fertilizer and agricultural credit, and to formulate the sectoral
investment program. We intend to assign fully cauetent and
independen experts to prepare these studies which we plan to
s tially crlete towards the end of CY 1984. Also we intend
to closely mxnitor their preparation and make all necessary
a3xangements to review and follow-up on their ra    tions- We
fully expect that these studies will provide the framwdrk for
further policy and institutional reforms andl for a constructive
future sectoral policy dialogue between the Goement and the Bank.
11. Finally, I wwld like to inform you that the Goverrent inteds to
designate a Central Project Ccdinator under my office ro coordinate
and oversee project implerentation. The coordinator will be
responsible for mnitoring all project related activities and
ensuring that they are carried out in accordance with arrangts
aoceptable to the Bank.
12. In view of the progress that the Coernent has made in fornulating
a program of action, objectives and policies designed to enhance
the growth prospects of the rural econany, and our camiant to
fplemnEt the progran, we would appreciate your favorable consideration
of the Genment's request for an Agricultural Sector/Inputs Loan
of $150.0 million.
Sincerely,
CE5R E.A4. A
Pri  Yister
and
Minxister of Finanoe



-67-                                ANNEX V
Page 5 of 34
AGENDA FOR ACTION IN AGRICULTURE: 1984-88
This document sets out the proposed program of action to be under-
taken by the Government of the Philippines over the next five years to
accelerate the pace of agricultural development and thus maximize agri-
culture's contribution to economic recovery. Attention is drawn to the set of
policy and institutional reforms that need to be adopted or undertaken
immediately if the sector is to fulfill its role as the key to economic
recovery.
Part I describes the macro-economic context which has necessitated
the formulation of the proposed program of action and adjustment. It also
outlines the objectives, thrusts, and rationale of the agricultural
development strategy over the short and medium terms periods. Part II
discusses the specific actions and policy adjustments required to increase
production and productivity, with special emphasis on market mediations design
to improve producer incentives while giving due recognition to consumer
interests. Part III describes the measures needed to mobilize sufficient
financial resources to support the strategy for improved farm productivity and
broader equity. Part IV proposes organizational reforms essential for stream-
lining sector mAnagement and optimizing the use of scarce resources.



- 68 -
ANNEX V
Page 6 of 34
I. THE MACRO-ECONOMIC CONTEXT AND THE ROLE OF AGRICULTURE
1.01      The Philippines is currently beset by severe balance of payment
difficulties.  This comes in the wake of adverse global market conditions
following the second oil shock of 1979 and the subsequent recession which
dampened the once buoyant markets enjoyed by traditional Philippine exports,
particularly coconut products, sugar, and copper. Depressed markets adversely
affected export earnings even as continued dependence on imported raw
materials led to mounting import bills. The GNP growtb rate of 6.7% from 1973
to 1979 eventually declined to 3.6% from 1980 to 1982. The political and
economic problems that struck the country late last year aborted a much-
expected recovery as GNP growth slumped to an all-time low or less than 2Z in
1983. Last year's economic performance has been the worst in 23 years.
Foreign debt now sums up to US$25 billion with actual payments made on
interest in 1973 at US$1.22 billion. These represent more than one fourth of
current annual exports of US$5 billion. Continuing shortages in foreign
exchange may hamper the resurgence of more encouraging growth rates in the
next few years.
1.02      Currency adjustments adopted last year augur well for exports and
may eventually ease up the foreign exchange burden. The June and October
(1983) devaluations of the peso should help close the trade gap. Moreover, as
early as 1980, the Government sought to rectify the recurrent trade imbalance
through an industrialization strategy that underscores the country's
comparative advantage in labor costs and raw -aterials availability.
1.03      Approximating the 6.3% growth rate of the national economy in the
last decade (1970-1980), agriculture etched a 4.9% growth record for the same
period. In 1983, gross value added in agriculture, fishery, and forestry
stood at P 82.08 billion. Agricultural crops contributed the biggest share,
accounting for 58.13% or P 47.71 billion of the total.
1.04      In 1977, the country reversed its previous perennial position as a
rice importer and has since maintained a modest volume of rice exports.
Throughout the 1970s, production of fish, pork, and poultry expanded with
growth accelerating rapidly during the latter part of the decade. Banana and
pineapple exports aLso rose over the decade. On the other hand, cocoa
production fell, abaca and tobacco production leveled off and sugar production
rose less than 2.5% per year. Exports of both dessicated coconut and coconut
oil shoved annual gains averaging about 5% and 13% respectiveLy through the
709.
1.05           Prospects for agricultural production indicate an annual growth
rate of at least 6Z over the 1984 to 1988 plan period. The grains subsector
is estimated to grow 5.5% annually aLthough corn may yet score a higher mark
of 8.5Z with promising yields from the Maisagana feedgrains self-sufficiency
and export program. Commercial crops are projected to grow 7.1Z annually
while other crops may trail behind at 3.9%. With more and relatively cheaper
feed supplies, the poultry industry is expected to sustain its hefty growth
rate of 6.2Z while livestock may move at 2% and the fish industry at 2.5%.



- 69 -
ANNEX V
Page 7 of 34
1.06      Throughout the last decades the agriculture sector achieved
impressive breakthroughs, -especially in the last decade, but-maintaining the
momentum entails the removal of remaining bottlenecks, especially in the areas
of pricing and marketing, resource mobilization, and organizational
efficiency. Solving these bottlenecks will not only benefit agriculture but
industry as well. Enhanced linkages between the two sectors, which may come
in the form of agribusiness ventures, will certainly help in curbing the
worsening unemployment problem during this time of financial crisis. Expanded
and diversified production should improve value-added in both sectors.
1.07      Confronted by a financial setback, the country's short-and mediLa-
term objective inevitably focuses on the improvement of its balance of pay-
ments position. It is in this context that the agriculture sector can piav a
leading role and make up for a possible decline in other sectors and che
national economy as a whole. This can be achieved by fully utilizinig and, at
the same time, building on the intrinsic strengths of existing investments in
the export and import replacement crop subsectors.
1.08      The country's ability to achieve economic recovery hinges on the
recognition of agriculture's primary role in a developing economy. The press-
ing needs at the moment call for improvements in agricultural policies and
institutions, mobilization of adequate financial resources for agricultural
development, and rational use of the country's natural resources. Under
current circumstances, it is imperative to act promptly and decisively to
create the appropriate incentives that will enable agriculture to propel
economic recovery.
In this connection, Government should review its Investments
Priorities Plan and realign all agricultural investment incentives to support
the Agenda for Action in Agriculture.
In consonance with the major national development goals of sustained
economic growth, equitable distribution of income, and improvement of the
quality of life, the agriculture sector sets its sights on the rollowing
primary objectives for the 1984-1988 plan period:
(i) Expand production and step up productivity to increase agri-
culture's contribution to the balance of payments through export
expansion and import-substitution;
(ii) Attain self-sufficiency in all basic food items including grains
as well as fish and meat products, and ensure the availability of
requisite food supplies at reasonable prices, with special
emphasis on indigenous food products with high nutrient value for
the nutritionally vulnerable and deprived population groups;
(iii) Improve and stabilize farmer's income and welfare through higher
productivity, better marketing, and a more efficient system of
pricing, subsidies, and incentives;
(iv) Enhance landless rural worker's welfare by assuricg them of
better access to agricultural resources and bigger share of



- 70 -                      ANNEX V
Page 8 of 34
national income through higher returns, intensified resettlement
activities and by provision of more gainful on and off-farm
employment; and
(v) Carry out a land management policy which will foster the
retention of land suitable for agriculture in agricultural use,
prevent diversion of such land to other uses, and enhance the
security of land tenure.
All in all, therefore, the priority areas for action in agriculture for the
1984-1988 plan period are those which offer the greatest potential for contri-
buting to national efforts toward optimum production and productivity, export
expansion and import replacement, poverty-reduction and better nutrition, and
generally improved welfare of the Filipino family.
1.09      For agriculture to achieve its potential as the lynchpin of economic
recovery, it is necessary to:
(i) reexamine existing policies, particularly in pricing and market-
ing, in order to enhance the sector's productive potential;
(ii) expand and improve the utilization of financial resources; and
(iii) adopt institutional adjustments that would strengthen sector
management.
1.10      Policy changes in Government market interventions emerge as the most
pressing precondition for the sector to reach its productive potential. In
the past, market mediations have been motivated by government's desire to
maintain relatively affordable prices to consumers, provide relatively stable
prices to farmers, and optimize subsector revenues.
Considering the country's present crisis, there is a compelling need
to place primarily emphasis on increased production as the objective of
intervention strategies.
1.11      In addition to market intervention, the allocation of more resources
for agricultural development is imperative. This means mobilizing an adequate
and efficient finance base to support expanded and diversified production
activities. Credit availability, and affordability are continuing concerns.
1.12      Finally, institutional adjustment is of vital importance.  Fragment-
ation among government agencies involved in agriculture has caused not only
delays and ineffectiveness in planning and implementation, Lut overlaps and
duplication of responsibilities as weLl. Responsibilities for sector
policies, including crucial pricing and marketing decisions, are dispersed
among several ministries and agencies. Recent actions by government, however,
have sought to rectify the confusing effects of fragmentation by streamlining
the coordination of agricultural development programs. The adoption of the
Integrated Area Management System (IAMS) under Executive Order 803 is one
concrete example.



- 71 -
ANNEX V
Page 9 of 34
While there is still much room for additional improvements in the
organizational set-up, the success of programs such as Masagana 99 as well as
the commendable record of the agriculture sector throughout the 1970s proves
that the system has worked with the determined leadership of the President
supported by the Prime Minister.
II. PRODUCTION AND MARKET MEDIATION
2.01      Even as Government continues to uphold the principle of private
sector primacy, it will nevertheless continue to play a major role in the
development process by providing the policy framework, implementing tax and
incentive measures, and orchestrating the delivery of technology, credit,
infrastructure, and services to support private sector endeavors
2.02      The objective is to gradually phase out market interventions which
dampen production and investment incentives. This policy objective will cover
both input and output prices, with special emphasis on rice, corn, feedgrains,
wheat, livestock, coconut, sugar, fertilizer, and irrigation.
2.03      While some of these interventions will continue to be necessary in
the short and medium term, in general, the direction should be toward greater
reliance on the free interplay of market factors as the primary force for
inducing increased production and better productivity and as the main deter-
minant of prices. This approach will be pursed within the context of the
overall strategies for each of the following commodities/subsectors.
RICE
2.04      With the average 5% yearly increase in rice production since the
launching of the Masagana 99 program in 1973, the Philippines succeeded in
attaining self-sufficiency in rice in 1977 and exporting 620,000 metric tons
of rice thereafter. It appears, however, that farmers are shifting out of
rice into other more profitable crops as their margins have been eroded by
increasing production costs, fueled mainly by inflation and falling farmgate
prices. While yieLds have been increasing, hectarage dropped by 3.3% from
1980 to 1982 representing a total reduction of 195,000 hectares. In 1983,
hectarage shrank further by 203,200 hectares, representing a drop of 5.9% from
the 1982 level although this was largely due to the eight-month drought Last
crop year.
A pricing policy review in February 1982 indicated that the cash-
tight rainfed farmers are shifting out of rice into other crops. While this
may be desirable in the long run, we still need the output from these
hectarages until we can expand irrigation and thus obtain higher yields. As
it is, yields in irrigated areas have been growing at 3.5% p.a. over the past
ten years while lowland rainfed yields have risen only by an average of 1.8%
yearly. It is therefore imperative to continue expanding irrigation to the
maximum extent allowed by budgetary resources in order to reduce unit costs
and at the same time ensure a more stable and reliable production base. Five
thrusts are necessary if we are to increase revenues for the rice farmer.



- 72 -
ANNEX V
Page 10 of 34
2.04.1         Emphasis on Rainfed Rice and Rainfed Cropping Systems.  While
yields in irrigated areas reached an average of 59.0 cavans (paLay) per
hectare in 1982, rainfed yields stood at only 38.2 cavans per hectare. With
the drought in 1983, irrigated yields remained at the same level as 1982, but
lowland rainfed yields dropped to 36.1 cavans per hectare. Until new
irrigation systems can be built, the development of rainfed multicropping
technology must be continued so that rainZed farmers can grow at least two
crops of rice in one year. Significant advances have been achieved in the
IBRD-assisted KABSAKA project in Iloilo. Several other Mindanao projects are
currently being lined up for external financing, building on the success of
the Iloilo project.
At present the alternatives of rainfed rice farmers are limited to
backyard vegetable farming and livestock raising. The technologies for rain-
fed multiple cropping systems (involving the cultivation of a second crop of
corn or legumes or cotton after rice) are already available but need to be
fully implemented in the field with the proper support of integrated credit
programs and the extension force.
2.04.2    Commercial Rice Production in Irrigated Areas.  Irrigated rice
farmers have thus far reaped most of the benefits of the Hasagana 99
program. However, while they have been able to attain sufficient economic
stability to withstand the pressures of price fluctuations during harvest
time, Government must help them acquire more dryers and threshers so that they
can obtain the best market terms for their produce, especially during periods
of over-supply.
Another important concern is to identify alternative uses for rice-
land irrigated by diversion systems where water levels during the dry season
are usually not sufficient for a second crop of rice. Since corn, sorghum,
soybean, and cotton need only residual water levels, any of these could serve
as a more suitable second crop in these areas.
Lastly, intercropping systems for irrigated rice should be designed
to meet the specific requirements of the Philippines. The SORJAN or rice-and-
corn system in Indonesia has been highly successful and could be adapted in
Mindanao. Rice-fish culture has gained popularity in trial areas in Luzon and
should be expanded throughout the country.
2.04.3    Price Support and Post-Harvest Program.  The current situation of
oversupply and low farmgate prices underscores the importance of developing
and adopting a more effective system of ensuring price stability through
market intervention rather than retail price ceilings. Procurement by NFA of
a sufficient volume of stocks to maintain adequate buffer stocks is the key
factor to price stability and sustained increases in production. In this
regard, it is essential to determine the optimal level of stocks which NFA
should hold for price stabilization and food security purposes.
At the same time, the NFA shall provide incentives to farmers'
organizations to ensure the build-up of post-harvest facilities, specifically
dryers and threshers.



- 73 -                            ANNEX V
Page 11 of 34
Needless to say, there is a need to continue building more farm-to-
market roads. The inadequacy and-poor condition of feeder roads in many areas
makes it virtually impossible for NFA procurement teams to reach remote
places.
2.04.4    Future Thrusts for Rice Exports.  In consonance with the policy to
foster private sector primacy in agriculture, the private sector should be
allowed to take over all export trading of rice whenever exportable surpluses
are available, with government-to-government transactions left to NFA. Such
private sector exports, however, should be subject to NFA regulation through
licensing. This would ensure quality control and enable Government to monitor
regional supply movements with an eye to safeguarding supply and price
stability.
In irrigated areas where it would eventually be possible to grow
three crops of rice in a year, reduced unit costs could make Philippine rice
competitive in the world market. With the current surplus situation, we are
often constrained to export excess supplies that do not easily meet world
specifications. It may therefore be worthwhile to study the possibility of
designating special rice export zones in the Cotabato, Iloilo and Central
Luzon/Cagayan Valley areas where there are already existing roads and post-
harvest facilities. Milling and processing facilities in these zones would
have to be beefed u? to enable the industry to meet export standards.
2.04.5    Input Cost Reduction.  Substantial cost reductions would accrue to
the farmer by extending technologies for the deep placement of fertilizer and
the use of azolla, an organic fertilizing agent.
Studies have shown that the deep placement method reduces chemical
fertilizer usage by 30% simply by burying it under the ground with an
applicator instead of broadcasting it on the soil.
A nationwide program to promote the use of azolla in combination
with chemical fertilizer is ongoing. It is expected that in three years,
azolla wiLl replace up to 25% of the nitrogenous chemical fertilizers used for
the main season rice crop. More research must be undertaken to identify and
control the diseases affecting azolla and to ascertain which azolla varieties
are best suited for rice plants in different soil types and climatic
conditions.
2.05      Proposed Policy Actions.  The following specific actions are
proposed:
(i) Develop and adopt a system of ensuring price stability at both the
farmgate and retail ends through efficient market intervention. Such
intervention would aim at improving producer incentives while giving
due recognition to consumer interests. In this connection, a study of
the National Food Authority (NFA) will be undertaken to review
Government market intervention strategies and operations to determine
its resource requirements.



- 74 -                       ANNEX V
Page 12 of 34
(ii)  Export rice only to move out excess supplies and thus help stabilize
domestic prices.
(iii) Publicly announce guidelines which authorize the private sector to
export rice whenever exportable surpluses arise subject to NFA
regulation, with government-to-government transactions left in NFA
hands;
CORN
2.06      The Philippines has the potential for achieving self-sufficiency and
for generating exportable surpluses of yellow corn within a relatively short
span of time. Steps are being taken to capitalize on the potential of yellow
corn as a new and major export crop, with an eye to supplying part of the huge
and growing yellow corn imports of Japan, Taiwan and South Korea. Using
proven packages of technology for downy-mildew tolerant yellow corn varieties
and hybrids, the Maisagana Program was launched in December 1981 with the
primary objective of attaining self-sufficiency by 1986 and exports of
feedgrains by 1987. However, this potential has remained largely untapped
because of inadequate production incentives and, until recently, the lack of
viable technological packages. Now that suitable technologies have been
developed, the key to expanding production clearly lies in ensuring sufficient
producer incentives.  The following elements are required:
2.06.1    Credit.  An eight-month drought in 1982/83 set back Maisagana
targets by a year and a half. The Maisagana Program is being intensified,
placing more emphasis on the expansion of corn hybrid plantings to take
advantage of the proven higher yield performance of hybrids developed and
disseminated by five private seed companies.
Broadening the adoption of corn hybrid technology over the next two
years will, however, depend on making available sufficient credit to corn
farmers to meet the higher production costs of hybrids. Although the newly
streamlined and expanded crop insurance program has spurred interest in corn
financing due to lower credit risks, there is a need to hasten the
rehabilitation of rural banks to ensure greater participation. At present,
program credit has largely been contributed by the Philippine National Bank,
despite incentives given to rural banks.
To suppLement institutional credit, the feasibility of tapping non-
institutional credit sources, such as fertilizer and seed companies, is being
considered. One fertilizer company (Planters Products) has already been
providing corn financing through its dealers.
2.06.2    Export Production, Processing and Financing.  Four export zones
comprising ten major corn provinces in Northern Luzon and Southern and Central
Mindanao have been identified. Increased yellow corn hybrid production will
be aggressively promoted in these zones, aiming for exports in three years.
The development of these exports zones to ensure export quality production at
competitive prices would require the provision of adequate post-harvest and
storage facilities, the improvement of port facilities ior buLk handling, the
construction of roads, farm mechanization, and strengthened farmer
cooperatives.



- 75 -
ANNEX V
Page 13 of 34
At the same time, there is a need to-develop a-special financing
program for large plantations and commercial farms willing to undertake the
production of yellow corn. Large-scale production of corn through mechanized
farming would considerably lower production costs, thereby improving
competitiveness in the world market.
2.06.3    Greater Private Sector Participation in Corn Trading.  Government
has the sole responsibility for importing yellow corn and for purchasing corn
from farmers at a set (target) price. However, Government often does not have
the financial resources to defend the target price at the peak of harvest.
Therefore, the main thrusts of the policy for yellow corn would be, first, to
gradually set support prices at levels adequate to achieve exportable
surpluses and, second, to liberalize imports and exports of yellow corn,
thereby phasing out Government's exclusive role in such trade.
2.06.4    New Cropping Systems.  There are indications that corn can be grown
as a second crop in the dry season after rice on about 25Z of the irrigated
rice lands where soils are suited for corn production and where water supply
is insufficient for rice growing during the dry season. Since corn requires
only residual water, a shift to corn for the second cropping in such areas
would make possible planting of three times more hectarage, thereby resulting
in more efficient Land and water use. Cropping systems suitable to these
areas must be developed and extended to tap the production potential of
irrigated corn.
2.07      Where white corn is concerned, continued research is still necessary
to improve downy-mildew tolerant (open-pollinated) varieties and to develop
hybrids, white corn being the crop planted by the majority of our corn farmers
for subsistence. Research efforts must also be undertaken on the prevention
and control of corn borers, the most prevalent pest plaguing major corn areas
during the rainy season, as well as on the development of appropriate post-
harvest facilities and farm machinery for small farmers. At the same time, it
is essential to develop viable upland corn-based farming system (such as corn-
legumes strip farming) to increase yields and improve the nutritional status
of upland corn farmers.
2.08      Proposed Policy Actions.  The following specific actions are
proposed to enhance producer incentives and allow expanded private sector
participation in corn trading:
(i) Provide sufficient credit to enable farmers to meet the higher
production costs of hybrids. In this connection, it is necessary to:
- continue the rehabilitation of distressed rural banks
- supplement institutional credit with credit provided through non-
institutional sources.



- 76 -
ANNEX V
Page 14 of 34
(ii)  Commit to set domestic support prices at levels adequate to achieve
exportable-surpluses.
(iii)  Include in the study of NFA how such prices can be determined and
maintained under normal world market conditions.
(iv) Develop yellow corn hybrids as a major export crop, under a five-year
plan with the following elements:
- develop a pricing scheme which will recognize prevailing export
prices at least partially so as to serve as an incentive to the
planting of hybrid corn for export.
- Develop designated corn export zones, from which the private sector
may immediately export subject to NFA regulation.
- At the start of the program, there may be a need to incur export
promotion expenses.
- Construct the necessary transportation, storage and handling
facilities, and roads in the designated corn export zones.
(v) Allow the private sector to import yellow corn.
LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY
2.09      The Philippines has attained self-sufficiency in poultry, eggs, and
pork largely due to the unprecedented growth rates in poultry and hog product-
ion among commercial producers throughout the seventies. However, beef and
dairy production have lagged behind, with about 401 of beef consumption and
98Z of dairy requirements still being imported.
2.10      Feed Supply and Price Instabilities.  Sustained production growth in
poultry, eggs, and pork hinges on the stability of feed supply and prices.
Even with large and growing imports, feed costs have been exceedingly high.
This has exacted a heavy toil on poultry and hog producers, since almost 70X
of their production costs goes to feeds. It is clear that the competitiveness
of the domestic poultry industry will be greatLy enhanced by an expanded and
efficient domestic production of animal feeds, specifically corn and soybeans.
The problems of feed supply and price instabilities should eventu-
ally be solved by the government's all-out drive to achieve self-sufficiency
in feedgrains through the MAISAGANA program, along with the development of
viable feed ingredient substitutes such as sweet potato and cassava. Once
feed costs are reduced to ensure competitiveness in the world market, exports
of pork and poultry products can get underway.
2.11      Ruminant Animal Production.  With the attainment of self-sufficiency
in poultry and pork production, Government has shifted its attention to rumi-
nant animals as a major thrust in livestock production.



- 77 -
ANNEX V
Page 15 of 34
2.11.1    Cattle.  In cattle raising, breeding and fattening are key areas of
concern. The Bureau of Animal Industry's cattLe dispersal program distributes
improved cattle breeds to backyard raisers to upgrade native stock while the
Bakahang Barangay supervised credit program extends financing to backyard
farmers for cattle fattening. Forage and pasture improvements and a pasture
lease program are also being carried out.
2.11.2    Carabao.  The high cost of mechanized farming has revived interest
in the carabao as a work animal. Credit assistance is being extended for the
purchase of work carabaos through the Kalabaw ng Barangay program. Alongside
its work function, the carabao's potential as a source of meat and milk is
also being studied and developed. Research to improve reproductive
efficiency, nutrition, and feeding systems is a major area of concern.
2.11.3    Goats and Sheep.  Chevon and mutton production are being stepped up
to replace part of the beef supplies imported for the meat processing industry
and to produce for the export market in the Middle East. The supervised
credit scheme under the Kambingang Barangay Program offers a twin-pronged
approach to maximize meat and milk output from goats.
To tie-up the Philippine goat and sheep program with other ASEAN
countries, the Philippines has set up an ASEAN Goat and Sheep Center which
focuses on the development of suitable technologies for chevon and mutton
production.
2.12      Dairy Program.  With the end of reducing huge dairy imports, the
country has embarked on a program to accelerate dairy production and produce
within 10 years at least 15Z of the nation's dairy needs. Implemented jointly
by the Philippine Dairy Corporation (PDC) and the Bureau of Animal Industry
(BAI), the program pursues two major thrusts. The first is to upgrade native
cattle for dairying purposes through artificial insemination and the dispersal
of crossbred dairy farmers in designated dairy zones where steady feed supply
is available for mild production.
Complimentary to these thrusts, technical services and the necessary
facilities are being providLd to make dairy breedings and milk production
viable supplementary activities to existing farm systems. Along this line, a
Smallholder Livestock Development Project is being implemented with assistance
from the International Fund for Agricultural DeveLopment (IFAD) and the Asian
Development Bank. The project components consist of backyard milk production,
dairy cattle improvement, cattle fattening and credit extension.
2.13      Marketing.  Excess supplies of poultry, eggs, and pork have been
exerting downward pressure on farmgate prices for these products, with small
producers most affected. Retail prices, however, have remained high, thus
failing to stimulate larger consumption. The establishment of a Livestock
Marketing Board is being considered as a possible mechanism for better
monitoring of the market and rationalizing of the pricing and incentives
system.
In cattle marketing, the establishment of auction markets will
continue to be pursued. The establishment of some 75 auction markets since



- 78 -                          ANXE. V
Page 16 of 34
1972 has resulted in the elimination of layers of middlemen in the marketing
chain. This step, together with the removal of numerous unnecessary fees, has
contributed significantly toward improving producers' margins and reducing
cons mer prices.
2.14      Government policy for the Livestock and pouLtry industries has
attempted to stabilize consumer prices by mediating in both input and output
markets. Government has the exclusive right to import yellow corn and soybean
meal, regulates domestic trading of these feed ingredients, and control the
prices of livestock poultry products.  In line with Government's policy of up-
holding private sector primacy, a gradual deregulation of the feed ingredient
market and the elimination of price controls on livestock and poultry products
would be desirable policy objectives.
2.15      Proposed Policy Actions.  The specific actions proposed to
liberalize the livestock and poultry markets are as follows:
Inputs.
'i) Turn over all import trade of animal feeds, including yellow
corn as specified in Para. 2.08(v), to the private sector.
Government will intervene only in the event that private
sector imports are inadequate to meet domestic sector
requirements at reasonable prices.
(ii)  Strengthen programs for domestic production of corn and
soybeans.
Outputs
(i) Remove price controls on poultry and eggs.
(ii)  Remove price controls on pork
(iii) Adopt a phased reduction of the import tariff for poultry
products.
COCONUT
2.16      There are about half a million coconut farmers and close to one-
third of the country's population derive incomes from one or more aspects of
the industry, from production, to processing, to trading, and marketing.
Coconut occupies the largest portion of the country's cropped area and coconut
products continue to be the country's largest single source of expcrt
revenues. About 80X of the industry's output goes to exports, mainly of
coconut oil and copra.
Although world market prices for coconut oil and copra have begun to
pick-up, coconut farmers are still reeling from the effects of depressed
prices brought on by the recession. In addition, long-standing problems of
low productivity and under-employment continue to saddle the industry.



- 79 -                      ANNEX V
Page 17 of 34
In 1980, a replanting program was undertaken to replace old
unproductive trees with early-bearing, high-yielding hybrids.  Financed
largely through a levy, the replanting program has been temporarily suspended
due to the lifting of the coconut levy in August 1982. In the meantime,
applied research continues to test the performance of hybrids. Other measures
continue to be undertaken to provide succor to the ailing industry and improve
the welfare of coconut farmers. The most promising initiatives are the
following:
2.16.1    Intercropping Under Coconuts.  Although intercropping is not a new
concept to coconut farmers, the practice is n_t widespread and cropping
systems used are usually inefficient.
The Ministry of Agriculture has launched a pilot multi-storey crop-
ping project to broaden the acceptance of intercropping among coconut farmers
through the provision of appropriate support packages. With coconut as the
main crop, farmers are encouraged to raise livestock and annuals such as
coffee, banana, and papaya as mid-storey crops, with perennials, such as
jackfruit, comprising the higher level crops. In line with the Philippine
Food and Nutrition Plan, the primary target are the landless laborers who tend
coconut trees in exchange for being allowed to cultivate the areas under the
trees, with -whatever they harvest going to them. The project is ongoing in
three coconut regions and will be expanded soon.
2.16.2   Product Diversification.  In the face of highly unstable and shrink-
ing world markets for copra and coconut oil, efforts are being intensified to
develop new coconut products (such as coco-diesel and poly-unsaturates for
soap, edible oil, and margarine) in order to diversify exports and thus expand
markets. One coco-chemical plant has been established and is now exporting.
Another plant, a joint Philippine-German venture will soon be operating.
2.16.3    Pricing Policy to Improve Nutrition.  Studies have shown that the
main nutritional deficiency afflicting low-income families, particularly pre-
schoolers and pregnant and lactating mothers, is in fats and oils. Much
impact would accrue from re-designing pricing and distribution policies to
evable nutritionally disadvantaged groups to buy more coconut oil. Because of
tha relatively high price of cooking oil, pricing policy alone could substan-
tially increase the domestic market for coconut oil and thus reduce the
industry's vulnerability to the vagaries of the world fats and oil markets
2.17      Coconut Marketing and Export Trading.  Over the last decade,
competing products such as palm oil, corn oil and soya oil, have taken an
increasingly dominant share of the world fats and oils market. This, coupled
with the effects of the recession toward the end of the decade and mounting
trade protectionist barriers, resulted in depressed copra and coconut oil
prices for domestic producers. The desire to protect coconut producer and
trader margins and to gain stronger leverage in the world market led to the
concentration of trading and milling in the hands of a single aggregation of
private firms. This aggregation has since become the largest buyer of copra
in the country and the biggest seller of coconut oil. It accounts for some
70Z of all coconut oil production. Because of the critical role of the
coconut industry in the economy, it is important to ascertain how such market



- s0 -                    ANNEX V
Page 18 of 34
concentration has affected buying prices and producer incentives, as well as
the competitiveness of coconut -products. in.the world market.
2.18      Proposed Study.  It is proposed that a study be undertaken to
determine the appropriate role of government in the coconut industry and the
most effective means of reducing costs and enhancing benefits of all industry
participants. The study will tackle issues such as:
(i) the effects of interventions in the production, trading and
pricing of coconut;
(ii) the formulation of long-ternm coconut industry development
strategies chat rely less on controls and trade restrictions and
more on technological innovations and increased productivity; and
(iii) the nature of the relationship between the Government's
regulatory agency and the processing industry and the rationale
for the composition of the governing board of the regulatory
agency.
SUGAR
2.19      Sugar is a traditional major earner of foreign exchange in the
economy. The Philippines ranks tenth among the world's top sugar producers,
contributing 3% of average world production or an average of 2.5 million
metric tons per year. The sugar industry employs approximately 500,000
workers, around 93% of whom are farm workers. Including dependents, the sugar
industry's supports around 4 million or about 8X of the Philippines' total
population.
2.20      To protect producers and consumers and to control excessive price
fluctuations, the Government policymaking body in the sugar industry allocates
sugar production for export and domestic consumption and fixes the raw sugar
buying price for the domestic and export markets. Moreover, based on the
principle that a single trading entity has greater marketing power in the
global arena, Government, since 1974 until very recently has been the sole
buyer and sole exporter of sugar.
2.21      Proposed Study.  Because of the key role that the sugar industry
plays in generating foreign exchange, it is proposed that a comprehensive
study of the sugar industry be carried out to determine the appropriateness of
government mediation in the sector, weighing the pros and cons of the current
system and its efficiency compared with alternative approaches. The study
will, inter alia, review and analyze the impact of current price setting,
market allocation and revenue liquidation arrangements, the costs of the
Government's operations, and the factors affecting incentives to millers and
growers. The study will consider issues such as:
(i) alternative arrangements for international marketing;
(ii) evaluation of the present domestic price policy and recomnendations on
its implementation;



- 81-                        ANNEX V
Page 19 of 34
(iii)  effect of-government intervention-in the-trading and-pricing of sugar
on growers, processors and consumers;
(iv)  formulation of long term sugar industry development strategies that
rely less on controls, Lower prices and trading and more on
technological innovations;
(v) the nature of the relationship between the Government's policy-making
and regulatory body and its marketing arm and the rationale for the
composition of their Boards.
Other Commercial Crops
2.22      Diversification into nontraditional commercial crops such as rubber,
coffee, cacao, papaya, mango, citrus, and cashew shall be a major agricultural
program in the medium and long term. The main objective is to increase export
earnings while at the same time reducing the country's dependence on the
volatile sugar and coconut export markets. Increased production of tradi-
tional exports like abaca and tobacco and import substitution crops like
cotton will also be undertaken to help reduce the balance of payments deficit.
Under the rubber development program, Government will pursue
hectarage expansion while developing infrastructure in rubber growing areas to
help reduce high marketing costs.
As part of the move to assist the coconut industry, intercropping of
papaya, cacao and coffee under coconut trees is being implemented to boost
incomes in the coconut sector and at the same time generate new export
earnings. Efforts are also underway to cash in on the lucrative cashew nut
export market with breeding work on varietal improvement already onstream.
Research will be stepped up to improve and expand processing of
mango and citrus for the export market along with efforts to improve yields
for greater competitiveness.
Government will endeavor to enhance the competitiveness of native nd
Virginia tobacco exports by intensifying research on production and post-
harvest technologies. Government also seeks to improve the competitiveness of
abaca exports mainly by introducing high yielding and disease-resistant
varieties and further research on alternative uses of the fiber for
handicrafts.
Cotton hectarages will continue to be expanded together with the
provision of technology, credit, and marketing assistance under the cotton
development program, with the end in view of eventually replacing all cotton
imports.
Fisheries
2.23      Endowed with an extenive coastline and about 300,000 hectares
devoted to fishponds at present, the Philippines has one of the largest



- 82 -                         ANNEX V
Page 20 of 34
marine, brackishwater and freshwater resources in the world. Efforts will be
increased to tap the great-potential of. Lhese abuadant fishery resources as a
souorce of cheap protein for domestic consumers, while moving to completely
replace canned fish imports.
Priority will likewise be given to increased production of selected
fish products such as tuna and prawns for export. The success of this two-
pronged strategy for domestic and export consumption will depend largely on
the availability of sufficient credit and elimination of processing and
marketing bottlenecks.
2.24      Emphasis on Aguaculture.  The rising cost of deepsea fishing (mainly
due to increased fuel costs) has underscored the importance of intensifying
aquaculture to supplement the municipal fish catch and thus meet the country's
growing food and export expansion requirements. This will involve the further
development of fish farming to increase production of prawns, milkfish, and
tilapia, among others, as well as sea farming or mariculture to expand produc-
tion of nontraditional products such as seaweeds, oysters, mussels, and eels,
mainly for the export market. Massive technical assistance and credit are
necessary for hatchery and grown-out operations.
With the successful development of prawn aquacuLture technology, the
tremendous potential of prawn production for export will be further exploited
wich an eye to supplying a substantial share of the lucrative Japanese
market. One top private corporation has led the way in extending adapted
Taiwanese technology for commercial prawn hatcheries, feeds and grow-out
ponds.
2.25      Selective Exploitation of Marine Resources.  The declaration of the
200-mile economic zone around the country's coasts should greatly enhance the
current effort to maximize the commercial deepsea catch, especially of tuna
and tuna-like species aimed at the export market. The rational and selective
harvesting of hard corals without disturbing the natural marine habitat is
also being undertaken to increase export revenues.
Aside from traditional purse-seining, new cost-reducing methods for
marine fishing are being introduced while optimum utilization of existing
fleet capacities is promoted.
2.26      Special Program for Subsistence Pisheries.  The 600,000 subsistence
municipal fishermen who produce 50% of the country's total fish output comr-
prise a major poverty group needing immediate Government support and assis-
tance. The sector is plagued by low productivity due mainly tu outmoded
fishing methods and the lack of credit to buy essential equipment. Government
has extended technology as well as credit amounting to P 228 million through
the Biyayang Dagat livelihood program. The program, however, must be
strengthened and expanded in order to meet the pressing need for more boats,
engines, and nets. At the same time, the establishment of cold storage
facilities and processing plants in selected areas will be stepped up to
rationalize supply distribution and assure municipal fishermen better prices
for their highly perishable produce.



- 83 -
Page 21 of 34
2.27      Research and Resource Assessment.  In aquaculture, quite a lot of
technology is already available.-which can increase pond production twice or
even thrice the present levels, including methods for culturing fin-fishes,
shellfishes, and algae. But these technologies have yet to be extended on a
large-scale, and continued research is necessary to develop more efficient
techniques for fry and seedling production and better management of inland
water resources.
In marine fishing, resource studies have been too scarce, diverse,
and limited in cope to provide a sufficient and reliable basis for planning
and management purposes. The following specific areas have, therefore, been
identified as priority areas for research; a comprehensive assessment of the
volume, state, and distribution of the country's fishery resources; biological
studies on the life history of pelatic and demersal fishes; and surveys and
oceanographic studies of new and potential fishing grounds in both coastal and
offshore areas.
2.28      Processing and Marketing Problems.  While fish supplies are adequate
in coastal areas, inland areas in general suffer from uneven distribution and
widely fluctuating prices due to the lack of cold storage and processing
facilities. Moreover, too many layers of middlemen in the traditional
marketing chain (particularly in the case of supplies going to large urban
centers) have resulted in reduced producer margins and higher consumer
prices. Government has an ongoing program for the construction of more
fishing ports, ice plants, and cold storage facilities to help stabilize
seasonal fish supplies and even our geographical distribution. In addition,
research will be undertaken to improve drying and processing methods and
diversify byproduct utilization. Studies are also underway to arrive at a
feasible scheme which will streamline the marketing chain supplying Manila and
other large urban centers.
The establishment of integrated fish processing centers, the
upgrading of existing canning plants, along with the expansion of transport
facilities, will be undetrtaken to support substitution refforts for canned
tuna, mackeral, and sardines, as well as the developutnnt of fishery products
for exports.
Other Food Crops
2.29      Problems of very low productivity and seasonality continue to plague
the production and marketing of rootcrops, beans and nuts and vegetables.
Yields of beans and nuts for example, stand at less than 1 metric ton
per ha. Low yields coupled with seasonality tend to push prices beyond the
reach of the average Filipino family.
The following thrusts and strategies will be pursued in support of
nutrition improvement efforts under the Food and Nutrition Plan:
2.29.1    Development of cheap sources of vegetable protein and nonseasonal
lowland varieties of other vegetables. Research will be intensified to
develop inexpensive sources of plant protein such as mungbean, peanut and
soybean. In the light of possible cost advantages as a result of the peso



- 84 -
ANNEX V
Page 22 of 34
devaluation, studies are being undertaken on the economics of growing
soybeans, possibly as a second crop after rice.  VarietaL improvement of
nonseasonal lowland varieties of indigenous vegetables such as sigadillas,
malunggay and alugbati will also be undertaken.
2.29.2    Expanded mungbean and peanut production.  Even as applied research
continues to improve yields of mungbean and peanut varieties, programs to
expand production of these high protein Legumes as a second crop after rice
are alrady underway.
2.29.3    Rootcrops as feed ingredient substitutes.  Research on cassava and
sweet potato will be strengthened to further develop these crops as
alternative sources of animal feed.
2.29.4    Marketing and pricing of vegetables.  Special attention shall be
given to marketing programs, including increased storage and processing
facilities. A price support mechanism for vegetables is being considered to
reduce price fluctuatiors. The activities of the Market Assistance Center
(MAC) Project in production programming and in providing up-to-date
market/price information to farmers will be expanded to alleviate the problems
of extreme seasonality of production and wide fluctuations in prices of
vegetables.
Special Nutrition Intervention
2.30      While the series of commodity thrusts in the foregoing sections are
designed to lead to a general improvement in nutritional intake, special and
immediate measures need to be taken to correct the most serious nutritional
deficiencies among groups who will still not have 100% adequacy despite these
programs. These are the seriously disadvantaged and low income groups who
fall outside the normal market mechanisms.
A nationwide nutrition survey in 1978 showed that the main
nutritional deficiency in the Filipino diet is not so much in protein, but in
calories, despite the abundance of rice in the country and the fact the
Philippines is the single largest producer of coconut oil (which has a very
high caloric density). The survey also showed that the lower the income, the
higher the nutrient inadequacy. Within the malnourished groups identified,
the most vulnerable are the pre-school children and pregnant and nursing
mothers.
Among the major reasons for these calorie/energy deficiencies is the
fact that, on the average, Filipinos have a low intake of fats. This is
partly due to custom and partly to the relatively high prices of coconut oil.
The 1982 nutrition survey indicated that the calorie and protein
intakes of households in income groups below the P 500 p.a. level have
improved since 1978. However, individuals in these groups are so nutrition-
ally deficient that, given only the production programs, they will continue to
fall below 100X adequacy even by the end of the decade.



- 85 -                           ANNEX V
Page 23 of 34
Thus, to complement production programs, it is proposed that the
calorie/energy intake of specifically targetted beneficiaries. be raised
through a selective food discount scheme using rice and coconut oil at reduced
prices. While the principal target would be preschool children and pregnant
and nursing mothers, the entire household would be the target unit. The
administrative mechanism will involve the participation of Home Management
Technicians, Barangay Nutrition Scholars, retail outlets (including KADIWA
outlets), rural banks, as well as the delivery systems for rice and coconut
oil from source to point of purchase.
Because the scheme constitutes an approach not previously tried in
the Philippines, pilot testing is now being undertaken prior to full-scale
implementation. Piloting has commenced in 18 barangays and 7 towns in the
depressed provinces of Abra, Antique, and South Cotabato.
Research
2.31      At present, a major concern in agricultural research is to
strengthen the translation of research results into viable location-specific
technologies. Some 12 Regional Integrated Agricultural Research Stations
(RIARS) are already in place - one in each of the country's 12 regions - under
the World Bank-assisted Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP). These
regional centers have the main function of verifying new technologies turned
out by national research institutions and ascertaining their suitability to
local conditions.
The need for more financial support for research is also a principal
concern. While government funding of agricultural research has increased
greatly over the past decade, the present level (0.1% of GNP) still falls far
short of the amount required to expand research in real terms. Private sector
funding is minimal and difficult to quantify.
Appendix I lists the research priority areas adopted by the
Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources Research and Development
(PCARRD) for the period 1984-88 to support the agriculture sector's action
agenda.
Fertilizer
2.32      As in food policy, the Government's approach to fertilizer policy is
to achieve a baLance between the conflicting objectives of ensuring low
fertilizer prices to farmers and providing adequate incentives to domestic
fertilizer producers. Some 70% of the country's fertilizer requirements are
imported, with the rest produced locally. The Fertilizer and Pesticide
Authority (FPA), formed in 1977, regulates the fertilizer industry by
allocating imports of fertilizer and adjusting duties and taxes on raw
materials required by local companies for fertilizer production.
2.33      Industry Problems.  A number of problems confront the industry.  One
of these is the apparent stagnation of fertilizer use in the last five years
and its adverse effects on productivity. Another problem is Government's
arrears to fertilizer companies representing unpaid reimbursements under



-86-                          ANNEX V
Page 24 of 34
earlier subsidy programs. There also exists a potential conflict of interest
between FPA and Philphos, one of the production companies, since both
organizations have common management at the top.
2.34      ADB Study.  A comprehensive study to be undertaken in the context of
a proposed ADB loan will review the problem of stagnating fertilizer use as
well as the following related issues:
(i) alternative sources of supply, particularly how this relates to future
relationships with other countries and the local fertilizer industry;
(ii) the role Government expects the private sector to play in developing
the fertilizer industry;
(iii) the merits of free competition vis-a-vis controlled competition;
(iv) the concept of price deregulation at all levels; and
(v) increasing the efficiency of nitrogen fertilizer recovery.
2.35      Other Measures.  Government shall adopt specific measures and a
timetable to retire Government's arrears to fertilizer firms. The Government
also intends to appoint separate chief executives for FPA and Philphos.
Irrigation
2.36      There is no doubt that the expansion of irrigated hectarage since
1972 was a crucial factor in the attainment of self-sufficiency in rice in the
short span of three yaers after the Masagana 99 program began.
The most significant impact of irrigation can be seen in the
increase in incomes of irrigated rice farmers during 1972-76. Despite the
decline of farmer's margins in 1977 to 1981, farm incomes were still higher in
real terms than incomes before the spread of new technology made possible by
expanded irrigation. At the same time, the Government was able to maintain
low and stable prices for the consumer. The benefits to the economy have been
substantial as rice constitutes 19Z of food expenditures which in turn consti-
tute half of the consumer basket.
2.37      Continued Expansion of Irrigation.  The risk of crop failures due to
floods, pest infestations, and droughts; the desired reduction in unit costs;
and the desirability of providing farmers the opportunity to plant alternative
crops - aLl these factors combine to underscore the wisdom of increasing
irrigated area. Generation of new irrigated areas would provide a more
reliable base for increased agricultural production and price stability while
providing a means for balanced growth among regions.
Government will therefore continue to expand irrigation to the
maximum extent allowed by nationaL budget resources.
However, in view of budgetary constraints and increasing capital
costs, it has been necessary to implement large major projects sequentially



- 87 -                      ANNEX V
Page 25 of 34
while stepping up the development of smaller scale communal irrigation and
water impounding projects.- which. cost less and can be completed quickly. At
the same time, rehabilitation and improvement of existing irrigation systems
will be intensified.
2.38      NIA Program Targets.  The National Irrigation Administration (NIA)
program already recognizes the need to redirect some investment outlays and
perhaps moderate the rapid pace of expansion in large irrigation systems. The
NIA program for the current plan period targets a total increase in the irri-
gated area of 245,345 hecrares by 1987, over and above the current service
area (as of end-1982) of about 1.32 million ha. Rehabilitation of 106,062 ha
of existing systems is also expected to be completed by 1987.
2.39      Irrigation Subsidy.  While irrigation fees are collected by NIA to
help defray the cost of maintaining and operating irrigation systems,
Government, in effect, has had to subsidize irrigation services to farmers due
to the low fee collection rate. However, as more farmer associations take
over the operation and maintenance of their irrigation systems, Government
should be relieved of some subsidy costs. Other measures being considered to
reduce NIA's operating costs include:
Ci) conversion of marginal national irrigation systems with incomes less
than operating and maintenance costs into communal systems which will
be operated by farmers' associations;
(ii) turning over large national irrigation systems on a modular basis - by
sections or laterals - to farmers' associations;
(iii) improvement of water delivery and services to farmers and exploring
the possibility of pricing water on the basis of volume used rather
than on a per hectare basis. These two measures should improve
efficiency of water utilization and thus result in larger fee
collection.
2.40      To minimize subsidies, Government has asked the NIA to assume
responsibility for servicing its debt obligation. However, NIA internal cash
generation falls significantly short of its needs in this regard. A study is
therefore needed to assess NIA's financial requirements during the next decade
both for operation and maintenance of the national system as well as for debt
service. The study will evaluate whether NIA can realistically be expected to
generate the needed resources through irrigation fees. In the event that this
is not deemed feasible, the study should examine other possible ways of
ensuring adequate resources for these purposes, including the accelerated
transfer of responsibility for operations and maintenance to irrigators'
associations even in the case of national systems, and for strengthening the
rules and procedures for improving fee collections.
It is also proposed that the Cabinet approve NIA's proposal for
charging variable irrigation water fees for different crops to encourage
diversification in irrigated areas and to reduce the overall demand for water.



Annex V
- 88 -                         Page 26 of 34
LAND MANALGEMENT
2.41      The Philippines has a total land area of 30 million hectares.  The
aim is to keep about 12 million hectares reserved as permanent forest, with
the rest considered alienable and disposable.
The national density of 300 persons per square kilometer as of 1980
is already among the highest in the world. Government sees the urgent need to
carry out a land management policy which will foster maximum and rational land
use, prevent the diversion of agricultural land to other uses, and provide the
basis for better land tenure arrangements.
The Government's land management program has, therefore, adopted the
following strategies and actions as the principal focus of attention in the
next five years.
2.41.1    Strengthening the Capability for Land Classification - Some 5.5 mil-
lion hectares or 18.5% of the country's total land area still remain unclassi-
fied. This slow pace has greatly hampered land disposition and has stood in
the way of efforts to maximize and rationalize land use. Priority attention
will, therfore, be given to beefing up the land classification teams and
facilities of the Bureau of Forest Development so that classification of the
remaining unclassified hectarage can be speeded up and completed within ten
years. Photogrammetry will be employed to the maximum extent possible to
hasten land classification surveys.
2.41.2    Completion of Cadastral Surveys - Delays in the completion of
cadastral surveys and land titling have resulted in the lack of land security
for farmers and prolonged land disputes. With adequate financial support, the
Bureau of Lands aim to complete the cadastral survey of the remaining
unsurveyed 19.5 million hectares (covering 784 cities and municipalities) by
1991, so that titling of these areas can proceed quickly. To augment its in-
house capability, the Bureau is tapping private firms in the conduct of
cadastral surveys. Multipurpose land surveys, including land use inventory,
tax mapping, and baraugay updating, are being undertaken. The extensive use
of aerial photography to supplement ground surveys is under study.
2.41.3    Preventing the Conversion of Agricultural Land to Industrial and
Urban Uses - Growing population pressure on prime agricultural land and the
resulting cultivation of less productive marginal areas has become a national
concern. Land use control through zonification and other urban development
regulations have been instituted to stop the use of agricultural land for non-
agricultural purposes. Presidential Decree 815 prohibits the conversion of
agricultural rice land to urban uses and P.D. 1517 proclaimed urban land
reform.
2.41.4    Measures to Facilitate Agrarian Reform and Stabilize Land Tenure -
The objective is to enable more tenants in rice and corn lands to acquire
ownership of the land they till and to arrive at equitable and secured tenural
arrangements in crop lands other than rice and corn. This will be
accomplished through the accelerated issuance of emancipation patents in land
transfer areas, stepped-up land patenting in resettlement areas, the



- 89 -                            ANNEX V
Page 27 of 34
stabilization of the leasehold system, the promotion of the stewardship
concept, and-the integration of deveLopment projects.in-resettled areas.
2.41      Expansion of the Resettlement Program and Rehabilitation of Existing
Settlement Projects - To accommodate the increasing number of landless workers
and shifting cultivators (kaingineros) and to prevent further encroachment on
unclassified land not suitable for settlement purposes, portions of the public
domain, where feasible, will be proclaimed for resettlement under the agrarian
reform program. Such resettlement will be supported by a package of services
emphasizing proper land use and soil conservation. At the same time, rehabil-
itation of existing settlements will be undertaken through an integrated
approach whereby aLl development components shall be carried out in direct
support of land distribution and titling. Three settlement projects using
this approach are now in the pipeline for World Bank assistance.
III. IKPROVING THE LEVEL OF FINANCIAL SUPPORT FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
3.01      Financial Support Objectives.  The main objectives of the proposed
program are to channel an adequate level of resources for sector development
in accordance with well-defined investment priorities and to encourage a more
efficient utilization of scarce credit resources. In particular, Government
seeks to pursue the following:
(i) the establishment of mechanisms to identify and plan critical
agricultural development programs;
(ii) the establishment of a sectoral programming and budgeting mechanism to
direct public resource to the most efficient use; and
(iii) the improvement of the policy and institutional framework for
channeling working capital and investment credit to farmers.
3.02      Sectoral Development Plan.  The agricultural sector shall play a
crucial role in the country's drive toward economic recovery. This being the
case, increased amounts of the country's already limited financial resources
should be devoted to increasing agricultural production and productivity. In
the light of these severe financial constraints, there is a need to formulate
a well-defined plan for resource allocation and utilization based on national
needs and priorities.
3.03      Agricultural Credit Trends.  Over the last decade, the Philippine
government's agricultural credit strategy has aimed at providing an adequate
flow of institutional credit to the agricultural sector. Various programs of
supervised credit, policies to encourage banks to operate in the countryside
and attract them to lend to agriculture, and measures to minimize risks have
succeeded in expanding countryside banking facilities.
The share of agriculture in total loans granted dropped from 20% in
the 1960s to 8% in the late 1970s. Moreover, supervised farm credit consti-
tutes a ainor portion (3Z) of total agricultural production loans, the great



- 90 -                     ANNEX V
Page 28 of 34
bulk of which is availed of by the large agribusiness concerns, mainly for
marketing purposes. and-not for production.- Alongside-this major issue are the
concerns over the proliferation of single commodity-oriented agricultural
credit programs, the credit specialization of lending conduits, and the
scattered nationwide implementation of agricultural credit programs.
3.04      Credit Subsidy Issues.  In an efforL to alleviate the problem of
decreasing supply of institutional credit to small farmers, all forms of
control on interest rates have been lifted, except for loans rediscounted with
the Central Bank and loans under the KKK livelihood program. Deregulation of
interest rates removes a substantial portion of intere t rate subsidies and
leads to increased bank margins.
However, there is still a need for government to continue subsidiz-
ing interest rates for carefully identified target groups in agriculture,
especially at a time when the sector must assume the lead role in the drive
toward economic recovery.
The present spread between interest rates and rediscounting rates
has been designed precisely to cover the high costs of lending to thousands of
small farmers scattered throughout the countryside as well as to compensate
for the high risks and the attendant lower repayment rates associated with
agriculture. Any increase in Central Bank rediscounting rates to rural banks
will result in higher interest rates to the farmer-borrower. Unlike indus-
trial and trader-borrowers, the farmer is already burdened with other loan
expenses due to the high risk of his occupation (such as crop insurance,
premiums, service charges, Sanahang Nayon fees and other transactions costs).
3.05      Availability of Term Credit.  Because of financial intermediation,
the interest rate reforms initiated in 1980 are expected to contribute to the
growth of rural financing markets. The deregulation of deposit and loan rates
and the institution of a floating rate system for term loans provide a better
climate for savings mobilization and could contribute to the lengthening of
the term structure of agricultural credit.
3.06      Rehabilitation of the Rural Banking System.  To continue and broaden
institutional participation in agricultural financing, government has adopted
measures to facilitate recovery of farmers' loans, to correct the arrearages
problem, to rehabilitate rural banks and to expand credit flows to areas not
served at present. The crop insurance program shall continue to reach out to
rice and corn farmers and its expansion to include other crops is currently
being studied. In pursuit of its commitment to guarantee supervised credit
losses under Masagana and to restore the good credit standing of affected
banks, the government shall continue to provide a revolving trust fund for the
payment of guarantee claims by PNB and rural banks.
To ensure the long-term stability of the rural credit system, a
capital build-up and arrears conversion scheme will be fully implemented. All
rural banks with supervised credit arrearages are qualified to participate in
the scheme. Under the capital build-up program, the scheme will provide for
an equal yearly increase in the paid-up capital stock of rural banks over a
period not exceeding ten (10) years. The arrears conversion scheme provides



- 91 -                        ANNEX V
Page 29 of 34
that for every additional private paid-up capital stock put up by the bank, an
equivalent amount rediscounting arrearages shalL be ..converted into .prefe:red
shares to be issued in the name of DBP. Past due rediscounting arrears for
supervised credit which are not restructured or covered by the conversion
scheme shall be covered by an acceptable plan of payment over not more than 10
years.
Measures have aLso been instituted to ensure the continuous flow of
credit to areas which are inadequately served by existing rural banks to
broaden the channel of credit in the countryside. Existing rural banks within
the region or province are encouraged to put up branches or extension
offices. Rural banks were also granted authority to use government counter-
part capital for loans other than those under the supervised credit programs.
3.07      Integrated Rural Financing.  The Central Bank's integrated rural
financing program is a significant departure from the traditional practice of
extending a separate production loan for each commodity. The integrated
financing scheme offers the farmer a single credit line to support his entire
annual farm plan, which may include all his production requirements for
several crops, infrastructure needs and marketing exigencies. This scheme
supports the newly adopted farm systems approach of agricultural development
and at the same time, provides the means for streamlining the current prolif-
eration of credit programs for various commodities.
3.08      The following policy actions are required to mobilize a greater
level of resources for agricultural development:
'i) Credit Program. The formulation of a comprehensive action program on
agricultural credit will be undertaken, based on a thorough review of
existing credit studie3 and a program of such additional studies as
may be required to fill information gaps. This credit program will
address the need to strengthen the mechanisms to mobilize and channel
an adequate level of financial resources to the sector.
(ii) Lending Rates. It is proposed that government gradually reduce
subsidies in government-sponsored programs through revisions in the
lending rate while taking into account the need for maintaining a
slight differential between the rediscount rate for agriculture and
that for other sectors.
viii) Sectoral Development Plan. Government will strengthen the sectoral
planning system and will prepare annually prioritized agriculture
sector development plans and a corresponding consolidated budget
consistent with the objectives of the plan.
IV. INITIAL INSTITUTIONAL CHANGES
4.01      Objectives.  The set of institutional changes proposed for the short
run is intended to improve planning, programming and budgeting, as well as
policy formulation for the agricultural sector. Over the long term, the



-92 -                          A-NEX V
Page 30 of 34
ultimate objective is to streamline all institutions involved in agricultural
production by eliminating dupl-ication of functions and. strengthening the lead
agency which has been mandated to coordinate all agricultural programs.  The
program will focus on the management and organization of the food and
agriculture sector, the Government's role in food marketing, and the
strengthening of farmers' organizations.
4.02      Organization and Management.  Excessive fragmentation of
institutions within the agricultural sector and the lack of an effective
mechanism for determining directions and for defining priorities inhibit the
formulation of optimal agricultural policies and investment programs and
complicate the implementation of sectoral development programs. A study is
therefore needed which will be geared towards minimizing this fragmentation of
institutions, providing for an acceptable mechanism, and facilitating the
implementation of sectoral development programs.
4.03      Despite these problems, the Ministry of Agriculture has functioned
as a common point providing policy direction. The National Food and Agricul-
ture Council, chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, has recently been
strengthened as the coordinating agency for all agricuLtural development
programs at the national level by virtue of two Executive Orders issued by the
President. NFAC's coordinating role has been explicitly recognized and
reiterated by the Prime Minister.
4.04      Coordination at the Provincial and Municipal Levels.  Patterned
largely after the management framework of Masagana 99, the Integrated Area
ManAgement System CIAMS) established by Executive Order 803 pulls together
various agencies and sectors at the local levels to make possible the harmoni-
ous delivery of goods and services to a given area. At the regional level, a
regional agricultural land classification committee will be responsible for
the identification of specific areas for agricultural purposes. Operating as
a subcommittee of the Regional Development Council, this committee is chaired
by the NEDA Regional Director with the regional directors of various minis-
tries, including the Ministry of Agriculture, as members. The Governor is
given the responsibility and authority for coordination and supervision, with
the support of a provincial agricultural council composed of agencies involved
in the delivery of services and inputs in the provinces. This enlistment of
the provincial governor as the focal point of the management set-up should
provide the necessary political support for development programs in the
province. An action man to oversee day-to-day operations called the
Provincial Agricultural Executive Officer (PAEO) assists the Governor and the
Council. In a majority of cases, the PAEO is also the Ministry of
Agriculture's top man in the province, the Provincial Agricultural Officer.
The execution of the integrated area management system at the local
level pre-supposes the formulation of an area-specific agricultural develop-
ment plan which incorporates all critical elements required to develop a
specific area.
The development of integrated provincial agricultural de1alopment
plans, however, has been hampered by inadequate land classification, an
outdated data base, the multiplicity of farmer and community organizations



- 93 -                 ANNX V
Page 31 of 34
sponsored by various government agencies, limited credit facilities under the
integrated rural financing scheme, the lack of management skills-and the
inadequacy of farmer participation in integrated agricultural planning. all
these constraints are tackled in the agriculture sector's agenda for the next
five years. In addition, the development of a single monitoring system which
would effectively link the operation and management of the agricultural sector
to its planning group would further streamline the integrated area management
system.
To sustain agricultural development, structural rationalization has
to take place at both the national and local levels. This has been initiated
with the promulgation of E.O. 803 which provides the framework for rationali-
zation, but such rationalization has yet to take place.
4.05      Proposed Actions.  The specific actions proposed are:
(i)  Initially, a plan will be developed to improve the coordination of the
functions of the present Ministry of Agriculture and the National Food
Authority by placing both under a new Ministrv of Agriculture and
Food. This new Ministry should also be represented in the governing
boards of the coconut and sugar regulatory agencies together with the
Ministry of Trade and Industry.
(ii)  At the same time, the plan should also delineate the respective roles
of NEDA and NFAC in the agriculture and food sector, particularly with
respect to planning, programming, policy formulation, coordination and
monitoring. To the extent feasible, the possible conflict of
interests among agencies which have regulatory, developmental, and
participatory functions will be resolved in an efficient and
economical manner. For example, the present conflict of interest in
the fertilizer industry, where the same individual heads both the FPA
and Philphos, could be resolved by simply appointing a new head either
for FPA or Philphos.
(iii) Subsequently, the Government will undertake a long term program of
institutional building for the new ministry.
4.06      National Food Authority.  The NFA, in addition to its basic role of
safeguarding the interests of the producer and the consumer in the matter of
price support operations and distribution of vital cereal foods in the
country, is entrusted with a multiplicity of other functions. Moreover, a
large portion of the scarce resources available to the Government has been
committed to these activities.
4.07      Proposed Study.  The commissioning of a study is, therefore,
necessary to review the present role, organization and functions of NFA, with
a view to finding out:
(i) the impact of present policies and programs cn the various sectors of
the food inceistry;
(ii) how pricing and marketing policies and programs can be attuned and



- 94 _                    yEX V
Page 32 of 34
implemented to suit present cGnditions and to best serve the interest
of producers, consumers and traders, while taking-cognizance of scarce
government resources; and
(iii)  how NFA's organizationaL and financial structure can best respond to
the needs of the industry, how the financial needs of the NFA would be
affected by a streamlining of its present activities by focusing on
its functions of price stabilizatior. and maintenance of buffer stocks,
and how best the functioning of the resultant needs of the Authority
could be arranged to remove the burden on government finances.
4.08      Farwers' Organizations.  By the end of 1982, the Go-vernment's
Cooperative Development Program had organized some 18,600 village associations
or "Samahang Nayong" with a total membership numbering 888,480 individuals and
aggregate savings of P64 million. There are 45 Area Marketing Cooperatives
and 25 Cooperative Rural Banks nationwide. Samahang Nayongs, initially
considered pre-cooperatives, were transformed into full-fledged primary
cooperatives in 1982 and allowed to engage in business enterprises. At the
same time, steps were taken to streamline Area Marketing Cooperatives and
strengthen the viability of Cooperative Rural Banks.
4.09      Need to Integrate Diverse Organizations.  One problem which must be
addressed immediately is the proliferation of various types of farmer
organizations set up at the village level for diverse purposes. Apart from
the Samahang Nayon and farmers' associations organized by the Ministry of
Agriculture, there are agrarian reform beneficiaries organized by the Ministry
of Agrarian Reform, irrigation associations organized by the National Irriga-
tion Administration, and associations set up by the Farm Systems Development
Corporation. In addition, there are groups formed by several private
organizations. This situation has led to fragmertation and confusion, with
farmers frequently holding membership and having to pay dues in several
organizations at the same time. It is necessary to unify all cooperative
undertakings under a single umbrella organization at the village level. This
is essential if farmers' organizations are to function effectively as the
conduits for delivery inputs and services to the farm in line with the new
adopted area-specific farm systems approach of the Integrated Area Management
System.



- 95 -
ANNEX V
Page 33 of 34
Appendix 1
Agricultural Research Priorities for 1984-88
1.    Rice-based cropping systems, especially in lowland rainfed areas;
2.    Development of white corn hybrid and high-yielding open-pollinated
varieties;
3.    De-trelopment of improved varieties of crops such as sorghum and
cassava to serve as alternative sources of livestock feed;
4.    Varietal improvPment and development of crops which are cheap sources
of vegetable pFotein such as mtagbean, peanuts and coconuts;
5.    Development of non-seasonal lowland varieties of vegetables, which
are indigenous and have high nutritional value;
6.    Development of wheat varieties that are heat tolerant and adaptable
to locaL conditions;
7.   Control of the leaf-mottling virus affecting citrus, dwarfing
techniques for citrus and mango for high-density planting, as well as
fruit processing and storage for fruit exports;
8.   Breeding and propagation techniques of ornamental plants and cut
flowers for export;
9.    Coconut tissue culture, coconut hybrid and cultural testing, wet
coconut processing to hasten the production of coco-oil and other
coco products and by-products such a coco chemical and coco-diesel,
intensified coconut-based cropping systems;
10.    Development of agro-forestry systems utilizing perennial industriaL
crops, fruit trees (cashew, rambutan, et al) and tree legumes such as
ipil-ipil;
11.    Improvement of soil management techniques, including the use of
nitrogen-fixing agents such as azolla and blue-green algae;
12.    Pest management research including biological control of pests;
13.    Varietal improvement and disease control for cotton and tobacco;
14.    Genetic improvement of dairy cattle and a carabao breeding program;
15.    Marine fish resource assessment;
16.    Aquaculture research, especially on products with export potentials
such as prawns and finfish (lapu-lapu or groupers), macro-brachium,
and seaweeds, as well as research on rice-fish cropping systems;



-96-
- 96 -              ~~~ANNEX V
Page 34 of 34
17.    Fish product processing techniques such as drying and fermentation,
and mussels and seaweed processing for exports;
18.    Basic sociological studies on the impact of technologies and attitu-
dinal responses of farmer-recipients as well as the role of rural
institutions in rural development;
19.    Establishment of a reliable agricultural data base on the municipal
level.



[ORD 17234
liO,    C tASSF ICATIO%OI PRCWIWiES            120                                             lU%F *'w
lily *.kFO3PH2CJL RI-(FJNS
NCR %ATI'J%ALtAPITAL RCl(0%
I ILur'%            VI WISTER% VnSAVAS
o.                    t 'ln.  D"l-PHILIPPINES
I0    Su. v20'v
VIl T",%7RAL VJSAV'AS
CbtF.                                                                     Road%M
11 (S(.AVA%VALLI Y         RohA
I~IS AvA5                                                                    Ra.Ioyi
Vil  l tjS Tt Rc% s 5AV 
K.'-Ao- s              o    5_                                                                  P.ncl olB-              I.0
o E 5-                                                                    V      l Ao-d-"P'   d
E_  S                                    Ap.''
CS- 5<b.Wert L-vi.  Looog                                     - -    -  Ir   o.cI Bdo'eL
1II 9l%tr4LLLt.s/   IX sISKltHs%lIS%A'O                                                                                                4 
Z- E~.,.              Z.a.  0.1                 \
X                                                1(IR 'iMl%I)A%A()  iagOO
IV    J IM l   -.-ALI-.A    SU'qw         Fo No    SO.And
Ootton~~VA                                                        Ub    50f 10  OOO.!    2    5:0 2r    300
B-      Xl               .I                                                 so  ioc   :so  soc  1so   oo0
S.,.g-  d~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s-ILS
U   O.  nu. s.wo .                                                                           cu T.n   io is                      zooo>To
D:.   ASg
)i_ L                 S-" C.UbM.
cw.-?l        h      Q<e XII  I%IRAI MI%IjA%A('  NCR       ..  A
Ct .   S.,            L.eo a   ..... 40ft
Albft            %~~on" cur           , o
CI.                    6Noo. Col  ~POrn.To                    p
v4__   ~/                      cola00
' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~S. ,j1 ACO_                                                           .
agoo
fIv    V                                                                       I
.'' :: ~~...                   ,,/ 
Ar,.. I                                      - -      IAf5                          /        G Aob
wSMv.~~~~~~~~~~~- -- - - - - -                                                 Cc..... -
..i   c..:                                             - - ____     _C                                d
.  120'                                            12A4        G.?



