                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 27565

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-32150)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                                 NEPAL

                                                 FOR A

                                RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT




                                            January 28, 2004




Energy and Infrastructure Unit
South Asia Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                 (Exchange Rate Effective September 2003)

                                        Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupee (NR)
                                                NR1.00 = US$ 0.014
                                              US$ 1.00 = NRs.74.00

                                                FISCAL YEAR
                                              July 16     July 15

                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBPM     Community-based Performance Monitoring
DDC      District Development Committee
DIDO     District Infrastructure Development Office
DOLIDAR  Department of Local Infrastructure and Agriculture Roads
DOR      Department of Roads
DRCC     District Road Coordination Committee
DTMP     District Transport Master Plan
DTO      District Technical Office
FMIS     Financial Management Information System
GTZ      German Technical Cooperation
GRECO    Green Road Concept
HMGN     His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
ILO      International Labor Organization
LBT      Labor Based Technology
LDO      Local Development Officer
LIL      Learning Innovation Loan
LUC      Local Users Committee
LRCC     Local Road Coordination Committee
NSRID    National Strategy for Rural Infrastructure Development
MOLD     Ministry of Local Development
MOPPW    Ministry of Physical Planning & Works
MTR      Mid-term Review
NPC      National Planning Commission
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PMR      Project Management Report
QAE      Quality at Entry
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
RIP      Rural Infrastructure Project
RUC      Road User Committee
RUG      Road User Group
TAC      Technical Assistance Consultancy
VDC      Village Development Committee
VRCC     Village Road Coordination Committee


                                       Vice President:       Praful C. Patel
                                    Country Director         Kenichi Ohashi
                                      Sector Manager         Guang Z. Chen
                                  Task Team Leader           Surendra G. Joshi

                                            NEPAL
                                Rural Infrastructure Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              34
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            39
Annex 10. Borrower's Evaluation                                                  51

Project ID: P045053                                                  Project Name: Rural Infrastructure Project
Team Leader: Surendra Govinda Joshi                                  TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: January 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Rural Infrastructure Project                             L/C/TF Number: IDA-32150
   Country/Department: NEPAL                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (74%); Sub-national government
                            administration (26%)
                  Theme: Rural policies and institutions (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P); Civic engagement, participation and community driven
                            development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/15/1998                                     Effective: 12/01/1999                12/01/1999
     Appraisal: 12/07/1998                                         MTR: 01/15/2001                  04/21/2001
      Approval: 05/14/1999                                      Closing: 07/31/2002                 07/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          KINGDOM OF NEPAL/MINISTRY OF LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
                      Other Partners:      German Technical Cooperation (GTZ)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Kenichi Ohashi                                 Hans M. Rothenbuhler
Sector Manager:                 Guang Z. Chen                                  Frannie Humplick
Team Leader at ICR:             Surendra G. Joshi                              Guang Z. Chen
ICR Primary Author:             Binyam Reja


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

 Background. In 1992, His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN) enacted the District Development
Committee Act, providing the legal framework for local governance system in Nepal and making the
District Development Committees (DDCs) a self-governing, autonomous body responsible for service
delivery and development programs including the maintenance and construction of rural roads within their
jurisdictions. At the same time, given that DDCs were recently constituted and had limited capacity, the
decentralization policy mandated the Ministry of Local Development (MOLD) to monitor and guide
development activities in DDCs. In 1997, HMGN outlined the National Strategy for Rural Infrastructure
Development (NSRID), reaffirming its decentralization policy with respect to DDCs being responsible for
rural roads, and mandating the establishment of the Department of Local Infrastructure and Agriculture
Roads (DOLIDAR) under the MOLD to be the focal central government agency responsible for providing
technical support, as well as developing guidelines and procedures to guide development activities in
DDCs.      HMGN further deepened its decentralization policy with the enactment of the Local
Self-Governance Act in 1999, which provided a comprehensive legal framework to increase the authority
and responsibilities of local bodies and increase the devolution of administrative, judicial, and fiscal powers
to locally elected bodies.

Project Development Objective. Against this background, the Bank's support for the Rural Infrastructure
Project (RIP) was conceived as a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) with the following Development
Objective:

    Strengthen the institutional capacity of the decentralized local governance system in planning and
    managing capabilities to improve the quality, efficiency and sustainability of rural roads in the
    selected districts, with active participation of project beneficiaries.

The project development objective was to be monitored by the following outcome indicators:

(a)      Average travel time and transport costs reduced by 20% on project roads;
(b)      Non-passability duration of project roads reduced by two months per year;
(c)      Roads maintained or rehabilitated under the project will remain in operation three years after
         project completion;
(d)      District transport master plans prepared in the selected districts using participatory process and
         endorsed by people's representatives;
(e)      80% of the project civil works expenditure remain with the local economy; and
(f)      Completion of preliminary appraisal of a follow-up operation that encompasses the knowledge
         base developed under the project.

Clarity and relevance of project objectives.     The objective of the project was clear and in line with the
Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) at project approval, as well as the current one, both of
which emphasized strengthening the capacity of central and local governments, and improving rural roads
to improve agriculture productivity and rural development. The Bank's road sector strategy also focused
on using labor-based technology and community participation for the maintenance and rehabilitation of
rural roads. The project was adequately designed to meet the project objectives and to correspond to the
capacity of DDCs and DOLIDAR.




                                                     - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

Component 1: Infrastructure Civil Works (US$3.8 million). This component included road works (90%)
and other minor rural infrastructure works such as community marketing structures (10%). Road works
were divided into three categories: (i) Routine Maintenance of about 1,000 km of roads over a period of
three years; (ii) Periodic Maintenance of about 240 km of roads; and (iii) Rehabilitation (US$1,710,000) of
about 100 km of roads and rehabilitation and spot improvement of 75 km of major trails.

Component 2: Supervision and Design (US$0.3 million). This component provided each of the project
districts with the budgetary means to hire local consultants to help them with design and supervision of the
works.

Component 3:       Equipment and Logistical Support (US$0.3 million).          This component included the
procurement of basic equipment for logistical support to the DDCs and the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) of DOLIDAR, and financed associated incremental operating cost.

Component 4:       Technical assistance for management support, monitoring and             evaluation, and
preparation of a follow-up project (US$1.1 million). This component supported consultancy services to
provide: (1) technical advisory services to the DDC and DOLIDAR/MOLD; (2) training of district and
DOLIDAR/MOLD staff, as well as private contractors, consultants and community groups; (3) support to
DOLIDAR with technical and financial monitoring of DDC activities; and (4) preparation of a follow-up
project.

3.4 Revised Components:

The project components were not revised. However, DDC did not request funding from the project for other
rural infrastructure, as their priority was mostly for roads. The project did not provide specific assistance
to the DDCs in identifying other rural infrastructure for inclusion in the project.
In addition, the distinction between periodic maintenance and rehabilitation was found not to be practical
during implementation by DDCs, and therefore, the works were combined under one subcomponent.
Similarly, some rehabilitation works undertaken by DDCs were in effect "upgrading" works because, in
order to maker the roads passable during the monsoon season, it was necessary to include some permanent
structures, such side and cross drains and small bridges and causeways. These changes were, however,
minor and did not affect the project scope and costing, as they were handled within the original cost
provision. However, in future projects, it is important that District Transport Master Plans (DTMPs)
prioritize upgrading works, and should not only focus on maintenance and rehabilitation, which could
distort investment priorities.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no Quality at Entry (QAE) assessment by Quality Assurance Group (QAG).                         The
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) rates the QAE of the project satisfactory for the following
reasons.

Choice of Lending Instrument. The project was approved as a LIL in order to test whether Bank's support
for rural roads could be effective in a decentralized local government system and whether DDCs can



                                                     - 3 -

undertake the implementation of a Bank-financed project, which hitherto had been done by central
government implementing agencies. The choice of lending instrument was sensible given the fact that the
decentralization policy was still evolving and this was the first IDA project to support HMGN's
decentralization policy by transferring project implementation responsibilities to DDCs. An effective
support modality needed to be developed before IDA could provide a full-scale investment support to
DDCs in a decentralized framework, including appropriate fund-flow and disbursement mechanism to
DDCs, procurement for works and consultants by DDCs, user participation in project planning,
implementation and monitoring of the project. The experience of the pilot approach was to be monitored
and evaluated, and if deemed successful, replicated and scaled up in more districts with a follow-up project.


Monitoring and evaluation procedures for RIP.          As a LIL, it was important that a well designed
monitoring and evaluation system was embedded in the project to track timely lessons and adapt to new and
unforeseen circumstance as the project evolved. To this end, several procedures were established. During
project preparation, a baseline survey was conducted by the NGO Helvetas Nepal, and a provision was
made in the project Technical Assistance Consultancy (TAC) services to undertake a repeat survey once
project works were completed.       In addition, community-based performance monitoring (CBPM) was
established to monitor implementation progress, use of funds, contractors, and road user groups (RUGs).
DOLIDAR also made capacity provision to monitor and synthesize field evaluation. Finally, the Bank's
supervision was designed to monitor project performance and draw timely lessons.

Social Assessment. A social assessment (SA) was carried out in 1998. The SA, along with MOLD's
experience with other donor-supported rural road projects, provided a framework for beneficiary
participation in the planning, selection, implementation and monitoring of the project. District Transport
Master Plans (DTMPs) were prepared through community participation and consultation process. Various
road user committees (RUCs) were formed to facilitate community participation in project selection,
implementation and monitoring. There was no involuntary land acquisition for the project, as the civil
works were on existing road alignment.

Environmental Assessment. The project was considered Category 'C' during appraisal because of the small
and pilot nature of the civil works component. In retrospect, however, giving the project a 'C"
environmental classification was not appropriate. There were cases where rehabilitation was carried out on
unstable and environmentally unstable sections, which needed environmental protection measures. At the
same time, however, the works were small and having sub-project environmental assessment would have
been excessive for a pilot/LIL project.




4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Summary: The overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory. The project's objective to strengthen
the decentralized local governance system - comprising DOLIDAR at the central level, DDCs at local level,
and road users and beneficiaries at the community level ­ was achieved; its "learning and innovation"
function was also achieved, allowing the Bank and HMGN to learn useful lessons and good practices in
rural road administration and designing future rural road programs. The project has generated visible
social and economic benefits that have been confirmed through the socioeconomic impact survey (Annex 3)
conducted by DOLIDAR, the Bank-commissioned beneficiary survey (Annex 8), and the stakeholder ICR



                                                    - 4 -

workshop held in May 2003 (Annex 9).

The following highlight the main achievements of the project against the stated objective and outcome
indicators.

Capacity Development at the DOLIDAR Level

Rural road policy guidelines and procedures facilitated DOLIDAR's ability to guide the decentralization
framework. The project supported the preparation and updating of a number of key policy guidelines and
procedures for rural road development and maintenance, including: (i) Road User Group Guidelines; (ii)
Community Based Performance Monitoring; (iii) Monitoring and Evaluation Guidelines; (iv) Technical
Design Standards and Specifications for different types of rural roads in different topographical terrain; (v)
Social and Environmental Assessment guidelines; and (vi) Approach Manual for the preparation of DTMP.
These policy documents and guidelines provided DOLIDAR with the "rules of the game" and procedures to
implement HMGN's decentralization policy and guide, monitor and support development activities in
DDCs. They have also provided a framework for scaling up and replicating rural road programs, and for
streamlining and harmonizing donor strategies and programs in the sector. Many of the guidelines and
procedures developed under the project have been followed by other non-project DDCs and donors,
although a much wider utilization of the policy documents is required to ensure consistency of policy and
strategies across rural road programs supported by donors.

DOLIDAR's ability to support and monitor development activities in DDCs has improved. In accordance
with the various local government acts and the 1997 NSRID, DOLIDAR has been providing technical
support to DDCs by assigning district engineers and other technical staff to work directly with DDCs.
This arrangement, whereby the district engineer reports to DOLIDAR, but is under the oversight of DDC
local officials, is a unique aspect of Nepal's decentralization framework. It provides a temporary solution
until the fiscal decentralization in Nepal is fully implemented and allows DDCs to have the necessary
financial resources to hire their own engineers. However, DOLIDAR's technical backstopping mandate
can often stretch to interfering with DDC autonomy, creating a paradoxical situation. If DOLIDAR is too
strong and provides too much technical support, it can lead to re-centralizing responsibilities and DDC's
capacity may never develop fully. If, on the other hand, DOLIDAR remains a weak organization, it may
not be able to dispense its mandated responsibilities to support, guide, monitor and coordinate development
partners for development activities in the districts. Therefore, it is important that capacity development
efforts for DOLIDAR strive to create a balance between its ability to provide technical backstopping to
DDCs and the need to maintain HMGN's decentralization policy, and improve the capacity of DDCs. In
RIP, this balance has been achieved.

Capacity Development at the DDC Level

Planning and prioritizing of rural road programs has significantly improved. All eight participating
districts have formulated their DTMP following the Approach Manual developed by DOLIDAR. The
DTMPs contain information on road inventory, road classification, road condition, prioritized works, and a
five-year rural road maintenance and development program. The DTMPs introduce a rational and
participatory process for planning and prioritizing rural road development and maintenance programs. The
maintenance and rehabilitation sub-projects supported under RIP were selected from the DTMPs. In
addition, other rural road programs supported by other donors are also part of the DTMP, and therefore,
provides an integrated approach for rural road planning and investment decisions in districts.

Improved resource generation and allocations for road maintenance. RIP has created an awareness in


                                                      - 5 -

the DDCs on the need for regular maintenance of roads. Before the project, DDCs were only interested in
new construction and paid little attention to road maintenance. During project implementation,
participating districts have changed their attitude and now acknowledge the importance of maintenance.
This is reflected in actions such as instituting nominal tolls on the improved rural roads to generate
resources for maintenance and channelling most of these revenues to RUCs for maintenance of the roads.

DDC organizational effectiveness has improved. The RIP enabled DDC engineers and other technical
staff to gain useful, on the job experience in planning, detailed surveys, design, and supervision of road
works, as well as organizing local communities and beneficiaries to participate in the selection and
implementation of road works. DDC engineers also gained experience in the preparation of bid documents
and evaluation of bid. The capacity improvement at the DDC level is reflected by improved designs and
construction quality improvement observed during the progression of the project. Important design
parameters such as drainage and road surfacing have improved considerably in the project works. In
addition, improvement was observed in bidding document, where all project districts have now adopted
standard bidding documents. The office logistics provided by the project have also enhanced the
operational efficiency and quality of output.

DDCs gained useful experience in the use of labor-based work methods. The project introduced effective
methods for applying labor-based techniques for road maintenance and rehabilitation, generating much
needed rural employment for the poorest segments of the community. In the early part of the project, the
quality of some works was not good, in part, because the work methods were new to DDC staff and the
training provided by the Technical Assistance Consultancy (TAC) was inappropriate in its content and
delivery method. Under the recommendation of the joint ILO-Bank supervision mission in May 2002, the
ILO, as part of their ongoing technical assistance to DOLIDAR, sponsored an expert in labor-based
techniques and was engaged by DOLIDAR to provide hands-on training in the field, as well as classroom
training to DDC engineers, consultants, contractors, and RUCs. The training has significantly improved
the quality of work, which in turn has convinced DDCs and DOLIDAR to mainstream the use of
labor-based techniques in rural road maintenance and rehabilitation work.

Capacity Development at the Community Level

Community participation for rural road maintenance and improvement programs introduced and
supported under the project. RUCs, drawn from road users who live near and around the road alignment,
were established in project districts to carry out road maintenance under contract with DDC. Each road
selected for maintenance and rehabilitation under RIP had a corresponding RUC to undertake maintenance
during and after RIP implementation. The roads maintained by RUCs generally are 15 to 30 km long, and
often cover several Village Development Committees (VDCs). Guidelines for establishment of RUC and
their functioning responsibilities were prepared by DOLIDAR with support from RIP. The RUCs employ
Road User Gorups (RUGs) or lengthmen to carry out the road works. The RUGs and lengthmen are drawn
from the poorest segments of the community. Therefore, the project provided entrepreneurial opportunities
to communities (RUC), as well as wage-earning opportunities for the poorest segment of the community
(RUGs/lengthmen).

Community oversight and monitoring system strengthened. The project supported the establishment of
District Road Coordination Committees (DRCC) and Village Road Coordination Committees (VRCC) in
participating districts. The DRCCs are district oversight bodies drawn from elected members of the
respective DDCs including the Chairman, Vice Chairman, Member Infrastructure, as well as community
representatives, including women and representatives from disadvantage groups. A similar structure is used
to form the VRCCs. The main function of DRCC has been to approve road maintenance plans and oversee


                                                      - 6 -

the work of DDC engineers. The DRCC has been particularly useful in the absence of elected bodies of
DDCs, which were dissolved by the government following the postponement of local elections.

CBPM was introduced to (i) monitor the quality and quantity of works undertaken through either local
contractor or user groups; and (ii) increase the transparency of financial and technical management at local
level through public information dissemination. The CBPM was first piloted in two districts, and, after
proving successful, was replicated in all project districts.

Achievement of Outcome Indicators

1.       "Average travel time and transport costs reduced by 20% on project roads"

This outcome is achieved. The socioeconomic impact study conducted as part of the ICR revealed that
travel times along roads improved by the project compared to unimproved roads have been reduced by 24%
to 54%. A significant travel time reduction was shown in trip time to schools (up to 60% reduction), health
services (45%), and local shops (70%). The significant travel time reduction was achieved primarily due to
a shift in modes of transport from mainly walking to motorized transport, such as bus and jeep services.
As much as 50% of people interviewed during the socioeconomic impact survey indicated that they now
make their trips using motorized transport, indicating the strong latent demand for motorized transport
within Nepal's isolated villages.

Unlike the reduction in travel time, the results of the socioeconomic impact study did not provide significant
information in the reductions of transport costs. This was due in part to the conception of the questionnaire
and in part because of missing answers to certain questions. However, the main reason is that the impact
of project has been mainly to improve passability and travel time savings, but out-of-pocket transport cost
reduction is probably not much, unless a cheaper mode of transport is used. This shows that measuring
project benefits for a small access roads using conventional economic analysis in terms of reduction in
vehicle operating costs may not capture all the intended benefits in travel time savings and improvement in
access to services and markets. In the case of RIP, travel time reduction was the main benefit generated
from the improved rural accessibility. In addition, interviews conducted with project beneficiaries revealed
that price of key consumption commodities has improved, and that farmers are getting better prices for
their produces following road improvement. This is likely because of reduction in transport costs generated
from switching from portering to using motorized transport.

2.       "Non-passability duration of project roads reduced by two months per year"

This outcome is achieved. Data collected as part of the socioeconomic impact survey shows that the
duration of roads not being passable during the monsoon season has been significantly reduced ­ and in
fact, many of the improved roads are now passable year round. This was achieved primarily through road
rehabilitation, gravelling and spot improvements, such as the construction of culverts, drains and raising
embankments.

3.       "Roads maintained or rehabilitated under the project will remain in operation three years after
         project completion"

Achieved, but needs to be monitored further. It is too early to verify this indicator but at the time of the
ICR, all project roads improved under RIP were being maintained and remained in operation. There is a
good likelihood that the improved roads will be maintained and remain in operation three years after
completion. The districts are collecting tolls on the rehabilitated roads and use these funds for the


                                                      - 7 -

maintenance of those roads. RUCs have been created along all project roads, which have designated
workers' groups and lengthmen that carry out routine maintenance under their control. In addition, the
Nepal Road Fund is expected to provide 30% of the revenues to DDCs for the maintenance of rural roads
starting FY04.

4.       "District transport master plans prepared in the selected districts using participatory process and
         endorsed by people's representatives"

This outcome is achieved. As indicated above, all eight districts have prepared and updated their DTMPs.
Prepared in a participatory process, the DTMPs have detailed road inventory, road classification,
prioritization of work, a five-year rural roads maintenance and development program. The completed
DTMPs have been approved by DDC members and endorsed by District Council.

DDCs are currently using DTMPs for prioritizing road maintenance, and development programs. Other
donors active in the sector also finance their development programs from DTMPs. Similarly, future IDA
support for rural roads will be based on prioritization done in DTMPs.

5.       "80% of the project civil works expenditure remain with the local economy"

This outcome has been achieved, as follows.

(a)      Routine maintenance undertaken by the lengthman system: The cost of this component includes
         wages (97%), and hand tools (3%). Those wages remain in the local economy, and hand tools are
         also mostly manufactured in Nepal;

(b)      Periodic maintenance and rehabilitation executed by RUGs using labor based methods: The cost of
         this component includes wages (76%), hand tools (7%), and materials (17%). Materials include
         mainly gabion wire produced locally from imported raw materials; and

(c)      Periodic maintenance and rehabilitation executed by local contractors: Contract sizes are generally
         lower than US$20,000 per contract. The contractors use labor based methods. The wage
         component is estimated at 50% with the rest going to materials and transport.

6.       "Completion of preliminary appraisal of a follow-up operation that encompasses the knowledge
         base developed under the project"

Partially achieved. DOLIDAR, with help from the TAC, carried out several preparatory works
incorporating the lessons learned from RIP. Based on the district selection criteria developed by the TAC,
20 districts were recommended for support in a follow-up operation. Some preliminary feasibility study
and cost estimates for eight possible districts were also prepared. These preparatory activities, while they
provide a good basis for preparing a follow-up project, they are not adequate enough for appraising a
follow-up project. Therefore, DOLIDAR is currently undertaking a full preparation of the proposed
Bank-financed follow-up project to scale up and replicate RIP in more districts.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Infrastructure civil works

Achieved. At project closing, all eight participating DDCs carried out all physical works as planned.



                                                     - 8 -

About 960 km (versus the target of 1000 km) routine maintenance and 330 km of rehabilitation and
periodic maintenance were successfully completed by the seven participating districts.             The eighth
participating DDC (Sankhuwasabha) also carried out trail improvement of 79 km (versus 74 targeted),
with implementation support from GTZ. In addition, during the fourth year of the project (the project
extension period), four districts were selected for additional project support based on their good
performance in the first three years of project implementation. The four districts successfully carried out
about 33.2 km of additional rehabilitation works, making the total road rehabilitated under RIP to 373 km
(versus 340 km, as original targeted at appraisal).

The implementation progress, however, was unsatisfactory during the early part of project implementation.
This was because DDCs were not following the DTMP for allocating project fund and were mostly doing
spot improvements through their districts. However, after the DTMP was made a requirement for choosing
road works, implementation progress was satisfactory, and DDCs were able to complete all projected
works.

Component 2: Supervision and Design

Achieved.    Each of the project districts was to hire local consultants to help them with design and
supervision, the cost of these consultants was to be borne by the project. Only two districts, Kapilbastu
and Dhading, took advantage of this opportunity while the other districts decided to rely on their own
in-house resources. During the MTR, it was observed that the capacity of the districts was too weak to
undertake the design and supervision without external help, and it was agreed that the TAC would provide
a design and supervision engineer to the five districts that did not hire local consultants. During the last
year of project (the project extension period), all four districts that participated in the last year of the
project hired local consultant to assist them with design and supervision.

Component 3: Equipment and Logistical Support

Achieved. Under the project, basic equipment and tools were procured and these were distributed to the
districts. While these were useful for project supervision by district engineers, there is a need to increase
the number of motorcycles and vehicles to enable district engineers and overseers to make frequent visits to
project sites.

Component 4: Technical assistance for management support, monitoring & evaluation, and preparation of
a follow-up project

Partially achieved. According to its terms-of-reference, the TAC was charged to carry out four specific
tasks, namely (i) technical advisory services, (ii) training to MOLD/DOLIDAR and DDC staff, contractors
and consultants, (iii) support with technical and financial monitoring, and (iv) prepare the follow-up
project. The TAC assisted DDCs' implementation progress in preparing and updating DTMPs, and
DOLIDAR with monitoring and oversight of DDCs. The training provided, however, was below
expectation both in content and quality. In terms of preparing a follow-up project, the TAC prepared
district selection criteria, and recommended a long list of 20 districts to be supported by a follow-up
project, but full feasibility study and detail design was not prepared as envisaged. The lesson here is the use
of ICB for acquiring consultant services for small projects of this nature did not produce good results.
Hiring local consultants with expert inputs provided by a few reputable individual consultants would have
been a more cost-effective alternative. This approach was eventually adopted in the last year of project
implementation, and worked well. Changing the location of the consultants' team to Butwal after MTR
when the project management unit was still in Kathmandu was not a good decision, as any consultant


                                                      - 9 -

(even hired through ICB) still needs to be managed by the PCU. In general, there was not sufficient
supervision of the TAC by DOLIDAR management and staff.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The benefits of small rural road works go beyond traditional economic benefits measured by the reduction
of vehicle operation costs. Works of this nature have additional social benefits, such as improved access to
services and markets. In this situation, it is useful to measure social benefits in terms of improved access to
social services and economic opportunity. Accordingly, during appraisal of the project, cost-effectiveness
analysis was carried out to rank subprojects following similar procedures used in other similar projects in
the South Asia Region (see, for example, Economic Analysis of a Rural Basic Access Road Project: The
Case of Andhra Pradesh, India, http://www.worldbank.org/transport/publicat/td-rt5.pdf). In addition, a
socioeconomic impact study was included to assess project benefits. A baseline survey was conducted
during preparation, and repeat survey and analysis after project completion.

Annex 3 summarizes the results of the socioeconomic impact study. The study shows that travel time to
reach various social facilities and economic centers has significantly been reduced, and that the reduction in
travel time has had an impact on a wide segment of society. In 1998 before the road improvement works,
70 percent of households used to spend more than an hour to reach the closest campus (vocational schools,
etc.), but with improved roads in 2002 only about 43 percent of households spend that much time
commuting to the same campuses. Similarly, in 2002, it takes less than 30 minutes for a higher percentage
of people to reach secondary schools, health posts, bus stops, and main roads than it used to take in 1998.

Linked to the improvement in travel time, the socioeconomic impact survey also shows that households
made more frequent trips to social facilities and economic centers in 2002, following road improvements
than they did in 1998 before the roads were improved. The most frequented visit was to local market
centers followed by visits to friends and relatives within the community. In 2002, households made visits
to local market centers 201 times in a year (versus only 37 visits in 1998) in the Terai; and 144.2 (versus
13.2 visits in 1998) in the hills. A similar trend is also found in the frequency of visits to local urban
centers, intra community friends and relatives as well as visits made outside the district. These results
indicate the strong latent demand for rural travel and transport.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact of the project is substantial. The project helped in improving the
institutional environment for rural road administration by (i) facilitating the decentralization process for
rural roads, (ii) providing DDCs the opportunity to take a lead role for project implementation, and (iii)
supporting training for capacity building program.

Facilitating decentralization. With the exception of a few district roads still being managed by the
Department of Roads, most of the rural road network in participating districts has been decentralized to
DDCs. IDA's financial support to local government bodies has deepened HMGN's decentralization policy
for rural roads, whereas, in other sectors, because Nepal's unfinished and evolving fiscal decentralization,
many DDCs have not been able to assume service delivery responsibilities delegated to them by the Local



                                                       - 10 -

Self-Governance Act.

Introducing procedures and institutional framework for capacity building. As highlighted in Section 4.1
above, the project supported several policy documents, which provided the "rules of the game" for capacity
development and implementing the decentralized governance system. This included introducing the DTMP
for planning and approach manuals for user participation and CBPM. All these documents are now being
used by DDCs with support from DOLIDAR.

Institutional development through learning-by-doing. The capacity development strategy followed by the
project to make DDCs responsible for project implementation responsibility was novel and provided district
officials the opportunity for the first time to implement a Bank-financed project.             In the previous
Bank-financed Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, the rural roads component of the project was
implemented by the Department of Roads. In RIP, however, DDCs took a lead role for project planning
and implementation, and this provided them the opportunity to gain skills and experience in project
execution.

Training and capacity development. The following trainings were conducted to improve the capacity of
project DDCs and DOLIDAR, as well community groups mobilized for project planning and execution:
procurement procedures and technical audit; implementation of Users Group Guidelines, and Community
Based Performance and Monitoring; computer-based FMIS; material testing for rural roads; class room
and field training on labor-based methods for road works.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The project was implemented during a time of political turmoil and security problems in Nepal. Two
factors, in particular, outside of government control adversely affected project implementation, although
they had minimal impact on the overall outcome of the project.

Maoist insurgency. Until the announcement of the cease-fire in January 2003, the Maoists insurgency has
had a negative impact on the pace of implementation of the project but the impact was different from
district to district. The districts of Dhading, Syangja and Sankhuwasabha were particularly affected by the
Maoist insurgency, and implementation progress at times was slow in these districts. At the end, however,
these districts completed the planned civil works. During the ICR preparation, a joint Bank-DOLIDAR
mission visited Dhading and Syangja districts, and found that the quality and progress were also
satisfactory in these districts. GTZ staff also visited Sankhuwasabha as part of their evaluation the
implementation of works in Sankhuwasabha (see partner comment in Section 9).

Both the Bank-DOLIDAR and GTZ evaluations found that development activities is possible even under
conflict situations, as long as the following implementation modalities are followed:
·        Community participation in the selection and implementation of civil works. In this case, the use
of RUCs and DRCCs for project implementation and oversight was key. As long as the community is
involved and benefits from the project, the insurgents are willing to allow development works to continue.
·        Transparency in the use of project funds. The use of CBPM helped in ensuring that the use of
funds were transparent, works were executed appropriately and laborers were paid on time.
·        The use of social mobilizers, who are neutral to the conflict, can facilitate user participation and
establish working relationships with both sides of the conflict.




                                                     - 11 -

Postponement of local elections. During project implementation, the terms of the elected members of
DDCs ran out, and when HMGN postponed local elections citing security reasons, DDCs were left without
elected members and were being administered by MOLD deputized civil servants. This left a political
vacuum at the local level and threatened to derail the project's objective to support a decentralized
governance system. However, during project supervision, it was agreed with MOLD that the previously
elected members of DDC would continue to serve as members of DRCC to provide an oversight and
monitoring function, and ensure local participation in project implementation. The DRCC members
currently include DDC's ex-Chairman, and ex-Vice Chairman, among the 11 members of DRCC. Overall,
the lack of elected members in DDCs, while has left a significant political vacuum at the local level, its
impact on project implementation and achievement of project objectives has been minimal, in part due the
oversight mechanism instituted through DRCC, and the participation of road users in project planning and
implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Two main factors can be identified.

Human resource constraint in DOLIDAR.            The slow pace of staffing of the various units within
DOLIDAR has constrained the department from effectively monitoring project activities in DDCs. HMGN
is currently reviewing the 1997 NSRID with a view to take measures to bolster DOLIDAR's capacity and
restructure the various units within DOLIDAR to make them adequately functional.

HMGN Budget Cycle. The second reason is more of a general nature and relates to the budgeting
procedures used by HMGN. The Nepali fiscal year starts in mid-July, but preparing and approving budget
and transferring funds to DDCs takes a long time, and is concluded only several months after the start of
the fiscal year. Annual work plans of the DDCs are to be approved by the MOLD and National Planning
Commission (NPC) once the budget is passed by the parliament for centrally allocated funds. The result is
that funds often become available to DDCs only by December of each year. Only then, can the tendering
of civil work contracts start with contracts being awarded in the beginning of the next calendar year. This
is a generic problem across the sectors, and has a negative impact on civil works contract because the
useful working season for civil works is governed by the monsoon, and civil works can be implemented
only from October to May. The budget procedure therefore allows works to be implemented only during
the second half of the working season reducing the already short construction season by 50%.

Since the Project was implemented by a newly created Department (DOLIDAR), there was no experience
in the Department to manage IDA financed project. A financial management capacity assessment of
DOLIDAR was carried out by IDA and flagged three key issues as prerequisites to start the Project ­ first,
a core team of accounts staff in the PCU; second, preparation of the Accounts Manual; and third,
development of a Financial Management Information System (FMIS). The first two were complied with
before the project became effective. The development of a FMIS was a part of the agreed Action Plan for
implementation. The Project envisaged to develop the district level capacity in financial management, and
also introduced computer-based accounting. These tasks and the preparation of the FMIS were included as
core tasks in the terms of reference of the TAC. However, the TAC failed to deliver these, and no impacts
were observed in enhancing district level capacity and also developing the FMIS. The PCU later recruited
a local consultant who developed the FMIS that could produce various reports and the Project Management
Reports (PMRs). The FMIS that was developed by a local consultant was well appreciated by the PCU
and found it very useful. PMRs were produced on time.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:



                                                    - 12 -

Poor incentive structure in PCU.        The generally poor incentive structure, and low compensation to
DOLIDAR employees, as well as to PCU staff have had a negative impact on the implementation and
monitoring of the project. PCU staff often were not motivated to take on additional project-related tasks
when their compensation and incentives did not change to correspond to additional responsibilities to
coordinate and monitor project implementation. As a result, PCU staff made less frequent field trips to
DDCs to monitor activities there, and did not provide adequate supervision on the performance of TAC.

DDC's Local Incentives. During early project implementation, many participating DDCs were slow in
carrying out maintenance and rehabilitation works, causing the project implementation progress to lag
behind schedule and making RIP project a "problem" project. Most of the DDCs opted for politically
motivated spot improvements and spread resources thinly throughout their constituents in the district. This
approach was unproductive and unsustainable, as the spot improvements often washed away after the next
monsoon season. Following the first year experience, the Bank and DOLIDAR agreed that the project
DDCs would carry out maintenance and rehabilitation works only on well-defined road corridors to be
selected from the DTMP. By linking financial support to the use of DTMP, the project therefore was able
to realign DDCs' incentives from doing spot improvement to the more productive investment and
maintenance on road corridors. This shows that the political incentives could be managed by the towards
This later approach was more effective in using project resources, and the road works were more
sustainable and had more visible impact on the condition of the road.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The original project cost was US$5.8 million, and IDA's share of financing was US$5.0 million. At project
closing, the cost of the project is estimated at US$5.7 million, with IDA's financing share about US$4.8
million. Annex 2 provides tables for project costs and financing. Although the Credit was to HMGN, each
participating district provided 20% of project costs as counterpart fund. In general, the project did not
experience counterpart funding delays, although some districts found the required amount high.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The long-term sustainability of the project benefits is likely. Although the project was a LIL of short
duration with limited budget, and its primary goal was for testing modality for the implementation of a
larger scale project, the physical works undertaken and the new institutions and tools introduced in the
project are likely to remain. The DTMP is being used widely because it is linked to the source of financing.
Similarly, The use of planning tool and community participation have allowed DDCs to minimize political
interference in the selection of road investment, which would in turn ensure that DDCs select high priority
roads.

Linking financing to DTMPs will ensure that DDCs select high priority roads, which will in turn ensure
that these roads receive maintenance resource allocation. Donor and HMGN financing for rural road
maintenance and investment programs are selected from DTMP. This creates incentive for the DDCs to
continuously update and maintain the DTMP. For example, because the proposed IDA-financed Rural
Access Improvement Project will select maintenance and investment programs only from DTMP,
participating DDCs are currently updating their respective DTMPs. In addition, DDCs are using this
process to avoid the political problem associated with choosing investment program.




                                                   - 13 -

RUCs have become part of the institutional make up of DDCs. These community-based institutions are
providing entrepreneurial and employment opportunities to local people and are embedded as ways of
operating road works. Each road rehabilitated has a corresponding RUC responsible for maintenance of
roads.

New financing arrangement has been introduced. DDCs have introduced toll levies on improved roads,
which have been channeled back for road maintenance to be carried out by RUCs. In addition, the
availability of funds from Nepal Road Fund will provide resources for maintaining the improved roads.
Finally, the strong local ownership and participation (exhibited through DRCCs, VRCCs) would ensure
that DDCs and HMGN will continue to secure funding for rural road maintenance.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The districts have shown promising signs of learning and organizing themselves to take up the
responsibility for the maintenance and operation of district roads. Participating districts have formed
RUCs for operating and maintaining improved roads, and have levied tolls for road maintenance and
operation. This operating arrangement has proven successful for the roads supported under RIP, and the
DDCs have now replicated it for other roads financed through their own funding and with support from
other donors.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance during lending preparation is rated satisfactory. The Bank actively supported the
formulation of the NSRID during the preparatory phase of the RIP. The design of RIP was innovative
(supporting for the first time decentralized local bodies with maximum community participation), but not
overly complex (the components were simple and corresponded well to the capacity of the DDC to
implement and DOLIDAR to coordinate). In using the LIL as a lending instrument, the Bank preparation
team clearly articulated what needed to be tested and monitored during project implementation. The
monitoring and evaluation, including the CBPM introduced in the project, were a strong aspect of the
project design.

7.2 Supervision:

A QAG review on the quality of supervision of risky projects was carried out in FY02, and found the
quality of supervision for RIP overall satisfactory. The ICR confirms QAG's findings, and rates Bank
performance during supervision satisfactory. Project supervision was task managed by staff in the Nepal
Country Office after the first year of project implementation. This allowed for close collaboration between
the client and the Bank, and for taking immediate remedial actions to emerging issues and lessons. The
Bank supervision focused on technical and institutional issues. The focus on institutional issues was
particularly critical as the LIL's main objective was to test whether a decentralized governance system
could work for rural roads in Nepal. By focusing on institutional issues, the Bank and DOLIDAR were
able to jointly identify implementation problems and capacity constraints, and take remedial actions in
response. In addition, financial management and fund flow to DDCs were closely monitored during the
supervision by a financial management specialist based in the Nepal Country Office. This helped to ensure
that there were no serious financial management issues as this was the first Bank project that was directly
implemented by DDCs.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:



                                                     - 14 -

The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Although the project was a LIL, and hence, its
preparation time was short, the Bank carried out adequate risk assessment and applied a more cautious
instrument for supporting rural road project in a decentralized governance system with user participation.
The flexible design made supervision of the LIL responsive to changing situation, and enabled for
maximum learning by the Bank and the borrower.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


The borrower performance during lending preparation is rated satisfactory. MOLD performed well
insofar as setting a conducive policy framework for a decentralized governance system for rural roads, and
provided good leadership in the preparation of the 1997 NSRID to underpin Bank and donor support for
rural infrastructure. The performance of DOLIDAR during lending preparation was also satisfactory,
especially given the fact that it was a new organization and had limited capacity. DOLIDAR showed good
ownership for the project, and was quick in setting up the PCU for project preparation and implementation.
At the DDC level, although their involvement initially was limited, they too supported the project and took
quick actions to prepare their respective DTMP and allocate their counterpart funding requirement to the
project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The government performance during implementation was satisfactory.                 HMGN maintained its
decentralization policy through project implementation and the division of responsibilities between the
center and local authorities were clear. However, HMGN's strategy on developing the capacity of DDCs
and DOLIDAR has not been well developed. The on going review of the NSRID will provide the basis for
a coherent strategy to improve the capacity of DDCs and DOLIDAR.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

DOLIDAR's performance during project implementation was satisfactory. It provided good technical
support to DDCs through its deputized District Engineers and monitored progress in districts. The PCU in
DOLIDAR was able to establish a good financial management system for (i) the preparation of the
Accounts Manual, which described project financial management arrangements including planning,
budgeting, accounting, internal control, fund flow and auditing arrangements, provide periodic training to
the accounts staff based on the Manual; (ii) maintaining good information and records at the PCU; and (iii)
taking timely actions on submission of audit reports.

Preparation of the project specific Accounts Manual upfront before the project effectiveness has made
project implementation smooth. The Project provided training to district staff on the Accounts Manual, and
from time to time, provided refresher training. This can be considered as a good practice example for
successful project implementation.

Cost sharing arrangements by the DDCs worked well. There was never a problem in obtaining DDCs
contribution which had to be made in advance prior to putting IDA's contribution. This can be considered
as a good model to promote community participation. Only consideration that should be made in future
operations is to review whether DDCs or communities have the capacity to contribute 20% of project costs.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:




                                                    - 15 -

The overall performance of the Borrower is satisfactory.            The different tiers of government and
implementing agency provide good ownership during the preparation and implementation of the project.
However, DOLIDAR needs to be more proactive in monitoring activities at the DDC level.

8. Lessons Learned


With appropriate technical assistance and application of policy guidelines, the DDCs have proven that
they are capable of undertaking planning and implementing rural road programs. The LIL's objective to
test whether project implementation could be undertaken by DDCs has proven to be valid.

Within HMGN's decentralization policy framework and guidelines and implementation modalities, Bank
assistance for rural infrastructure can be effectively provided. IDA's financial support to local bodies has
helped HMGN to deepen its decentralization policy.

With close monitoring and effective planning tools, local capacity can be harnessed in project selection
and implementation and local political incentives can be minimized in project selection. User
participation has contributed to better selection of projects and oversight of works.

Decentralization of responsibilities to local governments is most effective by applying new institutions
and "rules of the game" that can change the incentive structure and the political economy of local
bodies. In the early part of project implementation, local participation led to politically motivated and
sub-optimal resource allocations. However, the introduction of DTMPs, linking financing to planning,
using RUCs for road execution and CBPM for project monitoring ensured that DDCs chose optimal
resource allocation for road works.

Community-based organizations (CBOs) offer a viable institutional option for carrying out small civil
works, but they require upfront mobilization and technical support to ensure timely and quality delivery
of outputs. In particular, RUCs have the potential to be more cost-effective; deliver resources more
directly to the poor by creating local employment and off-farm income generating opportunities; allow local
labor to develop useful skills in construction methods that can last long after the project is finished; foster
participation and ownership of local communities in road improvement and monitoring; improves the
transparency of investment in rural roads; and have strong support from DDCs.

The benefits of small rural road works are mostly savings in travel time, improved access to markets, and
social service facilities. This means that conventional economic analysis of road projects, which rely
mostly on reduction of vehicle operating costs, may not capture the benefits of rural roads and could lead in
the rejection of such projects. Therefore, there is a need to incorporate social benefits and the access
benefits of rural roads in project analysis.

The provision of technical assistance needs to give strong emphasis on direct support to DDCs and
CBOs. Technical assistance needs to focus on practical training and capacity building, and leave direct
implementation responsibilities to respective government agencies and their staff. In addition, local-level
technical assistance should be provided by competent local individual consultants, who have local
knowledge and can work with the DDCs.

It is possible to undertake development activities in conflict-affected districts, if implementation is done
by beneficiaries and community groups, use of project funds is transparent, and neutral social mobilizers
are hired to facilitate project implementation.

DTMPs should include all priority rural transport infrastructure, including new construction, upgrading,



                                                     - 16 -

rehabilitation and maintenance.

Appropriate environmental assessment should be carried out for all sub-projects involving
rehabilitation/upgrading.



9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

For Borrower's evaluation of the project, please see Annex 10 of this Report.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

GTZ Assessment of the Rural Infrastructure Project, Sankhuwasabha, Component

The Sankhuwasabha District has been included in RIP to enable an innovative learning of trail
rehabilitation and upgrading into tracks adopting the Green Roads Concept promoted by GTZ, and already
practiced in the district.

Scope of the Services. The following four components of tasks were assigned to the Consultants: technical
advisory services to Sankhuwasabha District, training of DDC personnel as well as direct beneficiaries;
technical and financial monitoring; and design and supervision of the rehabilitation of about 79 kilometers
of two main trails namely Chainpur ­ Nundhaki ­ Gufapokhari and Chainpur ­ Barhabise.

The implementation of rehabilitation works was carried out through the 'User Group Approach', or rather
through "Local Road Building Groups" with agreed reduced district rates to balance with the possible
reduction in unit rate of civil works through competitive bidding. The fieldwork was focused on the
rehabilitation and improvement of two existing main trails into tracks, and realign steep trail sections for a
future upgrade to district roads.

RIP Achievements. A detailed survey designs and estimates of costs for the two alignments were prepared
and an intensive construction supervision service was provided during project period. An intensive training
and social mobilization program was organized in the District Headquarters as well as at the construction
sites. Regular field technical and financial inspection visits were paid on trimester basis, and reported to
DOLIDAR accordingly. Two main trails viz. Chainpur ­ Barhabise (36.1 km), and Chainpur ­ Nundhaki
­ Gufapokhari (43.1 km) totalling 79.2 km were improved into tracks of 2 meters average width, excluding
bridges across the rivers. The total expenditure was NRs.35.5 million, and the average cost per kilometer
came out to be NRs.0.45 million.

Institutional, socioeconomic, and environmental effects. Institutional strengthening of the DRCC was
achieved through regular meeting with decisions making procedure and follow-up mechanism.                 The
alignment selection, and detailed survey were carried out in collaboration with district engineers (training),
interested DDC members, and local VDC representatives. Intensive Training Programs ranging from one
day to seven days were organized for various stakeholders at field and district level. Field level training
included: Green Road Construction, trail and road maintenance, Naike and mason training, record keeping,
environmental, and gender awareness. About three dozens of training in 16 categories were organized.



                                                   - 17 -

Altogether, more than 660 persons were trained. The district level training included account training,
project management, and orientation of the Green Roads Concept.

Major part of the fund flowed into the project area due to labor payment and local expenses, which help
boost the local economy. Out of total investment of NRs.35.5 million, NRs.28.6 million were spent on
labor payment. In average, about 75 working groups were employed comprising of about 1300 workers
from 1135 households for three working seasons. A total of 156,584 person days of workers were
recorded. Among workers, 11% in average were women. The percentage of deprived women among
women workers is 63%. The payment was done on the performance-basis. The daily average wage rate
came out to be more than NRs.180. Thirty million Rupees (85.5%) were invested within the district for
labor payment, local expenditure, local supervisors' salary etc. Only gabion wires and tools of worth about
NRs.5.5 million were procured externally (outside district). Since the environment-friendly approach
(Green Roads Approach) was adopted strictly, the construction and rehabilitation works caused no
significant environmental damage. No landslides and destruction are encountered so far.

10. Additional Information




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Better quality: average travel time and         07/31/03                                       07/31/03
transport cost on project roads reduced by      Quality improved on 340 km road.               Travel time reduced by 24 to 54% on
20% after completion of the project;                                                           improved reduced.
non-passability of project roads reduced by 2                                                  Roads are passable through out the year.
months per year.
Sustainability: roads maintained or             (Partial assessment of road conditions will be Road Users Group have been created and
rehabilitated still in operation 3 years after  done).                                         are taking care of regular maintenance using
project completion.                                                                            toll revenues collected on improved roads
Completion of preliminary appraisal             07/31/03                                       07/31/03
recommends a follow-on operation that           Preliminary appraisal of follow on operation   Preliminary appraisal of follow on operation
encompasses the knowledge base developed completed.                                            completed.
under the project.
District transport master plans prepared        07/31/03                                       07/31/03
using participatory approach and endorsed       All project districts have updated and revised All project districts have updated and revised
by district councils.                           DTMP                                           DTMP.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
All 8 project districts have their district     07/31/03                                       07/31/03
transport master plans (DTMP) by the end of     All project districts have DTMP.               All project districts have DTMP.
1999.
Technical units of project districts adequately                                                District Technical Units are adequately
staffed by the end of 1999.                                                                    staffed.
At least 50 local contractors/labor groups                                                     A short term training on Labor Based
trained in labor-based technology and                                                          Technology (LBT) was provided to more than
undertaking project works by the end of                                                        50 contractors and labor groups by the TA
2000.                                                                                          consultant by until June 2002, which was
                                                                                               found to be less effective. More training were
                                                                                               provide by ILO experience consultant in
                                                                                               2003. GTZ hired local consultant provided
                                                                                               training on "Green Road" construction for
                                                                                               labor groups in Sankuwasabha district.
Project monitoring & evaluation procedures                                                     M&E policy and procedures established in
and guidelines established in DOLIDAR by                                                       DOLIDAR and being implemented in the
mid-term review (Dec. 2000).                                                                   project.
DOLIDAR fully operational by the end of                                                        DOLIDAR was operational in 1999.
1999.
About 340 km of district roads/trails           07/31/03                                       07/31/03
maintained or rehabilitated using labor-based   340 km completed                               386 km of district roads and about 80 km of
techniques in three construction seasons                                                       trails improved.
during project implementation period of 3
years.
District Transport Master Plan reviewed,                                                       DTMP updated and approved by District
modified and endorsed by District Council.                                                     Councils.
Routine maintenance carried out for 1000 km 07/31/03                                           07/31/03
of rural roads.                                 1000 km completed                              About 960 km of routine maintenance has
                                                                                               carried out.

1End of project




                                                                     - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Infrastructure Civil Works                                   3.80            4.10           107.9
Supervision and Design                                       0.30            0.30             100
Equipment and Logistical Support                             0.20            0.20             100
Technical Assistance Consultancy                             1.10            1.00            90.9
Incremental Operating Costs                                  0.10            0.10             100

Total Baseline Cost                                          5.50            5.70
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.30
                         Total Project Costs                 5.80            5.70
                   Total Financing Required                  5.80            5.70


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             1.80         2.40         0.00          4.20
                                  (0.00)           (1.50)      (1.90)         (0.00)       (3.40)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.10         0.10         0.00          0.20
                                  (0.00)           (0.10)      (0.10)         (0.00)       (0.20)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         1.40         0.00          1.40
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.40)         (0.00)       (1.40)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           0.00             1.90         3.90         0.00          5.80
                                  (0.00)           (1.60)      (3.40)         (0.00)       (5.00)




                                                - 20 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               4.10              0.00             0.00              4.10
                                           (0.00)             (3.28)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (3.28)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.20              0.00             0.00              0.20
                                           (0.00)             (0.18)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.18)
   3. Services                              1.00               0.30              0.00             0.00              1.30
                                           (1.00)             (0.30)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.30)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.10             0.00              0.10
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                1.00               4.60              0.10             0.00              5.70
                                           (1.00)             (3.76)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (4.76)
   Item 4 Miscellaneous is for Operating Cost.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Infrastructure civil works      3.40         0.80                     3.28         0.82                  96.5     102.5
Supervision & Design            0.30         0.00                     0.30                               100.0     0.0
Equipment & logical             0.20         0.00                     0.18         0.02                  90.0      0.0
support
Technical Assistance            1.10         0.00                     1.00                               90.9      0.0
Consultancy
Incremental Operating                                                              0.10
Cost




                                                           - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                                          Socioeconomic Impact Survey

During project preparation, the NGO Helvetas carried out a baseline survey in four project districts. The
TAC repeated the survey in the same four districts in 2002 after most of the civil works were completed.
The baseline study involved three types of questionnaires: household level, community level, and district
level. The household sample was selected along a small number of district roads (about six) in each
district. For the repeat survey, two improved roads and one non-improved road (in each district) from the
sample roads surveyed in 1998 were selected. Comparing improved and non improved roads in 2002 will
give additional significant information in addition to comparing improved roads with their situation three
years ago before their improvement. The following summarizes the findings as they relate to the impact of
road improvement on access to social facilities and economic centers and the frequency of such visits (the
full socioeconomic impact survey study is in the project files).

Travel time required to reach various facilities. Table 1 and 2 below compare travel time to various social
facilities and economic centers before and after road improvement in 1998 and 2002 respectively. The
comparative survey data show that travel time to reach various facilities have significantly been reduced,
and that the reduction in travel time is felt by a wide segment of society. In 1998, 70% households used to
spend more than an hour to reach campuses, but with improved roads only about 43 percent of households
spend that much of time commuting to campuses. Similarly, it takes less than 30 minutes for higher
percentage of people to reach secondary schools, health posts, bus stops, and dirt roads than it used to take
in 1998.

                                                         Table 1
                                        Percent Distribution of Households
                        Time taken to travel one-way to the nearest equivalent facility (2002)

                           Facility               Up to 15    15-30   30m - 1hr.  1 - 2 hrs.  2 hrs.  Total
                                                  minutes    minutes                          & more
           Primary School                            75.3       18.2      5.6         0.6       0.2   100.0
           Secondary School                          42.3       24.6     23.3         8.5       1.3   100.0
           Campus                                    17.9       18.9     20.4       28.2       14.6   100.0
           Health Post/Hospital                      28.7       37.8     18.6       10.0        4.9   100.0
           Bus Stop                                  41.3       24.0     18.3       10.9        5.4   100.0
           Dirt Road Vehicle Passable                72.8       12.9      6.7         4.2       3.5   100.0
           Local shop/shops                          63.6       19.5     10.5         3.6       2.7   100.0
           Haat Bazaar                               56.3       17.3     10.1       15.9        0.5   100.0
           Market Centre                             26.3       10.4     21.8       28.5       12.9   100.0
           Sajha (Cooperative)                       18.9       13.5     38.1       26.1        3.5   100.0
           Agriculture Centre                        12.2       16.1     36.1       30.7        4.8   100.0
           Commercial Bank/Branch office             20.5       16.7     26.2       26.8        9.8   100.0
           Telephone Service                         38.7       28.7     17.1       10.8        4.8   100.0
           Forest                                    28.3       22.3     11.3       19.8       18.4   100.0
         Source: Filed Survey 2002




                                                          - 22 -

                                                      Table 2
                                     Percent Distribution of Households
                      Time Taken to Travel One-way to the Nearest Equivalent Facility (1998)

                      Facility               Up to 15      15-30    30m - 1hrs.   1 - 2 hrs.  2 hrs.   Total
                                              minutes      minutes                            & more
   Primary School                                60.3       32.2          6.1         1.1       0.3     100.0
   Secondary School                              22.3       36.7        27.1         11.5       2.6     100.0
   Campus                                          2.4      10.7        17.0         34.0      35.9     100.0
   Health Centers                                16.7       23.3        17.6         25.5      17.0     100.0
   Bus Stop                                      28.9       21.4        25.0         14.7      10.1     100.0
   Dirt Road                                     58.5       22.7        15.2          3.6       0.0     100.0
   Market Centre                                 12.6       19.2        19.7         25.1      23.4     100.0
   Sajha (Cooperative)                           16.3       24.3        22.3         20.7      16.5     100.0
   Agro Service Centre                           11.6       26.6        24.3         22.3      15.2     100.0
   Commercial Bank/Branch office                 13.4       21.4        17.7         26.7      20.8     100.0
 Source: Helvetas 1998

 Frequency of visits. Linked to the improvement in travel time, the socioeconomic impact survey shows that
 frequency of visits to the various social facilities, and economic centers have increased. Table 2 shows that
 households made more frequent trips to social facilities and economic centers in 2002 following road
 improvement than they did in 1998 before road improvement. While more frequent trips in 2002 than in
 1998 could be as a result factors other than road improvement, the fact that the more trips made in
 improved roads in 2002 than in non-improved roads in the same year suggests that road improvement
 contributed to households decision to make more frequent trips. The most frequented visit was to local
 market centers both in regions as well as in districts followed by visits to friends and relatives within the
 community. In 2002, households made visits to local market centers 201 times in a year, versus only 37
 visits in 1998 in the Terai; and 144.2 (versus 13.2 visits in 1998) in the hills. A similar trend is also found
 in the frequency of visits to local urban center, intra community friends and relatives as well as visits made
 outside the district.

                                                       Table 3
              Average Number of Annual Visits Mode by Households by Ecological Region and Districts


                                                                Terai
                                Rupandehi                         Kapilvastu                            Terai Total
                                                      2002                                  2002
                                         Not                                   Not
   Destination of Visits        Improved Improved Total      1998 Improved Improved Total         1998  2002 1998
Local market center                113.3      64.6 83.8       66.2      253       192.5 243.7 13.7 201.5         37
Local urban center                  17.9      39.3 31.3       41.7     22.8            24     23    6.7  25.3 22.2
Inter-community relatives           25.9      29.7 28.2       19.6    118.1         88.2 113.4      8.9  90.8 13.6
Intra-community relatives           17.1      38.8 30.6       91.8    130.2       103.5 126.1 10.7 101.9 46.5
Inter-community friends             12.2      49.5 35.4 111.5         147.9          107 141.6 22.6 114.8 61.8
Intra-community friends             19.7      23.9 22.4       20.2    160.3       137.1 156.5       6.7 121.5 12.7
Extra-districts                      8.1      12.8 10.8       15.3     10.5           4.9    9.6    5.1    9.9  9.6




                                                        - 23 -

                                                                Hill
                               Palpa                              Kaski                                Hill Total
                                                      2002                               2002
                                          Not                               Not
    Destination of Visits      Improved Improved Total 1998 Improved Improved Total              1998  2002 1998
Local market center                  86.1     139.4 89.6     7.8      210.7     240.8 217.6 20.3 144.2 13.2
Local urban center                   12.6      80.1     17   2.9       81.7      45.6     73.9     20   42.1 10.3
Inter-community relatives            30.5      30.9 30.5     5.8       63.7      106      72.6    9.7   49.2   7.5
Intra-community relatives            39.8      78.1 42.4 16.8          87.6     103.8     91.2 23.3     63.6 23.3
Inter-community friends              37.5      86.5 40.6 15.1          63.2     102.6     72.2 24.8       55 24.8
Intra-community friends               50      107.8 53.4     5.4      113.6     155.2 122.9       5.6   84.6   5.6
Extra-districts                       5.9          6   5.9   0.5        4.3       5.3      4.5    1.1    5.2   1.1

Cropping pattern and yields. The impact of road improvement on improved paddy production is mixed.
In Rupandehi, the rate of farmers along improved roads producing improved paddy reached 100%,
doubling from 1998, and exceeding the rate for non-improved roads. In Kapilbastu, the rate of farmers
along improved roads producing improved paddy in 2002 is greater than that in 1998. In Hill districts, far
smaller rates of farmers along improved roads were found to produce improved paddy in 2002 than those
for non-improved roads where the rate increased between 1998 and 2002. On the other hand, the share of
farmers producing local paddy decreased both along improved and non-improved in Terai, but the opposite
is true to both Hill districts. This may indicate that (i) many farmers in the Hill districts in 2002 could not
still afford to purchase improved paddy, or inputs needed to produce them, and reacted to road
improvements by increasing the production of local paddy, while (ii) many farmers in Terai could afford
improved paddy production, and captured the opportunities opened by road improvements.

The impact of road improvement on crop yields is mixed. In Kapilbastu, the yield from improved paddy
increased far more along improved roads (159.2% increase) than non-improved roads (101.0% increase).
In Palpa, the rate of increase is greater along non-improved roads (306.1% increase) than along improved
roads (137.8% increase). In Rupandehi, the yield of improved paddy decreased between 1998 to 2002, but
far more so along improved roads than along non-improved roads. The same mixed trend is true to other
crops too: yield of vegetables/cash crop is either almost the same (Palpa) or far greater along non-improved
roads than improved roads, while yield of local paddy is greater along improved roads in Kapilbastu
(Terai) and Kaski (Hill) than along non-improved roads, but the opposite is true to Rupandehi (Terai) and
Palpa (Hill). This indicates factors other than road also influence production of crops of different variety.

Fertilizer use. The ratio of households using fertilizer increased between 1998 and 2002 in Hill districts by
2.1% but decreased in Terai by 2.8%. On the other hand, the average fertilizer use per household has
increased both in Terai and the Hill districts. The average amount of fertilizer used is greater in Terai
rather than the Hill, in large part, due to greater landholding size in Terai compared to Hills. For example,
in Rupandehi, the ratio of household along improved roads using fertilizer is 100% and higher than along
non-improved roads (85.3%). Similarly, in Palpa about 46% of households along improved roads used
fertilizers used in 2002, but none of the households in non-improved were found to use fertilizers during the
survey period. All in all, the impact of road improvement on use of fertilizer has been generally positive.

Food sufficiency situation. As Table 5 shows, the percentage of households with food sufficiency all
round the year decreased in Terai but increased in Hill regions during the same period. The impact of road
improvement is mixed. In Rupandehi, while year-round food sufficiency decreased for both improved and
non-improved roads, the decrease is less along improved roads. The opposite is true in Kapilbastu where
despite the general decrease of year-round food sufficiency, it rather increased along non-improved roads



                                                       - 24 -

which cannot offset the decline along improved roads. In Palpa, year-round food sufficiency increased only
slightly along improved but doubled along non-improved roads. Household with food sufficiency for less
than three months also shows mixed picture. While acute food shortage is far more significant along
non-improved roads in Rupandehi, the opposite is true to Palpa where more than 30% of household along
improved roads have food sufficiency less than five months, as compared to 10% along non-improved
roads. Generally, the impact of road improvement on food sufficiency is at best modest. Other factors,
such as the adequacy of rainfall, use of fertilizers, and lot size are likely to contribute more in ensuring
food-self sufficiency than improvement in roads only.

                                                      Table 5
                           Percentage of Sample Households with Level of Food Sufficiency
     Particulars                                       Terai                                         Terai Total
                                 Rupandehi                               Kapilbastu
                                 2002                                  2002                        2002     1998
                     Improved  Not Improved Total  1998  Improved Not Improved Total      1998
 No. of Households      21          34        55    195     131          24       155      247      210      442
 Less than 3 months     0.0         3.1       1.9   5.1     11.1        13.6      11.5     9.7      9.0      7.7
 3 to 5 months          0.0         6.3       3.8   5.6     7.1         9.1        7.4     4.9      6.5      5.2
 6 to 8 months          14.3       40.6      30.2   14.9    21.4        0.0       18.2      17      21.4     16.1
 9 to 11 months         38.1       15.6      24.5   17.9    8.7         9.1        8.8     10.1     12.9     13.6
 Year Round             47.6       34.4      39.6   56.4    51.6        68.2      54.1     58.3     50.2     57.5
                                                        Hill                                         Hill Total
                                    Palpa                                  Kaski
                                 2002                                  2002                        2002     1998
                      Improved Not Improved Total  1998  Improved Not Improved Total      1998
 No. of Households      139         10        149   219      87          25       112      167      261      386
 Less than 3 months     8.0         0.0       7.5   7.8     8.1         8.3       10.2     10.2     7.8      8.8
 3 to 5 months          22.6       10.0      21.8   23.3    15.1        16.7       18       18      19.1      21
 6 to 8 months          43.1       30.0      42.2   43.4    23.3        33.3      26.9     26.9     35.0     36.3
 9 to 11 months         8.8        20.0       9.5   10.5    4.7         16.7       9        9       8.6      9.8
 Year Round             17.5       40.0      19.0   15.1    48.8        25.0      35.9     35.9     29.6     24.1
Source: Field Survey 2002


Sales of crops and livestock. Farmers in Terai sold more of their farm products to market than do those in
the Hill regions, but the rate of increase of output sold is higher in the Hill regions than in Terai; for
example, the ratio of vegetable/cash crop sold more than doubled in the Hill Districts while the rate is
almost the same in Terai. This shows that hill districts, because of their existing low level of road density,
any improvement in roads will have greater impact on the farmers' ability to sell their produces in the
market. In Rupandehi, the percent of local paddy sold increased from 5.5% in 1998 to 87.4% in 2002
along improved roads compared to 11.1% along non-improved roads. In Palpa, where 50.6% of vegetables
and cash crop were sold in 1998, 78.8% went to market in 2002 along improved roads, and 29.5% along
non-improved roads. Many factors other than access to road per se no doubt determine access of farmers
to market and hence the amount of farm product farmers sell. Average time and cost to reach the nearest
market, which is not available due to defective data, may not actually be reduced despite road improvement
as supply of transport service did not increase correspondingly. Though the data is not shown here, sales
of livestock also shows mixed result; in Palpa, sales of milk is 42.7% along improved roads compared to
0% along non-improved roads, when more milk is actually produced along non-improved roads. Similarly,
50% of eggs are sold along improved roads of Palpa compared to 0% along non-improved roads when the
production is greater in latter part of Palpa. In another Hill district of Kaski, in 2002, only 47.8% of milk
produced along improved roads is sold in market compared to 83.3% along non-improved roads, though the
production and share of sales of milk have increased from 1998. Also, none of sample farmers along both



                                                      - 25 -

improved and non-improved roads of Kaski sold eggs in market in 2002 when 14.7% were sold in 1998.
What factors are responsible to such mixed result needs further investigation.

Employment and income. Formal sector employment generally increased more along improved roads than
non-improved roads. In the same period, percent of household engaged in formal employment decreased
along non-improved roads, while it increased along improved roads. This indicates considerable
contribution of road improvement to increased access to formal employment. Road improvement resulted
in the diversification of income source. Agricultural income decreased to a far greater degree along
improved roads than non-improved roads in Terai districts, when non-agricultural income increased far
more along improved roads than non-improved roads. In Hill districts, though agricultural income is
greater along improved roads than non-improved roads, non-agricultural income far more significantly
increased along improved roads than non-improved roads, indicating increase of the share of
non-agricultural income in total household income. This result lends support to the observation made
earlier that improved roads resulted in the shift of households from cash crop/vegetable production to
non-agricultural employment as source of cash income.




                                                     - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/05/1998                6    TASK LEADER (1); SR.
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1)
              05/05/1998                6    TASK LEADER (1); SR.
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1)
              09/20/1998                4    TASK LEADER (1);
                                             IRRIGATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/07/1998                6    TASK LEADER (1);
                                             IRRIGATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT,
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
              04/11/1999                9    TASK LEADER/TRANSPORT
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SENIOR COUNSEL (1);
                                             IRRIGATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1) PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                                             (1); EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
                                             OFFICER (1); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1)

 Supervision




                                              - 27 -

01/14/2000    6 CO-TASK LEADER (1);          S    S
                C0-TASK LEADER (1);
                TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                FMS (1); TEAM ASSISTANT
                (1)
06/26/2000    8 IRRIGATION SPECIALIST (1);   S    S
                TRANSPORT SPECILAIST (1);
                TEAM LEADER (1); FIN.
                MGMT. SPECIALIST (1);
                CONSULTANT (1);
                OPERATIONS ADVISOR (1);
                TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT
                (1)
11/07/2000    5 TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);    U    S
                SR.IRRIGATION ENGINEER
                (1); CONSULTANT (1); SR.
                FIN. MGMT. SPECIAL (1);
                TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
11/23/2001    7 TASK LEADER (1); SR.         S    S
                IRRIGATION ENGG. (1);
                CONSULTANT - PROCURE.
                (1); INFRA. ENGINEER (1);
                SR. FIN. MGMT. SPEC. (1);
                DISB. ASSISTANT (1); TEAM
                ASSISTANT (1)
11/23/2001    7 TASK LEADER (1); SR.         S    S
                IRRIGATION ENG. (1);
                CONSULTANT-PROCUREME
                NT (1);
                ENGINEER/ECONOMIST (1);
                SR. FINC'L MGMT SPE. (1);
                DISBURSEMENT ASST. (1);
                TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
12/12/2002    7 SR. TRANSPORT SPECIALI       S    S
                (1); TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                (1); SR. FINCL MGMT SPEC.
                (1); CONSULTANT,
                PROCUREMEN (1);
                CONSULTANT,
                ENVIRONMEN (1);
                DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANT
                (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
05/22/2003    9 SR. TRANSPORT SPECIALIST     S    S
                (1); OPERATIONS ADVISOR
                (1); TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                (1); LEAD TRANSPORT
                SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                SPECIALIST (1);
                CONSULTANT,
                PROCUREMENT (1);



                - 28 -

                                                           CONSULTANT, SOCIAL
                                                           DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                                           DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANT
                                                           (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                                           (1)

 ICR
               05/22/2003                            9      SR. TRANSPORT                        S    S
                                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                                            OPERATIONS ADVISOR
                                                            (1); TRANSPORT
                                                            ECONOMIST (1); LEAD
                                                            TRANSPORT SPECIALIST
                                                            (1); SR. FINANCIAL
                                                            MANAGEMENT
                                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                                            CONSULTANT,
                                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                                            CONSULTANT, SOCIAL
                                                            DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                                            DISBURSEMENT
                                                            ASSISTANT (1);
                                                            PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                              No. Staff weeks                      US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                         37.50                                156.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                              10.70                                15.90
  Supervision                                       128.50                               262.94
  ICR
  Total                                             176.70                               434.84
Note: Inputs on ICR is included in the Supervision. The information is as of December 1, 2003.




                                                           - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Community participation




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project, Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 19171-NEP), World
     Bank, Infrastructure Sector Unit (SASIN), South Asia Region, May 12, 1999.

2.   Nepal - Rural Infrastructure Project, Development Credit Agreement, CONFORMED COPY,
     CREDIT NUMBER 3215 NEP, Development Credit Agreement, September 8, 1999.

3.   Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project, Implementation Completion Report Workshop (Program
     Coordinator: Bandana Rana, and Report Compilation: Navin Singh) - May 30, 2003.

4.   Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project, Sankhuwasabha (RDP/GTZ-SIDeF), Final Project Report.

5.   Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project - ICR Report: Borrower's Evaluation.

6.   Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project, Various Missions' Back-to-office reports which include Aide
     Memoires, Post-mission Management Letters, and Legal Covenants.

7.   Project Status Reports.

8.   PCU - Progress Status Reports, Trimester Reports.

9.   Socioeconomic Baseline Survey of Rural Infrastructure Project Districts in West Nepal, Volume I:
     Main Report and Volume II: Annexes, March 1999.

10.  Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project, Guidelines for Community Based Performance Monitoring
     System, August 2000.

11.  Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project, Technical and Financial Monitoring Formats.

12.  Guidelines to DDCs for Incorporating Social and Environmental Concerns in Design and
     Supervision of Civil Works.

13.  Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project, Report on the Proceedings of Labour-based Technology for
     Rural Road Works for District Overseers, January 2001.

14.  Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project, District Selection for Follow on Projects, November 2001.

15.  Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project, Document on Monitoring and Evaluation System, 2001.

16.  Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project, Lessons Learnt in First Phase of RIP & Suggestions for
     Improvements During Second Phase, January 2002.

17.  Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project, Information on Social Concerns, April 2002.

18.  Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project, Institutional Strengthening Plan for RIP districts, June 2002.

19.  Nepal - Rural Infrastructure Project, Review of Overall Outcomes and Impact - Part I: Project
     Achievements, Final Report - July 2002.


                                                 - 32 -

20.  Nepal - Rural Infrastructure Project, Review of Overall Project Outcomes and Impact - Part II:
     Comparative Study of Work Performance between Road User Groups and Local Contractors:
     Final Report - July 2002.

21.  Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project, Borrower's Project Implementation Plan (BPIP), July 2002.

22.  Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project, Report on Socio-Economic Baseline Survey, Volume I: Main
     Report and Volume II: Annexures, July 2002.

23.  Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project, Training Assessment on Labor Based Road Rehabilitation and
     Maintenance, by Pen Sonath, May 2003.

24.  Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project, Training Report on Labor Based Road Rehabilitation and
     Maintenance, June 2003.

25.  Nepal Rural Infrastructure Project, Submission of Report on Implementation Status of RIP Roads
     for FY2058/59, July 2003.




                                                - 33 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

As part of the intensive learning ICR, the Bank commissioned a beneficiary survey study in June 2002.
Beneficiaries were asked to compare work performance between the RUGs and local contractors, and
evaluate the cost effectiveness, sustainability and performance of works executed by RUGs with more
traditional private sector contracting arrangements adopted under the Rural Infrastructure Project. Since
there always exists a Road Users Committee (RUC) when an RUG is used, this report often refers to the
RUC/RUG.

Comparison between RUC/RUG and LC
                       Road user groups                                          Local contractors
                         Procurement
Road User Committees have to exist or have to be created       The existence of RUCs is desirable but not a
by road users with the help of the DDCs and the project        necessity
Road User Groups have to exist or have to be created as        No RUGs are required.
required. Creation of RUCs and RUGs requires
communities to be mobilized before construction works
begin, which takes substantial time and efforts
Social mobilizers are needed to assist RUC and RUG             Social mobilizers are desirable but not a necessity
No competition found between RUGs; finding enough              Competition exists to some extent and contractors
workers to constitute a RUG may be difficult in some areas from all over the country are allowed to compete
No risk of collusion, but lack of competition may hide the     Risk of collusion between contractors increases the
true cost of works done.                                       cost of works
Lack of experience may initially lead to higher cost           Experience can reduce the cost of works if there is
                                                               effective competition
Execution of rehabilitation, upgrading and periodic
maintenance
Training is required every time a new RUG is created           Training is required but less than for RUG since
                                                               contractors often have their core technical staff
RUG have difficulties obtaining advance payments               Contractors can obtain bank guarantees required for
                                                               advance payments
Obtaining equipment may be difficult for RUG                   Contractors have some equipment and have less
                                                               difficulties renting equipment
RUGs have difficulties obtaining insurance against             Contractors are usually insured against accidents
accident, in part because of their lack of legal standing
Obtaining required quality of work from RUGs is difficult. Quality is better if well supervised. Contractors take
Taking remedial steps against defective works is very          the responsibility for defective works
difficult.
Risk of intimidation by inspectors                             Risk of corruption by officials
Earthworks can be executed but good compaction is              Earthworks can be executed; supervision should
difficult, due to difficulties to rent equipment such as       ensure good compaction
rollers
Building structures are is not easy because materials must     Structures can be easily built because contractors
be bought and transported, and specialized labor is            are used to buying materials and transporting them;
required                                                       supervision should ensure the quality of work
More local workers are involved in construction works,         Less local workers are involved in construction
and trained workers are available for maintenance works        works, and trained workers are available for
                                                               maintenance works




                                                         - 34 -

Maintenance
RUGs are very suitable for routine maintenance if              Contractors are also suitable for routine
provided with training, tools and materials (gravel, etc.)     maintenance, but defining and measuring the works
                                                               can be difficult
Periodic maintenance (regravelling) is difficult for RUGs      Contractors are suitable for periodic maintenance
because transport and compacting equipment is required
Overall characteristics
RUGs create more employment                                    Contractors create less employment
RUGs create more local employment                              Contractors usually import more labor from outside
                                                               the region
RUC and RUG more effective with view to                        Contractors less effective with view to
empowerment/ownership                                          empowerment/ownership/sustainability
Developed skills retained in the community                     Developed skills remain in contractors or workers
                                                               from outside the community
Daily wage earning is higher because labor cost is paid on     Fixed daily wage rates for the laborers. Financial
the basis of itemized rates. The benefit directly goes to the  benefit goes to the contractors.
poor section of the community
Conclusions
Both methods - RUC/RUG or LC, are suitable for the
execution of civil works. Both methods have advantages
and disadvantages. Choice of one method instead of the
other should depend on the particular circumstances in
which the works are executed. If good contractors are
available, competition is open, works require highly
specialized staff and have to be done quickly and
unemployment is very low, LCs would be preferred. If
unemployment is high, works require mainly unskilled
labor, collusion exists between contractors, and time is
available for social mobilizers to create RUCs/RUGs and
train them, RUC/RUG would be preferred.
Under optimal conditions, the cost of both methods is
about the same with the extra cost for training and
supervising inexperienced RUGs being compensated by
higher cost of contractors due to overheads and profits.
When RUCs/RUGs are used, complete transparency must
be obtained through participatory community meetings
and public hearing about project concept, components and
implementation modalities. Any lapse in community
meeting may lead to the formation of politicized RUCs
and RUGs with members nominated by influential people
(e.g. politicians) in the community. RUCs and RUGs
would then sublet the work to hidden contractors and
share the profit among key members. Use of RUCs and
RUGs requires social mobilization, but the cost of hiring
social mobilizers does not exceed 1% of the cost of the
works in general, and is therefore not an important factor
and is largely compensated by empowerment and a sense
of ownership by users leading to better maintenance.
Advanced planning is, however, needed.
RUC/RUG approach is easiest to implement routine
maintenance. The contractor approach is easiest if more




                                                         - 35 -

complicated works requiring equipment, materials and
experienced labor are to be executed.

The Beneficiary Survey also asked beneficiaries to assess project benefits. Below is the summary of the
Survey findings. Questionnaire used is attached below.

DTMP: DTMP is becoming a common method in participating Districts. In all seven participating
districts, roads are built, and will continue to be built, as per DTMP using a participatory process. All
respondents consider DTMP preparation should be a participatory process, and DTMP preparation process
involved meetings with VDC and communities. The degree of community consultation varies across
districts; while more than ten meetings were held with community in Rupandehi and Syangia Districts, only
two meetings were held in Kapilbastu District and no meeting was held in Kaski. Respondents mention
that they learnt bid preparation and evaluation from this Project.

Contract management: Competitive bidding process seems to have been gradually introduced to
participating Districts. Respondents of the survey have positive opinion about tendering because it ensures
greater probability of competition, and replied that they have learnt and are willing to use competitive
bidding procedures in the DDCs. In 5 districts, it is mentioned that bidding process has become
competitive in the final year, though competition was absent during the first two years. The competitive
bidding process nonetheless has just set in, and competition is still absent in another two Districts.
Respondents consider that, in order to achieve a better competition in bidding, the number of venue for the
submission of tender should be increased and tender is made through packaging and slicing.

Financial management: Compared with contract management, financial management is slow to improve.
In no participating District was financial management authority transferred to technical units from LDO,
and FMIS software is not used in any Districts. In Palpa, it is reported that the person who installed FMIS
could not run the program and thus the software has not been tested. On the other hand, all respondents
replied that they are able to pay contractors within a week since the submission of bills.

Audit: Financial audit was carried out in all participating Districts for the last two years. In all Districts
the entire DDC expenditure increased from 2056/57 to 2057/58. RIP expenditure increased in some
Districts and decreased in others.

Technical: Technical staffing is sufficient in all participating Districts, and enough funds are available to
pay to additional staff. Average turnover of technical staff is reportedly frequent in some Districts, the
reason of which should be pursued further. DDC is expected to carry out routine maintenance of roads
after the Project, and lengthen approach is considered good for maintenance in all Districts though training
needs to be provided to laborers. Most participating Districts plan to carry out routine maintenance of less
than half the roads within their jurisdiction.

Community based performance monitoring: The M&E committee is formed in two Districts, and VRCC,
LRUC, DMC and DRCC also conduct M&E. Number of meetings held by DRCC varies from 4 (Palpa)
to 0 (Rupandehi), and the VRCC meeting was held 36 times in Kaski while none in Kapilbastu. Reporting
format was not developed or used in many participating Districts except Syangja District. All Districts
propose as measures to lesson corruption clear definition of work plan and of responsibility of executing
bodies, as well as test of quality of works executed.

Environmental assessment: Measures against negative environmental damage were taken in many
Districts. Dust pollution was not dealt with in two Districts (Dhading and Kapilbastu), and disposal not in



                                                      - 36 -

Dhading, but bioengineering measures taken in all Districts. Training on environmental assessment was
conducted only in three Districts (Kapilbastu, Kaski and Syangja). Guidelines prepared by TAC were not
followed by any District.

Beneficiary Survey Questionnaire

A.     DTMP (DDC)

1.     Is DTMP prepared?
2.     Are you constructing the roads as per DTMP?
3.     Whether DDC will construct/maintain the roads on the basis of priority of DTMP
4.     Did the project help to learn preparing DTMP?
5.     Can you review and prepare DTMP by yourself?
6.     Do you think that DTMP preparation is a participatory approach or technical process?
7.     Whether participatory process has been adopted during DTMP preparation? If yes.
                No. of meeting held with VDCs
                No. of meeting with communities
                No. of meeting in DDC level.

B.     CONTRACT MANAGEMENT

1.     Did you learn about contracting procedures from this project on:
                Bid preparation.
                Bid evaluation.
2.     Was there a good competition during bidding?
3.     What do you propose to have a better competition in bidding?
4.     Have you learned about the World Bank procedures?
5.     Are you willing to use competitive bidding procedures in the DDCs?
6.     What do you prefer; tendering or quotation? Why?

C.     FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

1.     Is the financial management authority transferred to technical units from LDO?
2.     What the project taught on financial management and accounting?
3.     Are you using the FMIS software, provided by the project? If yes, is it useful?
4.     Do you want to continue to use this software?
5.     Time taken for payment to the contractor after the submission of bills by the contractor.

D.     AUDIT (for FY2056/57 and 2057/58)

1.     Whether financial audit has been carried out for the last two FYs?
2.     How much is the DDCs total expense (whole DDC expenditure)?
3.     How much is RIP expenditure?
4.     How much disqualification for whole DDC?
5.     How much is disqualification for RIP?

E.     TECHNICAL

1.     Whether technical staffs are sufficient?


                                                  - 37 -

2.  Does the DDC have enough funds to pay to additional staffs?
3.  Average turnover (stay in the project) of engineers and overseers. If there is frequent change, what
    do you suggest to make them stay for three years?
4.  Will DDC carry out routine maintenance of roads after RIP?
5.  Whether lengthmen approach is good for maintenance?
6.  How much kilometer of roads is in the district?
7.  How much road will be carried out under routine maintenance after RIP?
8.  How much budget will you allocate for routine maintenance after RIP?

F.  COMMUNITY BASED PERFORMANCE MONITORING

1.  Whether the DDC has followed the procedure established by DOLIDAR?
2.  What other monitoring tools are being used by DDC?
3.  Whether DRCC and VRCC are monitoring implementation activities?
4.  No of meeting held by DRCC and VRCC in the last fiscal year.
5.  What type of reporting format has been used by DRCC and VRCC?
6.  What measures do you propose to lessen the corruption?

G.  ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT

1.  Environmental mitigation measures adopted in the contract.
2.  Whether guidelines prepared by TAC are being followed?




                                               - 38 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

1.      Introduction

DOLIDAR organized a one-day ICR workshop for RIP on May 30th, 2003 at the Local Development
Training Academy, Jawalakhel. Ninety people from various government agencies and donor communities
involved in the rural sector participated in the workshop. DDC officials of project districts, the local user's
groups and contractors and officials of MOLD/DOLIDAR also participated in the workshop. The
following is the proceedings of the workshop

2.      Objective

The main objective of the ICR workshop was to discuss and share the experiences and lessons learnt, the
achievement of the project, problems faced and issues arisen during project implementation period and
hence, help replicate the good practices of the RIP for the follow-up project and other such future projects.

3.      Presentations by the DDC's

The eight participating DDC's made their presentations of the achievements and the obstacles during the
implementation of the project.

3.1     Rural Infrastructure Project, Nawalparasi

Rural Infrastructure Project (RIP) started in the fiscal year 2056/57 in Nawalparasi. Among the eight
roads that were selected with a total length of 83.40 kms, the rehabilitation and periodic repair of 63.34
kms of road has already been completed. NRs.900,000 was sanctioned for the fiscal year 2059/60 and
implementation work is ongoing.

Achievements
-       The rehabilitation and periodic repair of 63.34 kms of road in the district has been completed.
-       Contact and coordination among communities has increased due to transport facilities.
-       Improvement of roads has encouraged agriculture and other cottage and small industries in the
        district.
-       It has helped increase the income level of the people to some extent due to increase in marketing
        and import and export of goods.
-       The transportation cost has been reduced.
-       There has been an improvement in the environment.
-       Travel time has reduced.

3.2     Rural Infrastructure Project, Syangja

In Syangja, maintenance and repair works of 9 roads with a total of 100 kms was implemented. A total of
13 VRCC's and 10 LRUC's were formed in this context. The following problems, suggestions and
achievements were highlighted in the presentation.

Problems
-       Due to lack of long term vision among the consumers, they use big machineries such as dozer,
        loader, etc., to build roads upto their homes which deteriorates the environment and the soil. There
        have been regular erosion problems in many areas due to this.



                                                     - 39 -

-      Although it has been mentioned that routine and periodic maintenance repair has to be done
       through the user committee, difficulties have been faced due to lack of technical knowledge among
       the committee members and lack of machineries.
-      It has been difficult to include members representing the Dalit and ethnical communities in each
       and every sector due to lack of eagerness from their side.

Suggestions
-      Initiate steps to institutionally develop VRCC and LRUC of each rural road. For this purpose,
       these committees must be given the responsibility of maintenance repair (as per their capabilities
       and skills) which will provide continuity to their active participation.
-      Many people have benefited from the investment in rural roads through RIP. But, this investment
       will not have any meaning if these roads do not run regularly in the present condition. Therefore,
       follow-up program is very important.
-      In most of the rural roads, it was found that the jeep syndicates raise transportation charges as per
       their will. Therefore, a unity in the charges was maintained through a joint meeting of jeep
       syndicate and the user committee. The higher charges (Rs.300 to Rs.500) levied to vehicles
       coming from outside the rural road has been annulled based on the decision of the committee.
-      Women participation in the user committee has been exceptionally good. Women have started
       showing enthusiasm in road construction and other social works.
-      Because of the decision to conduct maintenance and repair via user committee, there has been
       development in technical knowledge regarding road construction. They have also started taking
       interest in the location of the project, duration, budget, quality, etc..
-      The DRCC has taken a decision to do tree plantation on both sides (as required) of each rural road
       through the mobilization of consumers via VRCC and LRUC.
-      Members have been encouraged in using labor based techniques.

Achievements
-      The DDC, VDC and the consumers have realized the importance of road rehabilitation, periodic
       and regular repair through the program. The transportation facilities in the roads which have been
       repaired has become faster. Previously, vehicles did not travel in two roads (Rangkhola Biruwa
       and Bayarghari Biruwa) but after maintenance and repair in the difficult areas, vehicles have
       started traveling regularly on these roads.
-      Under the RIP program, 60 kms of road has been rehabilitated and periodic maintenance and repair
       completed till date. Routine maintenance and repair is being done through the user committee in
       100 kms of road.
-      The cost of daily consumable items such as salt, oil, rice, kerosene, etc., has gone down 30 to 50%
       from the previous rates due to transport facilities.
-      Previously, girls were taken out of schools and colleges because they had to rent a room in that
       area. But, now girls have benefited more because they are able to attend schools and colleges from
       their own home because of the transport facilities.
-      The transport facility has made it easier to take sick people (especially delivery cases) to the
       hospital on time.
-      Migration has decreased due to accessible roads.
-      Farmers have started getting attracted towards cash crops such as orange, ginger, cardamom,
       coffee, etc. They have started attending training and workshops in farming methods.
-      Women have started participating widely in workshops and trainings in the district headquarters
       because they do not have to spend the night there.
-      Previously, the transportation charge was Rs.3.50 per km but after the improvement of the road it
       has come down to Rs.2.50 to Rs.3.00.


                                                     - 40 -

3.3     Rural Infrastructure Project, Kaski

A total of 10 roads were selected for maintenance and repairs in Kaski District. All of these roads were in
very poor state prior to project implementation. After the project implementation, vehicles started plying
almost throughout the year in these roads. This saved a lot of time for travellers and made it easy for
people to move around and reach the market. This in turn increased the productivity of the area owing to
increase in economic benefits.

3.4     Rural Infrastructure Project, Dhading

The Rural Infrastructure Project (RIP) was initiated in the fiscal year 056/57 through Local Infrastructure
Development and Agriculture Road Department with a loan support from World Bank. The project has
already completed periodic repair and rehabilitation of 6 roads and regular maintenance of 22 roads.
Despite this fact, the project has not been able to achieve the expected output due to geographical barriers
and the deteriorating security situation.

During this fiscal year, the project aims to complete the maintenance and repair of the roads which could
not be completed in the last fiscal year. Maintenance and repair of 18 roads has been initiated this fiscal
year through lengthman with the formation of 19 user's committees during this fiscal year. The user's
committees are in the process of registering the organization. The presentation highlighted the following
achievements, problems and suggestions.

Achievements
-       After the implementation of RIP, there has been an improvement in the institutional capacity of the
        consumers.
-       The fact that labor based technology in rural level construction works increases employment
        opportunities has been proven to be accurate.
-       Development of feeling to give priority to the maintenance and repair of roads among the District
        Development Committee (DDC), Village Development Committee (VDC) and the consumers.
-       Consumers have been made responsible, their working capacity has increased and they are aware
        of their rights.
-       It has been felt that the concept of lengthman for regular maintenance and improvement of rural
        roads has been proven to be beneficial.
-       The participation of Dalits and women in decision making process and project implementation has
        increased.
-       Vehicle operation cost, road maintenance cost and transportation cost have decreased after the
        improvement in the road surface.
-       Traveling time and the risks of traveling have decreased.
-       The environment has become better.
-       The DDC office has benefited from vehicles, computer and fax which were made available by the
        project.
Problems
-       There was delay due to conflict situation and state of emergency.
-       There are many rough roads in Dhading District and the budget is not sanctioned accordingly.
        Therefore, it will be difficult to improve the condition of already existing roads.
-       Due to the trend of budgets not being sanctioned on time, the project implementation will be
        hampered.
-       Consumers take more interest in constructing new roads rather than improving the already existing


                                                     - 41 -

         roads.
-        It is not possible to implement maintenance and repair works through lengthman during monsoon.
-        Since maintenance and repair works have to be done massively right after monsoon, the lack of
         recurrent maintenance program has created problems in getting transportation back on the road.
-        The project faced problems due to lack of training on construction, social mobilization and
         accounting to the members of the user's committee.
-        Project implementation is delayed due to difficult processes.

Suggestions
-        The budget should be sanctioned on time.
-        Since it is not possible to keep the road surface in a running condition only through routine
         maintenance, recurrent type maintenance and repair must be added.
-        There is a need to construct concrete drain rather than earthen drain since the sustainability of the
         rural roads depends upon the drainage system.
-        There is a need to provide training on project management and accounting to the members of the
         Users Committee.
-        Private land must be compensated.
-        The existing roads must be improved rather than constructing new roads.
-        The process of project implementation must be simplified.

3.5      Rural Infrastructure Project, Palpa

The presentation of the RIP of Palpa identified the following problems, impact, achievements during the
project implementation and suggestions for the future.

Problems
-        Lack of transport facilities for effective supervision.
-        Low budget of the project and matching fund is high for hilly region.
-        Quality of local construction materials is poor and project cost becomes high because these have to
         be brought from outside.
-        Due to lack of budget, green road concept has not been able to be implemented practically.
-        VRCC, LRUC and DRCC must be made well functional.

Impact
-        Creation of employment opportunities.
-        Increase in women's participation and awareness.
-        There has also been positive changes among the local people in market oriented farming.
-        Out of the total of 18 roads of RIP, 3-4 roads were not usable for vehicles but now even night
         buses ply on these roads.
-        Previously the transport cost was Rs.162 for 50 km and recently a pressure committee was formed
         and the rate was decreased to Rs.120/-.

Achievements
-        Routine maintenance, rehabilitation and periodic maintenance was completed in 18 roads of Palpa.
-        50 km Aryabhanjang-Rampur - 16 km 622 m was gravelled.
-        25 km Hartok-Chahara - 5 km gravelled.
-        30 km Banstari-Jhadewa - 3 km 500 m gravelled.
-        One tractor, one water tank, one roller has been received by DOLIDAR/MOLD.
-        DRCC, LRUC, VRCC have already been formed and are working effectively.


                                                      - 42 -

-       Local people have had the benefit of short-term and long-term employment.
-       Labor based technology has been implemented effectively.

Suggestions
-       There is a need to implement routine maintenance and periodic maintenance in other roads of the
        district as well.
-       There is also a need for new road constructions.
-       Matching fund must be curtailed.
-       Collective effective training should be provided to lenghtman, contractors and user's committee.
-       DOLIDAR and World Bank must give more attention to timely monitoring.
-       The budget should be sanctioned on time.
-       User's committee should be given the responsibility of at least 60% of the budget for local
        employment.
-       Lengthman and consumers did 7% of the work and 93% was through contractors, therefore user's
        committee must be mobilized.
-       User's committee need programs to become functional.

3.6     Rural Infrastructure Project (RIP), Sankhuwasabha

The presentation of Sankhuwasabha highlighted the following impact, problems, lessons learnt and
suggestions.

Impact after Completion of the Project
  SN              Heading                       Route          Before Construction     After Construction
  1   Reduced walking time               C-N-GP                         7                        6
                                         C-B                            8                        6
  2   Reduced rate of porter due to      Both route             0.65/kg/km           0.50/kg/km
      easy access
  3   Increased land value               Pokhari area (C-N-G)   20000 per ropani     100000 per ropani
  4   Increased trend of house           Pokhari area (C-N-G)   45 houses Pokhari    65 houses Pokhari
      construction in road corridors                            Bazar                Bazar
  5   Expansion on market                C-B route              only few shops       Wholesale shops at
      areas/shops                                                                    Bihibare
                                         C-N-GP route           only few shops       Depos & dealers of
                                                                                     cardamom and fancy
                                                                                     shops increased
  6   Production of vegetable            Both route             Traditional          Kauli flower, cabbage,
                                                                vegetable selling at etc., as cash crops
                                                                local market         vegetable
  7   Road construction on trail         Both route             Only track with      Construction of road 10
      improvement works                                         few structures       km in C-N-GP route
                                                                were completed       under TA of RDP/GTZ
                                                                                     through SIDeF


Problems and Solutions Sought

        Delay in the initiation of construction works in the first year
            -    DDC managed the budget as matching fund and started earlier second year onwards before
                 releasing the trimester budget




                                                     - 43 -

        Service of local supervisors
            -   RDP/GTZ has made interim management

        Small size of TA team
            -   RDP/GTZ provided additional field staffs

        Lack of safety during construction in the beginning
            -   Basic first aid kits were provided to each worker through LUC

        Shortage of labor in farming season
            -   Some labors were hired from Tehrathum District

Lessons Learnt and Suggestions

-       The project has been completely successful with excellent management work under growing
        pressure of the conflict situation and state of emergency.
-       Due to the establishment of DRCC, LRCC, LUC, working groups and completed tracks - these are
        in favor of follow-up project.
-       The formation of LUC comprising of 7 to 9 members is more effective than having more members
        in a group.
-       The positive attitude and effort of DDC, DRCC, other different political representatives, local
        people and the TA team is the driving force behind the tremendous success of RIP in
        Sankhuwasabha.
-       Except for individual labor payment, transparency in financial matters using public audit was not
        used so the project could not succeed
-       After completion of the project, it would be advisable to set aside a maintenance fund for road/trail
        as a precautionary measure before the monsoon.

3.7     Rural Infrastructure Project - Kapilbastu

The following achievements, problems and suggestions were identified in the presentation by Kapilbastu.

Achievements
-       There was one road which used to be flooded every year due to the monsoon rainfall. Now after the
        RIP, buses still travel even during monsoons on the road.
-       More than 50% time is saved and transport cost has gone down.
-       Two roads are still being constructed and maintenance and repair of 10 roads constructed by RIP
        and DDC is ongoing.
-       The price of land has increased.
-       Farmers have easy access to the market.
-       There has been an increase in employment opportunities.
-       Increase in means of transport.
-       Access to basic infrastructure such as health, education, etc., has improved.

Problems
-       It was very difficult to implement road taxes for the sustainability of the roads and it needed much
        convincing and still there are places where this has not been implemented
-       Upto now only the DDC has been supporting the matching fund. Now the VDC should also
        support this fund.


                                                     - 44 -

Suggestions
-       Besides some DDCs, most of the DDCs may not be able to support the matching funds for
        follow-up project. This must be taken into consideration.
-       DDC, user committee must be given capacity development programs and training must be provided
        to technical and administrative employees which will give sustainability to the roads.
-       Minimum technical knowledge must be provided to local representatives, user's committee, DDC,
        VRCC through effective orientation.
-       Awareness of the roads must be generated among the local people.
-       Audit and environmental factors also must be given consideration.
-       Attempts must be made to involve the user's committee all the time even after maintenance and
        repair.
-       Labor based technology must be ensured through timely contracts.

3.8     Rural Infrastructure Project - Rupandehi

In Rupandehi District, maintenance and repair of a total of 15 roads (107.605 km) was done through RIP.
Marchavar in the district is a very backward place and people had to come via India. RIP built a ring road
concept and only 4 km is left for completion. People from 17 VDCs have benefited from this road. Roads
have improved in the west of the district. The gravel roads of RIP has supported this program. The quality
of RIP roads are better than others because of the contractor training provided by the project and the cost
has been less.

The following achievements, problems and suggestions were highlighted in the presentation.

Achievements
-       Traveling time has reduced.
-       Transport cost has decreased.
-       Easy access of products to reach the market.
-       Increase in small businesses.
-       Improvement in cleanliness but still social awareness program is required.
-       This has supported in developing the District Road Transport Master Plan.
-       It has also supported the decision making regarding roads at the district level.
-       Support in institutional development through exposure.
-       Local (women) participation has increased.
-       Increase of vehicle transportation.
-       Increase in employment opportunities at the local level.

Problems
-       The functioning of DRCC has not been very effective.
-       Low budget provision.
-       Due to political interference, some of the project went to roads which were not in dire state of need.
-       There were difficulties in maintaining the width of the road due to lack of awareness among the
        local people.
-       Lack of coordination between user's committee and the technical committee.
        Social mobilizers do not inform the users committee.
-       Tree plantation is required by the roadside for environmental protection.
-       Awareness of sanitation is also required.




                                                    - 45 -

Suggestions
-      There should be effective coordination between social mobilizers, technical team and the DDC.
-      There is a high demand for black top roads in the district - implementation of new approach.

4.     Representative of Contractors

On behalf of the contractors, a representative of the contractors highlighted the following issues and
suggestions in his remarks.

Problems
-      The bidding of tender should only focus on local contractors since local contractors will not be able
       to participate if the bidding is open to foreign contractors as well. Moreover, one of the aims of
       RIP is labor based technology. Examples of Dhankuta and Tehrathum where they took out tenders
       in which only local contractors could participate.
-      Rollers cannot travel in monsoon and additional time has not been approved to complete the work
       after monsoon whereas the project has nearly come to an end (Dhading).
-      Regarding tools for demonstration, the contractors cannot provide the tools. They have to be
       brought by the people coming for demonstration.
-      Labors are more attracted towards the contractors rather than the user's committee because the
       contractors pay more (Rs.150 in comparison to Rs.130 by user's committee) for working more
       hours. Moreover, 93% of the contract work is done during non-farming time.
-      The long financial processes has caused delay to the project.
-      Five percent of the budget must be invested in bio-engineering.

Suggestions
-      The budget for the follow-up project should match the capacity of the local contractors who have
       already worked for RIP and they should be given priority.
-      A DDC staff should be given training instead of hiring a consultant engineer. A consultant
       engineer can be used only for major works.
-      Drainage, if possible, double side drainage is very necessary for rural roads.
-      Theoretical preliminary training must be provided prior to the initiation of the project.
-      RIP has developed the concept of quality.
-      Tender procurement process is effective - local contractors must be encouraged.
-      Project Coordinator must be a technician so that he can identify the problems in the field.
-      Blacktop will be more cheaper than gravel in roads which have heavy traffic.

5.     Representative of User's Committee

On behalf of the user's committee, a representative of the user's committee highlighted the following issues,
suggestions and achievements in his remarks.

Problems
-      Monitoring of works by the central unit.
-      DDC, contractors, technicians, social mobilizer must support for simplicity and transparency in the
       user's committees works.
-      While doing the survey of the project, members of the user's committee must be made to identify
       the project and provided responsibilities and rights to implement the project.
-      Besides the support to matching fund, the DDC must also take the responsibility of supervision and
       monitoring of transparency of all aspects of the project.


                                                     - 46 -

-     Delay in implementation of the project.
-     While implementing the project, the design, quantity, budget, cost estimate, etc., were decided by
      the technicians and the mobilizers and the DDC did not inform the user's committee. Therefore,
      the user's committee was not satisfied with the construction work.
-     Lack of coordination between DDC, technical contractors and user's committee.
-     Lack of information of activities by social mobilizers in the initial stages prior to implementation of
      the project.
-     Routine maintenance of the roads will be done by the users committee after the hand-over of the
      roads as per the aim of the project. Along with this, all the different parties must fulfill their
      responsibilities as well.
-     The project would have been more successful if the user's committee had been informed of their
      roles and responsibilities and given the responsibility of the construction of roads.
-     Maximum number of people's participation in road maintenance and repair will decrease the cost
      as more work can be done in less time. Therefore, handing over the responsibility of repair and
      maintenance of roads to the user's committee will increase ownership among the members of the
      committee.
-     The problem in the above point is that there is lack of timely directions to spend the budget.

Suggestions
-     Training to the members of user's committee.
-     Timely sanction of the budget.
-     Additional budget for maintenance and repair.
-     Regular monitoring by the central unit.
-     Institutional development of the user's committee for routine maintenance and repair.
-     DDC technician and social mobilizer must inform the user's committee of their rights, roles and
      responsibilities and give more attention to dust roads in the plain and hilly areas.
-     Better coordination is necessary between DDC, technicians, social mobilizer and the user's
      committee.
-     Orientation program on the responsibilities of the DDC and the technical employees should be
      provided to RUC, VRCC, DRCC, etc.
-     Practical and theoretical knowledge as well as supervisory level knowledge must be provided
      through training to the user's committee.
-     Provision of administrative expenses to the user's committee.
-     Establishment of emergency fund for maintenance and repair of the roads.
-     Implementation of work through the committee would be more effective than directly hiring a
      contractor.
-     The green road concept must be maintained in Palpa district.
-     Skill development training must be provided.
-     User's committee must be involved in every aspect of the project.
-     The roles and responsibilities of the user's committee, DDC, technical employees must be clearly
      defined.

Achievements
-     The importance and effectiveness of the project increased due to the project aim of being market
      oriented.
-     Transportation of sick people has been made easier.
-     Transportation of construction materials has been made more effective.
-     Development in local participation.
-     Increase in the price of land.


                                                   - 47 -

-      Environmental cleanliness.
-      Increase in transport vehicles and availability in all seasons and at any time.
-      Increase in employment opportunities.
-      Community Based Management Process (CBPM) has supported in developing ownership of the
       roads.
-      The user's committee can garner support through road taxes or DDC for maintenance and repair.

6.     Thematic Group Discussion

The participants were divided into four groups to work on future strategies on the following topics -
Design, Standards, Quality and Sustainability Aspects; Implementation through Contractor's Versus User's
Group; Prioritization and Planning; and, Institutional Arrangement. After consultations among the
members of the group, the four groups made the following suggestions and recommendations.

Group I

1.     Design Standard
             Participatory Approach
             Expert Technician
             According to DTMP
             Availability of Local Resources
             Reasonable, Feasible and local and latest technology

2.     Quality
             Quality according to preset specification
             Laboratory setup in DDC
             Monitoring
             Training

3.     Sustainability
             Main objective
             Feeling of ownership
             Promotion of labor based technology
             Capacity building
             Routine maintenance
             Bio-engineering

Group II

1.     Problems Faced

       (a)    User's Committee
                      Lack of technical knowledge
                      Unable to implement highly technical work
                      There is a possibility of assumptions while working
                      Difficulty in legal process
                      User's committee can come under the influence of invisible contractor




                                                    - 48 -

        (b)   Contract Work
                     Increase in economic cost
                     Process wise longer time
                     Lack of ownership
                     Low budget sanction upto local level
                     Monopoly in wage rates
                     There will be no competition if the contractors get together
                     Negative impact on the environment due to the use of heavy equipment

2.      Suggestions and positive aspects

        (a)   User's Committee
                     Local people will get the opportunity to work
                     The feeling of ownership will be developed
                     More work with less investment
                     Increase in local skills
                     Labor based technology can be implemented more effectively
                     People's participation will be more massive
                     High social responsibility
                     Transparency in all sectors
                     Use of techniques which does not hamper the environment

        (b)   Contract Works
                     Work will be completed in designated time
                     Sufficient number of technicians and construction materials
                     Implementation of quality work
                     Fully accountable for the implemented work
                     No political interference
                     If the work is not upto the specified standard then easy to for legal process

3.      Conclusion

        Both parties have strengths and weaknesses
        Provide working opportunities to both the parties through division of work and as per the nature of
        the work
        The monitoring aspect must be effective for maintaining the quality of work among both the parties
        The user's committee must be included in the monitoring of contractual work

Group III

Project Planning

        Plan with incorporating best achievements of "Learning and Innovation" Loan Phase (on planning).
        Orientation about World Bank Guidelines before Aswin (Sep/Oct).
        Update DTMP with entry of other means of access based on district periodic plan.
        Send tentative estimates with selection of access (project) before end of Kartik (Oct/Nov) for next
        Fiscal Year within budget ceiling sent from centre.
        Implementation (construction) focus during Magh (Jan/Feb) onwards.
        RIP unit (separate) should be established.


                                                    - 49 -

        Certain budget should be allocated for action research work.

Project Prioritization

        Allocation of fund for maintenance of completed RIP roads.
        Selection of limited numbers of roads based on DTMP.
        Priority within the road/trail should be based on accessibility throughout the year.
        Priority should be given for labor intensive work/environment friendly work.

Group IV

Institutional Management

(a)     Problems
          Lack of monitoring trend of projects by the center.
          Lack of a separate unit for the effective management of programs in the district.
          Lack of adequate skilled labor.
          Lack of effective monitoring at the district level.
          Lack of coordination between various sectors at the district level (DDC, DTO, DRCC, VRCC,
          LRUC).
          Delay in budget sanction.

(b)     Suggestions
          Regular monitoring and evaluation by the center.
          Establishment of a separate Program Support Unit at the district level.
          Develop and distribute guidelines outlining the roles and responsibilities from the central to the
          local level.
          All the parties involved in the program must be provided training.
          Developing the monitoring process by managing resources for monitoring at the district level.
          Establishment of a laboratory at the district level for quality control.
          All the concerned parties must initiate steps for timely release of the budget.




                                                    - 50 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Evaluation


1.    Project objectives

1.1   Project Objective. Strengthening the local government entities in planning and management
      of rural infrastructure, especially rural roads

1.2   Status: The concerned personnel of the districts, through the technology transfer and learning by
      doing, have acquired the knowledge on many aspects of rural roads maintenance and their
      knowledge and skill will be an asset for such future development activities. They have been trained
      in preparation of DTMP, cost effective labor-based road maintenance techniques, various aspects
      of procurement and contract management etc.

1.3   Some of the districts like Kapilbastu, Syangja and Rupandehi have already started to replicate the
      acquired knowledge under RIP to other projects managed under the DDCs. The procurement
      procedures have also been replicated in other infrastructure development activities as well.

1.4   Project Objective. Improving the quality, efficiency and sustainability of rural roads in the
      selected districts with active participation of the project beneficiaries

1.5   Status: The maintenance activities run under RIP have definitely improved the quality of the
      roads and the efficiency has been upgraded. This fact is supported by the survey conducted by
      TAC on the roads that were surveyed by Helvetas in 1998 for the baseline data. In the Report on
      Socio - Economic Impact Assessment (Doc No. 86), prepared by TAC, it has been mentioned that
      there has been a substantial reduction in travel time. In the survey, it is found that the travel cost
      has almost doubled since 1998. However, there may be other factors like hike in petroleum
      products, hike in price of other materials related to transport business etc. that might have
      overpowered the positive impact of road improvement and thus resulting in the increase in travel
      cost. In brief, due to the maintenance interventions under RIP the serviceability, quality and
      efficiency of the rural roads has also been definitely improved.

1.6   The sustainability aspect of such roads is a vital issue as it depends on the policy and plan of
      maintaining the roads in long run by DDCs with their own resources. Some of the districts have
      shown their commitment in this respect and Rupandehi, Kaski, and Palpa have used their own
      resources for the routine maintenance interventions and almost all the RIP districts have started toll
      taxes in important roads of the districts and some of them have devised mechanism of mobilizing
      user's groups for maintaining the roads.

1.7   Project Objective. To develop follow-up project based on the experience gained in this
      project

1.8   Status: The TAC has prepared the BPIP considering four RIP and four non-RIP districts for
      follow-up project. Due to the insurgency situation in the districts at that time the TAC could not
      conduct all the expected activities for the development of follow-up project, besides the scenario of
      project intervention districts is also changed now. Therefore, it was decided that the document then
      prepared is to be considered as a reference document and the follow-on development activity is to
      be revised as per the changed requirement.




                                                   - 51 -

1.9     PCU is considering to further improve the district selection procedure.

1.10    The assessments of objectively verifiable indicators for project implementation are given
hereunder.

                             Assessment of the Indicators of Project Objective

                  Description                   Fully  Met to the     Met to the     Met but Met but low
                                                Met great extent     satisfactory    partially      extent
                                                                          level        only
(i)  Average travel time and transport costs     x
     reduced by 20% on project roads;
(ii) Non-passability duration of project                    x
     roads reduced by 2 months per year;
(iii) Roads maintained or rehabilitated under                              x
     the Project will remain in operation 3
     years after project completion;
(iv) District transport master plans prepared    x
     in the selected districts using
     participatory process and endorsed by
     people's representatives;
(v) 80% of the project civil works                                         x
     expenditure remain with the local
     economy; and
(vi) Completion of preliminary appraisal of a                              x
     follow-on operation that encompasses
     the knowledge base developed under the
     project.

2.      Project design

Strengths of the project design

l       Decentralized Approach

        The Project was designed in accordance with the decentralized policy of the Government and the
        local bodies and local authorities were made completely responsible for the identification, planning,
        implementation and monitoring of the project.

l       Flexible Design for Innovation and Learning

        As the project was developed under the LIL, it was quite flexible with respect to the selection and
        adoption of the implementation modalities. It has been possible to adopt suitable approach
        concerning the implementation modality based on the lessons learned, during the implementation
        stage of the project.




                                                   - 52 -

l  Technology Transfer

   The project had envisaged technology transfer to the local government institutions through
   trainings and the process of learning by doing. To materialize this the project had provision of
   International Consultant and local supervision consultants.

l  Practice of DTMP

   DTMP preparation/updating and complete adoption of the same during the maintenance
   intervention was one of the major conditions for project implementation. This condition made the
   districts possible to select the prioritized roads for the project.

l  Implementation of CBPM

   To ensure transparency and maximum participation of the local people in the project activities, the
   Community Based Performance Monitoring was envisaged to be implemented in Kaski and
   Syangja. Due to its positive impact, the CBPM was replicated in other districts as well. It was
   found that this has helped in raising ownership feeling among the local people.

l  Provision of participatory approach in Rural Roads improvement sector

   The project has provisioned the procurement of civil works through Users' Group as well as
   through Contractors. This provided experience of both the approaches and it was found that
   contractors involvement is more suitable for Rehabilitation and periodic maintenance activities
   where the skilled labor is required while routine maintenance and minor periodic maintenance is
   best and economically implemented by User's groups.

l  O&M and sustainability focus

   The project has emphasized on the regular O&M system and the sustainability of rural roads
   maintenance. The sustainability aspect has been well understood by the local governing
   institutions and they have already started to collect toll-tax and maintain the roads on their own
   through User's Groups. However, the monitoring aspect was not effective.

l  Collaborative funding

   The project has the provision of collaborative funding. The DDCs had to share the cost won Civil
   Works with the World Bank in the ratio of 80:20 percent. This approach helped in creating the
   feeling of ownership in the maintenance interventions.

l  Technical Audit and Quality Approach

   There was provision of regular technical audit and quality concerns were highly emphasized.




                                                 - 53 -

l     Capacity Enhancement

      Capacity enhancement of the local government institutions was one of the project development
      objectives. It had provisioned an International consultant for technical support to the
      DDCs/DOLIDAR/MOLD.

Weakness

l     No preparatory period was provisioned

      RIP is the first and only project until the date that is implemented by the Government through the
      Local Government Institutions, especially in the rural roads sector. Therefore, one year for the
      preparatory phase could have incorporated in the project wherein the preparation of project
      required documents, the social mobilization aspect and other necessary pre-project implementation
      activities could have done.

l     Omni-tasks of International Consultant

      The ToR developed for the international consultants included almost all activity that would be
      important for the rural road maintenance. However, the composition of the experts was
      unbalanced. The technical experts provisioned in the project were not sufficient to provide the
      envisaged huge technical support required to the MOLD/DOLIDAR and the DDCs. Highly
      qualified personnel were looked for in the Technical Assistance Consultant, but their number was
      not adequate and balanced.

l     Less technical hands provisioned for PCU

      PCU was envisaged to have two engineers to look after the huge technical activities related to the
      project. Looking at the unlimited task of coordination, facilitation, monitoring and evaluation, and
      reporting responsibilities, this provision was not adequate. However, the Government could not
      fulfill even this requirement and the single engineer in PCU was unnecessarily overburdened.

l     District/DOLIDAR capacity assessment

      The assessment of DOLIDAR and DDCs made during the appraisal period might have been not
      comprehensive. MOLD/DOLIDAR lacked the capacity to regularly monitor the project activities
      through its monitoring cell. Similarly, DDCs were not able to properly record and report the
      project activities. They also lacked the monitoring aspect.

l     Lack of team-management concept

      The project design lacked concept of team-management. The project would have envisaged a
      management team that would be responsible for the project activities in the districts. A responsible
      specific team of one engineer, one accountant and supporting technical group could have been
      provisioned in the project districts.




                                                   - 54 -

l      Lack of data-based intervention requirements

       In absence of the updated DTMPs in the districts, the exact data of prioritized roads and
       maintenance interventions requirement was not incorporated in the project documents and the set
       targets did not reflect the exact requirements. In addition, the categories of maintenance
       intervention could have included recurrent maintenance as another category.


3.     Project Implementation

Strengths

l      Adoption of the Decentralized and Participatory Approach

       Decentralized and participatory approach has been completely adopted during the implementation
       of the project. The DDC bodies, the local people and other local authorities were fully involved in
       the preparation of DTMP, selection of the roads for maintenance interventions, and
       implementation. In all aspects of project implementation, the consents of local bodies have been
       incorporated.

l      Achievement of the Targets

       The project could achieve almost all the set physical targets during its implementation. In addition,
       the indicators set in the PAD to assess the impact of project implementation (travel time, travel
       cost, non-operational period, etc.) has also been evaluated and found to be satisfied. However, due
       to the price hike of fuels and other materials the direct impact of maintenance on travel cost and
       transportation cost could not been realized.

l      Awareness Creation

       The project could achieve success in creating significant awareness among the local leaders and
       officials of MOLD/DOLIDAR/DDC/DTO regarding O&M and sustainability aspects of rural
       roads in the process of its implementation. The local bodies have realized that the maintenance
       interventions need to be regularly carried out. The project to some extent could generate the feeling
       of ownership among the local people regarding the road development activities.

l      Cost Sharing and Ownership feeling

       As per the provision of the project, the DDCs fully complied with the condition of cost sharing and
       due to this the local bodies and local people completely felt ownership of the maintenance
       interventions in the respective districts.

l      Fulfilled the resource gap for O&M of the districts

       The districts, with their own limited resource and support from the government is inadequate to
       maintain and make serviceable the existing major roads in the districts. The project, with the
       support of financial resources could fulfill the resource gap to some extent.




                                                    - 55 -

l    Mobilization of Local People

     As per the provision in the project, Users' Groups were also mobilized successfully in the
     maintenance activities and local labors were encouraged to participate in the project, specially
     routine and periodic maintenance. In the interaction with the local people during monitoring, this
     approach has been found to be effective.

l    Practice of Labor-based technology

     Labor-based technology was emphasized and the concerned authorities. International/national
     experts provided trainings to the concerned technicians on this aspect.

Weaknesses

l    Implementation without preparatory phase

     The project was started without any preparatory phase and the preparation of necessary documents
     like guidelines and others and the implementation of Civil works in the districts started
     simultaneously. This also added to the confusion in project implementation in the early years of
     the project.

l    Problem in Quality Control

     Though the quality aspect had been emphasized during the implementation of the project, in some
     districts the maintenance interventions did not confirm to the expected quality. The districts were
     provided with basic lab equipment but none of the districts could fictionalize the lab. In some
     districts, the technicians were found to be completely neglectful of the quality aspect.

l    Less mobility and inadequate project monitoring

     The districts had been provided with vehicles and motorcycles to ensure effective supervision and
     monitoring. However, the districts could not mobilize themselves to the expected limit in this
     regard. In connection to this, the central unit (PCU) also could not meet the expectations. With
     the limited technicians at the center, the PCU could not regularly visit the districts during the
     project implementation.

l    Fragmentation of limited resources in initial years

     With the highly optimistic attitude of the local authorities, the limited resources were distributed in
     many roads that were selected for maintenance interventions in the initial years of project
     implementation. Due to this, effective and realizable maintenance interventions could not be
     carried out and the investments could not bring the expected changes in the local economy.




                                                 - 56 -

l   Inadequate delivery from the International Consultant

     TAC was involved to support the project implementation. However, the consultant could not
     deliver some of the expected outputs to the expected limit. Frequent replacements of the originally
     proposed consultant experts aggravated this problem. The spatial distance between the working
     stations of PCU and TAC also caused the insufficient and inadequate coordination between the
     consultant and PCU.

l   Difficulty to Ensure Desired Quality

     Due to poor mobility and insufficient supervision quality control was a difficult aspect, especially
     in the hill districts. The induction of supervision consultants in the districts could not improve the
     situation.

l   Involvement of District-Project Managers in the project activities

     The Project document had initially envisaged that engineer would be the key person for the
     implementation of the project activities. However, in reality, this could not be confirmed and the
     Local Development Officer (LDO) who is already overcrowded with other duties and
     responsibilities was assigned the responsibility of district-project manager. In contrary to this, the
     engineer who was involved throughout the project activities and who regularly delivered his efforts
     to fulfill the project requirement was assigned to look after the project activities without any
     authority and responsibility.

4.  Operation Experience

     After the maintenance of the roads through the project, the roads have been operated smoothly.
     Collection of toll-tax has been started by the DDCs and in some districts; Users' Committees have
     been mobilized by the DDCs for the regular maintenance of the roads. Due to the maintenance
     interventions, the operation seasonality has improved significantly. Travel time has reduced and
     comfort of riding has been enhanced.


5.   Borrower's Own Performance

5.1 During Evolution of the Project

     The borrower's performance during the evolution of the project was satisfactory despite all the
     resource constraints. However, the project could not start in time due to substantial delay in
     development credit agreement of the project and coordination among various concerned
     ministries/institutions for creating the necessary positions envisaged and agreed by the Government
     for the project.




                                                  - 57 -

5.2 During Implementation of the Project

     The performance was satisfactory during this phase. However, it could not perform as expected in
     following aspects.

l    Providing the envisaged staffs for the project, e.g., Engineer, social mobilizer and other supporting
     staffs
l    Proper monitoring and evaluation
l    Timely decision on some cases, e.g. standard project documents etc.

6.   Performance of the Bank

6.1 Evolution of the project

     The performance of the Bank was satisfactory and supportive during this phase.

6.2 Implementation of the Project

     In this phase, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. The Bank, realizing the practical problems
     in the field, was supportive and encouraging; however, at the initial stage of project implementation
     the stringent procurement guidelines of the Bank created real hurdle in starting the project works
     in the districts.

7.  Performance of the DDC

7.1 Evolution of the Project

     The DDCs were interested and committed to participate in the project during the phase and their
     performance was satisfactory.

7.2 Implementation

     The DDC bodies were supportive in overall implementation activities. DDCs complied with the
     conditions of the project requirements, e.g. cost sharing, DTMP preparation and adoption,
     personnel assignment, etc.. Regarding the project management, the DDC project management unit
     could perform satisfactorily. However, they lacked in M&E, reporting and to some extent in
     quality control aspects. They also lacked in mobilizing the User's Groups for routine maintenance
     activities to the expected limit. The finance sections could not perform as expected in regular
     recording and reporting.

     The relationship of the Bank, PCU and the DDCs was effective in all the stages of the project.

8.  Proposed Arrangement for Future Project Operation

8.1 Institutional arrangement

     The present institutional arrangement at the center (PCU) may be replicated with additional input
     of two more engineers. For the districts, a specific unit under the DTO responsible for the project
     should be created with following arrangement.




                                                 - 58 -

    Engineer        : Project Manager
    Accountant      : Account staff
    Overseers (3) : Technical support group

    The engineer should be made responsible with all the authorities.

8.2 Fund flow mechanism

    A central account should be opened and the fund should be released to the competent districts
    fulfilling the set criteria in accordance with the approved annual program. The concept
    performance-based financing should be implemented. For the first year, a fixed sum should be
    released to all the selected districts and from the next year, the fund amount and release should be
    based on the performance in the previous year.

    In the district, the DDC should release the fund and the authority to ensure best utilization of the
    budget should be given to the DTO, as this unit is non other than the technical wing of the DDT
    itself.

8.3 M&E

    A system of regular monitoring from DOLIDAR as well as the DDC level should be developed.
    The provision of quarterly monitoring from the central level and monthly monitoring from the
    district level should be incorporated in the project document.

9.  Lessons Learnt during Implementation of the RIP

l   Institutional Area

    l         DDCs have very weak institutional strength especially in planning, accounts/finance and
              technical support, M & E etc. necessary for proper project implementation.
    l         DOLIDAR also lacked necessary manpower and other resources for functionalizing its
              divisions/sections.

    The decision of the Government for the establishment of District Technical Office (DTO) in all the
    districts and institutional reform of the DOLIDAR is believed to bring the positive result in this
    direction. After the establishment of DTO each district is having two to three engineers and more
    overseers have been positioned under it. In some districts, one senior divisional engineer has also
    been provisioned.

l   Implementation approach

    (i)       Procurement of Civil Works through contractors

    The World Bank rules & regulations were found to be too stringent & rigid regarding the
    procurement procedures especially for the very small works. Relaxing some of the stringent
    criteria after several discussions with the World Bank during the implementation of RIP pacified
    this aspect.




                                                  - 59 -

   (ii)    User's Group Approach practiced for

   l       routine/periodic maintenance.
   l       trail improvement in Sankhuwasabha.

   The combined approach of procuring Civil Works is found to be practicable depending on the
   nature of the works and that of the districts. It has been found from experience that routine
   maintenance/periodic maintenance activities that do not require skilled manpower is best
   implemented through local users while periodic maintenance and rehabilitation interventions that
   require skilled labor is effectively and efficiently managed by contractors.

l  The implementation modality

   The implementation modality in line with the decentralization policy of the government with active
   user's participation is observed to be very appropriate.

l  Quality control

   The implementation of technical audit system, CBPM & Quality control trainings and distribution
   of lab equipment and other equipment to the districts has generated the sense of quality aspect
   among the stakeholders. Though it is found to be improving, more and more emphasis on this
   aspect needs to be done to ensure that quality assurance is incorporated in all projects that are
   implemented through the Local Government Institutions.

l  Technical Support

   The technical support from the International Consultant could not be that effective as desired.
   Trainings imparted from the TAC could not bring realizable change in the working style of the
   DDCs and practical labor based trainings were still found to be required.

l  Financial Management Information System

   During the project, the TAC prepared Government Account-based FMIS and training on its use
   was conducted. The DDC accountants were found reluctant in general and the software package
   could not be effectively practiced.

   Another PMR-based FMIS was also prepared and PMR reports were produced. The reports were
   used for reporting the procurement aspect.

l  Cost Sharing

   As per the provision of the project cost sharing between World Bank and DDCs in the ratio of
   80:20 percentages in the Civil Works was practiced. The districts complained about the huge
   amount required to fulfill this condition.




                                                - 60 -

l  Participatory Implementation

   Participatory approach was followed in almost all of the project activities. DTMPs were prepared
   in active participation of the local people and roads were selected from the prioritized list of DTMP
   for maintenance interventions. In addition, Users' Groups were also involved in maintenance
   interventions and the practice of CBPM ensured more involvement of the local people in project
   activities.

   The overall result is positive in this regard.

l  Logistic Support

   DOLIDAR and DDCs were provided with vehicles, motorcycles, computers, and other logistics as
   a package of capacity building and needs its continuation.

l  DTMP

   DTMP of all the seven districts were updated. Practice of DTMP in the districts is found to be
   increasing.

l  The consultants

   The structure and functioning approach of the consultants needs to be reviewed for the future
   project based on the experiences of RIP.

l  Reporting

   The DDCs are found to be very weak in reporting. However, there is visible improvement in that
   process.

l  Capability enhancement

   The RIP provided good opportunity to the DDCs/DOLIDAR to implement the rural road
   maintenance/trail improvement through IDA rules/regulations adopting various modalities with
   labor based and participatory approach.

l  Effectiveness of the Intervention

   The maintenance is found to be very much effective in reducing travel time, transportation cost and
   seasonality of the roads.




                                                 - 61 -

- 62 -

