Report No. PID6546
Project Name                     Nepal-Proposed Rural Infrastructure Project (@)
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Transportation
Project ID                       NPPE45053
Borrower                         Kingdom of Nepal
Implementing
Agencies                         Technical Division
Ministry of Local Development (MLD)
Shree Mahal
Pulchowk, Lalitpur
Kathmandu, Nepal
Telephone: 522-049       Fax: 535-408
Attention: Special Secretary
and
District Development Committees (DDCs)
of Selected Districts
Date initial PID
prepared                         March 8, 1998
Date this PID
prepared                         October 27, 1998
Appraisal date                   December 1998
Background. His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMG/N) has requested the
International Development Association (IDA) for its assistance in the
preparation a proposed Rural Infrastructure Project. HMG/N wishes to improve
its rural road network which is essential for the development of the rural
areas of the country. Under the decentralization policy adopted since 1992,
the responsibility for the rural road network has been transferred from the
Department of Roads in the Ministry of Works and Transport to the districts.
The Ministry of Local Development (MLD), at the central level, has the mandate
to monitor, assist and guide the development activities of the district level
authorities. However, the district development committees (DDCs) and the MLD
have limited institutional and technical capacities to carry out this
responsibility. There is an urgent need to help strengthen the capability of
district government entities and of MLD to support the decentralization
policy. Within this context, the proposed project is being prepared, and
credit negotiations and project start are scheduled for the second half of
1998.
Project Objectives. The main project objectives are to: (i) strengthen the
capacity of local government agencies and MLD in planning and managing rural
roads; (ii) maintain and rehabilitate rural roads in selected districts using
labor-based, cost-effective technology; and (iii) involve beneficiaries in
project preparation and implementation.
Project Preparation Framework. To provide timely capacity strengthening
support to a recently-approved rural infrastructure development strategy of
the Government, HMG/N and the IDA agreed to proceed with a project in about



eight districts that are ready for support of maintenance and rehabilitation
of district and village roads and trails. A Learning and Innovation Loan will
be used as the lending instrument for the project. Under the project, an
effective model will be developed for the IDA to support the decentralization
of rural infrastructure development and capacity building of local government
entities. The learning and results developed under the project are expected to
be mainstreamed and expanded in a subsequent larger operation. Within this
context, the project team has agreed with the Government on a framework for
project preparation, which specified a series of criteria and guidelines for
district participation in the project. The project will be rolled out in a
number of districts as they become ready by agreeing to adopt the project
preparation framework and by undertaking project preparation activities.
District that participate in the project will be required to provide
counterpart funds for civil works financed under the project.
Project Components, Estimated Costs and Finance. The scope of the proposed
project includes: (i) civil works for maintenance and rehabilitation of
district and village roads in selected districts, and related consulting
services for supervision and design, (ii) technical assistance consultancy for
capacity building in the MLD and DDCs, including project management support,
project monitoring and evaluation including social and environmental impact
monitoring, preparation for a follow-up larger scale project, and training and
promotion of a labor-based technology in road works. The preliminary costs of
the project are estimated at about $5.8 million, including contingencies. A
proposed IDA credit of $5.0 million is envisaged to finance eligible
expenditures under the project, excluding taxes and duties. The DDCs will need
to contribute 20t of the civil works costs as their matching funds. The
project implementation period is expected to be about three years.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements. In accordance to the project's
objective of strengthening local governments capacity, the DDCs will be the
implementing agencies of the project's civil works component. The technical
units of the selected DDCs will be the focal point of project implementation
and management. A Project Coordination Unit will be established within the
MLD to provide technical support and facilitate project preparation and
implementation in the districts. Under the proposed framework, the MLD would
not be directly involved in undertaking works or making decisions for the
districts. Project management support under the technical assistance
consultancy will be provided to the DDCs and MLD in undertaking these tasks,
and the technical assistance consultancy will be managed by the MLD.
Environmental and Social Considerations. The proposed project is expected to
be a Category C project. Since the civil works under the project cover only
maintenance and rehabilitation of existing district and village roads, no
significant environmental degradation is expected. In fact, proper maintenance
and rehabilitation work are expected to reduce soil erosion due to improper
drainage and slope instability of the existing roads. Moreover, the
dissemination of labor-based techniques is expected to have positive
environmental impacts, as various studies have shown that such techniques are
most appropriate for local fair-weather roads built in geological stable
locations following contours and ridge lines. No land acquisition and
resettlement are expected, as all works would take place on existing road
alignments. Through participation in preparation of district transport master
plans and civil works under the project, project beneficiaries will be
actively involved in the project preparation and implementation, and project
- 2-



benefits should reach the poorest groups in the project areas. During project
preparation and implementation, a system to screen the environmental and
social impacts of road works will be developed. The system is expected to
identify works which might have moderate, rather than negligible, impacts, and
identify mitigation measures. The system will also provide valuable learning
on screening criteria and mitigating actions, which will facilitate the
preparation of a follow-up operation involving new road construction.
Next Step. Provided that the MLD and the concerned DDCs completed their
project preparation tasks in accordance with the revised schedule agreed
during a project preparation mission in September 1998, project appraisal is
envisaged to start in mid December 1998.
Managing Division        Infrastructure Sector Unit, South Asia Region
Contact Point:
Guangzhe Chen, Task Leader
Tel: 202-458-7474
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 27, 1998.
- 3 -



