Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19171-NEP
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LEARNING & INNOVATION LOAN (LIL)
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
May 12,1999
Infrastructure Sector Unit (SASIN)
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 20, 1998)
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupee (NR)
NR 1 = US$0.015
US$ 1 = NR 68.0
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 -July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         Asian Development Bank
APP         Agricultural Perspective Plan
CBMP        Community-based Performance Monitoring
DDC         District Development Committee
DOLIDAR    Department of Local Infrastructure Development and Agricultural Roads
DOR         Department of Roads
DTMP        District Transport Master Plan
DTU         District Technical Unit
FCGO        Financial Comptroller General's Office
GTZ         German Technical Cooperation
HMG/N       His Majesty's Government of Nepal
LIL         Learning and Innovation Loan
NGO         Non-Govemmental Organization
MLD         Ministry of Local Development
MOF         Ministry of Finance
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PIP         Priority Investment Plan
PLRP        Pilot Labor-based District Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
PMR         Project Management Report
RMRP        Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
RUC         Road User Committee
SA          Social Assessment
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
TAC         Technical Assistance Consultant
VDC         Village Development Committee
Vice President     Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director     Hans M. Rothenbuhler
Sector Manager       Frannie Humplick
Task Leader       Guang Zhe Chen



NEPAL
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
A. Project Development Objective ................................................................                                                                                         2
1.   Project development objective  and  key  performance  indicators .................................................................2
B. Strategic Context ................................................................                                                                                                     2
1.   Sector-related  CAS  goal supported  by the  Project .................................................................2
2.   Main  sector issues and  Government strategy ..................................................................2
3.   Sector issues to  be addressed  by the  Project and  strategic choices ...........................................................4
C. Project Description Summary ................................................................                                                                                           4
1.  Project components .................................................................4
2.   Key  policy and  institutional reforms supported  by the  Project .................................................................                                           5
3.  Benefits and target population .................................................................5
4.   Institutional and  implementation  arrangements .................................................................6
D. Project Rationale ................................................................9
1.   Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection .................................................................9
2.   Major related  projects financed  by the  Bank and/or other development agencies ....................................... 10
3.   Lessons  leamed  and  reflected  in  proposed  project design ................................................................                                               11
4.   Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership ................................................................                                                           11
5.   Value  added  of Bank  support in this  Project ................................................................                                                             11
E. Summary Project Analyses ...........................                                                                                                                                  12
1. Economic ............................12
2. Financial ............................12
3. Technical ............................13
4. Institutional .......... ..13
5. Social ..........14
6. Environmental assessment .......................                                                                                                                                15
7. Participatory approach ..........................                                                                                                                         ; 16
F. Sustainability and Risks ..........................                                                                                                                                   17
1. Sustainability ..........................                                                                                                                                      17
2. Critical risks .......................... 18
3. Possible controversial aspects ..........................                                                                                                                      19



Page No.
G. Main Loan Conditions ...................................................                                                            19
1.  Effectiveness conditions ...................................................                                                   19
2. Other ...................................................                                                                       19
H.  Readiness for Implementation ...................................................                                                   19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ..........................                                                                            19
ANNEXES
Annex l Project Design Summary .20
Annex 2 Project Description .22
Annex 3 Estimated Project Costs .23
Annex 4  Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary .24
Annex 5A Financial Summary .28
Annex 5B    Community-Based Performance Monitoring Summary ...................................................   32
Annex 6  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .34
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .36
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .37
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds .38
Annex 7  Project Processing Budget and Schedule .39
Annex 8 Documents in the Project File .40
Annex 9  Status of Bank Group Operations in Nepal .41
Annex 10 Nepal at a Glance .43



Nepal
Rural Infrastructure Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Region
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Date:              May 12,1999                    Task Leader:                    Guang Zhe Chen
Country Director:   Hans M. Rothenbuhler           Sector Manager:                 Frannie Humplick
Project ID:        NP-PE-45053                     Program Objective Category:    PV
Sector:            Transportation                 Program of Targeted Intervention:  [/] Yes f ] No
Lending Instrument: Learning & Innovation Loan (LIL)
Project Financing Data            [ ] Loan     [v] Credit     [ ] Guarantee     [ 3 Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm):      US$5.0 million/SDR3.7 million
Proposed Terms:                       [vi  Multicurrency    [ ] Single currency
Grace period (years):  10         [   Standard Variable [ ] Fixed                 LI 3 BOR-based
Years to maturity:  40
Commitment fee:  0.50%
Service charge:  0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                              Local            Foreign           Total
Government                           0.8                 0              0.8
IDA                                  4.1                0.9             5.0
Total:       4.9                 0.9            5.8
Borrower:    Kingdom of Nepal
Guarantor:   N/A
Responsible agencies:    Ministry of Local Development and Selected District Development Committees
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   2000     2001      2002
Annual    1.3        2.0       1.7
Cumulative    1.3       3.3        5.0
Project implementation period:   3 years
Expected effectiveness date:   07/15/1999
Expected closing date:   07/31/2002
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project       Page 2                     Project Appraisal Document
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The development objective of the project is to strengthen the institutional capacity of a decentralized local
governance system in its planning and managing capabilities to improve the quality, efficiency and
sustainability of rural roads in the selected districts with active participation of project beneficiaries. This
objective will be monitored by the following indicators: (i) average travel time and transport costs reduced
by 20% on project roads; (ii) non-passability duration of project roads reduced by 2 months per year; (iii)
roads maintained or rehabilitated under the project will remain in operation 3 years after project
completion; (iv) district transport master plans prepared in the selected districts using participatory process
and endorsed by people's representatives; (v) 80% of the project civil works expenditure remain with the
local economy; and (vi) completion of preliminary appraisal of a follow-on operation that encompasses the
knowledge base developed under the project.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: Report No: 18578 Nep    Date of latest CAS discussion: December 15, 1998
The project supports the two-prong strategy of the CAS of bringing resources closer to the beneficiaries
and fostering strong governance in both central and local level. It also supports the CAS sector objective
of improving rural road maintenance and rehabilitation using labor-based technology through beneficiary
and community participation. By improving rural access to marketing centers and social services, the
project will help promote broad-based agricultural growth and reducing poverty in rural areas.
The project supports the decentralization policy of His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMG/N) and
explores new approaches to improve the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance to the country. The project
will help improve government implementation capacity, channel Bank resources and assistance more
directly to a few selected local government entities that have modest capabilities in project planning and
implementation, and strengthen the central government agency responsible for rural infrastructure
development to improve its role in project monitoring, coordination and policy guidance. The experience
of the piloted approach will be monitored and evaluated during implementation, and if deemed successful,
expanded to more districts in a larger scale follow-on project.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The decentralization policy and weak capacity of local government entities. In Nepal, rural
development through local initiatives has been emphasized by successive governments. These initiatives
are based on the observed experience that local communities are more responsive to their own needs, and
thus are more effective in undertaking development projects to reduce poverty as compared to the Central
Government. The policy of decentralization, which was promulgated under the District Development
Committee Act of 1992, provides the legal framework for the local governance system in Nepal. Under the
Act, district governments are legally self-regulating and autonomous bodies responsible for all
development activities, including the construction and maintenance of rural infrastructure facilities in all 75
districts of Nepal. The local user groups are to act as the main agents for undertaking development
projects. However, the adoption of decentralization policy has not been supported by the strengthened
capabilities of local government entities in the planning and managing of development projects, nor in
mobilizing local user groups who will undertake the works. Consequentially, the ineffective use of scarce
resources and a lack of accountability at the local level threaten to undermine public support for the
decentralization policy. In view of the expanded responsibilities and augmented resources, there is an
increasing need to strengthen the technical and managerial capabilities of District Development
Committees (DDCs).



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project        Page 3                      Project Appraisal Document
Inadequate central support mechanism for local development. Under Nepal's decentralization policy,
the Ministry of Local Development (MLD) has the mandate to monitor, assist and guide the development
activities of DDCs and Village Development Comnmittees (VDCs) from the central government level. The
MLD has not been able to carry out this mandate effectively because of insufficient capabilities and the
lack of technical skills. Although the MLD is supposed to provide one engineer and several technical staff
to each DDC, the DDCs have had difficulties retaining these staff, partly due to the lack of an established
career development path for engineering staff in DDCs and MLD. In the road sector, since 1993, the
Department of Roads (DOR) of the Ministry of Works and Transport has gradually transferred its
responsibilities for the construction and maintenance of district and village roads to the respective DDCs,
while retaining the responsibility for managing the strategic highways and feeder roads network. However,
most DDCs do not have the technical nor managerial capability to manage these responsibilities. As a
result, DDCs often use their local influence to gain ad hoc access to technical assistance from the divisional
offices of the DOR, which in turn makes it difficult for the DOR's field offices to concentrate their
resources on maintaining the strategic network. Finally, an inadequate central monitoring system to
manage the application of funds transferred from the Central Government to the DDCs and VDCs also
constrained the effectiveness of the decentralized development in the country.
The evolution of a national strategy for rural infrastructure development. Recognizing the capacity
constraints in the MLD and DDCs and the problems with the prevailing system for rural infrastructure
development, in October 1997, the Government approved a National Strategy for Rural Infrastructure
Development. The strategy reaffirmed the decentralization framework for local development and the
distribution of responsibilities among various government institutions for rural infrastructure development.
While reconfirmiing MLD's central role in resource mobilization and planning rural infrastructure, the
strategy proposed to establish a Department of Local Infrastructure Development and Agricultural Roads
(DOLIDAR) within the MLD with branches in the districts to provide engineering and other technical
support to DDCs in planning and implementing rural infrastructure projects. The strategy also reaffirmed
that DDCs will be the focal points of planning and implementation of district infrastructure development.
The key function of DOLIDAR is to provide coordination and monitoring support to the districts.
Although the DOLIDAR was formally established in September 1998, it is not yet fully staffed nor
operational, and the implementation modality of this strategy remains to be worked out. It is important that
the DOLIDAR's establishment does not lead to the centralization of planning and managing
responsibilities away from the local government entities. It should also be made clear that the DOLIDAR
is a coordinating agency that provides guidelines for the preparation of local transport plans, coordinates
plans, assists with capacity building and resource mobilization.
The lack of appropriate technical skills and inefficient use of limited resources at the rural road
sector. Despite the aforementioned issues, the DDCs and VDCs have the authority, responsibility, and a
certain amount of financial resources for managing district and village roads. Due to the strong demand
(both local and political) for promoting rural access roads, the Central Government earmarks a total annual
budget of about NRs.200 million (US$3.2 million) for rural road construction and maintenance in the forrn
of annual block grants of NRs.3-4 million to each DDC. In addition, it is estimated that 50% of the block
grants of NRs.500,000 allocated to each VDC from the Central Government are spent on rural roads. Thus,
a total of about US$20 million per year of HMG/N resources are currently being utilized for rural road
works. However, these resources have not been put into effective use in the sector, and the outcome of
these investments has been much less than satisfactory. The main problems with rural road maintenance
and construction are: (i) appropriate construction practices do not parallel political incentives for road
works, which favor conventional (mainly mechanical) construction methods for fast results. In some cases,
mechanized construction of low-volume rural roads with little technical supervision has caused severe
environmental damage. Experience shows that maintenance works on district and village roads can be
achieved using labor-intensive methods which are more sustainable and environmentally friendly; (ii)
inadequate road maintenance. In the Terai (plain area) districts, where the road network is relatively more



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project         Page 4                      Project Appraisal Document
extensive and maintenance activities are easier to complete than in the hill districts, most of the district and
village roads are in a state of disrepair. Part of this problem stems from limited resources, but it is
primarily related to the lack of capability in managing maintenance work, and a strong political preference
for constructing new roads as opposed to maintaining the existing network; and (iii) inadequate
accountability and transparency in the use of funds at the central and especially at the local levels.
Support for the road sector strategy. In February 1997, with assistance from the IDA, the Government
developed an overall road sector strategy, the Priority Investment Plan (PIP). The PIP identified priority
projects for the sustainable development of the strategic and rural road network for the period of 1997-
2006. For the rural transport network, the PIP emphasized the need for balanced investment for the
maintenance and rehabilitation of existing assets complemented with cost-effective and environmentally -
sound construction and maintenance approaches. The PIP also provided guidance and thresholds for
undertaking the cost-benefit assessment of rural roads investment, which was followed during the
preparation of this project. This project also supports the strategy outlined in the PIP for the development
of the rural road network by promoting the adoption of labor-based technology and a decentralized local
governance system for effective management of road maintenance and rehabilitation.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will assist HMG/N in implementing its decentralization policy and rural infrastructure
development strategy in three ways. First, the project will strengthen the institutional capability of the
DDCs and DOLIDAR in their planning, management, monitoring, and coordinating roles through the
provision of project management support and advisory service. Secondly, the project will promote labor-
based technology for road maintenance and rehabilitation and involve project beneficiary participation in
project preparation and implementation. The use of mechanical construction methods will be minimized.
Thirdly, the project will promote the concept of planned maintenance and rehabilitation through the
preparation of a district transport master plan (DTMP) that prioritizes the need for maintaining existing
road assets. The project will only support the maintenance and rehabilitation of existing roads or trails. It
will not support new road construction. In the future, support for viable new road construction and
upgrading in a follow-on operation may be considered for districts that demonstrate an enhanced capability
in managing road maintenance and rehabilitation under this project.
C: Project Description Sumnuary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Infrastructure civil works         Works            4.2        72.0      3.4       68.0
Supervision and design             Consultancy      0.3         5.0      0.3        6.0
Equipment and logistical support   Goods            0.2         3.0      0.2        4.0
Technical assistance for management
support, monitoring & evaluation, and   Consultancy  1.1       19.0      1.1       22.0
preparation of a follow-on project
Total:                                5.8       100.0      5.0      100.0



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project       Page 5                     Project Appraisal Document
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
(i) The project will support the Government's effort to continue its decentralization policy for local
development;
(ii) The selected DDCs will be the focal points for planning and managing rural roads/trails and other
infrastructure projects, and will receive capacity building support from the project. The Government
will need to continue providing funding to the DDCs and VDCs to manage district and village roads;
and the participating DDCs will need to contribute 20% of the civil works cost of the project from their
centrally-allocated block grants and other own resources as their counterpart funds;
(iii) The institutional capability of MLD/DOLIDAR will be enhanced so that it can effectively perform its
monitoring and coordinating support functions. The main functions of the MLD/DOLIDAR shall be
limited to the coordination of DDCs activities and the provision of policy guidance and technical
assistance;
(iv) The DDCs' capability in planning local infrastructure development will be strengthened through the
preparation of DTMPs with active participation of stakeholders as the starting point in their planning
process;
(v) The project will support the promotion of labor-based technology for maintenance and rehabilitation of
district and village roads, through the provision of training to local contractors, user groups,
consultants, DDCs and DOLIDAR engineers; and
(vi) The project will help establish contracting procedures and public monitoring system in participating
project DDCs to enhance accountability and transparency for public works at local level and to fight
against corruption.
3. Benefits and target population
The project will be undertaken in the following eight districts: Kapilbastu, Rupandehi, Nawalparasi,
Syangja, Palpa, Kaski, and Dhading, in the Western and Central regions; and Sankhuwasabha in the Arun
Valley. These eight districts are be referred to as the "project districts". The seven districts in the Western
and Central regions were selected because they met the minimum criteria as candidate districts for
participating in the project. The inclusion of the Sankhuwasabha District in the Arun Valley reflects a long-
standing commitment of the Bank and HMG/N to assist the development of rural access roads in the Arun
Valley and offers an opportunity to test procedures for cooperation with another donor agency, Gernan
Technical Cooperation (GTZ), which has a long experience in the development of environmentally sound
rural roads using labor-intensive methods - the "Green Roads Approach" - in Nepal.
The likely benefits of the project are:
(i) Greater capacity to maintain rural roads in the project districts from the increased availability of trained
local contractors and consultants, as well as improved planning and management capability, resulting
in more efficient use of public funds, reduced transport costs, and better environmental management;
(ii) improved access to district headquarters and markets, which will promote economic and income-
generating activities, improve farming practice and help reduce poverty;
(iii) improved access to health and social services, which will raise the educational and health standard of
the rural population;
(iv) more job opportunities created by the project, both temporary and permanent, which will benefit the
poor and women to some extent, with the use of labor-based technology for project works;
(v) a knowledge base for the Bank and HMGIN to work effectively with local stakeholders in a
decentralized development framework; and



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project       Page 6                     Project Appraisal Document
(vi) a knowledge base for the Bank, 14MG/N, and civil society of Nepal to pursue greater accountability
and transparency in the use of funds achieved through the experience of community-based performance
monitoring in selected DDCs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period. The project will be implemented over a three-year period (from FY 2000 to
FY2002) to ensure that implementation arrangements and labor-based techniques for civil works will have
the opportunity to be tested over at least two working seasons, and to allow adjustments by stakeholders.
Implementation arrangements. The MLD will be accountable for the overall coordination of the project.
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been created under the DOLIDAR of the MLD to monitor, assist,
and coordinate the project preparation and implementation activities of the participating districts. The
PCU is currently headed by a Project Coordinator, and consists of two engineers and an account officer. A
social mobilization specialist will also be appointed in the PCU to assist the implementation of a
Community-based Performance Monitoring (CBPM) of technical and financial aspects of project
performance. As a coordinating and advisory unit, the PCU will: (i) facilitate project preparation and
implementation, and provide technical support to the districts; (ii) manage day-to-day project coordination
and monitoring; (iii) review and approve the annual investment programs under the project proposed by the
DDCs; and (iv) coordinate disbursements and consolidate financial infornation for reporting. The PCU
will undertake these tasks with the support of a Technical Assistance Consultancy (TAC) under the project.
DDC - DTU. The DDCs will be the implementing agencies of the project's civil works component. The
existing District Technical Units (DTUs) of the DDCs are the focal points in project preparation and
implementation, and responsible for: (i) preparation of the DTMPs and annual road maintenance and
rehabilitation plans; (ii) procurement and management of contractors, mobilization of road users' groups,
and supervision consultants for civil works under the project; and (iii) financial management and reporting
of project activities in the district. A district engineer to be designated by the Local Development Officer
will be in charge of project management at the district level.
The TAC. To assist the DOLIDAR and DDCs in undertaking their responsibilities and strengthen their
capacities, the TAC will provide: (i) project management support, (ii) assistance with project monitoring
and evaluation including environmental and socio-economic impact monitoring, (iii) training to DOLIDAR
and DDCs staff, local contractors, user groups, consultants and local NGOs; (iv) assistance with
stakeholder mobilization in DDCs in planning, implementation, and monitoring; and (v) assistance in the
implementation of the community-based performance monitoring system. The PCU will create a
temporary Project Office, to be based in Butwal (which is located in the center of the project districts in the
Western region), to implement the capacity building activities of the participating DDCs. The Project
Office wiil be staffed by the consultants under the TAC and PCU staff. The training activities will be
undertaken utilizing the existing Labor-based Training Center in Butwal.
This arrangement differs from the previous IDA-supported projects under which the central govemment
agency (the MLD) was the executing agency for all project components, and the DDCs had limited roles in
project preparation and implementation.
Procurement arrangements. The DOLIDAR will be responsible for the appointment of the TAC and of
equipment to be procured under the project. The DDCs will be responsible for the procurement of the
services of local supervision consultants and of local contractors, and mobilization of users' groups. The
DOLIDAR will also be responsible for provision of standard tender documents to the districts and
assistance with procurement.
Supervision and oversight. The DTUs vvill be responsible for supervision of the maintenance works



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project       Page 7                     Project Appraisal Document
executed by small labor contractors or road users' groups. The DTUs will also be responsible for engaging
local consultants to supervise rehabilitation and spot improvement works which will be contracted out to
Class C & D contractors, and to provide environmental guidance where necessary to contractors, with the
support from the TAC. The design, preparation of bidding documents and supervision of the contractors
by the local consultants will be managed by the DTUs under the responsibility of the DDCs. The TAC will
regularly monitor the performance and evaluate the progress of the project, including all key project
activities.
Accounting and Financial Reporting Arrangements. A financial management system review of
DOLIDAR was carried out during appraisal (see Annex 5-A). The financial control environment in Nepal
has been weakened by the transfer of responsibility of the control and management of accounts staff from the
Financial Comptroller General's Office (FCGO) to the Ministry of General Administration (MOGA), and
organizational risks are present in the short-term in the context of inadequate capacity of DOLIDAR (which
assumes project and financial management responsibility) during the initial phase of project implementation.
However, as this is a LIL project, there is adequate scope built in the project for strengthening the technical
capacity of DOLIDAR and DDCs. hi order to mitigate institutional development risks, capacity for financial
management is being built up in accordance with a time-bound action plan which includes the timely
recruitment and placement of key staff. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that:
(i) Financial management staff satisfactory to IDA have been appointed, specifically assigned, and are
in position to manage the accounts upon the start of project implementation;
(ii) HMG/N will not replace key staff in the PCU (Project Coordinator and Accounts Officer) without
prior consultation with IDA, and
(iii) A computer technician has been appointed to support a computerized system in the DOLIDAR
and to operate the computerized Financial Management Information System which will be
developed under technical assistance component of the project.
The financial management system review concluded that the DOLIDAR does not have the financial
management capacity to be eligible for PMR-based disbursements. The action plan outlining further
activities that must be undertaken during project implementation in order to strengthen the financial
management reporting capacity of the PCU was agreed upon between HMG/N and IDA. Until the PCU has
the capacity to deliver the Project Management Reports (PMRs) as per LACI requirements, traditional
disbursement procedures will be followed. IDA will review the progress mnade in establishing a strong
financial management system after about a year, and will ascertain whether the Project is eligible for PMR-
based disbursements. However, the PCU will report to the DOLIDAR and the Bank in the mutually agreed
format of PMRs. During the interim period, the PCU will produce the following PMR statements, Financial
Statement (Report 1-A) and Procurement Management Reports (Section 3).
The recent transfer of responsibility for the control and management of the accounting cadre of staff from
the FCGO to the MOGA has created a potential country risk to the project. However, FCGO retains overall
responsibility and accountability for public financial management including maintaining central accounts
(including donor accounts) and preparing the national accounts for timely external audit by the Auditor
General. Unless the responsibility of control and management of accounts staff is reverted back to FCGO,
this risk remains. A further risk is the timely submission of accounts by DDCs and compilation of such
accounts by the PCU, as well as completion of audit and subrnission of audit report within six months of
the end of each fiscal year. The trimester PMRs, to be prepared by the PCU, will be used for progress
monitoring and will be subject to close review and supervision by IDA. This will allow prompt follow-up
to bring to the Government's attention any ongoing problems in the project's accounting, internal controls
and financial reporting. A project completion report will be prepared by the DOLIIDAR with the



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project       Page 8                     Project Appraisal Document
assistance .of the TAC six months before the closing of the project. In addition, the TAC will produce a
series of quarterly progress reports on project monitoring and evaluation, and follow-on project
preparation.
Disbursements. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will allocate annual budgets to the project as envisaged in
the annual work plan and budget agreed between HMG/N and IDA. HMG/N has included this project under
the list of core projects, and will commit for timely release of funds. Concerned DDCs will implement the
civil works in the districts pertaining to the maintenance and rehabilitation of rural roads. The DDCs will
provide their matching funds at 20% of the civil works cost from the DDCs' centrally allocated block grants
and their own resources, before the PCU provides the budget authority to DDCs for the 80% of IDA's share.
The PCU will directly administer budget for equipment support, training and consultancy services. The PCU
will be responsible for overall project administration and management and submission of PMRs to the
Government and the Bank. Disbursement will be made on the basis of a percentage of eligible expenditures
according to Schedule 1 of DCA. The statement of expenditures (SOE) procedure will be used.
Special Account. A Special Account in US dollars will be established at the Nepal Rastra Bank (Central
Bank) on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. For the interim period, IDA disbursements are based on
the PMR, the account will have an authorized limit of US$500,000 and will follow the existing disbursement
procedure. The PCU will submit replenishment applications for the Special Account on a monthly basis, or
when 25% of the authorized allocation has been used, whichever occurs first. The replenishment
applications will be supported by the necessary documentation which include a bank statement and a
reconciliation statement.
Auditing Arrangements. Project financial statements, prepared in the formats agreed with IDA, will be
audited annually by the Auditor General of Nepal who is considered an independent auditor for IDA's
purposes. Audit reports will be due within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Expenditures at the
district level will be kept open for the purpose of ensuring transparency. All records including contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other relevant documents evidencing all expenditures will be kept
properly and the Bank's representative will have the access to them for the purpose of examination.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. A project specific monitoring system under the responsibility
of the PCU was finalized during appraisal to serve as the key project impact and performance monitoring
tool. Regular implementation performance reviews will be undertaken by the TAC. These reviews will
allow the MLD and IDA to evaluate the implementation experience and to adjust the investment budgets
and the responsibilities of the DDCs. In addition, socio-economic and environmental impacts will be
monitored by comparing the baseline data before and towards-the-end of the project. Furthermore, public
monitoring of the use of funds at the DDC level (i.e., community-based performance monitoring) will be
conducted throughout the project period in the participating districts. The review of the implementation
experience will form the basis for deciding whether to proceed with a larger scale follow-on project that
mainstreams the learning and piloted methods of this project; or, as an internediate step, to continue a
follow-on Learning & Innovation Loan (LIL) that builds consensus and demonstrates project benefits in a
different or more elaborate setting. During project preparation, a socio-economic survey was undertaken to
establish base line indicators in four project districts. These will be monitored and evaluated during the
preparation of the Project Completion Report. Responsibility for distilling the results of LIL activities will
lie with the TAC in close coordination with the DDCs and DOLIDAR. They will be based on reports and
recommendations from the project performance evaluation, the Labor-based Training Center, and the
Project Office. A mid-term review will be held in November 2000 to review implementation progress
against agreed schedules and assess the implementation experience.



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project       Page 9                     Project Appraisal Document
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
Given its predominantly agricultural-based economy, rural area development receives primary attention in
the Nepal CAS. In 1995, the Agricultural Perspective Plan (APP) was prepared for the National Planning
Commission and has been accepted as the blue print for overall economic development of the agricultural-
based areas of Nepal. The APP identifies four integrated key components as priorities: (i) rural access
roads, (ii) agricultural technology extension, (iii) water and irrigation, and (iv) fertilizer. The PIP for the
transport sector also identified priority projects for sustainable development of the strategic and rural road
network for the period of 1997-2006, taking into consideration resource constraints and funding
requirements. To date, IDA has directly supported various components of the APP through the
Agricultural Research & Extension Project (Cr. 2977-NEP) and the Nepal Irrigation Sector Project (Cr.
3008-NEP). IDA is also in the process of preparing a Road Maintenance and Development Project to
continue its support for the institutional strengthening of the DOR and the development of priority strategic
roads. The project focuses on capacity building of local government and support of rural access roads as
outlined in the APP and PIP.
Capacity building at local government level will be a challenging process because of the weak absorptive
capability at district level. There are difficulties in adapting Bank and HMG/N disbursement procedures to
address the needs of local government entities, small contractors, road user groups, and local consultants.
Therefore, there is a need to initially develop an effective modality for IDA to work with the local District
governments and to channel IDA assistance to the districts under a decentralization framework. Before
such an approach is tested, a full-scale investment faces significant uncertainty and is not justified.
Furthermore, a traditional lending instrument would not be responsive to the learning-by-doing and timely-
need nature of the project. IDA has initiated its support for the promotion of labor-based road maintenance
practices through a Pilot Labor-based District Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation (PLRP) component
under an ongoing IDA-financed Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (RMRP), which will be
closed in Junel999. There is a need to sustain the momentum initiated under the PLRP. Moreover, the
Government requested IDA's support to implement its new strategy for rural infrastructure development.
The LIL is an appropriate instrument for achieving the project development objective, and is consistent
with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy for Nepal. Under the LIL, an effective modality will be tested by
IDA and HMG/N to determine the best course of action in supporting the decentralization of infrastructure
development. Using the learning experiences acquired under the LIL, an effective approach for sustainable
rural road development may be applied to a larger operation at a later stage.
The application of a social fund framework for channeling Bank funds to the local governments was also
explored for the project. It was considered inappropriate at this time because of the absence of necessary
legal infrastructure in Nepal that would allow an independent entity responsible for administrating the
fund. In any case, it was considered desirable to help strengthen the central government agency's
capability in planning and coordinating infrastructure development of local governments, rather than
bypassing the central government agency.
In determining which districts would be included under the project, consideration was given to similar
projects being pursued by other donor agencies. Since the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the British
Department for Foreign Development (DFID) have concentrated their efforts in the Central and Eastern
regions of Nepal, it was decided that IDA operations would focus in the Western region. Having received
prior assistance from IDA and other bilateral donors, most districts selected to participate in the project
have modest institutional capacity and have begun to work with stakeholders in rural infrastructure
development. Being a LIL, consideration was given for the inclusion of both terai districts and hill
districts, as their demand and challenge for rural infrastructure development are quite different. In
addition, six project districts in the Western region were included in the Nepal Irrigation Sector Project for



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project            Page 10                       Project Appraisal Document
IDA assistance. The project will complement the irrigation development support to these districts. This
will improve the likelihood of achieving the project's objectives, which can lead to expansion of IDA
assistance to other less developed districts.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Bank-Financed
Replacement of bridges, road maintenance   First Highway (Cr.223-NEP)    N/A             N/A
Upgrading of roads, feeder road        Second Highway (Cr.730-          N/A              N/A
construction, training of mechanics    NEP)
Highway and feeder roads construction  Third Highway (Cr.1515-NEP)       S                S
Emergency rehabilitation and rebuilding of   Road Flood Rehabilitation   S                S
roads and bridges                      (Cr. 1922-NEP)
Maintenance and rehabilitation of the core    Road Maintenance and       S                S
network (with ODA/SDC/UNDP)            Rehabilitation Project
(Cr. 2578-NEP)
Development of agricultural techniques and   Agricultural Research and   U                U
extension                              Extension (Cr. 2977-NEP)
Farmer managed water schemes and O&M   Nepal Irrigation Sector Project   S                S
(Cr. 3009-NEP)
Development of enabling environment for    Multimodal Transit and Trade  S                S
multimodal transport of goods to and from    Facilitation Project (Cr. 3008-
Nepal                                  NEP)
Rehabilitation & maintenance of core   Proposed Road Maintenance         N/A             N/A
network, upgrading & construction of feeder  and Development Project
roads, establishment of a road fund
Other External Development Agencies
ADB - Maintenance and rehabilitation of the  Second and Third Road
core network                           Improvement projects
ADB - Rural infrastructure             Rural Infrastructure
Development Project
SDC- Road maintenance and rehabilitation   District Roads Support Prog.
DFID- Road rehabilitation and maintenance   Eastern Region Road
Maintenance
GTZ - District Road Development, Rural  Gorkha, Dhading,
Development                            Sankhuwasabha District and
Rural Development Programs
Japan - Construction of gravel road    Dhulikhel - Sindhuli Road
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project        Page 11                      Project Appraisal Document
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
In the ongoing RMRP, where labor-based technology and community-participation were introduced for the
rehabilitation and maintenance of district roads, project preparation and implementation was centralized
and came under the responsibility of MLD; the DDCs' role in project management was limited. Moreover,
a clear lesson learned from donor-assisted projects has been that project impacts are generally more
effective if they are prepared by stakeholders with beneficiary participation. Based on these experiences,
the preparation and implementation of this project have incorporated the following lessons: (i) the
preparation of a district transport master plan by DDCs will be used as a tool in strengthening the capacity
of DDCs and involving beneficiary participation in project planning, and will be used as the starting point
of project preparation by the districts; (ii) the DDCs will be directly responsible in managing the
contractors and supervision consultants working on the project roads in their respective districts; (iii) a
suitable disbursement and fund flow system will be developed to ensure timely flows of Bank funds to the
subprojects; (iv) selected DDCs must demonstrate their interest in participating in the project framework
by committing their counterpart funds to the project; (v) appropriate labor-based technology and
stakeholder participation must be adopted to ensure sustainability, and road standards adopted have to be
compatible with the volume of traffic expected on the roads; and (vi) the MLD/DOLIDAR will focus on
coordinating and monitoring project activities.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The MLD has prepared a national strategy for the country's rural infrastructure development and
established an institutional framework for the sector's development. The DOLIDAR was established to
support the decentralization framework for local infrastructure development. The HMG/N is prepared to
use credit resources from the project to finance evaluation of the project experience and the preparation of
a follow-on project. The MLD has evaluated proposals from the shortlisted consultants for the TAC
component under the project. The PCU has been established with dedicated staff in DOLIDAR for project
coordination and management. The selected DDCs have agreed to contribute 20 percent of the civil works
costs incurred under the project from their own resources. They have already prepared or are in the process
of preparing their respective DTMPs using a participatory approach, and have prepared their first-year
work programs for the maintenance of priority roads. The MLD has agreed to work with the selected
DDCs in developing the implementation arrangements for the community-based performance monitoring
system.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA can provide HMG/N with valuable experience from the preparation and implementation of similar
projects in the subcontinent and in other developing countries, especially in the promotion of labor-based
technology in road work and in capacity building for decentralization. The Bank will apply its experience
in other countries to help promote "best practices" via the establishment of: (i) contracting and
accountability procedures; (ii) appropriate supervision of rehabilitation and maintenance works; and (iii)
monitoring and evaluation systems to be managed by the central coordinating agency in a decentralization
framework.
The rural road sector in Nepal has traditionally received much attention from all major multilateral and
bilateral donor agencies. Donors have adopted slightly different modalities in their assistance to different
districts, depending on their own internal constraints. Road activities require substantial efforts to
coordinate donor activities and would benefit from a shared focus of assistance. Using the LIL, IDA may
contribute to coordinate donor activities in the rural infrastructure sector, mainstream proven approaches,
and develop a common assistance strategy among donors. Specifically, IDA has arranged to collaborate
with the GTZ in project preparation in the Sankhuwasabha District. The project will adopt the



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project        Page 12                     Project Appraisal Document
"performance-based user group approach" for work execution in the District. During project
implementation, IDA and DOLIDAR will also collaborate with GTZ which is already actively involved in
supporting rural road development in the District. The experience of this approach will be monitored and
evaluated under this project.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$     million; ERR=   %  [/] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
A sample of three typical rural roads from the project districts were selected and subjected to a cost-
effectiveness analysis to provide an indication of the project's economic viability as a whole. As the
project works to be undertaken in eight districts are of similar nature, it is considered sufficient to study a
sample of the typical hill and Terai roads with typical nature of works that were proposed under the project.
The cost-benefit estimates for the analysis were largely based on the information collected during field
survey of the sample roads, supplemented by some threshold estimates from the Priority Investment Plan
(PIP). The basic criteria in selecting roads for inclusion in the project is that the investment would result in
the provision of the minimum fair-weather motorable accessibility to villages and markets, through either
periodic maintenance, rehabilitation, or upgrading, as proposed under the project.
Current costs of maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading were derived on a per km basis from the typical
cost estimates of the PIP and were modified from the basic unit rate prevalent at the site and from the
ongoing PLRP. The typical costs were estimated on the basis of a minimum service level required for
making the road usable for most of the times in a year.
The results of the cost-effectiveness analysis showed that the proposed low-cost treatments (maintenance
and minimum rehabilitation) of the project roads would be economically viable provided that the
treatments proposed were corresponding to the level of traffic and economic activities in the zones of
influence of the road. The analysis showed that the project would produce an effectiveness indicator of
about 143 persons per one hundred thousand rupees of investment, which was comparable with a similar
project in the region. In addition, the unit rehabilitation cost for an earth road adopted in the project was
also comparable with the unit cost of a similar project in the region.
2. Financial impact:
Adequate financial control and accountability in the DDCs will be one of the main challenges of the
project. The project is designed to specifically address this issue. While the DDCs will have the
responsibility for managing financial payments to contractors, a project specific financial verification will
be undertaken regularly by the TAC to ensure proper payment flows. Training will be provided to DDCs'
and DOLIDAR's accountants to familiarize them with HMG/N and IDA's disbursement procedures.
Another challenge to a project of this nature is the difficulties associated with administration of many small
contracts. Timely disbursement of IDA funds to the project Special Account and speedy payments to small
contractors by the project are of critical importance to the success of the project. Adequate provision of
counterpart funds and timely release of central government budget allocation to the DDCs are also risks
that the project must address.
Over a period of three years, assuming all eight districts will progress at a similar pace, it is estimated that
the project will generate about NRs. 10 million of civil works per district per year. This will require
counterpart funds of about NRs.2 million per district per year from each district, which would amount to
about 60-70% of the district's current annual expenditure on rural roads. For districts that are more
advanced in their project planning and have more extensive road network, they would be able to absorb
more funds from the project, which would also increase the amount of their counterpart funds requirement.



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project       Page 13                    Project Appraisal Document
It is therefore envisaged that the project will help to pool district funds into a planned framework for
preserving the existing road assets, thus maximizing the effectiveness of the districts' spending on rural
roads.
3. Technical:
Civil works under the project will be carried out in different approaches based on the prevailing conditions
in the districts. The technically more complicated works (requiring specialized equipment, e.g., road
rehabilitation) will be carried out by Class C & D labor-based contractors. Less complicated works (e.g.,
routine and periodic maintenance) will be contracted out to small labor contractors or user groups. A
"performance-based user group approach" through social mobilization of road users could also be adopted.
No matter whether contractors or user groups are engaged, a result-based contracting procedure will be
developed as the main approach for work execution. No force account work will be undertaken under the
project. A technical performance evaluation will be undertaken periodically by the TAC to ensure works
are carried out to the standard and quality required by the project.
For rehabilitation works, the design of works, finalization of bidding documents and supervision will be
undertaken by local supervision consultants to be engaged by the DDCs. The DTUs under the DDCs are
directly responsible for contracting out and supervising routine maintenance works. The local supervision
consultants will involve DTU staff closely in all aspects of their work and provide on-the-job training to
DDC staff. The DDC technical staff will gradually upgrade their capacity in the management of civil
works and consultancy contracts. The PCU of DOLIDAR and the TAC will assist the DTUs in the
preparation of contract documents and evaluation of supervision consultants' proposals.
As part of the capacity building objectives, the project will also help create local capacity in the private
sector for the implementation of rural infrastructure works. Local engineering consulting companies and
local labor-based contractors will be involved in the implementation of the works. The local consultants
will receive training in designing, packaging and preparing bidding documents for works executed with
labor-based techniques. The local contractors and user groups will also receive technical and management
training. All works under the project will focus on applying labor-based methods with appropriate low-
cost standards.
4. Institutional:
Executing Agencies. The executing agencies for the project's civil works component will be the
respective DDCs, while the DOLIDAR will be responsible for executing the technical assistance
component. The approach of the project is to pass the responsibility for the execution of the works to the
district authorities from the start of the project, while providing them with training and project management
support. To participate in the projects, districts have to demonstrate a commitment to managing their roads
development in a more effective way, by meeting the following criteria: (a) preparation, through a
participatory process, of a district transport master plan covering both maintenance, rehabilitation and
upgrading, and receive approval of the plan by the District Council; (b) hiring of at least one engineer and
two overseers under the District Engineer to provide adequate staff to the DTUs; (c) contribution of 20%
percent of the cost of works to be carried out under the project from the centrally-allocated block grants
and other own resources; (d) agreement to a transparent financial accounting framework, in which budgets,
plans, details of works to be undertaken with schedule, costs, payments and progress monitoring indicators
would be made available to the public; and (e) agreement to adopt labor-based technologies for
rehabilitation and maintenance of district roads.
Project management. The capacities of the DDCs will be gradually strengthened during project
implementation. The funds available for investment by the DDCs will allow for learning by doing. The
DTUs under the DDCs will start with supervising routine maintenance works under the project. As the
districts build up and demonstrate their capability in managing road maintenance and rehabilitation works



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project       Page 14                    Project Appraisal Document
under the project, they will be provided with further support and assume more responsibilities in a follow-
on project to address more difficult works of road upgrading and construction.
The framework for decentralization and capacity building of local governments requires the enhancement
of the coordinating and monitoring capabilities at the MLD. In carrying out this responsibility, the MLD
has to resist the temptation of taking the full responsibility for the planning and execution of district road
projects, given the weak capability of DDCs. A monitoring and evaluation system needs to be developed to
allow MLD to effectively monitor the various local infrastructure development programs. There is also a
need to clearly define a rewarding career path for technical and engineering staff in MLD/DOLIDAR and
DDCs.
An effective monitoring capability within MLD/DOLIDAR will be gradually developed so that physical
progress, technical standards, environmental and socio-economic impact, and financial expenditure of
district road projects can be monitored and correlated through the development of DOLIDAR within MLD.
The project will, in this respect, provide assistance to DOLIDAR, in order to ensure its development as a
self-operational unit within MLD. As part of the capacity building process in the MLD, information
dissemination, training, and regular implementation performance reviews will be undertaken by the TAC
with participation of DOLIDAR.
In the districts where local advisory bodies such as road users committees (RUCs) exist, the enhanced roles
of RUCs will be pursued through their participation in the master planning exercises, monitoring of the
maintenance and rehabilitation works under the project, environmental and socio-economic impact
monitoring, and in the selected districts, the community-based performance monitoring system will be used
to verify the use of funds. The road user committee usually exists per each road and consists of
representatives of various stakeholders of district roads including DDC and VDC members of the
concerned area, local bus and transport companies, population alongside the alignment, etc. For the DDCs
without such a mechanism, the formation of RUCs is required during project preparation and
implementation.
5. Social:
A Social Assessment (SA) completed in October 1998 and consultations with the MLD and some DDCs
have identified the following key social issues and the means to address them:
(i) The SA identified mixed impacts of the project on both the poor and women and the difficulties of
targeted intervention on these vulnerable groups. In addition, current representation of the poor and
women in the decision-making bodies was found to be extremely low. The project will aim at, to the
extent possible, maximizing the benefits to the poorer communities, the poorest in each community,
particularly women, through the following: (a) participating districts will be required to hold wide
consu'tations during the preparation of their transport master plans, whereby separate consultations
with women is encouraged; (b) RUCs are required to have broad community and gender
representation; (c) local contractors will be encouraged to hire local labor, including female labor
gangs; (d) user groups, which by definition use local labor, will be used whenever possible; (e) DDCs
are encouraged to combine the works with the roadside tree plantation and other income generation
activities so that women's groups will have more incentive to participate; and (f) child labor issues
will be closely monitored in terms of current practices and causes, and where observed, measures will
be discussed and taken by the community to send children back to school.
(ii) To ensure that corrective action can be taken during the life of the project, RUCs will be formed (if
not already done) along the roads in each participating district so that the stakeholders' direct
feedback w.'l be reflected during the project implementation.
(iii) To ensure the sustainability of the capacity built at the district level, participating districts are required
to train at least two of the members of RUCs as technicians.



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project        Page 15                      Project Appraisal Document
(iv) To ensure that implementation of road maintenance works is sustainable and broad-based,
participating districts will be encouraged to use labor-based techniques for majority of their works,
and use either local contractors (historically preferred in the Terai districts, according to the SA) or
user groups (preferred in the Hills districts), or both, to implement the works.
(v) To ensure that works are technically sound and appropriate, districts are required to hire local
contractors to carry out rehabilitation works, and will be subject to supervision by the local
supervision consultant and periodic technical audit by the TAC.
(vi) To fight corruption, a Community-Based Performance Monitoring System will be piloted in two
selected districts, whereby project accounts in each project location, detailed works to be carried out,
expenditures and payments are made available to the public. The social mobilization specialist to be
engaged by the PCU will be responsible for assisting district-level RUCs in community mobilization
to carry out the tasks.
(vii) To ensure that the lessons learned through the LIL will feed into a possible follow-on project, a socio-
economic survey was conducted in sample districts with beneficiary participation in data collection
and impact monitoring.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category     []A   [ IB   V]C
The proposed LIL is considered a Category C project from the aspect of environmental assessment. Since
the civil works cover only maintenance, rehabilitation and spot improvement (for example, the gravelling
of a steep stretch of dirt road or the construction of culverts for proper drainage), no significant
environmental degradation is expected. In fact, proper maintenance and rehabilitation works pursued under
the project are expected to reduce soil erosion via improving improper drainage and slope instability.
Moreover, the dissemination of labor-based techniques is expected to have positive environmental impacts.
Various studies have shown that such techniques are most appropriate for local fair-weather roads built in
geological stable locations following contours and ridge lines.
Land acquisition and resettlement are not expected. All rehabilitation and maintenance works will take
place on existing road alignments, and no widening is envisaged. Neither new natural habitats nor cultural
property will be affected by the project. Virtually all inhabitants of Nepal can be considered "indigenous",
therefore the project has been designed to ensure that its benefits reach the poorest groups.
As part of the project preparation and during implementation, a system to screen the environmental and
social impacts of road works will be developed in DDCs, with the technical assistance of TAC at national
level and local supervision consultants at the local level. The system is expected to identify works which
might have moderate impacts and identify mitigation measures, based on the recommendations of the
Environmental Assessment (completed in October 1998). The identified mnitigation measures (such as
slope stabilization and bio-engineering works) will be incorporated into the Bill of Quantities and the
Conditions of Contract in the sample contract documents to be provided by the DOLIDAR. The system
will also provide valuable learning on screening criteria and mitigating actions, which will facilitate the
preparation of a follow-on operation involving new road construction.
DOLIDAR will have at least one environmental specialist to coordinate and facilitate the capacity building
of DDCs on environmentally-friendly road management, which will also involve TAC and local
supervision consultants. As part of its development plan, DOLIDAR will form an environmental unit to
provide technical advice and guidance to the DDCs on environmental matters. In coordination with other
donors, the LIL was also designed to assist DOLIDAR to develop an environmental management
framework for rural road works, which encompasses assessment, design, contracting, works execution,
monitoring and training. All stakeholders including MLD/DOLIDAR, DDC, VDC, contractors and user
groups will be involved in the process and provided with training for labor-based and environmentally-
friendly techniques under the project.



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project           Page 16                       Project Appraisal Document
7. Participatory approach:
The project envisages a considerable level of stakeholder participation in planning, implementation and
monitoring & evaluation, as follows:
ey Skhove-nt  ' ' 
Villagers            Input in planning        Choice of works to be done          CON
(preparation of Transport
Master Plans)
Implementation          Formation of user groups to          COL
carry out works; engagement
of local contractors to carry
out works
Monitoring and Evaluation   RUCs to monitor progress      COUCON
indicators; impact evaluation
(environmental & socio-
economic); Community-based
performance monitoring to
verify the use of funds
General road users    Input in planning and   Selection of roads; impact          CON
evaluation              evaluation
Village elected officials  Guide local planning  Link local consultations to       COL
district decisions
District technical staff   Preparation of Master  Choice of implementation        COL
Plans; management of    modalities
implementation; district-
level supervision
District elected officials  Approval and      Transport Master Plans;             COL
implementation of       allocations to road works
Transport Master Plans
DOLIDAR technical    Technical oversight;     Emphasis on need for                COL
staff                monitoring and evaluation   national M&E, as well as
of district programs    technical input
MLD/DOLIDAR          Project planning and     District selection, TAC             COL
officials            preparation              selection
NGOs                 Monitoring               Community-based                     CON
performance monitoring and
local stakeholder mobilization
IS (Information sharing): one-way flow of information
CON (Consultation): two-way flow of information
COL (Collaboration): shared control over decision-making



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project       Page 17                     Project Appraisal Document
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainabilit:
The project's sustainability lies in two areas: the sustainability of rural roads maintained or rehabilitated;
and the sustainability of institutional capacity developed under the project. With its emphasis on
maintenance and rehabilitation of the existing roads, the project will help demonstrate the value of proper
road maintenance to the stakeholders of district roads. By focusing on maintenance and rehabilitation, the
project will bring some district roads to a maintainable condition, so that the districts can execute planned
maintenance in accordance with their master plans and limited resources. The preparation of DTMPs with
emphasis on properly balancing the need of new construction versus maintenance through a participatory
process will help ensure ownership of the plans, and the continuity of priorities under the plan. The labor-
based techniques to be promoted under the project will help facilitate participation of local labors and
project beneficiaries in project implementation, and minimize environmental impact.
On the institutional side, the project is designed to assist the district to develop their planning and
management capability for district roads. It is expected that the capability developed under the project will
be internalized by the DDCs and remains as DDCs' system. As a key measure of their enhanced planning
capability, the districts will plan for road development according to its own resources, and set a better
balance between maintenance and new construction.
In addition, it should be noted that DDCs have been receiving the centrally-allocated block grants of about
Rs.3-4 million annually for road development, plus the resources the DDCs have mobilized on their own.
These allocations are expected to continue because it has been a politically favorable policy in recent years
under the decentralization framework. Indeed, if the institutional and management capability of DDCs for
utilizing these funds improve under the project, it would help to ensure such policy will gain greater
support. By building up a better institutional system in managing these resources, the project will help
enhance the sustainability of road development in the districts.
Political instability is a key constraint to sustain the institutional capability developed in the DDCs and
MLD/DOLIDAR. However, successive governments have placed decentralization at the core of the
national development strategy, which should minimize the impact of political instability on the
decentralization policy. The Bank shall leverage its influence for the continuation of decentralization by
supporting the implementation of the recently-passed Local Self-Governance Act (currently pending the
Royal Seal for formal enactment). It is noted that while the Central Government tends to be unstable in
recent years, the local govermment entities (DDCs) appear to be much more stable, which may be a window
opportunity for a project of this nature.



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project              Page 18                          Project Appraisal Document
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Continued Government policy commitment to              M       Continued policy dialogue with the Government
decentralization of district roads management                  and leverage Bank assistance strategy with
responsibility to DDCs and Government fiscal support to        Government commitment to decentralization.
DDCs.
Expected benefits from adopted technology for district  M      Training and promotion of the labor-based
roads development materialized and publicized in the           technology have been provided under the project
region.                                                        to gain wide acceptance of the technology.
Continued donor coordination and support for district  M        Enhanced donor coordination to avoid duplication
strengthening and district roads development.                  of assistance and inconsistency of policy reform
agenda, collaboration with GTZ in the project.
Institutional capability of the MLD and the selected DDCs  H/S  Targeted project management & capacity
strengthened as a result of the project.                       building assistance provided by the project
Leakage of project funds and corruption as a result of  S       Enhanced financial monitoring system to be
increased decentralization and the lack of central             introduced at both district and DOLIDAR, training
monitoring and control on financial flows.                     of accountant staff, financial verification by TAC,
and, in the selected DDCs, Community-based
Performance Monitoring System in place.
FCGO and MOGA roles and responsibilities are defined   S       Further dialogue and agreement reached
and maintained.                                                between the Borrower and the Bank.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Counterpart funding available to the selected districts in a  S  Inclusion of the project in the HMG/N's annual
timely manner                                                  development budget,
Continuity of priority roads in the annual budget plan of  S    Preparation of the DTMPs through a participatory
the selected districts                                          approach; and inclusion in project only roads
identified in the DTMPs
DDCs opted for major road construction works, instead of  S    Construction supervision by consultant required
focusing on maintenance and rehabilitation of existing         for rehabilitation works, technical audit and
roads                                                          monitoring by TAC, suspension of IDA financing
if works carried out are outside the scope as
defined in DCA.
Incentives are adequate to obtain good performance and  S      The establishment of DOLIDAR in the MLD has
continuity from the DDC engineers                              created a career path for MLD engineers.
Procurement actions are streamlined and completed on   S       Advance procurement actions are required by the
time.                                                           DDCs and DOLIDAR prior to project appraisal;
and introduction of simplified contract
documents.
Efficient operation of project accounts by DOLIDAR and  S      Adoption of simplified fund flow arrangements
the selected DDCs to ensure timely fund flows and               and undertaking of regular financial monitoring
payments                                                        under the project.
Overall Risk Rating:                    S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project       Page 19                    Project Appraisal Document
3. Possible ControversialAspects:
None.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
None other than the standard conditions.
2. Other:
(i)    Counterpart funding for the civil works component.
(ii)    Adequacy and continuity of staffing in the PCU.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[VI The combined technical and financial proposals for the TAC component of the project have been
evaluated by DOLIDAR.
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [VJ Not applicable.
VI The procurement documents and work plans for the first year's civil works are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation.
/] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[/]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
"TaskLeader: Guangzhe Chen
S  Sector Manager: Frannie Humplick
Country T)irector: Hans M. Rothenbuhler



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project                    Page 20                              Project Appraisal Document
Annex 1
Annex I
Project Design Summary
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                             (Goal to Bank Mission)
Broad-based economic      1. A well functioning           1. Special studies on the  1. Decentralization of decision-
growth and improvement in    decentralized local            effectiveness of            making and capacity
government implementation    govemance system in place      decentralization policy in  improvement of local
capacity.                    with enhanced capability of    Nepal.                      governments will reduce
managing infrastructure at                                inefficiencies and increase
local level, and with      2. World Bank Country           responsiveness of development
strengthened coordination      Economic Memorandum        effort to people's needs.
and monitoring capability at   and annual updates.
the central agency level..                              2. Participatory process in project
planning and implementation will
2. Piloted system expands to                                  ensure that the benefits of
other districts and sectors.                              growth will be more equally
distributed.
Project Development                                                                  (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
A strengthened             1. Better quality. average travel   1. Implementation      1. Continued Government
decentralized local         time and transport costs        completion reports.         commitment to decentralization
governance system that       reduced by 20%; non-                                       policy.
provides a better quality,   passability duration of roads    2. Progress reports from the
more efficient and           reduced by 2 months per year.    Project Coordination Unit   2. Planning of the road sector
sustainable rural road                                      of DOLIDAR and technical    expenditures govemed by the
network while responding to  2. Sustainability roads        units of the selected       Priority Investment Plan and the
communities and project      maintained or rehabilitated still    DDCs.                 Agricultural Perspective Plan.
beneficiaries' needs.        in operation 3 years after
project completion; labor-  3. Periodic project         3. Reduction in transport costs are
based techniques adopted in    performance evaluation      passed on to farmers and
80% of rural roads projects.  report by TAC under the      consumers.
project.
3. Responsive to people's needs:                          4. Implementation of other
district transport master plans   4. Supervision mission   complementary components of
prepared using participatory  reports.                    the Agricultural Perspective
process and endorsed by                                    Plan.
district councils; 80% of   5. Project proposals
project civil works expenditure  submitted by other districts
gone to local economy.        for financing follow the
piloted approach
4. Completion of preliminary     developed under the
appraisal recommends a         project.
follow-on operation that
encompasses the knowledge
base developed under the
project.
Outputs:                                                                             (Outputs to Objective)
1. District road planning,  1.1 Selected DDCs developed or  1. DDCs' progress reports.    1. Continued Government policy
implementation, and          modified their district                                    commitment to decentralization
management system            transport master plans       2. Supervision mission        of district roads management
established in project        following established         reports.                    responsibility to DDCs and
districts.                    guidelines by end 1999.                                   Govemment fiscal support to
3. Annual financial and       DDCs.
1.2 The district technical units  technical review reports of
adequately staffed by the end  sub-projects by DOLIDAR.  2. Expected benefits from adopted
of 1999 and the improved                                  technology for district roads
contracting and accountability  4. Periodic review of     development materialized and
procedures implemented in     progress reports and        publicized in the region.
selected DDCs.                evaluation reports, and
annual review of road    3. Additional districts prepared their
1.3 DOLIDAR/DDCs staff trained   sector expenditures and     annual budget plans for district
according to approved         allocations.                roads development following the
I   training program.          I        _        _        _   project preparation framework



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project                  Page 21                           Project Appraisal Document
Natve Summary            Key Perfrmanc Indkators    Mong and Evaiuatn                   CrItical Assumptions
established under the project.
2. Appropriate labor-based    2.1 At least 50 local      5. Periodic project
technology and design         contractorsllabor groups      performance evaluation   4. Continued donor coordination
adopted by the selected      trained in labor-based         report by TAC under the     and support for district
DDCs for district roads      technology and undertaken      project.                    strengthening and district roads
development.                  project works by end 2000.                                development.
6. Implementation
2.2 DDCs let 90% of road         completion report.       5. Institutional capability of the
maintenance and                                           MLD/DOLIDAR and the selected
rehabilitation works to locally-                          DDCs strengthened as a result of
based labor contractor and                                the project.
groups.
6. Community-based Performance
3. Management mechanism   3.1 Project coordinating unit                                 Monitoring system established in
for monitoring and            established in DOLIDAR by                                 the selected pilot districts to
evaluation of DDCs            appraisal.                                                minimize misuse of funds.
established and operational
within the MLD/DOLIDAR.    3.2 A small department for local                          7. FCGO and MOGA roles and
infrastructure development                                responsibilities are defined and
fully staffed and operational                             maintained regarding public
in MLD with the role of                                   financial management.
supporting, coordinating and
monitoring all district road
development by end 1999.
3.3 Project monitoring &
evaluation procedures and
guidelines established in
DOLIDAR by mid-term
review.
4. Knowledge base         4.1 About 1300 km of district
developed under a             roads/trails maintained or
decentralized governmental   rehabilitated using labor-
system that uses community    based techniques.
participation in district road
maintenance and
rehabilitation, leading to the
formulation of a larger-scale
follow-on project.
Project Components/Sub-   Inputs: (Budget for each                                   (Components to Outputs)
components:               component)
1. Counterpart funding available to
1. Infrastructure works   1. US$4.2 million               1. Periodic progress reports  the selected districts in a timely
(Bank financed US$3.4          and disbursement reports.   manner.
million)
2. Supervision missions'   2. Continuity of priority roads in the
2. Supervision and design    2. US$0.3 million              reports.                    annual budget plan of the
(Bank financed US$0.3                                      selected districts.
million)                    3. Annual financial and
technical review reports of  3. DDCs adhere to undertaking of
3. Equipment and logistical   3. US$0.2 million             sub-projects by DOLIDAR.    maintenance and rehabilitation
support                   (Bank financed US$0.2                                       works under the project.
million)                    4. Reports from the training
sessions and workshops.   4. Incentives are adequate to
4. TA for Management       4. US$1.1 million                                             obtain good performance and
Support, monitoring and    (Bank financed US$1.1       5. Periodic review reports    long-term continuity from DDC
evaluation, as well as     million)                       from the TAC who            engineers.
preparation of a follow-on                                monitors the works.
project                                                                            5. Procurement actions are
streamlined and timely.
6. Efficient operation of project
accounts by DOLIDAR and the
selected DDCs to ensure timely
fund flows and payments.



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project       Page 22                   Project Appraisal Document
Annex 2
Annex 2
Project Description
Project Component 1 - Infrastructure Works - US$4.2 million (including contingencies). This
component will include routine maintenance, periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and spot improvement
of existing district roads/trails and other rural infrastructure in eight selected districts. Over a period of
three years, this component is envisaged to provide routine maintenance for about 1,000 km of roads,
periodic maintenance of about 240 km of roads, and rehabilitation of about 100 km of roads. It will also
support the rehabilitation and spot improvement of about 75 km of major trails. Most of the civil works
will be carried out using small labor-based contractors or road user groups in the project areas. About
10% of the civil works expenditure could be used to finance other minor rural infrastructure, such as
community marketing structures. The following table gives a breakdown of the component and the
indicative allocations of Bank funds for different categories of works. It also provides an indicative per-
district budget allocation for different categories of works (figures in italic), assuming all eight districts
progress at same rate over a 3-year period.
=.7 
Based Civil Works Costs            3,800     258
Roads                   90%      3,420     233        29.1             2,736    186
Routine Maintenance    20%      760       52          6.5     80%    608       41
Periodic Maintenance   25%      950       65          8.1     80%    760       52
Rehabilitation         45%     1,710     116         14.5     80%    1,368     93
Other Infrastructure     10%      380       26          3.2     80%    304       21
Contingencies             10%      380        26         3.2      80%    304       21
Total            4,180     284         35.5     80%   3,344     227
Project Component 2 - Supervision and design of civil works - US$0.3 million. This component will
provide supervision and design of civil works to be undertaken under the project by local supervision
consultants to be engaged by the project districts. Consultant supervision and design will be required for
the periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works, while the DTUs will be responsible for supervision of
routine maintenance works. Because of the unsophisticated nature of the works, the consultant will only
need to prepare outline design before tendering, and provide detailed design as the works progress. The
consultant will also assist the DDCs in the procurement of civil works contractors.
Project Component 3 - Equipment and logistical support - US$0.2 million. Some basic equipment
for logistical support to the DDCs and the PCU of DOLIDAR will be procured under the project. These
will include 4WD pickups, motorcycles, computers and photocopiers. Some incremental operating costs
will also be incurred for the operations of the PCU.
Project Component 4 - Technical assistance for management support, monitoring & evaluation -
US$1.1 million. This component will fund consultancy services to help strengthen the institutional
capacity of the DDCs and MLD/DOLIDAR in planning and managing rural infrastructure, and develop
the knowledge base for an expansion of the project approach. It will include: (i) project management
advisory services to the districts and DOLIDAR; (ii) training of district and MLD staff, contractors and
consultants; (iii) technical, financial, environmental and socio-economic monitoring and verification of
road works; (iv) stakeholder mobilization and implementation of a Community-based Performance
Monitoring system; and (v) evaluation of the project experience and preparation of a larger follow-on
project to be financed by IDA.



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project   Page 23                   Project Appraisal Document
Annex 3
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Project Compnents                                               gEnLocal  Foreig    - al
--     --:  ---    -  -' U           $ $U    million----
Infrastructure civil works                     3.6           0.2          3.8
Supervision and design                         0.3            0.0         0.3
Equipment and logistical support               0.1            0.1         0.2
Technical Assistance Consultancy               0.5            0.6         1.1
Incremental operating costs                    0.1            0.0         0.1
Total Baseline Cost                            4.6            0.9         5.5
Contingencies                                0.3           0.0         0.3
Total Project Cost                             4.9            0.9         5.8



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project      Page 24                     Project Appraisal Document
Annex 4
AnnexI4
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
(NRs. Thousands, 1998)
Background
The economic assessment of the project was undertaken through a cost-effectiveness analysis of the
impact of sample roads on the population served under the project. As the project civil works to be
undertaken in eight districts are of similar nature, consisting of labor-intensive and low-cost
maintenance and rehabilitation of existing district and village roads, it is considered sufficient to
study a sample of the typical roads with typical nature of works that were proposed under the project.
The cost and benefit estimates for the analysis were largely based on the data collected during field
survey of the sample roads, supplemented by some threshold data from the Priority Investment Plan
(PIP), which was completed in early 1997 by the Government with assistance of the Bank.
The Sample Roads
A sample of three typical rural roads from the project districts were selected and subjected to a cost-
effectiveness analyses to provide an indication of the project's economic viability as a whole. These
roads are all existing ones and are partially or fully operational, as would be the case for all project
roads. The basic criteria in selecting roads for inclusion in the project is that the investment would
result in the provision of the minimum fair-weather motorable accessibility to villages and markets,
through either periodic maintenance, rehabilitation, or upgrading, as proposed under the project. Two
cases from the Terai districts were chosen by studying the district transport master plan and the one
from the hill district was selected from the road inventory presented by the DDC. They were
considered representatives of the roads to be included in the project. These roads and the districts
they are located include:
Tilakpur - Manari (6 km), a village road in the Nawalparasi district of gravelled standard that is
proposed for periodic maintenance under the project.
Bahadurganj - Taulihawa road (23 km), a district road in the Kapilvastu district of earthen standard
that is proposed for rehabilitation.
Baidam - Pame - Thulakhet road (13 km) in the Kaski district of earthen standard that is proposed
for upgrading to minimum gravel standard.
The following table provides details and related information gathered during the field survey about
the roads studied, as well as the proposed treatment under the project.



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project     Page 25                   Project Appraisal Document
Annex 4
Annex 4
Table 1: Sample Roads and Related Information
Sai    - P .am. -
Tllalcpur - ManaV ROad    Bahadwganj Taulihfaa        Thulal
Terrain           Terai (low land)              Terai                  Hills
Cases       Periodic maintenance: The    Rehabilitation: This road  Upgrading: This road
earth track was upgraded to  was once a completed  has been evolved
all-weather gravel road. Now  earth road with good  from a fairly leveled
the road is provided with  embankment and adequate  trail, then an earth
some routine maintenance    cross-drainage structures. It track was opened It is
annually by the local VDCs.  has deteriorated since and   proposed to be
only rehabilitation of the  graveled to fair-
surface as well as the   weather road.
drainage structures will
make the road trafficable.
Length                6 km                     23 km                  13 km
Number of              990                      1,770                 3,150
Households
Population    990 households * 6.82 =   1,770 households* 6.82    3,150 household*
served                6,752                    =12,071             5.36= 16,884
Current     Bicycles = 200 trips, 25 %  Bicycles = 150          Bicycles = 250
Daily       double loaded;            Bullock Carts = 200       Buses = 10
Traffic     Pneumatic wheeled bullock-
Volumes    cart = 50 trips 60 % loaded   Motorcycles = 80       Trucks = 4
(Trips Both  out of the loaded ones 10%    Tractors = 60        Cars, Vans = 13
Ways).      carry human. Net weight   Jeeps = 20                Jeep = 5
carried is up to I ton;
Trucks = 2               Tractor = 6
Jeep = 5 trips;
Tractors = 25 trips, 60 %                          Motorcycles =58
loaded, average load 6 tons;
Truck = 4 trips, load up to 12
tons;
Motorcycles = 30 trips, about
70 % double loaded.
Main Assumptions and Methodology
Zone of Influence. This was identified by listing out the settlements that would be influenced, fully
or partially, by the road alignments where works are proposed under the project. The information
regarding settlements and number of households were obtained from local people through the use of
participatory rural appraisal tools such as focussed group discussions and key informant interviews.
This process was undertaken by walking over the road length and by organizing group and individual
interview at junctions. The data gathered from these interviews were cross-checked with secondary



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project      Page 26                     Project Appraisal Document
Annex 4
information available in the DDCs and the PIP.
Cost estimates. Current costs (in 1998 prices) of maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading were
derived on a per km basis from the typical cost estimates of the PIP and were modified from the basic
unit rate prevalent at the site and from the ongoing Pilot Labor-based District Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation project (PLRP). The typical costs were estimated on the basis of a minimum service
level required for making the road usable for most of the times in a year. Typically, the minimum-
cost solution consisted of placing simple slab (or pipe) culverts where missing, grading and
spreading of 15 cm layer of riverbed materials on the existing 3.5 meter wide carriageway. The
financial costs of the maintenance and rehabilitation works included civil works and supervision.
While routine maintenance is assumed to be carried out annually, periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation works are to be undertaken every six years. The "without" the project case assumed the
continuance of the current practice, which provided minimum routine maintenance when funds are
available, and was assumed to be 50% of the requirement. Given the relatively minor works to be
carried out on the project roads, the evaluation period is limited to 12 years.
Cost-effectiveness Analysis. For the purpose of estimating benefits, a participatory rural appraisal
method was applied during field survey to find out the number of households served by the road,
traffic volumes, land holdings, and various indirect benefits. These data from the field were
interpreted in accordance with the thresholds and criteria used by the PIP for screening and the data
generated by Nepal Living Standards Survey 1996.
Unlike highways and feeder roads, very low volume rural roads generally do not have significant
benefits in transport costs savings, as confirmed in the sample analysis. However, rural road projects
generate substantial social benefits. The people in the zone of influence revealed that they had better
employment opportunity because of the road. The opportunity for better education and health will
also be increased as a result of improved access. The road has been found to enhance the general
awareness level of the people in the road corridor, relieving the sense of isolation associated with
limited road access. It should be noted that the lack of awareness among the rural communities on
various issues and prevailing sense of isolation have been identified as the constraints to effective
participation in development process in Nepal. Improvement in rural roads and institutional
strengthening of local road units are likely to influence the production sectors of the rural economy
through their impact on input and output prices, which in turn promote the growth of trade and
economic activities. Ideally, investment decisions on rural roads should be made on a composite
basis that is comprised of economic and social criteria. Because of the difficulties in quantifying
social benefits for project of this nature, the analysis focussed on evaluating the impact of the
investment on people living in the zones of influence. The effectiveness of the investment was
compared with investment on similar road projects in the region.
Summary of the Analysis
The results of the sample analysis were shown in Table 2. The average cost-effectiveness of the
three sample roads was 143 persons per one hundred thousand (lakh) investment. In comparison, in
the Rural Roads component of the India Andra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Project recently
approved by the Bank, the average cost-effectiveness was 111 persons per 100,000 Indian Rupees of
investment, which translated to about 177 persons in equivalent currency terms. Taking the sample
study as the representative of the project, the cost effectiveness of the project is generally comparable
with that of the Indian project. In addition, the unit rehabilitation cost for an earth road adopted in the
project of NRs.550,000 per kilometer was also comparable with the unit cost of IRs.400,000 per km
in the Andra Pradesh project. The sample analysis indicated that the low-cost treatment of district



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project       Page 27                     Project Appraisal Document
Annex 4
and village roads under the project would generate enough benefits to justify the investment even
though the traffic volumes were low on these roads. The simplified methodology adopted in the
analysis will be followed by the districts in the fonnulation of the District Transport Master Plans
which will identify individual roads for maintenance, rehabilitation or upgrading, taking the likely
social impact of such investment into consideration.
Table 2: Cost-effectiveness Indicators of the Sample Roads
Ttal C            cost Oie:veniss
(Rs. '0    ..)       Indicator *
or iofPersons)
Road I         3,504                  193
Road II        15,180                 80
Road III       6,180                  273
* Number of persons benefit per one hundred thousand rupees of
investment.



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project     Page 28                 Project Appraisal Document
Annex 5
Annex 5-A
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
(US$ Million, FY99)
0:,  project Cots lX,,,: 20,               200                2002!
Investment Costs         0.9               1.2                1.4
Recurrent Costs          0.6              1.1                 0.6
Total:              1.5               2.3                2.0
IDA                1.3               2.0                1.7
(85%)            (85%)               (85%)
HMG/N                0.2              0.3                 0.3
(15%)            (15%)               (15%)
Total:              1.5               2.3                2.0
Main assumption: The project will be implemented over a three-year period from project approval.
Summary of Financial Management Assessment
Background. The financial control environment is Nepal has been weakened by the recent transfer of
responsibility of the deployment and management of the accounting cadre from the FCGO to the
Ministry of General Administration. Organizational risks are present in the short-term in the context
that the newly created DOLIDAR under MLD needs strengthening to build up its capacity, and for this
purpose adequate resources and budget by HMG/N are required up-front. Furthermore, the MLD and
the DOLIDAR has limited experience in implementing IDA funded projects. There were a few
integrated development projects implemented by the MLD in the past, but they were not very
successful. Since this is a LIL project, adequate steps will be taken during project implementation to
build up the capacity of the implementing agency. In order to mitigate institutional development risks,
capacity for financial management being built up in accordance with a time-bound action plan which
includes the recruitment of key financial management staff.
Accounting Process. The Project books of account will be kept on a cash basis. DOLIDAR will take
the leadership in coordinating with the DDCs and other central level agencies to formulate the budget,



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project    Page 29                   Project Appraisal Document
Annex 5
obtain the flow of accounting information, and reconcile and audit of such information. A Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) has been established in DOLIDAR to coordinate project preparation and
implementation and to provide assistance to DDCs in their project activities. The DDCs are required
to submit monthly statements of expenditures to the concerned District Treasury Controller's Offices
(DTCOs) and the PCU within seven days of the following month. The PCU will be responsible for
consolidating the accounts, and submitting applications to IDA for reimbursement. The PCU will be
adequately strengthened through technical assistance to maintain a computerized Project Financial
Management Information System (FMIS). Accounting information received from DDCs will be
regularly updated in the computerized system to timely generate Project Management Reports
(PMRs). The PCU will maintain Loan, SOE and other Ledgers required by HMG/N.
Budget and Project Implementation. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will allocate annual budgets
to the project as envisaged in the annual work plan and as agreed between 11MG/N and IDA. I1MG/N
has included this project under the list of core projects, and will commit to a timely release of funds.
Concerned DDCs will implement the civil works in the districts pertaining to the maintenance and
rehabilitation of rural roads. The DDCs will provide their matching funds at 20% of the civil works
cost, before the PCU provides the budget authority to DDCs for the 80% of IDA's share. The PCU
will directly administer budget for equipment support, training and consultancy services. The PCU
will need to be sufficiently equipped and have adequate number of technical, administrative and
financial staff.
Risks. There is a risk of poor control of project finances due to the recent transfer of the responsibility
for deploying and managing the accounting cadre of staff from the FCGO to the Ministry of General
Administration (MOGA). The FCGO, however, retains the overall responsibility and accountability
for public financial management including maintaining central accounts (including donor accounts)
and preparing the national accounts for timely external audit by the Auditor General. A further risk is
the timely submission of accounts by DDCs to the PCU and their timely compilation for timely
submission of claims to IDA, and for timely audit and submission of project accounts within six
months after the end of each fiscal year.
Financial Monitoring and Reporting. Through the technical assistance to DOLIDAR, the FMIS in
the PCU can be developed as the project is implemented. The FMIS will facilitate timely and reliable
project management information, and will be integrated with PMRs in order to map the financial data
with physical data to monitor the performance of the project. The PCU will develop the FMIS as
required under IDA's Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI).
A financial management systems review was undertaken by the Bank, and it was concluded that the
DOLIDAR does not have the financial management capacity to be eligible for PMR-based
disbursements. An action plan outlining activities that must be undertaken during project
implementation in order to strengthen the financial management reporting capacity of the PCU was
agreed upon between HMG/N and IDA. Until the PCU has the capacity to deliver the Project
Management Reports (PMRs) as per LACI requirements, existing disbursement procedures will be
followed. IDA will review the progress made in establishing a strong financial management system
after about a year, and will ascertain whether the Project is eligible for PMR-based disbursements. If
qualified, appropriate arrangements will be made to convert to PMR-based disbursements system.
The project will produce from the outset the following PMR statements: Financial Statement (Report
1A) and Procurement Management Reports (Section 3) (See Annex 3 of the Financial Assessment
Report). In order to match with the government planning and reporting cycle, the PMRs will be
produced on a trimester basis and submitted within 45 days from the end of the preceding trimester.
They will inform Project Management and the Bank of the project's physical and financial progress,



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project     Page 30                   Project Appraisal Document
Annex 5
and will feature commitment monitoring which will give advance indication of project expenditure
status.. Trimester PMRs will be used for progress monitoring and subject to close review and
supervision. This will allow prompt follow-up to bring to HMG/N's attention any ongoing problems
in the project's accounting, internal controls, financial reporting etc.
Project Staffing Arrangements. Against this backdrop, the DOLIDAR and its PCU under the MLD
has to be adequately staffed. The Action Plan as agreed during negotiations is expected to result in a
sound financial management system for the project. Under the plan, the PCU will include a core of
three accounting staff to ensure that financial management capacity will be available by project
startup. The financial experts will be expected to maintain a FMIS which will be developed with the
TAC's assistance. The PCU will also ensure that there are adequate accounting staff in DDCs. The
PCU will take the responsibility to build up the implementing and financial management capacity of
DDCs.
Auditing Arrangements. Project Financial Statements, prepared in the formats as agreed with the
Bank, will be audited annually by the Auditor General (AG) of Nepal who is considered an
independent auditor for the Bank's purposes. The terms of reference for the audit will require the AG
to provide a separate audit opinion in his audit report on: (i) the project accounts, to ensure that project
funds have been spent in accordance with the terms and conditions of the project legal agreements; (ii)
the PMRs/SOEs submitted for reimbursement purposes during the year, confirming these are properly
supported by formal contracts and documentation checked and verified by the project accounting staff;
(iii) the project's Special Account to ensure that this has been operated in accordance with Bank
procedures. The PCU will make available to the AG the PAD, project cost tables, legal agreements
and such other information and explanations as the AG shall require from time to time to carry out his
duties. The Accounts Officer of the PCU will be the main liaison for the AG's office to ensure the
audit is carried out in a timely fashion and to formally answer all questions raised by the AG. The
PCU and the DDCs will provide the AG with the annual financial statements (project accounts) and all
supporting documents required by the AG within 60 days of the end of the fiscal year. The annual
project accounts package together with the audit report thereon including the three audit opinions
noted above will be submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the end of the fiscal year. The
unaudited accounts will be submitted to the Bank within 3 months of the end of the fiscal year.
Special Account. A Special Account in US Dollars will be established, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. For the interim period until the disbursement is based on the PMR, an
arrangement will be made to have an authorized allocation of US$ 500,000 and will follow the
existing disbursement procedure. The PCU will submit replenishment applications for the Special
Account on a monthly basis, or when 25% of the authorized allocation has been used, whichever
occurs first. The replenishment applications will be supported by the necessary documentation which
include a bank statement and a reconciliation statement.
The IDA Special Account will be managed under the joint signature of the Project Coordinator of
PCU under DOLIDAR and the Accounts Officer of the PCU. As per the government requirement,
Special Account will be maintained at Nepal Rastra Bank (Central Bank). The Project will follow the
prescribed accounting procedures as per the Financial Administrative Regulations, 1986, and record
daily transactions in the ledgers which are self-balancing. The PCU will ensure that the Bank/Cash
books are reconciled with bank statements regularly every month. The books of accounts do not
record commitment. A separate memorandum of records is maintained to track the procurement under
various contract arrangements. Expenditures are categorized and coded under various budget items
and accounts are maintained accordingly. Internal audit is carried out by the DTCOs on a regular
basis to ensure that the accounting records are accurate. Funds are released following the deposit of
20% counterpart funds in a separate depository accounts by DDCs. Funds are then released from the



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project      Page 31                    Project Appraisal Document
Annex 5
depository accounts following the timely submission of statements by DDCs.
When the project qualifies for PMR based disbursements, the amount of the authorized allocation will
vary to cover two trimesters expenditures financed by the credit. This authorized allocation of the
special account cannot exceed an amount representing 20% of the credit. The Special Account will be
replenished at least trimesterly, based on the budget presented in the PMR, to assure liquidity of funds,
and all replenishment applications will be accompanied by reconciled statements from the bank in
which the account is maintained, showing all transactions in the Special Account. Supporting
documentation will be maintained by the PCU and DDCs for at least one fiscal year after the year in
which the last disbursement from the credit took place, and will be available for Bank staff and
independent auditors review.
Statement of Expenditures (SOE). For the interim period until the disbursement is based on PMR,
IDA may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the basis of SOE for
expenditure for: (a) civil works under contracts costing less than US$ 50,000 each, (b) goods under
contracts costing less than US$ 20,000 equivalent each, (c) consultants' services no more than US$
20,000 in case of firms, and no more than US$ 5,000 equivalent in case of individuals, (d) all training
costs, and (e) incremental operating costs.



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project     Page 32                   Project Appraisal Document
Annex 5
Annex 5-B
Community-Based Performance Monitoring (CBPM) Summary
Background
In supporting the decentralized planning and management of rehabilitation and maintenance of rural
infrastructure, it is necessary to strengthen both the technical and financial monitoring systems both at
the district level and beneficiary level. As part of technical and financial monitoring measures
undertaken in Rural Infrastructure Project (RIP), a Community-Based Performance Monitoring
(CBPM), formerly known as 'Public Audit' or 'Community Audit' System, has been proposed to be
piloted in two selected districts through extensive community participation, assisted by district-based
social mobilizers who will be trained and monitored by an agency/individuals with relevant experience
and qualifications. Based on the experience in these two districts, extension of such exercise will be
considered in other six project districts.
CBPM in RIP draws heavily on existing experiences of Public Audit System having been carried out by
other bilateral donor agencies including GTZ and WFP under their grant assistance schemes. Based on
such emerging experiences, Helvetas Nepal has produced a report titled A Proposalfor Public Audit
System (October 1998), both in English and Nepali, with the assistance of IDA and cooperation of
MLD/DOLIDAR and concerned DDCs. CBPM is to complement (and not to replace) the existing
11MG/N regular financial audit and the project consultants' engineering monitoring, which may not be
sufficient in terms of sanctioning against poor-performing contractors and those abusing authorities or
creating leakage in resources on the ground.
Objectives
The objectives of the Community-Based Performance Monitoring exercise are, through mobilizing
Road User Committees and general public, to: (i) achieve better quality and quantity of works
undertaken through either local contractors or user groups under the project; (ii) increase transparency
of financial and technical management at local level through public information dissemination; and (iii)
generate a sense of ownership of rural roads by the community through enhanced community
participation, which will eventually lead to the better management and sustainability of rural
infrastructure.
Major Components
There is no single way of conducting this exercise; innovation and flexibility based upon the demand
generated through series of discussions with various stakeholders are essential. Therefore, it is
encouraged that lessons learned in the course of implementation be integrated into the further
refinement of the system design as well as geographical extension of CBPM under the project.
It is envisaged that public consultation meetings at Road User Committees assisted by social mobilizers
will be the main forum for the preparation and implementation of CBPM. All the discussions will be
recorded in minutes. While detailed activities will be determined through consultations between major
local stakeholders such as DDC, VDC, Road Users Committees and general public, major components
of CBPM would include, but not limited to, the following:
a) Placing sign posts on project roads containing basic project information, such as length of roads to
be maintained/rehabilitated, physical scope and duration of works, name of contractor/user group,
total value of the contract, minimum wage, etc.



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project        Page 33                     Project Appraisal Document
Annex 5
b) Trimesterly public hearing to invite community members to review project financial transactions
whereby district officials and project management are responsible for information disclosure.
c) Random checks and on-site verification of wage payments to laborers.
d) Information disclosure on bidding procedures.
e) Awareness-raising of local norms and standards in terms of wage rates, quality and quantity of
works.
f) Development and monitoring of simple technical and financial performance indicators by the
community.
g) Reporting/recommendation on those accountable for poor/good performances to authorized entities
for necessary actions for penalty/reward (e.g. identify responsible individuals and charge
compensation for losses).
Institutional Arrangements
Qualified district-based social mobilizers will be hired by the PCU instead of DDCs in order to avoid
the potential influence of district officials and maintain independence. The number of mobilizers will
be decided between the PCU and the districts, depending on the scale of works. To take advantage of
previous knowledge and experiences elsewhere in the country and facilitate social mobilizers' work, a
qualified national-level agency/individual(s) with experience in a similar exercise will be also hired.
The agency/individual(s) will (i) train social mobilizers in community mobilization; (ii) monitor and
supervise their activities; (iii) document and report back to DDCs, MLD/DOLIDAR, Technical
Assistance Consultant (TAC) under the project, and the World Bank. The PCU will decide whether
this agency/individual(s) could be either sub-contracted by the TAC or directly funded by the project as
part of the incremental operating costs.
Cost Estimates
Approximately US$ 20,000 per district over three years (including fees for trainers, social mobilizers,
logistics, etc.) are envisaged to support this activity.
Personnel Requirement
Social mobilizers must: (i) be based in the concerned districts; (ii) have sufficient experience in
community mobilization and participatory monitoring; (iii) be literate; and (iv) be able to communicate
effectively with local stakeholders, including socio-economically disadvantage groups such as the poor,
women and ethnic minorities.
The facilitating agency/individual(s) must have: (i) sufficient networks in the participating districts; (ii)
sufficient experience in community mobilization and participatory monitoring; (iii) preferably,
experience in previous Public Audit exercise or similar anti-corruption, governance, and auditing work;
(iv) preferably, knowledge of and experience in rural infrastructure; and (v) experience in reporting in
English.
Terms of Reference
A draft Terms of Reference for the agency/individual(s) is provided in the annex of the Borrower's
Project Implementation Plan.



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project    Page 34                       Project Appraisal Document
Annex 6
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Infrastructure civil works: It is envisaged that the project will support a large number of small contracts
for civil works. Periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works will be procured through NCB, and will
be implemented in three phases with contract packages sized to the capacity of local Class C & D
contractors and other labor-based contractors. It is envisaged that the majority of contract packages will
be in the range of about US$10,000 to US$60,000. Small works with estimated value less than $20,000
per contract for routine and periodic maintenance will be procured with lump sum or fixed price
contracts, awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from the qualified local contractors or user groups
in response to a written invitation. Postqualification of bidders may be undertaken. All civil works will
be procured using Nepal specific standard simplified bidding documents written in Nepali.
Equipment: will be procured by a combination of NCB and International/National Shopping as
appropriate based on thresholds.
Consulting Services: will be procured following Bank procurement guidelines and will be provided for:
(a) supervision and design for the infrastructure civil works: there could either be one consultant per
district, or a few consultants, each for a number of districts;
(b) technical assistance consultancy for management support, capacity building, training, evaluation
and preparation of a follow-on project: 1 consultancy contract;
(c) technical assistance for project management, design and supervision, social mobilization, and
training for the civil works subcomponent in Sankhuwasabha District; 1 consultancy contract;
and
(d) individual consultant services for preparation of accounts manual and initial training of
accounting staff.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Civil works contracts for maintenance and rehabilitation works under US$ 50,000 will not be
subject to prior review, after the first 3 NCB contracts are reviewed and cleared with the Bank.
Consultants' contracts with an estimated value of US$ 20,000 and above for firms and US$5,000
and above for individuals.
Procurement of goods with an individual contract value of US$20,000 and above.
Disbursement
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C)
The allocation of Loan proceeds is given in Table C. Disbursements against civil works contracts



Nepal: Rural Infrastructure Project       Page 35                    Project Appraisal Document
Annex 6
will cover about 80% of the certified expenditures, with the balance to be financed from
counterpart funds.
Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs):
Some withdrawals from the Credit Account may be made on the basis of SOEs under contract
each costing less than the equivalent of:
(a) US$50,000 for civil works;
(b) US$20,000 for the services of consulting firms;
(c) US$5,000 for the services of individual consultants;
(d) US$20,000 for goods;
(e) All training costs; and
(f) All incremental operating costs.
Special Account:
A special account will be established with the Nepal Rastra Bank with an authorized allocation of
US$500,000 which meet about four months worth of projected expenditures.
Retroactive Financing:
Retroactive financing limited to a maximum of US$ 100,000 (equivalent to about 2% of credit
amount) for eligible payments after December 20, 1998, but before credit signing, will be
provided to cover expenses associated with: (a) initiation of first-year maintenance works
contracts; (b) initiation of supervision and other consultancy services; (c) initiation of
procurement of goods under project, and (d) applicable incremental operating costs.



Nepal: Rural Infrastructure Project                   Page 36                             Project Appraisal Document
Annex 6
Annex 6
Table A
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million equivalent)
1. Works
Periodic maintenance of about                                     1.0*                               1.0
240 km of district roads                                          (0.8)                             (0.8)
Rehabilitation of about 100 km of                    1.8                                             1.8
district roads                                      (1.5)                                           (1.5)
Routine Maintenance of about                                      1.0*                               1.0
1,000 km of district roads                                       (0.8)                              (0.8)
Maintenance & rehabilitation of                                   0.4*                               0.4
other rural infrastructure works                                  (0.3)                             (0.3)
2. Goods
Equipment and logistical support                     0.1         0.1**                               0.2
(0.1)        (0.1)                             (0.2)
3. Services
Design and Supervision                                           0.3***                              0.3
consultants for civil works                                       (0.3)                             (0.3)
Technical assistance consulting                                  1.1***                              1.1
Services and training                                             (1.1)                             (1.1)
Total:                                      1.9          3.9                               5.8
(1.6)        (3.4)                             (5.0)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved
procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other"' and details of the items listed as
"N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
* Will be procured using local shopping among local road user groups and small labor contractors by comparing quotes.
**Will be procured using international/national shopping
***Will be procured as per Bank Guidelines



Nepal: Rural Infrastructure Project          Page 37                      Project Appraisal Document
Annex 6
Annex 6
Table B
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure :               Contract :Vluef Procurement Method    Contracts Subject to
- - Category     .    .      T: h   -  -       :s   -    ---I -)-    Prior RevieW
(11h$ Thousands)
1. Works
Civil works for               20 to under 300 up to an             NCB             $50,000 or more require
rehabilitation and spot          aggregate of 2,000                                prior review;
improvement of district                                                            below $50,000 but
roads                                                                              greater than $20,000,
review of the first three
contracts
Civil works for routine    Under 20 up to an aggregate of     Local contracting             No*
and periodic240
maintenance and other                 2,400                      Lump-sum
minor infrastructure
2. Equipment
Equipment for office              20 to under 200                  NCB                      Yes
support and vehicles
Under 20               InternationallNational          No
shopping
3. Services
Consulting Services             Firms, 20 and above           Bank Guidelines               Yes
Individuals, 5 and above
Firms, under 20             Bank Guidelines
Individuals, under 5       including single source        Yes*
Total Value of Contracts Subject to Prior Review:                               US$2.0 million
*The first contract irrespective of its value will be subject to prior review.
** Expect in the case of single source selection.



Nepal: Rural Infrastructure Project        Page 38                      Project Appraisal Document
Annex 6
Annex 6
Table C
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(1) Civil Works                               3.0                        80%
(2) Goods                                     0.2          1 00% of foreign or ex-factory costs
and 90% for other items procured
domestically
(3) Consulting services and                   1.4              100% of total expenditures
training                                                         (net of taxes)
(4) Incremental operating costs               0.1                        70%
(4) Unallocated                               0.3
Total:                         5.0



Nepal: Rural Infrastructure Project  Page 39              Project Appraisal Document
Annex 7
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget                         Planned               Actual
US$100,000          US$104,800
B. Project Schedule                       Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project:  9 months           13 months
First Bank mission (identification)  02/10/1998         02/13/1998
Appraisal mission departure    11/16/1998           12/05/1998
Negotiations     12/14/1998           4/11/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness   07/16/1999             /1999
Prepared by: DOLIDAR and selected DDCs.
Preparation assistance: N/A
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                 Specialty
Guang Zhe Chen                  Task Leader/Transport Economist
Christopher Hoban               Highway Engineer
Giovanna Prennushi              Economist
Shyam Ranjitkar                Irrigation Specialist
Sonomi Tanaka                   Social Development Specialist
Eddy Bynens                     Consultant - Civil Engineer
Ganesh Ghimire                  Consultant - Rural Transport Specialist
Sruendra Joshi                  Transport Specialist
Narayan Sharma                  Procurement Specialist
Hiroko Imamura                  Legal Counsel
Juan Gaviria                    Transport Economist
Paul Martin                     Environmental Specialist
Bigyan Pradhan                  Financial Management Specialist
Robert Saum                     Financial Management Specialist
Kiran Baral                     Procurement Officer
Douglas Gray                    Program Assistant
Kiran Gautam                    Team Assistant
Dieter Shelling                 Rural Transport Spec./Peer Reviewer
Zhi Liu                         Transport Economist/Peer Reviewer



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project      Page 40                      Project Appraisal Document
Annex 8
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Borrower's Project Implementation Plan, February 1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Proposed Rural Infrastructure Project, Review of the financial Management System of the Department of Local
Infrastructure Development and Agricultural Roads, January 1999
Proposed Rural Infrastructure Project, Start of Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, December 16, 1998
Proposed Rural Infrastructure Project, Follow-up Mission Aide Memoire, October 5, 1998
Proposed Rural Infrastructure Project, Preparation Mission Aide Memoire, May 13, 1998
Proposed Rural Infrastructure Project, Identification Mission Aide Memoire, February 14, 1998
C. Other
Stakeholder Analysis, Social and Environmental Assessment - in the context of Rural Infrastructure Project,
Ministry of Local Development, Nepal and the World Bank, October 1998
Socio-economic Sample Survey of RIP Districts in West Nepal, Ministry of Local Development and the World
Bank, February 1999
Priority Investment Plan (PIP) Project, Final Report, Vol. III, Rural Transport, Ministry of Works
and Transport, Nepal, February 1997
*including electronic files.



Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Nepal
Operations Portfolio
CAS Annex B8       Z
Generated: 4116199   3 -
_ _   _   _   _  _   _   _   _   _   _  _ _                                                    A)j
Prt~etID                                                                                          -r   8O.row.r  :  Purpose  .:   .   ..   .   a   .   ...  .... , , . .. . , ,  ......
: ..iB1U     0 IDA                        .                    (    - UWd dWh.  Ouig  Furn Refd    D  D ltsq,
: . ... , : .: :. :: : . o co  Si                                                            " b
Pmject~~~~~~; A    _''''''' '___il10  so 2w
Number of Closed Projects: 54
Active Projects                                                                                                                                                                             -
NP-PE-10333    1989   GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL               ENGINEERING EDUC.                         0.00       11.40        0.00      3.86          3.00      -.31      S          S
NP-PE-1 0330    1989   HMG, NEPAL                       HILL COMMUNITY FORES                      0.00       30.50       21.52        .31        21.01      -.52      S          S          C
NP-PE-1 0348    1990   HMGN                             BHAIRAWA LUMBINI IlIl                     0.00       47.20        0.00        .53        -4.24     0.00       S          S
NP-PE-10370    1991   HMG/NWSC                          URBWATER& SAN REHAB                       0.00       60.00       25.45      23.51        46.99    19.89       U          S
NP-PE-10396    1992   HMGN                              TELECOMS. V                               0.00       55.00        0.00      13,66        11.37     0.00      HS         HS
NP-PE-10392    1992   HMG/N                             POWER EFF IMPROVEMEN                      0.00       65.00        0.00      14.75        11.66     0.00       U          S
NP-PE-10395    1992   GOVT OF NEPAL                     BASIC & PRIMARY EDUC                      0.00       30.60        0.00        .72         -.66     0.00       S          S
NP-PE-10475    1994   HMG                               ROAD MAINT.& REHAB.                       0.00       50.50        0.00      14.09        12.99     0.00       S          S
NP-PE-10460    1994   GOV. OF NEPAL                     POPULATION & HEALTH                       0.00       26.70        0.00      17.55        14.87     0.00      NA         NA
NP-PE-10454    1994   MIN OF EDU.& CULTURE              HIGHER EDUCATION                          0.00       20.00        0.00      13.70        11.31     0.00       U          S
NP-PE-10516    1997   HMG                               RURAL WS&SANITATION                       0.00       18.28        0.00      15.24         3.77     0.00       S          S
NP-PE-10509    1998   GOVT OF NEPAL                     MULTIMODAL TRANSIT                        0.00       23.50        0.00      17.86         2.56     0.00       S          S          n
NP-PE-48026    1998   KINGDOM OF NEPAL                  AGRI RES & EXTENSION                      0.00       24.30        0.00     20.62          6.94     0.00       U          U          A)
NP-PE-10530    1998   HMGN                              IRRIG SECTOR DEVT                         0.00       79.77        0.00     77.30         10.52     0.00       S          S          o
Total                                                                                             0.00      542.75       46.97    233.70        152.09    19.06
Active Projects       Closed Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):            273.96                884.59             1,158.55
of which has been repaid:                 0.00                59.11                 59.11
Total now held by IBRD and iDA:            495.78               760.07              1,255.85
Amount sold        :                         0.00                 0.00                  0.00
Of which repaid   :                         0.00                 0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed     :                    233.70                 0.00            233.70
.2.
a.Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.                                                                                               2.
b1Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U  unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory):
see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.                                                                             V
Note: 
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
C)



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project            Page 42                        Project Appraisal Document
Annex 9
Annex 9
Nepal
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 28-Feb-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
CAS Annex B8
1975/93                Soaltee Hotel         0.00       .45     0.00     0.00      0.00      .45      0.00     0.00
1994                   Himal Power          28.00      0.00     3.80     0.00    14.00      0.00      3.35     0.00
1996                   Bhote Koshi          21.00      3.00     0.00    36.00      8.73      1.23     0.00    14.97
1998                   Jomsom Resort         4.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      3.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:                         53.00      3.45     3.80    36.00    25.73      1.68      3.35    14.97
Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1994                      KHIMTI KHOLA                 0.00     0.00     0.00      5.00
Total Pending Commitment:                 0.00      0.00     0.00     5.00



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project                  Page 43                            Project Appraisal Document
Annex 10
Annex 10
Nepal at a Glance                                             9/29/98
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          South      Low-
Nepal      Asia  Income       Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (rnillions)                    226      1,289     2,048                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   210       390       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     4.7       502       722                      T
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Poputation (%)                                       2.7       1.9       2.1
Labor force (h)                                     2.5       2.2       2.3     GNP                             Gross
per                   ~~~~~~~primary
Most recen estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povet line)   42
Urban population (% of total population)              11        27       28
Life expectancy at bIrt (years)                       57        62        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 Ihe birhsJ                82        71        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            49        63       6t                Access to safe water
Access to sate water (% of population)                48        77        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  73        51       47
Gross primary enrollmnt (t% of school-age population)  110      99        91           Nepal       Low-income group
Male                                               129       109       100             e
Female                                              89        89       8t              I-
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      199S      1997
Economic ratios'
GOP (US$ billions)                           1.5     2.9       4.5       4.9
Gross domestic investmentVGDP               15.1    19.0      22.9      21.4
Exports of goods and services/GOP           10.8    11.7      22.3      26.2                    Trade
Gross domestb savings/GOP                  11.7    10.6        9.4       9.1
Gross national savings/GDP                 15.6    12.2       11.2      11.1
Current account balance/GOP                 0.3    -6.8      -11.7    -10.3            .        /N
Interest payments/GDP                       0.0      0.4       0.7       0.S     Sains8                     Investment
Total debt/GOP                               3.4    26.5      53.5      48.6     Savings                      ne n
Total debt servie/exports                    1.0     7.5       7.7       6.8
Present value of debtVGDP                     ..      ..      25.8
Present value of debt/exports                 .        .     103.9
Indebtedness
1976-4  1987-97    1996       1997   199842
(average annual growtih)
GDP                                 3.4     5.1      5.3       4.0       4.1      -     Nepa/       Low-income group
GNP per capita                      0.7     2.5      2.5       2.0       1.7
Exports of goods and services       3.5    16A      .2.7      23.4       5.2                           .  : .  _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                       30
Agriculture                                 69.3    51.5      41.5      41.4
Industry                                     8.9    15.9      22.9      22.2    20
Manufacturing                              4.2      6.2       9.6      9.3    10
Services                                   21.9    32.7       35.6      36.4
Private consumption                        80.8    80.3       81.4      81.8   -101    52   93   94   95   96  9-7
General govemment consumption               7.4      9.1       9.2       9.1                     GDI        GDP
Imports of goods and services              14.2    20.1       35.8      38.5
(average annual growth)                 197686  1987-97       1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports I%)
Agriculture                                  0.8     2.5       4.4       4.1   eo
Industry                                    14.0     8.4       8.3       3.5    40
Manufacturing                              6.9    10.5        9.0       5.7
Services                                   -5.5      6.5       5.4       3.5    20
Private consumption                         3.4      5.1       9.9       5.5     o
General government consumption              6.5      5.1       9.4       0.3            92   93   94   95   se   97
Gross domestic investment                   6.1      6.8       4.8      -3.3   -20
Imports of goods and services               7.6    12.9        7.3      12.8                  Exports   -Imports
Gross national product                       3.4     5.2       5.3       4.6
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



NEPAL: Rural Infrastructure Project                     Page 44                              Project Appraisal Document
Annex 10
Nepal
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Inflation (i%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                          20
Consumer prices                                 ..    16.0        8.1       7.8    20
Implicit GDP deflator                          0.5     14.4       7.8       8.5     1           _
10
Government finance                                                                   s
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  o .
Current revenue                                 ..      8.3       11.2     10.8             92   93    94   95   99   97
Current budget balance                           ..    -1.6        0.7      0.9                -GDP deflator  --CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -9.2       -7.5      -7.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1976     1986       1996      1997      ExportandImportlevels(USSmIllions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..    156         360       394     2.000
Carpets                                       ..       42        35        50
Garments                                               13         12       18      1,5W9
Manufactures                                   ..      41        97       104
Total imports (cif)                             ..    474        1,348    1,683     1,000
Food                                          ..       60        96       123                        3 1 3
Fuel and energy                               ..       54       100       127
Capital goods                                 ..    108         277       247        o
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..      63        106       108           91  92  93  94  95  96  97
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      70        103       105   |             Exports      eImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ,,      91        103       104   1
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1976     1986       1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 156      330      1,003     1,292      o
Imports of goods and services                 205      569      1,612     1,898     -2
Resource balance                               -49     -239      -609      -605
Net income                                      5        0         -3         5      -3
Net current transfers                          49   45             84    95  -8jI1 1 1
Current account balance                         5      -194      -528      -506     -o
Financing items (net)                          25      223        509       562     12 
Changes in net reserves                       -30       -29        19       -56      ,4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..    146         669       678
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)              12.0     19.5       55.2     57.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ mIlilons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           50      755      2,413     2,398
IBRD                                          0        0          0         0                   F:47   G:28
IDA                                           9      295      1,049     1,047             E:303
Total debt service                               2       28        85        97
IBRD                                          0        0          0         0
IDA                                           0        4         16        17                                      8: 1,047
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               6      108        146       195
Official creditors                           11      113        150       160
Private creditors                             0       27        -10       -13          D:943
Foreign direct investment                     0        0          0         0
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0         0                              0: 30
World Bank program
Commitments                                  46       81          0       146     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 4       56         62        54     8 - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        1          8         9     C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     4       55         54        45
Interest payments                             0        3          8         8
Net transfers                                 4       51         46        38
Development Economics                                                                                                  9129/98



