Doument Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/tJ* 2s)o%_ Ck2
Report No. P-4315-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $52.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
May 6, 1986
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name  -    Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit  -    Yuan (Y) = 100 Fen
1985     April 1986
$1.00          =      Y2.96         Y3.20
Y1.00          =      $0.34         $0.31
(Project cost estimates are based on the exchange rate of Y 3.00 to $1.00
which prevailed at the time of appraisal.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
km        =    Kilometer (= 0.62 miles)
kWh            Kilowatt hour (= 860.42 kcals)
CWh       =    Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
TWh       =    Terawatt hour (1,000,000,000 kilowatt hours)
kW        =    Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW        =    Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kV        =    Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA       =    Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA       =    Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
TCF       =    Trillion cubic feet
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS PAD ACRONYMS
ECEPA     -   East China Electric Power Administration
ECPS      -   East China Power System
GEPB      -   Guangxi Electric Power Bureau
MOF       -   Ministry of Finance
MWREP     -   Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
PCBC      -   People's Construction Bank of China
SAA       -   State Audit Administration
SCEPA     -   South China Electric Power Administration
SEC       -   State Economic Commission
SPC       -   State Planning Commission
WREPERI   -   Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research
Institute



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       The People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:    Guangxi Electric Powar Bureau (GEPB)
Amount:         $52.0 million equivalent
Terms:          20 years, including five years of grace, at standard variable
incerest rate
Onlending       The proceeds of the loan would be onlent from the Government
Terms:      to GEPB under a subsidiary loan agreement with a 20-year term,
including five years of grace and at an interest rate of 8.5Z
p.a. The foreign exchange risk (between the dollar and RMB)
and commitment fees would be borne by GEPB.
Project         The project seeks to support economic growth in South China
Description:  through the cascade development of the Hongshui river.  The
project would be the Bank's first involvement in the power
subsector in the Guangxi autonomous region and would help to
build relations with CEPB and, later, the South China Electric
Power Administration (SCEPA) with whom the Bank is expecting
to collaborate on future power generation projects. The
project would introduce state-of-the-art dam construction
techniques, provide a link between the Yantan power station
and South China using 500 kV transmission liaes, and help to
strengthen and update the power bureau's financial planning
and management practices. The project comprises the
construction of a ]10 m high concrete gravity dam, a spillway,
a powerhouse and a ship lift; provision and installation of
four generating units of 275 MW each; construction of two
single-circuits of 500 kV transmission lines and three
associated substations; provision of consulting service for
design and construction management; and implementation of a
training program. Bilateral technical assistance on a grant
basis is being arranged with the Norwegian and Canadian
governments. The project presents no special risks.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfiormance 
of their offIcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authouiztion.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign      Total
(S million)
Preparatory work                                35.9          -         35.9
Land, compensation and resettlement             75.8          -         75.8
Construction equipment and plant                78.3        19.4        97.7
Civil works                                    124.1        72.0       196.1
Electrical, mechanical equipment
and computers                                100.5         2.8       103.3
Transmission lines and substations              49.3        17.3        66.6
Engineering and consulting services              5.3         2.5         7.8
Supervision and administration                   1.8          -          1.8
Training                                         1.6         1.0         2.6
Base Cost /a                               472.6        115.0       587.6
Physical contingencies                         44.4         10.3        54.7
Price contingencies                            182.6        39.1       221.7
Total Project Cost                         699.6        164.4       864.0
Interest during construction                  148.5         20.6       169.1
Total Financing Required                   848.1        185.0    1,033.1
Financing Plan:                                   Local      Foreign      Total
( million) --
IBRD loan                                                   52.0        52.0
Bilateral grant                                   -          2.0         2.0
Local bank loans                              848.1        131.0       979.1
Total                                      848.1        185.0    1,033.1
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY          87      88       89      90       91      92       93
-~~-    ($ million) -                -
Annual           2.0    20.0    12.0      7.0      5.0     4.0      2.0
Cumulative       2.0    22.0    34.0    41.0    46.0    50.0    52.0
Economic Rate of Return:  12Z
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 6050-CHA, dated May 5, 1986
Map: IBRD No. 19478
/a The project is exempt from import duties and taxes.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the People's Republic of China to help finance a Yantan Hydroelectric
Project. The loan for $52.0 million equivalent would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with standard variable interest rate. The
proceeds of the loan would be onlent to the Guangzi Electric Power Bureau
(GEPB) with a 20-year term, including five years of grace, at an interest rate
of 8.5Z p.a. The foreign exchange risk and the commitment fee on the
subsidiary loan would be borne by GEPB. Bilateral technical assistance on a
grant basis is being arranged with the Norwegian and Canadian governments.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic report entitled "China: Long-Term Issues and
Options" (No. 5206-CHA) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 22, 1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Since 1978, China has initiated economic reforms in both rural and
urban areas and in the external sector. Reforms have been greatest in rural
areas. Following some experiments with the abolition of collective farming in
impoverished areas, the Government implemented a comprehensive restructuring
of rural institutions based on various forms of the "production responsibility
system'. By 1983 the farm household had become the fundamental unit of
management and production in agriculture, within a framework of collective or
state ownership of land and major fixed assets. Reforms have not yet proceed-
ed as far in the urban economy, but there have been significant changes in
enterprise management and finance. The scope for collective and individual
economic activities has been enlarged and state enterprises have been allowed
greater freedom in production, pricing and marketing above their mandatory
plan targets. State enterprises have also been allowed to retain some profits
and investment projects have increasingly been financed on a loan rather than
a grant basis.
4.        In international trade and investment, China has promoted opening up
to the rest of the world in recent years. Between 1978 and 1984, the share of
exports to GDP nearly doubled to about 10%, a ratio similar to other large
economies such as the U.S. and Brazil. Foreign investment has been encour-
aged, first through establishment of four Special Economic Zones and signing
of joint venture contracts for off-shore oil exploration, and more recently
through opening of several coastal cities to foreign investment.



2-
Growth and Stabilization
5.        Reforms have helped stimulate rapid development of the whole
economy. Real GDP growth averaged 5% p.a. between 1978 and 1981 and 10% p.a.
between 1981 and 1984. During these six years, per capita incomes in real
terms more than doubled in rural areas and increased by more than 50% in urban
areas. Agriculture has continued its remarkably strong performance, with
gross agricultural output value (excluding rural industry and commerce) rising
at nearly 11% p.a. between 1981 and 1984 and grain output at 8Z p.a. (reaching
over 400 million cons in 1984). Cash crops and animal husbandry, stimulated
by rising demand and attractive prices, have also grown rapidly. Gross indus-
trial output value grew at over 10X p.a. over the same period, with heavy
industry growing somewhat faster than light industry (12% p.a. vs. 9% p.a.).
If rural industrial output is included, total industrial output value grew at
close to 12% p.a. in real terms between 1981 and 1984. The energy constraint
on industrial growth was eased by rising coal output (8% p.a. between 1981 and
1984), renewed increases in crude oil production (4Z p.a. between 1981 and
1984) and improvements in the efficiency of energy utilization (primary
commercial energy consumption grew only 60Z as fast as GDP between 1981 and
1984).  Manufactured exports growth at 8Z p.a. between 1981 and 1984 was
slower than during the 1978-81 period but it started from a much higher base
and in the face of worsening world market conditions.
6.        The Government continues to face difficulties in combining system
reform and rapid overall growth with maintenance of economic stability.
During 1979 and 1980, China experienced large budget and current account
deficits combined with excessive investment and inflationary pressures. In
response, a strict stabilization program was introduced in 1981 relying mainly
on administrative controls on investment spending. The program slowed growth
but also helped lower the budget deficit from atout 5% of GDP in 1979 to less
than 1Z in 1981, reduce inflation to around 2X p.a., and change China's
external position to one of current account surpluses averaging nearly
$4 billion during 1982-84. As a result, foreign debt and debt service ratios
remained at low levels ($6.4 bilLion and 5.5% -espectively in 1983) and
China's foreign currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion (over
7 months' imports) by mid-1984.
7.        This comfortable balance of payments position, achieved at the cost
of drastic reductions in investment spending and some recentralization of
irvestment decisionmaking, disappeared rapidly during the course of 1934 and
early 1985. Partly as a result of decentralization of decisionmaking a-Id the
lack of effective indirect levers, there was a rapid acceleration of injest-
ment and consumption during 1984 and the first half of 1985 causing the
economy to overheat. Real GDP grew by 142 during 1984, while average wages in
state-owned enterprises rose by 20% and domestic credit grew by 36%. The
retail price index rose by only 3% in 1984, but preliminary figures show an
inflation rate of 9% for 1985. Imports of capital goods increased from
$4 billion in 1983 to over $7 billion in 1984, with most of the increase
occurring in the second half of the year. There was also a rapid expansion in
consumer goods imports. These trends continued during early 1985. As a
result, foreign exchange reserves (excluding gold) had fallen to about
$10 billion by July 1985 (equivalent to 3.1 months of imports), and the



current account deficit for the year is likely to be in the range of
$10 billion. The Government has responded quickly by launching a strict
stabilization program that includes further increases in interest rates as
well as a series of administrative directives governing bank credit and
project approval. As a result, aggregate credit and demand as well as new
import orders have begun to slow, though total imports will continue to rise
as past orders are filled.
Recent Reforms
8.        The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on "reform of the economic structure" in October 1984. Recent reform
developments have been fully in accordance with the directions indicated in
the October decision: (a) state enterprises should be made fully independent
units which pursue profits and are responsible for losses; (b) the scope of
mandatory planning should be reduced and replaced by indicative planning while
the focus of planning should shift from annual to medium- and long-term
guidance planning; (c) a more rational price system should be introduced by
reducing the role of state-controlled prices and increasing the role of
"floating" and free market prices; and (d) the tax system should be improved,
finance and banking should be reformed and a larger role should be given to
indirect macroeconomic regulation through instruments such as tax, credit and
pricing policy.
9.        Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagri-
cultural activities like processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on cash crops, animal husbandry, or nonagri-
cultural activities) and pooling of capital by small groups of households in
various types of ventures are becoming increasingly common forms of economic
organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale markets for some agricultural
products have emerged. To encourage investment in land improvement and devel-
opment, farming contracts between collective and peasant households for the
use of land (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years) can
now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, the system of
agricultural procurement was changed. Previously the Government purchased
quota output of grain and other crops at relatively low prices and stood ready
to purchase all above-quota output at a higher price. Under the new system,
procurement up to a certain amount (below former quota procurement) is based
on contracts concluded voluntarily between peasants and procurement
agencies. Prices for these purchases are based on the relatively high average
price of past years. Output above the contracted amount must be sold by
peasants directly on the free market, but the Government will intervene to
purchase grain if the price falls to the original low quota procurement
price. Thus a considerably larger portion of basic crop production will be
produced for and traded on markets with flexible prices.
10.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on several fronts. In enterprise management, the focus has been on broadening
and delineating the decisionmaking authority of urban enterprises. Profit
retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enterprises and
to nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce, construction, and other



- 4 -
services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as a variety
of joint ventures between them and atzte enterprises, have grown rapidly (the
number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from 150,000 in 1978 to
2.31 million in 1983).
11.       In financial reforml, the most important new development has been
the implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by
state enterprises to the government budget. Though most enterprises have
switched to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the
application of a different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset
the impact of distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems
have resulted in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on
the fixed capital provided to state -nterprises by the Government, and they
have hindered the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed
investment. Financial discipline at the enterprise level remains weak, in
spite of efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing systems and more
strictly enforce existing financial regulations.
12.       Some progress has been made with price reform.  The majority of
agriculture commodity prices were deco2trolled even before the recent change
in pricing and procurement of grain. Prices of many minor consumer goods are
also set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20X above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g., for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions, at largely uncontrolled prices, has
increased in recent years. Gradually over time, and only partly as a result
of conscious policy, a two-tier system is emerging; a large but shrinking
share of the total supply of most important goods is subject to mandatory plan
allocation and administratively set prices, while at the margin a substantial
and growing share is allocated by the market mechanism, largely at flexible
prices. This pattern may permit China to "grow out of the plan" in a rela-
tively smooth transition, though there are obvious threats to this strategy
arising from the strong incentive for arbitrage between planned and unplanned
realms.
13.       The Government recognizes the need to develop new tools of fiscal
and monetary macroeconomic management and has taken some steps to do so. The
People's Bank of China was established as a separate central bank at the
beginning of 1984, with its commercial banking functions taken on by the newly
created Industrial and Commercial Bank of China. In 1985, new methods of
credit planning and control were introduced and lower-level and specialized
banks were given significant redeposit requirements. Interest rates
(including deposit rates) were also raised in 1985, with some move toward
unification of rates and development of a term structure resembling that in
other countries. Technical transformation loans with a maturity less than one
year and loans for working capital now carry the same 7.9% interest rate while



- 5 -
loans of longer maturity carry higher rates, up to 10.8% for 10-year loans.
However, interest rates on budgetary capital construction loans (formerly
grants) remain low and there are a variety of directed credit schemes. On the
external side greater use is now being made of the exchange rate. The old
internal settlement rate was abolished at the beginning of 1985 and between
January and end-October 1985 the rate against the U.S. dollar declined by over
13%. Despite these changes progress in developing new indirect levers of
control ha? been slow. Recent difficulties in securing macroeconomic balance
highlight the need to strengthen institutions and macroeconomic management
tools (including monetary, fiscal, and exchange rate instruments) for a
decentralized and more market-oriented economy.
Long-Term Issues and Prospects
14.       In March 1986 a national people's congress discussed a detailed
proposal for a new Seventh Five Year Plan covering the period 1986-90. The
proposal reaffirms a political commitment to economic reform and provides
guidelines for future reform and development. One of the main objectives of
the plan will be to create a favorable environment for reform which, in turn,
will set the stage for future development. Target growth rates (7% p.a. for
industry, 6% for agriculture, a little over 7% for GNP) are below rates of
growth achieved with the Sixth Five Year Plan, investment is to be restrained
in the next few years, and emphasis is to be placed upon quality rather than
quantity of output. It is felt that slower growth will facilitate reform.
15.       The plan proposal identifies three main areas of reform.  First,
enterprise management and incentives are to be improved by: giving enterprises
ereiter autonomy in production, pricing, and employment decisions; lowering
and equalizing taxes; increasing competition; increasing accountability for
performance; and reforming personnel procedures. In additiou, some small
state enterprises will be turned over to collective or individual management
through contract or lease. Second, the role of the market is to be extended
and market networks strengthened. The scope of mandatory planning will be
further reduced and markets for capital, technology, and labor will gradually
be developed. Third, the emphasis of planning will shift from detailed admin-
istrative control to indirect macroeconomic control through economic policy.
To this end a series of mutually reinforcing reforms in the planning, pricing,
fiscal, banking, and labor and wage systems will be introduced during the plan
period.
16.       Implementation of the plan proposal will help foster an environment
in which fundamental reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated
way. But specific policy measures will take time to design and then to imple-
ment. Many of the reforms required will be difficult, particularly since
reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appropriate
sequencing and coordination are essential. For example, price reform in the
absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have limited
benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result from tighter
financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted
prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be incomplete
without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises
(which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and



-6-
in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them
with Covernment-supported social service programs. The plan proposal suggests
moving in this direction by commercializing housing.
17.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over 6%
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates. The plan proposal recognizes there must be
major structural changes in the economy over the next two decades, including a
reduction in the share of agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and
services (which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization.
There will also be a shift within agriculture, away from grain and basic crops
and into cash crops and animal husbandry. The new plan will emphasize
development of the service sector, mainly through removing restrictions on
collective and individual activity. Urban development will focus on small-
and medium-sized cities and towns while restrictions on growth of large urban
areas will continue.
18.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy, short-
ages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain growth
in transport and commercial infrastructure. Without large new investments and
improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing resources in all
these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally,
the rising share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown
in population growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to
maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
19.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be
addressed by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories,
suboptimal scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
20.       If reforms suiccessfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to the
fore, as the plan proposal recognizes.  Management of a reformed economy %  _
indirect fiscal, monetary, and other instruments is a major issue (see para.
13 above). In this context, maintaining an adequate saving rate (if the
Government no longer accounts for the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding
inflation (as well as deep cyclical downturns) will be major goals. Assuring
an adequate minimum standard of living for the population and an appropriate
level of social services will become a majcr challenge as enterprise and rural
communal responsibilities in these areas are reduced. The problem of poor,



backward rural areas in various parts of the country will continue to require
attention. Redistributing financial resources to these areas through the
fiscal system, easing restrictions on migration out of the poorest areas, and
lowering nonagricultural wages to make investment in them more attractive are
some options for alleviating poverty.
21.       In order to mobilize the external resources needed for rapid,
sustained growth the plan proposal calls for export growth of 40-50X over the
next five years, greater efforts to attract foreign investment, and increased
commercial borrowing. If exports grow at 8Z p.a. between 1984 and 1990 and
imports grow at 9% p.a., China -would have a relatively modest current account
deficit of around $4-5 billion p.a. during the remainder of this decade,
equivalent to about 1% of GNP. This implies that the present debt service
ratio would increase only moderately by 1990. If China's exports grow more
slowly, imports will probably have to be cut back because a higher borrowing
target, though feasible in terms of debt service indicators, would probably
run into supply constraints as China would become one of the largest
developing country borrowers. This highlights the need for continued export
growth in order to meet other plan objectives and service greater commercial
borrowing. The plan proposal recognizes that greater use of exchange rate and
pricing policies will be needed to encourage export growth.
22.       Even with continued good export performance, China will have
substantial external capital requirements during the remainder of the
decade. Under the trade growth assumptions outlined above (exports growing at
8% p.a. and imports at 9% p.a. during 1984-90), the current account deficit
would be over $5 billion in 1990 and the gross borrowing requirement would be
about $6.5 billion. If export growth fell to 6% p.a. during this period and
imports continued to grow at 9% p.a., the current account deficit would reach
$14 billion by 1990. Although the plan proposal calls for increased borrowing
at commercial rates, access to concessionary capital will play an important
role in sustaining China's growth. China also has a claim to concessionary
lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of the world. But
China's access to concessionary capital for financing development and
modernization is limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of
concessionary capital is likely to come .nly from Japan and a few other
bilateral donors and will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a.
during the rest of the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       To achieve the target growth rates envisioned in proposals for the
Seventh Five-Year Plan, to iacrease efficiency and innovation, and to maintain
equity in distribution, China will need continuing economic reforms. Large
investment will be required and China will need to import more technology,
increase trade and expand investment. In the next few years, therefore, the
Bank can best assist China by increasing its access to foreign technology and
practices and supporting the development and implementation of reforms that
will help to increase the efficiency of resource use and reduce poverty.



- 8 -
24.       To address China's objective of updating technology and improve
efficiency, the Bank will play the role of intermediary. In transportation,
energy, industry, agriculture and social sectors, the Bank will contribute to
technology transfer by bringing the Bank's experience to bear on project
design and implementation and by helping China to seek appropriate technical
solutions through international competitive bidding, training, and foreign
technical assistance.
25.       Bank assistance will be closely linked with the Government's reform
efforts. There are five major elements common to both rural and urban reforms
in China that will be the focus of the Bank's involvement. First, institu-
tional change, involving both the separation of economic and administrative
functions and further decentralization of decisionmaking, will extend to every
sector in which the Bank is involved. Second, financial sector reform,
primarily development of financial institutions, has become a focus of Bank
assistance. Third, improving planning and project analysis will be critical
to reform in sectors such as agriculture and industry, where decisions are now
being made by households and independent enterprises as well as in infrastruc-
ture where direct government involvement will be required. The Bank will
therefore continue its emphasis on introducing appraisal methods and financial
planning as well as analysis of intersectoral issues. Fourth, the Bank will
be involved in the Government's major program of price reform and development
of indirect levers such as control via money, credit and fiscal policies. And
finally, the Bank will support reforms in health, education and other social
services and measures, in particular, to address the problems of poor regions.
Economic and Sector Work
26.       The Bank's economic and sector work aims at expanding the Bank's
understanding of the structure of the Chinese economy and the direction of its
movement and introducing to the Government new tools of economic management.
This work lays a foundation for lending and for a dialogue with the Government
on issues of reform and development. Past work has included two major
economic reports, studies on sectoral investment analysis and planning, and
collaborative research with Chinese institutions. The Bank has also organized
seminars on macroeconomic and sector issues.
27.       Over the next two years, the Bank will carry out a large program of
sector work to follow up on issues identified in the most recent economic
report and analyze policy options. In thi-- program, the Bank will examine
alternatives for developing the financial system, foreign trade and invest-
ment. It will al3o analyze issues of intersectoral investment coordination
and development of resource-poor regions. One such study is already under way
in Gansu province to improve the efficiency of development and reduce
poverty. Research on urban development, transport planning and regional
industrial development wiLl also be undertaken, and regional industrial
subsectors will be reviewed. Collaborative studies with Chinese research
institutions will continue. An ongoing study of management and guidance of
state enterprises will be followed by a study of collective enterprises, which
are expected to become increasingly important industrial organizations in the
reformed system.



-g -
Lending Operations
28.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in
May 1980, 37 projects involving lending of $3,709.9 million to China have been
approved. Of the projects, twelve have been in the agriculture sector, seven
in energy, six in transport, four in industry, four in education, two in
technical cooperation and one each in health and water supply. In FY85, IFC
made its first investment in China of $17.02 million in automobile
manufacturing. Annex II contains a summary statement of theme loans, credits
and IFC investment as of March 31, 1986.
29.       In addition to the already approved projects for second rural
credit, third industrial credit, second technical cooperation credit, provin-
cial universities, third railway, Tianjin port development, fresh water
fisheries and the proposed project, we expect to present to the Board this
year an aaditional power project and projects for petroleum and health. For
FY87 and beyond, we expect the China lending program to continue to grow from
current levels. Infrastructure projects in energy and transport will remain
priorities. Technical renovation of enterprises, particularly in industry,
will be given greater attention and support as will the regional approach to
project development, now being used to assess the needs of Gansu province.
3o.       In the energy sector, future Bank lending will be aimed at improving
efficiency of energy consumption and expanding energy production. For
example, in the coal subsector, we will assist in upgrading the facilities and
operations of existing mines and in transferring improved technology for mines
under construction or in operation. In power, we will provide for technology
transfer, staff training and institution building. Through a power tariff
study, we will seek to introduce a tariff system based on marginal cost and to
increase the awareness of the need for a nationwide power system development
program. In the petroleum subsector, the rationale for Bank involvement will
lie in the identification, packaging and transfer of specialized technologies
as well as in the strengthening of investment and resource use planning and
management capabilities.
31.       Future transport projects will both upgrade technology and
strengthen institutions. In roads, major changes in organization and financ-
ing will be required as a result of administrative decentralization and intro-
duction of the production responsibility system in rural areas. In railways,
we will focus on technologies to improve domestic production of railway equip-
ment and materials in addition to our work on line construction and electrifi-
cation. We also intend to broaden our involvement in ports to include coastal
shipping and inland water transport. For all transport subsectors, we will
support efforts to improve financial analysis and investment planning.
32.       Agriculture lending will focus on developing institutions to provide
services to individual farmers and to monitor and stimulate change in the pace
and pattern of agricultural development. The shift from grant to loan finance
and the increased autonomy of the rural banking system will be supported
through rural credit projects. We will continue to assist with the training,
research, extension, and other service activities of the ministries concerned
with agriculture. In addition, we expect to finance programs for specialized



- 10 -
agricultural development such as livestock and fisheries, and for irrigation
and area development.
33.       Bank lending in industry, as in agriculture, will focus on strength-
ening of financial intermediaries which provide credit to state and collective
enterprises. In addition, we expect that there will be large regional
projects in fertilizer, cement and machine tools and other subsector projects
concerned with upgrading technology and improving organization and management.
34.       Bank lending in education will gradually be broadened beyond the
present concentration on higher education. For example, we will finance
vocational and technical education which is now being given great emphasis in
China. In view of the Government's recent decision to universalize access to
primary and lower secondary education, another major aim of education lending
will be to assist with basic education, particularly in poor rural areas. In
this context, support for teacher education will be given priority.
35.       project preparation in the urban sector is currently concentrated in
Shanghai on efforts to improve services, especially in environmental upgrading
and housing, and development of municipal institutions. Future lending is
expected to include support for development of medium-size and small urban
areas in specific provinces. In addition, we expect to continue lending for
rural water supply. Bank lending in health will provide access to new medical
technologies for more efficient health care in both the lingering problems of
communicable disease, primarily in poor rural areas, and the emerging problems
of chronic disease. This will involve further support for medical training
and planning and management of service delivery systems. Projects will also
support the reform of systems for supplying and financing health services.
36.       Cofinancing with multilateral and bilateral agencies has been
arranged for projects in coal, power, agriculture and rural water supply and
will remain a feature of our assistance program. We will explore further
options for cofinancing with export credit agencies. Commercial bank
cofinancing and the use of B-loans also appear viable, particularly as China
increases the overall volume of its foreign borrowing. In technical
assistance, we will continue to incorporate into projects components for
training, overseas study, and access to foreign expertise. In addition, we
will be a cooperating agency for a second UNDP umbrella project in China. EDI
activities remain an important element of the Bank's program and in coming
years will provide an extensive program of policy seminars for senior Chinese
officials, and economic and financial management courses and sector-specific
training for officials from core and line agencies.
Implementation
37.       Project implementation is generally proceeding well.  Most project
agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the State Planning
Commission (SPC), have established and staffed offices to handle Bank
projects.  Disbursement performance has also been satisfactory.  Special
accounts have been established for many of the approved projects and have
helped to speed disbursements.  In October 1985, the Bank opened a resident
office in Beijing to support further expansion of the lending program,



- 11 -
accelerate project preparation, improve project implementation and further
economic and sector work.
PART III - THE ENERCY SECTOR AND THE POWER SUBSECTOR
Overview
38.       China is the world's fourth largest producer and third largest
consumer of commercial energy. Coal is by far the most important source of
energy in China, accounting for some 702 of its commercial energy consump-
tion. Oil production has increased rapidly over the last three decades to
become an important source of both commercial energy and export earnings,
representing about 18Z and 20% of the respective totals. About 20X of oil
production and 1Z of coal production are currently exported. Natural gas
(2X), hydroelectric power (5Z) and limited quantities of shale oil and geo-
thermal power make up the balance of commercial energy. Non-commercial energy
resources supply energy equivalent to about 40% of commercial production.
39.       China's achievement in developing its energy resources over the last
three decades has oeen remarkable. The annual production of coal has
increased from some 60 million tons in 1952 to 760 million tons in 1984.
During the same period, annual oil production increased from 0.1 million tons
to 114 nillion tons, and annual electricity generation increased fyqm about
7.3 TWh to 377 TWh. However, the recent economic report on China - has
concluded that slow growth of energy supplies could constitute a constraint to
the Government's efforts to quadruple the gross value of industrial and
agricultural output (GVIAO) from 1986 to 2000. To ensure sufficient energy
for economic development, China will need to increase coal production beyond
current targets for the year 2000 and meet at least the official output
targets set for all types of energy resources. Meeting these targets will
require strengthening of planning and coordination among the diverse
components of the energy sector and also the transportation sector.  In
addition, serious subsectoral constraints on technology, logistics, management
and financing need to be removed.
40.       In view of the complezity of the problems anticipated in the attempt
to balance supply and demand, it is crucial for China to formulate and
implement a comprehensive and coherent long-term strategy directed at both
efficient energy development and utilization. The Government, in its Sixth
Five-Year Plan (1981-85), accorded high priority to development of the energy
and transport sectors and these objectives will be further emphasized in the
Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90). The Bank has supported the Government's
objectives and formulation of a coherent sectoral strategy through economic
and sector work as well as lending operations.
1/   "China:  Long-Term Issues and Options," Report No. 5206-CHA, May 22,
1985.



- 12 -
Resource Endowment
41.       China is well endowed with primary energy.  Coal and lignite
reserves are concentrated largely in the north and northeast, which have about
70% of the total recoverable reserves (640 billion tons).  Future plans call
for increasing coal production significantly, but difficulty in transport
(essentially a shortage of railroad capacity) appears to be a serious obstacle
to achieving this objective. Biomass fuels are the second most important
source of energy in China, accounting for an estimated 30X of final
consumption. Recoverable reserves of oil onshore have been variously
estimated between 6-15 billion tons, and estimates for offshore oil reserves
range from 3-10 billion tons. Recoverable reserves of non-associated gas have
so far been estimated at about 3 trillion cubic feet (TCF), about 90% of which
are located in Sichuan province. In addition, recoverable reserves of
associated gas are estimated at about 1.8 TCF. Unofficial estimates of oil
shale in China place reserves at 400 billion tons. China's hydropower
potential, among the largest in the world, is estimated at 1900 TWh p.a., of
which 87 TWh p.a. have so far been developed. A major constraint has been
that the bulk of the undeveloped potential is in four major basins in
southwestern and northwestern China, where large-scale development would
require transmission distances of 1,200-1,500 km to major industrial load
centers. The known uranium reserves in China are sufficient to sustain 15,000
MW of nuclear power plant for 30 years. Although potential sources of
geothermal energy are abundant in the mountainous southwestern part of the
country, their role is likely to remain limited due to their distance from
major load centers.
Efficiency of Energy Use
42.       China's consumption of energy per unit of GDP is well above that of
any major developed or developing country. Several factors contribute to the
high intensity and relative inefficiency of fuel use, which is particularly
evident in the industrial sector: the structure of industrial production, the
scale of industrial units, the raw materials used, the technology employed,
and industrial organization and operating practices. In the late 1970s, it
became evident that the high rate of energy consumption could not be
sustained. The Government took administrative measures to reduce the rapid
growth of energy consumption, including quotas, adoption of energy efficiency
measures, retrofitting, marginal adjustments of industrial structure and the
importation of energy efficient technology. These measures have had some
success. Primary commercial energy consumption per unit of industrial and
agricultural ouput nas been dropping steadily since 1979.
43.       As a result, there has been an impressive improvement in overall
energy efficiency during the past five years. Energy consumption per unit of
gross value of industrial and agricultural output (GVIAO) declined by 7% p.a.
during 1979-81, and by 3% p.a. during 1982-83. Preliminary data indicate a
further reduction of almost 7% in 1984. Technical and operational improve-
ments are estimated to have accounted for about 40% of these energy savings.
The other 60Z came from a-decline in the relative importance of heavy indus-
try, the closure of some inefficient small-scale plants and other structural
changes within industrial subsectors.



- 13 -
44.       Although the recent administrative measures have been effective in
promoting energy efficiency, the process of fine-tuning the current system to
provide economic signals to consumers and incentives for further improvements
in efficiency will become increasingly complex. There is thus a need
initially to complement and gradually to replace the administrative controls
with a more flexible allocation system that would provide greater autonomy to
individual entities. The system wculd increasingly rely on an energy price
structure that reflects the reLative scarcity of each source of energy. This
would influence consumption in the direction of the optimal least cost mix of
energy sources required to meet future demand. Such reform of the allocation
system would be a key component of a strategy to stimulate the adjustments in
the structure of energy consumption which are necessary for balancing energy
supply with demand in the long-term.
The Power Subsector
45.       Power development in China has registered high rates of growth
during the last three decades. Annual per capita generation of electricity
has grown from 8 kWh in 1949 to 363 kWh in 1984. Of the total installed
capacity of 79,920 MW in 1984, 32Z was hydro and 68% was thermal. Power is
distributed through 30 grids, of which 13 (representing over 80% of the total
capacity) exceed 1,000 MW each. Energy sales in 1984 reached 319 TWh, having
grown at an average 13.8% p.a. since 1949. Of these sales, 80% represented
industrial consumption, 9% agricultural, 1Z transportation and 10% residential
and urban commercial usage. About 60% of the population has access to
electricity.
The Market for Electricity
46.       Electricity censumption increased at an average rate of 10.7% p.a.
between 1965 and 1979, but this pace slowed during 1979-84 when it averaged
only 6.4Z p.a. The major reason for the lag has been the inability of the
power subsector to fully meet demand, particularly in China's major industrial
centers. The power shortage countrywide was estimated at about 40 TWh p.a.,
or more than 15% of industrial electricity requirements. The recent economic
report on China estimates that by the year 2000 generation of 960-1,290 TWh
(equivalent to 109,000-178,000 MW in additional generating capacity) would be
needed to meet the requirements of China's national income growth targets.
47.       The share of electricity in total energy consumption has histori-
cally been low compared with that of other countries. The principal features
underlying this low share appear to be: (a) the reLatively low level of elec-
tricity use in the residential and commercial sectors; and (b) the relative
inefficiency of fuel consumption in the industrial sector which decreases the
relative share of electricity in total industrial energy consumption. As a
result of China's rapid development in recent years, the share of electricity
in total energy consumption has been increasing despite serious supply
constraints, rising from about 13% of final commercial energy use in 1970 to
about 15% in 1975 and 18Z in 1980. This share is expected to continue to
grow, reaching 26-27% in year 2000 which is a level comparable to that
currently prevailing in other major developing countries. The manufacturing
sector is projected to continue to account for at least three-quarters of



- 14 -
final electricity consumption, although electricity use per unit of value
added is likely to fall slightly. Electricity use in residential and commer-
cial sectors is expected to grow at 11-13X p.a., reflecting a gradual improve-
ment in living conditions and rapid growth of the service sector. Electricity
use in transportation is also projected to grow, reflecting the increase in
the share of electric locomotives in total railway haulage.
Institutions
48.       In the Government reorganization of 1982, the Ministry of Water
Resources and Electric Power (MWREP) was designated to oversee electric power
development and water resource management, including policymaking and system
planning as well as the design, construction and operation of major power and
water resource projects. Under MWREP, there are six regional power adminis-
trations which coordinate operations and load dispatching for the regional
power grids and formulate long-term development plans for approval by MWREP
and SPC. Below the regional administrations are 22 provincial and municipal
power bureaus operating as parts of the regional grids, while eight other
power bureaus still operate in isolation.
Tariffs
49.       Electricity tariffs have in general remained constant since 1953.
Through minor regional adjustments over the years, they have become reasonably
uniform all over the country except in the northeast where costs have been
lower because electricity was supplied predominantly by hydro-power genera-
tion, even in the early years. The average revenue per unit has been increas-
ing due to the growing share of consumption by light industries, commercial
and residential users which pay higher rates. The national average was about
6.9 fen/kWh (USC2.3/kWh) in 1984.
50.       In the context of Chinese accounting practices, which in the past
did not include in costs any return on capital (other than depreciation), this
tariff yielded satisfactory financial performance for the power sector as a
whole. However, this situation is changing because of recent changes in the
Government's financial policies. Since 1982, capital investments in the power
sector have been financed through domestic and foreign borrowing rather than
through Government budgetary allocation as in the past. In addition, fuel
costs have been rising and are expected to rise further, particularly with the
ongoing increases in coal prices and the expected increases in rail tariffs
(which will affect delivered coal costs). As a result of these changes in the
costs of electricity, and in line with the Government's policy to reform its
economic allocation system, the Government is considering a review of the
electricity tariffs. To assist the Government with this review, a tariff
study was included under the Beilungang thermal power project and is expected
to be completed by end 1987.
Manpower and Training
51.       MWREP has about 2.5 million employees of whom about 51% are directly
under the Ministry and about 49% are under the provincial administrations. Of
the total, less than 30% have received formaL education beyond junior secon-



- 15 -
dary school level. In general, the quality of staff intake has been low;
there is a severe shortage of trained manpower, particularly for administra-
tive and technical positions.
52.       In the late 1970s, MWREP initiated a long-term training program to
upgrade the quality of its staff at all levels. Although MWREP has organized
the program, much of the implementation has been carried out by the provincial
power bureaus. The Ministry's immediate goal is to establish a comprehensive
program that will systematically provide training to existing staff. MWREP is
also strengthening its capacity for full-time training of potential employees
through its Education Department which sponsors 4 universities, 39 technical
colleges, television and correspondence universities as well as 27 secondary-
level vocational schools. The total number of students enrolled in these
institutions was 17,700 in 1984. About 15,300 graduates are assigned to MWREP
annually - 7,000 at four-year college level and 8,300 at junior college level.
These programs, supplemented by periodic in-service short courses for manage-
rial and technical staff and on-the-job training for workers, are expected to
gradually lead to improved productivity in the sector. The quality of staff
will eventually improve, but the rate of change is still low. In support of
these activities and the project entity's objectives for human resource
development, the proposed project would include a training component.
Planning
53.       Power system planning at the regional and provincial levels is
carried out by the regional electric power administrations and the provincial
electric power bureaus. Overall planning is the responsibility of the Plan-
ning Department of MWREP which reviews the plans proposed by the regional
administrations and provincial bureaus for the short-term (annual), medium-
term (5-year) and long-term (10-15 year). For major hydro projects, the
investigation, planning and design are carried out by the regional hydro-
electric investigation and design institutes. For system expansion, trans-
mission lines and substations above llOkV and major thermal projects, the
studies, planning and design are carried out by the regional electric power
design institutes. MWREP, like other line ministries, operates under the
overall supervision of SPC and the State Economic Commission (SEC), in which
are vested the ultimate authority for project approval, budget allocation,
financing arrangements and supervision.
54.       Under current plans, coal-based thermal power generation will
continue to provide at least three quarters of total generation through the
end of the century. There are important issues in this area concerning plant
location and transmission network planning. For example, the locational
decisions will have to carefully balance the advantages of plant location at
the coal mine sites - requiring long-distance transmission to major load
centers -- versus development near load centers and port areas to which large
quantities of coal would be transported by rail and/or water. Thus planning
decisions have to take into account factors such as the regional distribution
of coal resources, regional differences in coal development costs, relative
costs of coal transportation and power transmission, environmental implica-
tions, and external conditions such as the availability of water for cooling
purposes.



- 16 -
55.       As the planning of China's power subsector development becomes
increasingly complex, up-to-date system planning techniques will need to be
adopted, particularly to evaluate the feasibility and optimal timing of large-
scale projects with long lead times and to make decisions about the generating
plant mix, power plant location, and grid architecture. To assist MWREP in
acquiring these techniques, arrangements were made under the second power
project (Loan No. 2493) for introducing least-cost investment programming
techniques through the assistance of the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA). The Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research Institute
(WREPERI) in Beijing has assisted GEPB to formulate a least cost development
program for the Cuangxi power grid.
Technology Transfer
56.       The transfer and development of modern technoLogies will be crucial
if China is to increase energy production and efficiency sufficiently to
achieve its broader economic goals. Technology transfer is especially impor-
tant for thermal power plants, where increasing deployment of high-pressure,
large-scale units and greater development of cogeneration could reduce net
fuel consumption by some 20% by the year 2000, thus greatly alleviating
pressures on coal supplies and transportation. The Government is already
implementing this strategy through the gradual introduction of standardized
300 KW and 600 MW coal-fired units. The Bank is assisting the provision of
the state-of-the-art technology in the construction and operation of 600 MW
units under the third power project. Technology transfer needed for hydro-
electric projects would include interpretation of geological data, judgement
of foundation excavation, design for sophisticated structures and construction
management. These are being provided under the proposed project.
Subsector Objectives and Policies
57.       The basic objectives of the Government for the power subsector are
to modernize, increase efficiency, and expand it at a rate sufficient to meet
the requirements of industrial development. To achieve these objectives, the
Government is pursuing the following policies:
(a) a phased increase in the financial autonomy of enterprises;
(b) gradual introduction of a more rational pricing system;
(c) introduction of modern techniques in project design and system
planning;
(d)  acceleration of hydro deveLopment;
(e) development of mine-mouth, coal-fired thermal stations supplemented
where necessary by stations located near port areas and load
centers;
(f)  construction of extra high voltage transmission lines to transmit
power from remote hydro sites and mine-mouth thermal stations and
for interconnection between regions;



- 17 -
(g) progressive replacement of medium- and low-pressure thermal units
with larger size and higher pressure units to improve fuel
efficiency, and the conversion of oil-fired units to coal-firing;
(h)  development of nuclear units in areas where other forms of energy
are scarce; and
(i)  improvement of energy efficiency.
Subsector Issues
58.       Shortage of Generating Capacity.  In spite of considerable growth in
generating capacity, supply has lagged behind demand and shortages are
reported in the Northeast, North, South and East China grids. The power
shortage countrywide was estimated at about 40 TWh in energy in 1984. Demand
management has been carried out in these regions by staggering holidays,
changing working hours, and load shedding during shortages according to agreed
priorities.
59.       Inadequate Transmission and Distribution Facilities.  The develop-
ment of transmission lines and substation facilities has lagged behind that of
generation. No interconnection has yet been made between regions and there
are about eight provincial grids still operating in isolation. MWREP has
estimated that China has a shortage of about 10,000 km of transmission lines
at voltages above 110 kV. Similar shortages exist in substation capacity.
Lower voltage subtransmission and distribution facilities are currently being
financed by the provincial governments or municipalities.  The local authori-
ties usually do not allocate sufficient funds for the improvement and exten-
sion of these facilities which results in high system losses and inefficient
use of energy.
60.       Financial Constraints have been a major factor in the shortage of
generating capacity and the inadequacy of transmission and distribution
facilities. In the past, limited budgetary allocations have caused consider-
able slow-down of power projects. Recently, the funding mechanism has under-
gone considerable revision which has given rise to the expectation that power
bureaus can cover about 10% of their investment requirements through internal
cash generation. In the future, tariff increases should lead to increases in
the amount of resources available for investment in the subsector and in the
levels of self-financing by the power bureaus themselves.
61.       Technology Transfer and Training.  Despite some progress, China's
technology in thermal power plant design, least-cost investment programming,
load dispatching and application of computers falls short of levels prevailing
in developed countries. The age profile of the engineering staff is highly
skewed; most are in their 50s and 60s. Only strenuous efforts to train young
graduates now emerging from universities will narrow the gap. This may
involve establishing specialized training institutes as well as providing on-
the-job training within the country and training abroad at utility companies
and other institutions. A greater understanding of the subsector's training
requirement is necessary before an appropriate solution can be developed and



- 18 -
encouraged. The Bank plans to address this issue in the context of a
subsector-oriented training program.
Role of the Bank
62.       The Bank's strategy for involvement in China's power subsector has
been to use its lending operations to assist the Government in solving tech-
nical problems and rationalizing investment decisions. The Bank is implement-
ing this strategy by introducing to China modern methods of system planning,
project preparation, construction, operation and utility management.
63.       The first power project (Lubuge hydroeLectric, Loan No. 2382) will
provide 600 MW of generating capacity and associated transrAission system to
the Yunnan power grid. The project successfully promoted cofinancing arrange-
ments including export credits for the major electrical and mechanical equip-
ment and bilateral grants for engineering services. It also introduced
international competitive bidding for civil works and modern construction
techniques for a rockfill dam, power tunnel and underground powerhouse, and
enhanced the financial autonomy of the Yunnan Provincial Electric Power Bureau
(YPEPB). The project included training for staff of the Kunming Hydroelectric
Investigation and Design Institute (KHIDI), the Lubuge Project Construction
Management Bureau (LPCMB) and YPEPB in the areas of design, construction
manAgement, quality control, accounting and cost control through consultants
services. The project also included the upgrading and equipping of an
electrical training school in Kunming.
64.       The second power project (500 kV transmission line from Xuzhou to
Shanghai, Loan No. 2493) will transm.at a large block of power from a mine-
mouth coal-fired thermal power station at Xuzhou (500 MW in operation and 4
units of 200 MW under construction) to the East China power grid. This
project also successfully promoted cofinancing with a bilateral loan for the
Yangtze river crossing works and provided for the transfer of the latest
technology in 500 kV transmission line and substation design, construction,
operation and maintenance to the East China Electric Power Design Institute
(ECEPDI) and the Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Bureau (JPEPB). A training
component included the establishment of a training center and equipment for
two other technical schools in Nanjing and Shanghai for the operation and
maintenance of 500 kV transmission lines and substations.
65.       Under the third power project (Beilungang thermal power) the Bank
would finance a fully integrated state-of-the-art 600 MW coal-fired unit that
will be used to set technic.l and economic performance standards for a series
of same-size units to be installed in China and a 500 kV transmission system
connected to the East China power grid. Cofinancing is being sought for the
second unit. The project would also introduce the concept of a least-cost
expansion plan as a basis for evaluating power projects, and is expected to
contribute to the formulation of a more rational tariff through a tariff
study. A program to meet the needs for project related training and long-term
human resources development would also be included.
66.       The proposed fourth power project is needed to help address the
acute energy shortage in the Guangxi autonomous region and in Guangdong



- 19 -
province in South China. At present, the region's major source of energy,
besides hydro, is coal which must be shipped from North China and is very
costly. To relieve the energy shortage, the Government has already undertaken
four projects to develop power from the Hongshui river and is also building a
nuclear power plant near Cuangzhou with assistance from the French and British
governments. In spite of these efforts, there is urgent need for more
systematic development of other power resources in the region.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
67.       The project was identified in September 1984 and appraised in
November 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 17-18, 1986,
with 2 delegation headed by Mr. Luo Qing, Deputy Director, External Finance
Department, Ministry of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6050-CHA,
dated May 5, 1986) is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. A map (IBRD No. 19478) showing the project location is attached.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
68.       The project is aimed at supporting economic growth in South China
through the development of the Hongshui river basin. The project would be the
Bank's first involvement in the power subsector in Guangxi. The Bank was
invited to participate in this project, even though the preparatory civil
works had been started, in the belief that the Bank could provide useful
technical inputs in dam design and construction. The Government considers
this assistance to be critical for upgrading the technical capabilities of the
Guangxi Electric Power Bureau (GEPB). In fact, the contribution already made
by the Special Board of Consultants (SBC) has demonstrated the usefulness of
Bank involvement. Through the proposed project, the Bank would build a sound
working relationship with GEPB and, later, with the South China Electric Power
Administration (SCEPA), the primary institutions charged with developing power
resources for the region. After assisting in the planning of power resource
development for the region, the Bank might be asked to collaborate in
financing future power projects (possibly including two large reservoir
projects on the Hongshui river and a gas-fired thermal power project to be
developed in conjunction with a natural gas development project in Guangdong
province).
Project Description
69.       The project would comprise:
(a) construction of a 110 m high concrete gravity dam, a spillway, a
powerhouse and a ship lift;
(b) provision and installation of four generating units of 275 MW each;
(c) construction of two single circuits of 500 kV transmission lines and
three associated substations;



- 20 -
(d) provision of about 160 man-months of consulting services for
construction management; and
(e) training for CEPB staff, and upgrading of CEPB training facilities
and training for government officials in financial practices.
Project Management and Implementation
70.       The beneficiary of the proposed project would be GEPB, a state-owned
enterprise under the direction of MWREP. CEFB is assigned responsibility by
the Government for the ezecution within its jurisdiction of the government
program for power generation, capital investment, power sales and tariffs,
employment and payroll, materials consumption and tax and profit remittances
to the State. A charter of GEPB acceptable to the Bank has been issued.
71.       CEPB is headed by a director who is appointed by MWREP.  Four deputy
directors are responsible for: capital construction; production and power
supply; planning, science and technology; and labor, wages and finance.
Operations are carried out through a number of units engaged in power genera-
tion, construction, distribution, and maintenance. Each of these units is
headed by a manager with line responsibility to the director of CEPB.
72.       As of the end of 1984, GEPB's employees numbered about 32,037.
Except for the core technical and managerial personnel who are assigned by the
MWREP, virtually all of GEPB's employees are recruited locally. They are
hired on a permanent basis with the exception of some contract labor for
construction work. Of the total employed, only about 6.5Z have received
technical training equivalent to or above college level. The majority of the
workers have less than nine years of formal education. Through its Education
Division GEPB administers two technical schools for the training of skilled
workers. An electrical institute for the training of technicians has been
established and the first group of about 80 students began receiving instruc-
tion in autumn 1985. However, the training capacity is not adequate to meet
the long-term need. The quality of teaching staff as well as training
facilities and equipment need to be upgraded and modernized. A training
component has therefore been included in the proposed project.
73.       The feasibility study for the project was carried out by the Guangxi
Investigation and Design Institute (GIDI). Engineering and detailed design of
the project is being completed by GIDI. All preparatory works with the excep-
tion of concrete facilities have been completed. Excavation for the diversion
channel and dam foundation has been started with good progress. Procurement
of the first group of construction equipment is under way. CEPB would be
responsible for the construction management and supervision of the project,
including transmission lines and substations, and would contract all the works
to domestic contractors through local competitive bidding. Construction
supervision and management would be carried out by a construction unit under
GEPB with the assistance of consulting engineers to be appointed by late 1986.
The facilities when constructed would remain in the ownership of GEPS, who
would have ultimate responsibility for their operation and maintenance.



- 21 -
74.       The commissioning date. of the four generating units are scheduled
for June 1992, March 1993, December 1993 and September 1994, respectively.
The project completion date is December 31, 1994. The closing date of the
Bank loan would be June 30, 1993 which would allow adequate time for payment
of retention monies.
Technical Assistance and Training
75.       Consulting services would be used to assist in construction
management. The Bank has assisted the Government in seeking bilateral
assistance for the above services. The Government of Norway has agreed in
principle to provide for such services through a grant of about $2.0 million.
76.       A Special Board of Consultants (SBC) was established and conducted
its first meeting in November 1985 to review the project feasibility, layout
and design, to advise on any engineering problems which may arise during
construction and to review the safety aspects of the dam. Assistance from the
Government of Canada is being arranged for the financing of a Canadian member
of SBC. Assurances have been obtained that GEPB would use independent
engineering experts whose qualifications will be reviewed by the Bank, to
undertake periodic inspection of the dam and associated works during
construction and thereafter and make any necessary modifications.
77.       Training will be carried out in three parts:  (a) on-the-job
training for GEPB staff on design and construction management; (b) training
for lcng-term human resources development; and (c) training on financial
management and planning and utility accounting practices. Parts (a) and (b)
will be carried out by GEPB and part (c) will be carried out by MWREP. Part
(a) will be provided through technical assistance by SBC and the Consulting
Engineer during construction. Part (b) will comprise upgrading facilities,
equipment and instructors' skills at three worker training schools. Part (c)
will include study tours and training for MWREP and other related
institutions. Assurances have been obtained that GEPB and MWREP will
implement a training program acceptable to the Bank.
Cost Estimates
78.       The cost estimates are based on end-1985 price levels.  Physical
contingencies include 5X for equipment, 15Z for civil works, and 10 for
transmission lines, substations and other local costs. Price escalations for
both foreign and local costs are calculated on the basis of the projected
international inflation rates of 7.0% for 1986-87, 7.51 for 1988, 7.7% for
1989, 7.6% for 1990 and 4.5% for 1991 and thereafter. The total financing
required is $1,033.1 million equivalent, including interest during construc-
tion. The project would be exempted from customs duties and taxes.
Financing Plan
79.       The proposed Bank loan of $52.0 million would meet about 6% of total
project cost or about 28% of foreign exchange requirements. It would be used
to cover the foreign costs of the following components:



- 22 -
(a) construction equipment for civil works and plant installation;
(b) instrumentation and control equipment;
(c) computer hardware and software for utility management;
(d) steel products (reinforcing and structural steel for civil works);
(e) steel plate for penstocks and related fabrication equipment;
(f) consulting services; and
(g) training.
80.       The foreign exchange requirement of $185.0 million is expected to be
met by the proposed Bank loan ($52.0 million), a bilateral grant (about $2.0
million equivalent) and local bank loans ($131.0 million). The local cost
($848.1 million equivalent) is also to be financed by local bank loans.
81.       The proposed Bank loan would be made to China at the standard
variable interest rate for a 20-year term including five years of grace.
Assurances have been obtained that the Government would onlend the proceeds of
the Bank loan to CEPB under a subsidiary loan agreement with a 20-year term,
including five years of grace, at an interest rate of 8.5% p.a., and that GEPB
would bear the commitment charges and foreign exchange risk (between the
dollar and the Borrower's currency). A Project Agreement will be concluded
between the Bank and GEPB. Execution of an acceptable subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and GEPB and approval of the Loan Agreement
by the State Council would be conditions of loan effectiveness.
Procurement and Disbursement
82.       Equipment and materials financed under the proposed Bank loan will
be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines, except for those eligible for LIB or direct
purchase as described below. In bid evaluation, qualifying domestic manufac-
turers would be eligible for a preference of 15% or the import duty, whichever
is lower. Equipment estimated to cost less than $150,000 per contract up to
an aggregate amount of $1.5 million could be procured through limited inter-
national bidding (LIB) on the basis of bids invited from at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines. Spare parts and spare
tires needed for the existing equipment costing less than $100,000 per
contract up to an aggregate amount of $1.0 million could be procured through
direct purchase. Civil works, which would not be financed under the Bank
loan, would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB).
83.       Advanced contracting may be required for the procurement of some
construction equipment, but no retroactive financing would be needed. Details
of procurement of goods and services are shown in the table below:



- 23 -
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million)
Procurement method                  Total
ICB       LIB      LCB       Other/b      N.A.   cost
Equipment and materials   66.3       1.5        -       413.2         -    481.0
(48.0)/a  (1.5)      -         (1.0)        -    (50.5)
Engineering and consult-
ing services                        -         -        10.9         -     10.9
-        (0.5)              (0.5)
Training                              -         -          3.6        -       3.6
-        (1.0)              (1.0)
Civil works, preparatory
works, and resettlement   -         -      366.0          -         -    366.0
Supervision and
administration             -        -         -           -        2.5      2.5
TotaL                 66.3      1.5    366.0       427.7        2.5   864.0
(48.0)    (1.5)                (2.5)        -    (52.0)
/a   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
proposed Bank loan.
/b   "Other" includes direct purchase, procurement of equipment and materials
within the country other than through LCB, plant and transmission line
installation to be executed by local contractors, and consulting services
and overseas training.
84.       All bidding packages for goods financed by the Bank and estimated to
cost over $1.0 million equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review
of procurement documents, which covers nearly all of the foreseen Bank-
financed contracts.
85.       The Bank loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 100X of the foreign
expenditures of directly imported equipment and materials; (b) 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory of locally manufactured items; (c) 75% of the cost of
other items procured locally; and (d) 100% of the cost of consulting services
and overseas training. For expenditures relating to training and contracts
for goods and services each valued less than $200,000 equivalent,
reimbursements would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures.
Documentation supporting such expenditures need not be submitted to the Bank
but should be retained in the GEPB project offize in Nanning and made
available for review by the Bar.n's supervision missions. To facilitate
disbursement, a special account with an authorized allocation of $3.0 million
would be established in a bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. Applications for replenishments would made quarterly or when the
Special Account is drawn down by 50% of the initial deposit, whichever occurs
first.



- 24 -
Planning, Accounting and Audit
86.       GEPB maintains its accounts on an accrual basis using a double entry
system and follows accounting procedures established by HOF. GEPB's operating
departments prepare accounting information monthly; the headquarters compiles
consolidated accounts monthly, quarterly and annually. GEPB has an extensive
accounting staff who are well trained in maintaining ledgers and compiling
accounts. As the accounts are essentially used to document historical
financial information, GEPB neither possesses nor has perceived a need for
other financial analytical skills. As GEPB modernizes its financial
management practices, it will need to learn to analyze financial and cost
accounts for decisionmaking. The Bank has furnished a financial forecasting
model to GEPB to enable it to study the impact of expansion plans and price
variations on their future financial positions. Assurances have been obtained
that, by December 31 of each year commencing December 31, 1986, GEPB will
furnish to the Bank a financial plan containing forecast income statements,
sources and uses of funds, and balance sheets for the next five-years. In
addition, an understanding was reached that, at the Bank's request, GEPB will
prepare and furnish financial projections for five years subsequent to the
period of the agreed financial plans.
87.       The Guangxi Audit Bureau (GAB) was established in December 1983.
Under the proposed project, GEPB's annual accounts will be audited by GAB
under the overall supervision of the State Audit Administration (SAA). This
arrangement is satisfactory. Assurances have been obtained that GEPB will
furnish annual financial statements, certified by an acceptable auditor, to
the Bank within six months after the end of each financial year. The
Government agreed that project accounts for the HWREP-implemented training
would be similarly audited and provided to the Bank.
Financial Position
88.       During the five-year period from 1980 through 1984, GEPB's sales
increased by about 37% while revenues increased by about 41%. The operating
ratio, which has previously remained reasonably constant at about 52%
increased to 62% in 1984. During the period, CEPB has realized an average
rate of return of about 15% based on historically vaLued net fixed assets in
operation. Debt service coverage ratio has remained satisfactory.
89.       During the period 1985-1995, GEPB is projected to maintain a high
growth rate. Energy sales are expected to increase by about 177Z over 1984
levels, representing a compound annual growth rate of about 10%. Net fixed
assets in operation are expected to increase at about 510% over current
levels, representing a compound annual rate of about 18%. Yearly capital
expenditure is expected to increase by about 154% over the 1984 level, repre-
senting a compound annual growth rate of about 9%. If GEPB is to maintain its
financial viability in the face of this growth, it will need to increase its
average tariff from the current level of 7.0 fen/kWh co 11.3 fen/kWh in 1995,
an increase of about 59%. Assurances have been obtained that GEPB will take
measures, including but not limited to increasing its tariffs, to ensure that
operating revenues are sufficient to meet the aggregate of its total cperating
expenses and the amount by which its financial obligations exceed depreciation



- 25 -
and non-cash operating expenses. Thus GEPB's operating revenues will need to
cover: (a) costs directly chargeable to operations, including provisions for
depreciation and allocations to the maintenance of special funds; (b) interest
chargeable to operations; (c) income tax; (d) debt payment in excess of the
amount payable from the provisions for depreciation; (e) required allocations
from net income to special funds for employee benefits; and (f) the portion of
capitalized interest during construction required to be met from net income.
Compliance with this agreement during the project period would imply that GEPB
is realizing satisfactory levels of financial performance, including:
(a) average rates of return of 9.7% on historically valued net fixed assets in
operation; and (b) a self-financing ratio (defined as the sum of cash
available for investment and adjustment tax as a percentage of average capital
expenditure) averaging about 191 annually.
90.       The Government's recent policy of using loans rather than grants to
finance capital expenditure is expected to have a dramatic impact on CEPB
during the projection period. From a capital structure which is virtually
free of debt in 1984, GEPB is projected to move to a debt-equity ratio of
about 75:25 in 1995. Debt service coverage is projected to drop from about 11
in 1984 to about 1.3 in 1995, virtually exhausting all acceptable safety
margins built into operating revenues. Incurrence of debt at such a rate must
be managed carefully. Assurances have been obtained that GEPB will incur
additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures
indicate that internal cash generation would provide debt service coverage of
at least 1.3.
Benefits and Risks
91.       South China is one of the most important economic regions in China.
A shortage of electricity has been one of the major constraints to economic
development. The net loss of agricultural and industrial production is esti-
mated at about Y 1 for every kWh of electricity not supplied.
92.       In GEPB's service area, energy consumption has been growing at an
average annual rate of about 18.7% from 1962 to 1984. Growth rates in peak
demand and energy generation over the past 15 years (1970-84) have averaged
12.0% p.a. and 12.8% p.a., respectively. Of the 4,454 GWh total energy con-
sumption, in 1984, 73% was consumed by industrial users, 12% by agricultural
users, 1% by transportation, 1OZ by residential and commercial users and 4% by
others. Based on a reasonable load projection, the peak demand and energy
generation for GEPB would increase from 832 MW and 5,019 GWh in 1984 to 2,350
MW and 14,100 GWh in 1995, which represents average annual growth rates of
9.9% and 9.8%, respectively.
93.       GEPB's optimized power development study (1985-1995) carried out by
WREPERI using IAEA's computer program for system planning indicates that its
generation program depends largely on the development of the Hongshui river.
The proposed project with four units of 275 MW each to be commissioned between
1992 and 1994 forms part of the system's least cost expansion program. A
study made by CEPB also demonstrates that the project is more economical than
the alternative of a coal-fired thermal power plant at Laibin (3 x 300 MW)
using coal from Shanxi for discount rates up to 13%.



- 26 -
94.       The economic rate of return calculated on a program basis would be
about 12Z. Capital and operating costs were shadow-priced. Benefits were
calculated using the projected tariffs up to 1993, adjusted to the end-1985
price level of about 7.25 fen/kWh. This estimate is very conservative as it
did not take into consideration any surplus benefits.
95.       SBC will advise on any technical problems which arise during con-
struction and review the safety aspects of the dam. Separate consulting
services will be used to assist in construction management. Construction
risks are expected to be normal for a major hydroelectric project of this
nature.
Environmental and Sociological Considerations
96.       There are no mineral resources, archaeological sites or artifacts of
significance in the reservoir area. No downstream degradation or serious
sedimentation problems are expected to result from the project.
97.       About 3,142 ha of farm land and 547 ha of forest land will be inun-
dated and 40,000 people will have to be resettled due to the construction of
the project. The Government has prepared a plan for resettlement which has
been reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank. A Hongshui River Population
Resettlement and Arrangement Office (ERPRAO) has been set up under the Guangxi
regional government to be responsible for the unified development of reservoir
regions and population resettlement. There are also population resettlement
offices under each county government in the reservoir area. CEPB's resettle-
ment program is based on the general principles that: (a) people will be
resettled on higher land with residents of the same village resettled toge-
ther; (b) each family will be entitled to maintain the same housing standard
as before; (c) electricity, water supply and road access will be provided;
(d) HRPRAO intends to maintain or improve the standard of living of those to
be resettled; (e) HRPRAO intends to make the best use of the land as available
in implementing the resettlement program; and (f) the planning and development
of the reservoir area will employ to the extent possible local specialists
from governmental agencies and universities for demonstration, extension and
training for such specialized fields as agriculture, fisheries and forestry.
98.       The total compensation and resettlement costs are estimated at
Y 195 million to cover reconstruction of public facilities, compensation for
land, housing, trees and some private facilites and for resettlement. It is
planned that 64% of the villagers will be resettled for farming and diversi-
fied economic activities, 28.9% for forestry, 7.1% for local industries, 5.6%
for animal husbandry, and 3.4% for fisheries. The resettlement plan has been
reviewed independently by a Bank consultant. While considering the Chinese
approach to resettlement satisfactory, he has a few comments, particularly on
the needs of detailed planning and retraining with respect to occupational
change. Assurances have been obtained that the Government will carry out or
cause to be carried out a resettlement program satisfactory to the Bank.
Also, assurances have been obtained that CEPB will carry out a program
acceptable to the Bank to improve public health in the reservoir area.



- 27 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
99.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
May 6, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-28-                                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
Ca.  o S LgP OF -I'AL IItOS AT SAv
CIfhNA* MOPLE'S RE. OF                  E       G     (IGHTED A       S   I
HOT                      (HOST Wg N? ESTIXATE) /b
l1.db   b970k                      LOw INCO7             MIDDLE   5
l"alb  waLb tsTimTzLb       ASIA &FCrc            AI     AEI
AM  CI     AD SQ. 00
ToTAL                             9501.0      1311.0      .361.0
AGRICULURAL                       3257.6      3J2.0       3663.9
mshu  Cum   (55)                        ..          ..        300.0              278.3                    1011.1
(KILOCRIs or OIL EQUIVALET         202.0       239.0       461.9              253.7                    366.5
POPULATION ANS VITAL STATISICB
POPULATION,HIO-VEAK (TOUSADS)  631000.0   815160.0  1019102.0
URBA  rPOLATION (R of TorAL)        16.4 Ie      ..         21.0               2Z.3                     25.9
POPULATION PROJECTION1S
POPULATION 1T YTUA 2000 (HILL)                          IZ42.3
STATIONRY POULATION (HILL)                              1STI.0
POPULATION mIOIUnm                                         1.6
POPULATINo Dt1S5T1
PER SQ. m.                        66.1         3 .3      106.2              173.8                    3.9
PER SOQ. 1E1. IC. LAND           199.6       210.0       260.8              331.2                   1391.2
POPULATION SE STIRCTURE CZ)
0-14 YRiS                        3.9         37.6        32.0               36.3                     38.2
15-64 IRS                         56.2        57.2        13.1               39.4                     37.7
65 AND ABOVE                       4.7         5.0         3.0                4.3                      3.5
POPULATION CROWN RATE (Z)
TOTAL                              1.1         2.2         1.7                2.0                      2.3
URBAN                              ..          ..          ..                 4.                       4.1
CRUDE BIRlT RALTE (PER THOUS)       39.2 Id     35.7        18.6               27.5                     3O.t
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER INOUS)        23.5 77      6.8         7.1               10.2                      9..
GROSS REPROUCTrION RATE              2.8 7d      2.3         1.0                1.7                       1.9
FAMILY PLASINIS
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)          ..
USEtRS CZ OF HRRIED WHEN)          ..          ..         71.0                9.94                    36.
FOOD AM1TRTO
INDER OF FOO PROO. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        ..        100.0       123.0             tlo.6                     124.4
PER CAPtTA SUPPLY OF
CALORES (C OF IEQUIREEIITS)       9b.6 /d    101.8       119.8              106.3                     113.7
PROTEINS (GRAS PER DAT)           33.0 7      56.2        69.7               60.1                     60.3
OF WHICH ANLIAL AND PULSE        12.3 77     13.3        15.9               l4.4                     14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE         13.5         6.5         2.0                7.3                      7.2
IIALTIR
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       41.I  /a    60.9        67.1               60.5                     60.6
INFANT moIT. RArE (PER ICUS)       165.0 7i    69.0         38.0               69.2                     64.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (1POP)
TUTAL                              ..          ..         0.0               bA.2                     46.S
URBAN                              ..          ..         653.0              77.2                     57
RURAL                              ..          ..         40.0               34.6                     37.I
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..          ..                 7.5                     30.1
URBAX                              ..          ..          ..                25.                      3Z.9
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..                 5.5                     44.7
POPUIATION PER PHYSICIAN          7940.0 ,f  3690.0 /f  1740.0 It            3315.0                   7751.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           3830.0      2760.0      1710.0            4690.7                    24.a
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1040.0       760.0       440.0             1039.2                    1112.1
URBAN                            210.0         ..        160.0              299.1                    651.4
WJItAL                         10140.0         ..       1020.0             6025.2                   2596.9
AUIISSIONS PER EOSPITAL  ED          ..          ..          ..                52.3                     41.1
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..          5.1
gu^N                               ..          ..*....
RURAL                              ..          ..          5.4
AVERACE NO. UF PERSONS/ROOH
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBEAN                             ..          ..          .                   ..
RUXAL                              ..          ..          .                   ..
PERCENAGE OF OWELLINGS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URANI                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



-29 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
mmlt                      (NORT RECENT STNE) 
33052W              LOS 8m INCOE          NOLE
i1eo1k      19701b  EsATTALk          LSISA & PACIFIC         ASIA G PACIFIC
AWUTED UOWUIT R3TION
P Wnsm    TOTAL                   109.0       110.0        110.0               92.6                      100.7
MaLEs..                              ..         123.0              105.5                      104.4
PtAUL!                   ..          ..          97.0               71.3                      97.2
CONDAIT  TOTAL                     21.0        23.0         33.0               31.3                      A7.1
ALE                      ..           ..         46.0               40.6                       50.6
PENIE                    ..           ..         25.0               21.9                      44.8
VoCATIONAL (1 o      ND)              ..           ..          2.2                3.2                       16.4
IUPIL-TEAIE RATIO
PRIMAR                              ..         33.0         25.0               38.0                       30.4
-                                   ..         22.0         16.0               17.4                       22.2
PAUO          COARS/TIUSAND            ..          ..          0.2 Lb             0.9                       10.1
RADIO REEVUUSflA PO                   ..          14.7       210.1              129.8                      172.9
TV eaVS/TNOUS         PP               ..          0.6        35.3               19.8                      5S.5
NENPAPER ("DILY GENERAL
sNuuisT") CIU.OATIfON
PE TOSD PO I0                        ..           ..         33.4               25.7                       65.3
CIM  A ML ATIDINAE/CAPITA              ..          ..          ..                 6.0                        3.6
TOUL LAROC  oa   (nROUS)         321666.0   380555.0    470692.0
EtALz (MECIT)                      36.3        36.0         37.3               33.2                       33.6
A:I :LTU  (PUSaN)                   ..           ..         63.9               69.6                       52.2
INDUT       (PRCT                   ..           ..         18.7             ' 15.8                       17.9
PARCIPATION RAT (PERCE)
TOT                                66.3        45.0         66.1               61.9                       38.9
UALE                               55.9        56.5         55.6               53.6                       50.6
PENAL!                             37.0        35.0         35.1               29.1                       26J
zcouOcc DIuDUCF RAIO                  0.9          1.0         0.8                1.0                        1.1
I-l DIU_ElI
PERCEIT OF PKrVATE IlCOM
RECEVED  T
lIcIsT St oP OoSuOLDs               ..           ..         U.5                 .
38I3S  20 OF 10 OLS                 ..         ..          39.3                 ..                        8.0
ILOUT 201 OFNOUSEOLCS               ..           ..          6.8 a                                         6.6
LOES? 601 OF !OSEUIOLDS              ..         ..          18.6                ..                        15.5
m         u C mus
HAZD  AUsoUT  POU! INCOME
LEVEL (CUS  PE  CAPrI
UlIm                                ..           ..          ..               133.9
MtAL                                ..          ..           ..               311.6                      151.9
ESTILAD  RELATI   POUR?Z   INCOSE
LEVEL CUSJ P   CAPITA)
DRAI                                 .                                                                   177.9
RURAL.                                                                         67                        164.7
ESTIMATD POP. BELOWI SOLUTn
POVERT ImcWU LEVEL (Z)
URW                                 ..           ,                             43.8                       23.5
WEAUL                               ..           .           ..                51.7                      37.8
NOT AVAILAULE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 Tf S 
a   The group aveirge  for each indicator arm popnlaclto-webted aritlmetie  emmm. Coverage of countries
*mog the indietors depends a avaiLabitity of data ad ls not unifrm.
/b   Unles otherwis  noted, Data for 1960" refer to an  year betwoe  1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betwee
1n9 and 1971; ad dta for "Mot laenct Estmate" betwee  1981 end 19J3.
/c   1964; /d 1955-65 avera;  /a 195-64 averapg;  /f Seor doctor of western medicine;   L Dietrlittlo
of peopS ranked by houstaho3l per cepite lcome.1979 data; /b 1960.
JUN. 1985



- 30 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 7
DEUINMONS CW SOCIAL INDICATOUS                                                  1
Nsw AllthOugh dadinw mdra n tofromrm gnllyjudgd the amaihuntalive nd reliabk. it shuld alw. lv noted ibt they may nat be imatetunall!
.innpauable batnm or th l  of man diadbtd dftintiom and wamgts med by dimut oumatne in colkcting the data. The dcla ar nonemheltes. uaerul so
data ordes dormaghud indiri wtfd.and ehatrdic gnal tjor dWranm  bawan cmutrin
Tp raare  potWae ag11 tI  mm countr group idrth  baa coumnry nd a 21 a country roup with isiwhai higher average inmnri mtaln the crusnryt
grouperth subjc country(expt roeHigh liomeOil Epotms"grupwhere"Middle Ime Nrnth AfriLa and Middkl Eaat"i mosdienheoam   enl'strngr |
sacto-urelttal  lm . In then etate. group datn the mwngs, t populatoen weighted ashiteauc means or each indicator and ihown only when iajuLity
otthe countnu In g roup ha dae foe tr at Indiator. Sim the coverageoco anto raman  the indcators depends on the availability ofdata and . not uniform.
oaion muit be c  d In rela  usag. or one indicater to another. Thes avera  are oly ael in comparing the valu of one indicatw at d sanm among
the country and re f     groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                             Cr &    tA RtWe(per 1oed) - Number of live births in the year
Taru-Total surfacezareacomprisingland areuand inland watrs.        per thouasnd of mnd-year population: 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1953 data.                                          Crude Deth Awe (per th macad)- Number ofdeaths in the year
Agluewhm'al-Estisate of agricultural area used temporarily or      per thousand or mid-year population; 190. 1970. and 1913 data.
persmanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gnrs Repewdml Rate-Avcrage number ofdaughers a wvoman
lie fallow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                              wdil bar in her normal reproductre period if she eaperiences
present age-pecific fertility rates, usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1933.
market prices. calculated by same conversion method as l0rld      Fdy flhaiq-Acteprers. Agmuat (lhsazuead%j  4nnual nunit
Banik Alias 11931-83 basis); 1953 data,                                f aLceptors ol binh-control devaL.e unJer auspite of unational
ENERCY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual appiarent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary cnergy (coal and !ignite.        Fad/yPlamuiug-V rs (pfe4rte    efemajrdisnseaj  Theper,en
petroleum. natural ps and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal eec-     tagr of married women oarchild-bearing age ishu atc practicing or
tncity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita. 19b0. 1970. and  whose husbands ar practicing any form of .nirarcpornr. Wnomcn
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are generally wonen aged 1549. although lor
some countries contraceptive usage is mcasured tat attics igc
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                    groups.
Tand pW1fdtia. Mid-Yews husd)-AsofJuly 1; 1960 1970.              FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1933 data.
(krl_apiau (peaeut f tee)f-- Ratio of urban to total               ln*refFisdFrdmtre1nPerCiapt(1*9-71100)  lndeso.fpe
population: different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  capita annual production of all loud coimmodittes. Prodiuction
population-. O difcam g definitrios of6 urban  amas  1983 datea compar  excludes animal feed and seed for alratulture  oad o cmmodities
ability of data samng counies; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.          include primary commodities leg. suparcane instead of suBizs
_puuti- e  Pejeies                                                 which are edible and contain nutrients le.g colfcc and tea are
Populatwo nll year 2000-The projection of population for t00xr.   exduded): they -omprise cereal'. root crops. pulse. oil see.
made for each economy scparately. Starting with information on     vegetables, fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. l,iestiock and
total population by age and sex fertility rates mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate producLtion of each counttr is based
international rmigrtion in the base year 1980. these parameters   on national average producer prLse weights; 1461-65. 197't. and
wre  projected at five-year intervals on die basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                Pe rCW.  Supplyo fCkres 'pwtf efrqaire.se            ('omput-
S:auoanary poplarwui-ls one in which agc- and sex-specific rnor-  ed from calocrie equivalent of net food supplies availablein- cuntry
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Avaiable supplies coniprise donmesic produi.-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  lion. imports less exports. and chnges in stock  Net suppies
(net reproduction rate-I). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quanttiLies used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also    food processing. and losses in distribution  Requiremenis were
constant. and the growth rate is zero The stationary population    estimated by FAO based on physological need. fior normal acsisi.
size was estimated on the basis of the projccted charactenstics of  and health considenng environmental temperature. hbdy vwesight.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distnbution of population, and allowing If prc-ent lI;r
ate to replacement level.                                          wasle at household level: 1961. 1Q71) and 19142 dAta
Popdaminn Mae,nusrt-ls the tendency for population growth to      Per Capa Supply of hafe/u (raat per day-  lPrwteal .:nlcnl ..I
continue beyond the time that replacent-level fertility has been   percapitanctsuppl oflfood perday Net!supplI "I tod ti* dehnaeJ
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requiremenms lIr all countne' esabhlished hi I SDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year : is measured as  provide for minimum allowa nce. of hU grants of ti' p p ssl ci r1e:
a ratio of the ultimate stanonary population to the population in  da) and 2u granis of anrnal and pulw prote us. .  % lwich toi ,an.-
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains as replace-  should be anmmal protein. These standard. are loLt hianu th;se ol
xnenl level from year t onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams oif an.nt.l prticin as an
Aleplstait   Densiry                                               average for the world. pnrposed by FAQ in the Third World IJ ...!
Per sqkns.-Mid-year population per square kilometer 110 he-       Supply. t9bil. 1970 and 1982 data
tares) of total aret 1960. 1970. and 19B3 data.                    PerCaps. hPoeu rSupply 1     A/imaaiFaPls- Proteinsupph
Per sq.kma. agrkkurallad-Computed as above for agricultt ral      offood derived fnm animals and pulse. in gramsper day. 1Yil .65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
PAp_krion Age Siwremw  (percrt)r-- Children (0-14 years). work-    Ch  (ages 1-J Deat Rate  sper       td Nmlser to 1d.in' .iin-
ing agew  5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as perentaLge  children aged 14 wears per thousand childretn in the s3me agc
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 group in a gsen vear For most dcseloping coltiutrie. d.It.J enicd
APuurio Grwtk Rare (percent)--teal-Annual growth rates of          from life t.hale; 1Q60. 1970 and 1913 data
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83        HEALI
IpS riem  Growt Pate (peraeafr)l--- rhm- Annual growth rates       Life Expestarny at 5/nh (yea;  Number of *ear, a neLbomr
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970493 data.        infant would late If presAiling patterms of morialitr ior all pkople



-31-
Annex I
Page 4 of 7
at the time oro its birth wme to sty the smue througbout its life;  Pulp-seacher Ratio -primary, and secondery-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      rolled in primary  nd secondary levels divided by numbers or
1lt-f Maealty Awe  ert hmusaaid)-Number of infiant who die     teachers in the corsponding klvs.
before reaching one year of ce per tbousand live births in a given
year; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                 CONSUMPflON
Aces to Se We (pcw i pqpdi.kin)-rn4s, wrihm. aod                Paaseer Caws (per uomad papulad.nji- -Plassengei can aim-
ruraL-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable  prism motor cors sating les than eight persons: excludes amnbul-
acn to safe water supply (includes traed surface waters or     ances, bharse and military vehiclea
untnated but uncontaminad water such  s that rrom protected    Rngp Reee'es (pgr dhesmdpepdlatan)-Al types of rceivers
borehoks, springs and sanitary weis) as percentages of their respec-  for radio broadcast to generl public per thousand of population;
tive popuations. In an urban area a publi fountain or standposi  cxdudes un-lked receivers in countries and in )ears when
located not nore than 200 meters from a house may be consd     registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rurl areas  not be comparable since most countries abolished lcensing
reasonable acorn would imply that the housewife or members or the TVRcves(nAuipubii-Trciesfobodat
bouslhold donot have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  ToRenera  l publcJp   TVthousandpopulat   elre sufnlcesddcst
in fetching the family's water neds.                           to gnral pubic per thousan population exdudes unlensed TV
As to Exaer Disposal( t   Cf pJ            nrerel, vrJ_,       receivers in countries and in years when registration of r sets was
and Nrua-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  '"lp9r CnSsii (per thousand papilainmI- Shonvw  te ass'-
Eacreta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation or "daily general interect newspaper.' denisa  a a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water b; water-  penodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations  I t is considered to be -daily" if it appears at least four times a week
Ptpl.ui  per Phpsidan-Pbpulalaon divided by number of prac-    Came  Annual Attendance per Ca'pit per Year-- Bated tn the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at universils Ievel  number of tickets sold during the year. induding admisbions to
tp.iti.n per Naiag Persoa-Population divided by number of      drive-in cnema and mobil units
practicing male and femakl graduate nurses. assistant nurs     L       FO
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                       LABOR FORCE
pmleion per HRaspe  Red-oal. rebl, amna rual Population         Total Labor Fom _rc housnnh-Economically active persons. in-
(total urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding arned forces and unemployed but exclading housewives.
hospital beds available in public and private. general and specialized  students.  tiL . iovereng populaaon le  a1l ag97. Definitiond in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are estabhshments  vanouscountriesarenot compambk: vW.1970and l9b3data
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishmnents prov-  Femal (perreri-Fenale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included Rural hospitals.    force
however. include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  A.4ulrr epervent)--Labor force in larming. (orestai  hnatinr
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse. midwtle. etc.;    and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and lItNU
which offer in-patient aorommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities                                          Jiulsry (percen)- Labtr force in miniig. contruitinti.  ...
Adissions per Hospitl hF-Total number of admissions to or      t:acturing and electricity. water and gas as percentdye 01 tOiial lbr
discharges from hospitals divided bv the number of beds.        force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Prripon Rte (percentj-rtal, mk indfjkl-4'articspation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total. male. and female Labor force
A_era  Si:e of Houhol 'pers   p  erhKeod k-tore. urban,        as percentages of total. male and femak population of all ages
adrural-A household consists of a group orindividuals who 'hare  respectivdy: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflectingage-sea structureofthepopulation. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposeo  long time trend. A few estimates are from natioaml sourcs
AveWe Number of Pmsez per Roem-_erel,. urba. ad rural          Economi Drpedency Ran' - -Rato or population under .  and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64j
occupied conventional dweflings. respectively. Dwellintgs excude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percenta  of Dwellgs wik Elect riircty-torl, urbnx. and rural  Peremage of Total Disposbke Iner (both in ctwh and Lind)
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quaners as percen-  Accruing IO percentile gnrups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectivel)         hold income
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjusted Eurolbrupen Ratios                                    The following estimates are verv approximate measures iii poci ty1
Primorn school - total. male and fenale -Gross total, male and  levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution
female enrollment of aU ages at the pnmary level as percentages cif  Estimated Ab6olae Poventy Incouw Levl (si per capita)- -urban
respective pnmary school-age populations. While mans .untries  and rual -Absoluse poverty income level is that income lesel
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not The  belou  which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in couctry practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estted Relative Poverry lncome Levl (SS per eaparaj_-rban
education. gross enrollment may exceed IW  percent since some  sa  rural -Rural relative poverty incom  tesel is one-shirJ ol
pupils are below or above the country's standard pnmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country Urban levcl is
age.                                                           denved from the rural Ictel with adiutmcnt fo r higher ,.-l 'of
Scondary school - rotal. nwaf and lrnialr -Computed ds above.  living in urban areas
scondary education requires at least four years of appio%ed pri-  Ested Pepntion Bedow Absotwe Porrte Income Lerel (per-
marv instrction: provides general. vocatonal, or teacher training  ces r)-urbai and rral- PNrcent of poputlation ( urban and rural
instructions for pupils usuaDy of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are -absolute poor."
ence rourses are generally excluded
iaooatnwial Erafllnenr (perrentt wl #- arnri-- -Vocational uii%tiu-       t omparativc Aniat'qs ae Daita Dnision
tions include techncal. industrial. or othe programs which toperatc    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departmenb of secondary institutions                                June 19xS



- 32 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 7
lopulatia    t t.019 mille. (tid-I"83)
CIW per capitat $300 tl9S3)
0am   - ECO ONZC ZIDICATORS
AlvSt - 16                              Annual dmeah rates (2)
Inilatr  Lon       at        Actual                                     Projected
Indicator                  cumat pftme)lb 1980  1981   19U2  1983   198/a  198S    19116    196T    1989    1989    19W0
PATNLACCOUNT /a
Cree, deomttc product         281,260      6.6   4.9   7.8   9.6  14.0    10.4          6.3      6.8      6.8    6.8       6.6
Artculture                  100,430     -1.7   6.4  LI.2   9.G  13.9         6.0      4.9      4.9      4.9    4.9       4.9
Induatty                    12S,010     12.3   2.3   7.3  11.4  16.6    14.0          7.7      7.7      7.7    7.7       7.7
Seryice                      55,820      J.2   8.9   3.3   6.5   7.7    10.0          7.9      7.9      7.9    7.9       7.9
Coua'emt ee                   193.190      9.1   5.2   5.9   9.0  12.5    12.5          8.9      7.4      7.      T 7.4    7.1
Cee Laetmnt                    63,100      1.3  -1.3   10.9  t5.2  20.7    11.0         2.3      4.8       4.8    5.1      5.7
Emofta 01 cmUS Is              26.720     17.3  16.7   0.6   9.5  13.0         3.0      3.9      8.8       8.8    38 .      .8
!wortsof CU175 7;              26,750     16.1  -6.7  -5.7  28.1  25.9    43.1          0.0      5.8      5.9    6.0       6.2
Creaw matioal savt             85,370     -0.2   3.6  17.0  12.0  17.0         5.0      2.4      5.1       5.1    5.6      6.2
PRICES
5D7ieflator (l980 - 100)                  100.0  101.3  101.7  102.9  107.6   113.1   118.7   124.7   131.0   137.5    14.4
ichen, rate (han/US)                      1.50   1.70   1.39   1.91   2.32    2.4      2.84     2.U4    2.84    2.34    2.94
Share of CDP at iadut prices (S)                Aeap amuttl increase (C)
' at current wScas)                       (et constant 1931 t ie.)
1960  1970  197 t 1W30  195   1990         1960-70  1970-IS 1975-g0   930-4  198349  19I -9
CrGM  dogtic ptoduct la       100.0  100.0 100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0       6.1      5.2     6.6      9.0      7.3      6.6
AgrScltura                   23.0  35.0  32.1  32.0  34.2  31.3           6.7      3.4      3.3    10.1      5.0      4.8
ladutrty                     48.0  41.0  45.8  48.0  47.9  49.9           7.8      7.5     9.9      9.4      8.6      7.4
Serfices                     29.0  24.0  21.4  20.0  17.9  18.8           3.4      4.5      5.4     6.6      8.2      7.5
Conamp"tia                     62.4  70.3  69.1  71.3  66.7  69.3           6.1      4.7      6.4     8.1      8.4    .6.8
CreGs immeatut                 37.8  29.2  31.1  30.0  34.4  30.9           9.5      6.9     9.7    11.3       5.1      6.1
Exportc of cmNS                 4.8   2.8   5.3   7.1   7.7   8.5          -1.5    10.8      5.7    12.3       6.0      7.7
Imorts of CUPS                  5.0   2.7   5.5   6.4   3.3   8.6           1.2    13.9    13.0    12.2        8.4      7.4
CrVe  natiSnl  aViokgs         37.7  29.2  30.9  28.9  33.6  30.7           0.1      6.7      7.2    14.0      4.8      4.2
As 2 of GDP
19S7          1970           1a80          1933       ;j19
PIIAC FINANCE
Current reven                                    28.7          29.6           30.6          27.8           26.7
Cnrr,t expenditures                              15.1           15.7          23.1          21.6           20.1
Surplue (t) or deficit (-)                      .13.6          443.9          +7.5          4S.2           +56.
Capital expenditure                              13.7           13.3          11.0           7.S            8.2
ForeiSg  financing                                0.7            n.&.          0.5           0.2            0.3
1960-70    1970-75    19750       t960-4      19834-9     1989-94
OTHER3 INDICATORS
GNP growth racc (Z)                              6.1         5.1        S.4          9.2        7.2        6.V.
CUP per capita growth rate (2)                   3.5         Z.9        5.2          7.9       6.1         5.5
aeqr consuption *ravth rate (2)                 -0.3         9.Z        5.8          4.1       5.3         4.8
SCOit                                            3.3        4.7         5.1          3.8       4.0         4.6
Kargiml avingi rate                              0.4         0.4        0.3          0.3       0.2         0.3
Import elaticLty                                 0.2        2.7         2.0          1.4       1.1         1.2
/a  Date for 1981 and 1982 are fms dlfferent soucces; data for 1982 exclude re-exportr.
East Asia and PacLfic Rgional Office
Pebra ry 7. 1915



-33-                                                 ANNEX  I
ftpulatio.       1.019 qtlLion (mid-1953)                                                                    Page 6 of 7
CUP per capita:  5300 (1983)
CHINA - EXTmNAL TRADE
Amnt - 1gu4                  Annual xrowth ate.e (2) (at conscant PriLe.)
(millon U19$ at                        ActuaL                        Plcted
current prices)       1960      1981     1982    1963    1984       19       1990
XIENML TAOM  a
Murchandls *aportu                       25.020             14.3     17.3      5.5    10.1     10.4      2.5      8.7
Primry                                 11.410             1.5    -1.4       3.9    14.6       9.6      3.3      6.8
Iaaufactur.                            13,610            32.2      36.2     6.6      7.0     11.1      2.4    10.4
tbrchadil  lmports                     26,740              6.8      7.2       0.2    29.7    Z2.3    47.1        6.2
1o00                                    2.330             9.1    66.3    42.9   -30.9   -24.9         14.4      7.1
fenrolet                                  130            52.6   -65.5   130.0   -43.5    30.6          0.0    35.3
lhch.rZry and equipmet                  8.420             16.4     19.0   -41.7    34.7    82.3    58.2          5.1
Others                                 15.860             0.9   -13.5        7.1    71.7    16.6       19.9      6.3
RICES
t prVce index (1980-100)                                   100.0    102.7    98.7    88.5    90.5    88.0   126.0
Tmport price indes (1980-100)                             100.0    104.5    89.2    76.7    78.4    77.3   112.0
Mono of trade indtz (1980-100)                             100.0    98.3    110.7   115.8    115.4    113.8    112.5
Co.poastio  of mrchandise trade (Z)                 Average annal increse (X)
(at current urlceO)                            (at coneat  prices)
L976       19561       194        1990       L980-64          1964-              1989-94
Exports                        100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0       10.8              7.9                7.6
Primry                        53.4        46.6       45.6       42.1         6.7              6..                6.1
Nafacture                     46.6        53.4        54.4       57.9       15.2              9.4                8.2
Imorts                        100.0        100.0      100.0      100.0       t5.9               8.5                7.5
rood                          12.8        17.4        8.7        9.7        13.9              8.9                8.5
fItrolem                      0.5         0.4         0.5        0.9    t3.0                 17.2                16.1
-3chlery and equipmnt        18.9        29.2        31.5       33.3       23.6             12.0                6.8
Others                        67.9        53.0       59.3        56.1       20.5              6.7                7.5
Share of trade with        Share of trade with       Share of trade with
industrial                developLng                the USSR and
-coutrle (2) 19countrIes (2)                      Essscarn buoP(x
I_  1980    I~83     1977    L980     1983    T977r         ig980 198_   _     __3
DIRECTON of TRDE
Exports                                  36.4    44.7    42.1    46.8    48.7    53.2          16.8      6.6      4.7
imports                                  63.1    73.6    69.0       20.7     L9.7    24.5    16.2        6.7      6.5
/a Based on customs staistice. Exporct. f.o.b.. imports, c..f.
E1at Asia and PacLfic Regional Office
November 22, 1985



ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7
Popieltion    :   ,O19 dillion (uid-19S3)
CII per capita:  5300 (1983)
CN!I1A - VALANCE OF PAYRENTS. ",'Tr,,A  CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions or USS a  currnt prices)
Actual                                   Prolected
Indicator                                      1978    1979    1980    1981        19U2       1983       1964         A       1990
3ALAMCZ OF PAYNKUTS
ExPoret of goods ad d nontfctor services  10.370  14.983  20.324  24,423    23.637    23,166    26.716           26,840   58.590
Of whicht  lMrchmndise f.o.b. /a          9,607  13,658  18.492  22.027    21,125    20,707    23,905          23,900   52,130
mpaorts of good. and nonfactor s-rvicte    11.665  17,759  24.058  23.446    18,900    20.711    26.748          38,290   63.180
Of whlch:  Merchbadise f.o.b. Ia          10,745  16,212  22.049  21,047    16,676    185717    23,890         35,150   56.950
lit factor incoms from abroad                   -8     -77    -117    -200         452      1.253      1,6Z0      1,140      -850
Not traasfer.                                  597     656      640     464        530        436       304         300       300
Carrent account balance                      -709  -2,197  -3,211   1,241        5,719      4,164      1,692    -10,010   -5,140
ricvae, dtrect lnve*t_nt (net)                   -       -       57     265        430        636     1.100       1. 65'    1.950
Official grant aid (not)                         -       -       21     156        -44         75        137        140       140
-.LT loan. (net]                               549   3.515   1.069       310       301       _927       -145          0    4,450
Diabursematn                                 549   3.895   1.670   1.659       2.481     1.600       715         950    6.390
Aaortiatlon                                    -      80      601   1.348      2.180        673       863         950    1,940
Other capital /b                             -628  -1.021   2,455       -47       -115    -1.672    -2.889        2,330         -
Oange in reserves
(w-n lndlcating increase)                   768    -597    -391  -1,925    -6.291    -1,130           -95       5,690   -1,400
International reservea                      6.677   7.274   7.665   9,590    15.861    20011    20.106          14,220   23,500
Of wbich:  Gold Ie                        5.120   5.120   5,t20   5.120        5.120      5,120     5.120       5.120    5,120
Rserves as soncha of imports                  6.2      4.5      3.5     4.8       10.1       11.7       9.1         4.5       4.2
EXTUiWUL CAPITAL AIM DEBT /d
Gross disburseamnt
Offticil  grants
Concers ioal loans                            .
nDA                                           
Other                                      ..       ..       ..      ..
Nooconcessional loans
Official exporr credits                     .       ..       ..      .*
Otbaraltlt.m                               ..       ..       ..      ..         .          ..
othabr ultlaterel
Private                                     .       .        -       .
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed               549   4.364   5.433   5,261       5,562     6,397      6.340
Official
Private .l
UndLsburse4 debt
Debt serviee
Total service payments
Interest
Pay mts as X of exports                     0.4      2.7     6.3      9.0       11.4        .9        5.0
Average *ntereat rate of nw loana (I)            -       -        -       -          -          -         -
Average saturicy of new loans (yceas)           -        -        -       -          -          -
/a  Dtac  for 1978-81 are not comparable with chose of 198Z-85 bacause of a dtfference in their sources.  The latter exclude
re-exporta.
/b Includes net use oU WM credit and net flow of shor:-term capital.
7c- Valued at USS40O2troy ounce.
7d- Excludes short-tern loans (one year or lems).
East Asia and Paciftc Regional Office
November 22. 1985



-35 -                                              ANNX r
STATUS OF DANK ROUP nPEUATIONS IN THE PmOPLE'S REPIILIC or CHINA
A.  STATEMFNT OF UNK LOANS AND IDA CREDITB
(as of March 31. 1936)
Loan or                                                                                   11SS dillton
Credit                                                                           Amount (lear  cancellationa)
Number   eYar  horrouer                       Purpose                             aRnk     IDA    Undiuburued/a
2021/1167    1981  People's Republic of China  UniveraLty Devalopnant               100.0    100.0         10.5
1261    1532  People's Republic of China  North China Plain Agriculture           -      60.0        15.2
2207    1982  People's Republic of China  Three Ports                           69.0        -        21.9
1297    19R2  People's Republic of China  Agric. Education & Research             -      75.4        17.9
2226t1313    1912  Peoples Republic of China  Industrial Credit                      40.6      30.0       26.5
2231    1983  People's Republic of China  Daqing Pftroleum                     162.4       -         67.S
2252    1983  People's Republic of China  Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum           100.        -         66.2
2261/1347    1983  People's Republic of China  Ieilonjiiang Land Reclamation         25.3      45.0       13.4
1411    1903  People's Republic of China  Polytechnic/TV University               -      55.0        45.1
1412    1983  People's Republic of China  Technical Cooperation                   -      10.0         4.7
1417    1984  People's Republic of China  Rubber Development                      -     100.0        54.R
2382    1984  People's Republic of China  Lubuge Hydroelectric                 145.4       -        114.1
2194    1934  People's Republic of China  Railway                              220.0       -        117.0
1462    1984  People's Republic of China  Rural Credit                            -      50.0        33.1
1472    19M4  People's Republic of China  Rural Health & Medical Edue.            -      55.0        55.0
2426    1984  People's Republic of China  Karamay Petroleum                     99.5       -         77.7
2434/1491    1934  Peoole's Republic of China  Second Industrial Credit             105.n      7n.n      131.1
2444/1500    2984  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Eduuction         45.3      21.5       35.7
1516    1934  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Research            -      25.0        15.4
1551    1985  People's Republic of China  Second University Development           -     145.n       159.7
2493    1985  People's Republic of China  Second Power                         117.0       -        111.1
2501    1935  People's Republic of China  Changeun (Luen) Coal Miniug          126.0       -        123.4
1557    1935  People's Republic of China  Seeds                                   -      4n.0        43.0
1578    1985  People's Republic of China  Rural Water Supply                      -      8n.0        90.2
2539/1594    19R5  'eople's Repuhlic of China  lighwsy                               42.6      30.0       65.q
2540    1985  People's Republic of China  Second Railvay                       235.0       -        235.n
2542    1935  People's Republic of China  Fertilizer Rehabilitation and         97.0        -        96.5
Energy Saving
1605    19M5  People's Pepublic of China  Forestry Development                    -      47.1        49.1
2579/1606    1985  People's Republic of China  Pishihang-Chaobu Area Development  17.0         75.0       98.5
25RO    1q85  People's Repuhlic of China  Wetyuan GCa  Field Technical          25.0       -         25.0
Assestance
1642/b  1986  People's Republic of China  Second Rural Credit                     -      9O.0        90.o
2659/16637b  1986  People'a Republic of China  Third Industrial Credit               75.0      25.0      100.0
1664/b  1986  People's Republic of China  Second Technical Cooperation            -      20.0        20.0
167ibi  1986  People's Republic of China  Provincial Universtties                 -     120.0       120.0
Total                                                                             1,847.9  1.431.2
Total now held by Dank end IDA                                                    1,847.9  1,431.2
Total Undisbursed                                                                 1,317.3  1.019.S    2,357.6
S. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMFNTS
(as of March 31, 1936)
Amount in USS million
Year    Obligor                                     tvve of business               Loan     Equity      Total
198     Cuangzhou and Peugeot Automobile Co.        Automobile                       15.0      2.n        17.n
To al Gross Commitments                                                              15.0       2.0       17.0
Liss cancellations. terminations,
repayment and sales                                                                   -        -           -
rctal Commitments now held by IFC                                                    15.0       2.0       17.0
Total tlndisbursed                                                                   15.0       2.n       17.0
/a  As credits are denominated in SnRs (since IDA Replenishment VI). undisbursed SDR credit balances are con-
verted to dollars at the current exchange rate between the dollar and the SDR.  In some cases, therefore.
the undisbursed balance indicates a dollar amount greater than the original principal credit amount
expressed In dollars.
/b Not yet effective.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A Is described in a sepsrate report on all Bank/InA financitl
projects in execution, vhich is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 and October 31.



36 -                            ANNEX III
Page 1
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Supplementary Proiect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare project:    5 years
(b)  The project was prepared by:                       GEPB and GIDI
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:            September 1984
(d)  Date of first mission to consider the project:   March 1985
(e)  Appraisal mission:                                 November 1985
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                        April 1986
(g)  Planned loan effectiveness:                        August 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) GEPB and the Government would implement a training program
acceptable to the Bank (para. 77);
(b) GEPB would furnish to the Bank annually a rolling financial plan
containing forecast income statements, sources and uses of funds,
and balance sheets for the next five years (para. 86);
(c) GEPB would take measures, including increasing its tari+fs, to
ensure that operating revenues are sufficient to meet the aggregate
of costs directly chargeable to operations, debt repayment, income
tax, required allocations from net income to special funds for
employee benefits, and capitalized interest during construction
required to be met from net income (para. 89);
(d) GEPB would incur additional debt only if a reasonable fc:ecast of
its revenues and expenditures indicates that internal cash genera-
tion would provide debt service coverage of at least 1.3 (para. 90);
(e) The Government would carry out or cause to be carried out a
resettlement program satisfactory to the Bank (pera. 98); and
(f) GEPB would carry out a program acceptable to the Bank to improve
public health in the reservoir area (para. 98).



AIBRD 19478
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT                 ..                           GUIZHOU                                          7
or             GUANGXI PROVINCE                              GUIZ1OU                                          .j oj a...
, coL- a m / < / / 1 s l , _  J  /5   oo9.-o{   !             HUNAN
~~~~~~~~~~/  ,j -, A  aO,o -oo      .,r7  ttl 
as -  -             -- -X -t 0f                                                       <2                 -e~  - -      / 
!4             T0.ooo.f.             i    <     <           I  %1 I                        Moumflo.    NA0    ""'        -.... 
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
)/J    Wy    jB                     TMW-  ei.s W -                        C'H.
YUNNAN   'f--       ) '1BEr .4-1-5< L _> 4 r 
_____e y ~~-o   '. ,                      V       HL;, A   --- - -  *a-    -  i
\  >i                         7b  \g          /   
~~~~' A ra~~~~~~~~                                            %t.. A       DV eb    la  eiuWn;.-                   aia   
VUNA                     n                 AA.2r     tIaErs,_   -  
W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                     :1_  _ 
.~~~~~~ 2K,s  F o a a t a ,so\!.^sI






