Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14773
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2707-CHA)
JUNE 30, 1995
Industry and Energy Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Yuan (Y)
At Appraisal (November 1985) $1 = Y 3.0
Exchange Rates During Project Years
Year Ave.
1986                    3.46
1987                    3.73
1988                    3.73
1989                    3.73
1990                    4.86
1991                    5.36
1992                    5.49
1993                    5.75
1994                    8.60
VWEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGN           -  Advisory Group of Norway
EMMP          -  Environmental Monitoring and Management Program
GEPB          -  Guangxi Electric Power Bureau
GEPIDI        -  Guangxi Electric Power Investigation and Design Institute
GHCB          -  Guangxi Hydroelectric Construction Bureau
GIS           -  (Gas Insulated Switchgear
GRO           -  Guangxi Resettlement Office
GYHPCC        -  Guangxi Yantan Hydroelectric Project Construction Corporation
ICB           -  International Competitive Bidding
ICR           -  Implementation Completion Report
IERR          -  Internal Economic Rate of Return
Longtan       -  The (proposed) Longtan Hydroelectric Project
LRAIC         -  Long-Run Average Incremental Cost
SBC           -  Special Board of Consultants
SCEPA         -  South China Electric Power Administration
SCEP          -  South China Electric Power Joint Venture Corporation
TSQ           -  Tienshengqiao Hydroelectric Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Preface       ...........................................                                        i
Evaluation Summary   .....................................    ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives  ..................................                                   1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives.                                                       3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project  ...                ...    3
D. Project Sustainability .................................    8
E. Bank Performance  ..................................    9
F. Borrower Performance .................    .....    9
G. Assessment of Outcome  ...............................   10
H. Future Operation  ...................................   10
I.  Key Lessons Learned   ................................   10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment ........................   12
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans ...........................   14
Table 3:  Project Timetable  ............................   17
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ... ..   17
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation  .............   18
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .................   19
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .......................   19
Table 8a: Project Costs ...............................   20
Table 8b: Project Financing  ............................   21
Table 8c: Actual and Projected Project Costs ..................   22
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits  .....................   23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants  .......................   25
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  ...                 ......   27
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .....................  27
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .......................   28
ANNEX  1: Projected and Actual Financial Statements of GEPB  ...                   ........   29
ANNEX 2: Project Review from  the Borrower's Perspective .............   33
ANNEX 3: Aide-Memoire for Completion Mission  ..................   37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2707-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Yantan
Hydroelectric Project in China for which Loan 2707-CHA in the amount of $52 million
was approved on May 29, 1986 and made effective on August 27, 1986.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1994, one year beyond the date originally
envisaged. Final disbursement was made on October 28, 1994 when the balance of the
loan, $60,894.11, was canceled. Cofinancing for the project in the amount of NK 18
million was provided by the Government of Norway.
The ICR was prepared by Barry Trembath, Industry and Energy Operations
Division, China and Mongolia Department of East Asia and Pacific Region, with
contributions from Robert Crooks, Alice Huang and Martin ter Woort (consultants). It
was reviewed by Mr. Richard Newfarmer, Division Chief, and Mr. Yo Kimura, Project
Advisor. The borrower/beneficiary provided comments, which are included as an annex
to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission in
April 1995. It is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Project Agreements,
Supervision Reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower/Beneficiary,
internal Bank memoranda and interviews with Bank and Borrower/Beneficiary staff
involved in project implementation.  The Borrower/Beneficiary contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by preparing their own evaluation report of the project's execution
and implementation, and by providing comments on the draft Bank ICR, which were
incorporated in the final version.






- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2707-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.          The objectives of the project were to: (a) help address the acute energy
shortage in Guangxi autonomous region and Guangdong province through the cascade
development of the Hongshui River; (b) promote interconnection within the South China
grid; (c) help build relations with GEPB and the regional authority, South China Electric
Power Administration (SCEPA), with whom the Bank expected to collaborate on future
projects; (d) provide transfer of technology in dam design and construction; and
(e) upgrade financial planning and management practices in the electricity subsector.
Additional implied objectives were those of financial, environmental and social
sustainability.
2.          The project comprised:  (a) construction of the Yantan hydroelectric
development consisting of a 110 m high concrete gravity dam with associated spillway,
shiplift and powerhouse with an installed capacity of 1,100 MW; (b) 500 kV transmission
lines and associated substations; (c) consulting services for construction management;
training of GEPB staff and government officials in financial practices; and (d) resettlement
of the reservoir population, involving relocation and reestablishment of living standard of
an estimated 36,435 persons, in 423 villages.
3.          The loan amount of $52 million represented 5 percent of overall project cost,
and was small compared to other China power loans ($225 million for a thermal power
plant approved on the same day). Nevertheless, the project objectives supported both
Government objectives and Bank strategy for the power sector (paras. 5-7). They were
important, and remain important today, given the juxtaposition in South China of energy
resource-rich inland provinces and fast-growing coastal provinces and the concomitant
opportunities for synergistic development. The financial and institutional development
objectives helped to lay the groundwork for the more ambitious commercialization
objectives of present day power projects in China.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.          The project achieved its primary objective of supporting economic growth
through development of an important indigenous resource. Despite modest implementation
delays, the original conclusion that Yantan was part of the least-cost expansion plan is
confirmed. The Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) is also greater than originally



- 111 -
estimated because "willingness to pay" for power is demonstrably higher than original
estimates. Both transfer of technology and institutional development objectives were
achieved, and the good relations established with the power entities in South China are
likely to assist the Bank to continue to positively influence the structure and commercial
orientation of the power sector in South China.
5.          The first generating unit was commissioned in September 1992, three months
behind the appraisal schedule. The next three units were commissioned five to nine
months behind schedule. The main reason for the delays was the late delivery of the main
components of the turbines, due to the heavy commitments of the supplier, the technical
difficulties associated with large units (among the world's largest) and the lack of
experience in manufacturing such large machines.
6.          With regard to final costs in comparison to those estimated at appraisal,
there was a cost underrun of about 22 percent when expressed in US dollars and a cost
overrun of about 38 percent when expressed in local currency. These variations are due
to the higher than expected inflation in China and the devaluation of local currency from
an exchange rate of Y 3.0 to $1 at the time of appraisal to Y 8.5 to $1 by the end of 1994.
If actual expenditures are deescalated to the appraisal date, then overall costs are 9 percent
higher than estimated at appraisal (base costs plus physical contingencies). This represents
relatively good agreement, considering the large local inflation during the period, which
may be imperfectly estimated by the Consumer Price Index at the national level.
7-.         The resettlement task proved to be more extensive than originally foreseen.
It has taken 10 years and still is not completed since two out of three relocatees have not
fully reestablished economically. However, aggressive interim measures are being taken
to support living standard until incomes are fully restored. The situation should improve
significantly in the next few years as newly planted orchards reach production and
experience with fish cages results in sustainable production. Ultimately, 43,176 persons
were physically relocated and new production arrangements found for 62,430 persons
(compared to the 36,435 originally estimated).
8.          All elements are present to ensure sustainability of the project. The power
plant is of good quality, and efficient and economic operations are expected to continue,
based on the established operation and maintenance arrangements and operating experience
to date. The pricing arrangements for the plant output will ensure satisfactory financial
and economic returns. On the institutional side, the tide of economic reform in China is
creating expectations far beyond those at appraisal. With regard to resettlement, while
income targets have not yet been met, it is expected to become fully sustainable within a
few years, as the economic base is fully reestablished. The Environmental Monitoring and
Management Program (EMMP) is sustainable given that it was designed and implemented
without requiring any influence from the Bank, together with the fact that such programs
are standard operational procedure on large dams in China.
9.          Bank performance overall was satisfactory. There were some particularly
positive aspects during project preparation and appraisal and, with hindsight, a few



- iv -
negative aspects. Supervision was satisfactory. GEPB successfully completed the project
with only modest cost and time overruns. It overcame problems as they arose, introduced
and absorbed modem technologies, and took full advantage of the training opportunities.
Yantan was one of the first projects implemented under the Government's construction
industry reform measures, which provided for separation of owner, designer and
construction manager, and competitive bidding. The various parties adapted well to their
new roles and responsibilities.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
10.         The objectives of the project were consistent with those of the Chinese
Government and the Bank and the project achieved its major objectives. Commissioning
delays up to nine months and the fact that income has not yet been fully reestablished are
the only areas where objectives have not been fully achieved. The project is rated as
satisfactory and is considered to be sustainable in all areas.
11.         The Project Operation Plan provides for future power plant operation and
maintenance and environmental monitoring. With regard to resettlement, production
development is continuing, grain subsidies are being provided until income targets are met
and reservoir development financed from power plant revenue will continue in perpetuity.
The Bank expects to continue its involvement in South China in connection with the
proposed Longtan Hydroelectric Project (Longtan), which is located upstream of the
Yantan project and will include more ambitious goals for institutional development and
sector commercialization. It will also continue to monitor Yantan operations particularly
in regard to resettlement in connection with the preparation of Longtan.
12.         The key lessons to be learned from this project are:
In a project such as Yantan, which relies heavily on local capabilities, it is
important to guard against overoptimism with respect to these capabilities
in areas where traditional Chinese hydroelectric implementation has not
provided exposure to modem techniques and technology. In the context of
China's rapid economic growth, it is also important to assess the
manufacturing capacity and workload of local suppliers and thus their
capability to deliver on time.
*     In the area of resettlement, the key lesson learned is that for a large
resettlement project such as Yantan, it is important that project preparation
in relation to resettlement be at least as detailed as that of the construction
component.






- 1 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 27076-CHA)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.          The objectives of the project were to: (a) help address the acute energy
shortage in Guangxi autonomous region and Guangdong province through the cascade
development of the Hongshui River; (b) promote interconnection within the South China
grid; (c) help build relations with the Guangxi Electric Power Bureau (GEPB) and the
regional authority, SCEPA, with whom the Bank expected to collaborate on future
projects; (d) provide transfer of technology in dam design and construction; and
(e) upgrade financial planning and management practices in the electricity subsector.
Additional implied objectives were those of financial, environmental and social
sustainability. The Government invited the Bank to participate in the project although
preparatory works had started, in the belief that the Bank could provide technical inputs
in dam design and construction, which were considered to be critical to upgrade the
technical capabilities of GEPB.
2.          The project comprised:
(a)   construction of a 110 m  high concrete gravity dam, a spillway, a
powerhouse and shiplift;
(b)   provision and installation of four generating units, each of 275 MW;I/
(c)   construction of two single circuits of 500 kV transmission lines and three
associated substations;
(d)   provision of about 160 person-months of consulting services for construction
management; and
I/  In August 1986, a decision was made to increase the capacity of each unit to 302.5 MW, bring total
installed capacity to 1,210 MW.



- 2 -
(e)   training of GEPB staff and upgrading of GEPB training facilities, and
training for government officials in financial practices.
3.          The resettlement of the reservoir population was not singled out as a
development objective or project component. However, the detailed resettlement plan
provided for the relocation and reestablishment of living standard of 36,435 persons, in
6,500 households and 423 villages. Due to the lack of replacement land for traditional
agriculture, the plan provided for alternatives such as forestry and orchards developed on
hillslopes. Assurances were obtained from the Government that a satisfactory resettlement
plan would be carried out.
4.          The objectives, as cited in the various project documents, are reasonably
clear. They are also realistic. The loan amount of $52 million represented five percent
of overall project cost, and was small compared to other China power loans (e.g., $225
million for a thermal power plant approved on the same day). Nevertheless, the project
objectives supported both Government objectives and Bank strategy for the power sector
at the time of project appraisal. Government objectives were to modernize the sector,
increase its efficiency and expand it at a rate sufficient to meet the requirements of
economic development. The Government strategy for achieving these objectives included
the following elements which are directly supported by the project: (a) phased increase
in financial autonomy of enterprises; (b) gradual introduction of a more rational pricing
system; (c) introduction of modem techniques in project design; and (d) acceleration of
hydro development and interconnection of remote hydro sites to regions of high economic
growth.
5.          The Bank strategy was to support economic growth through improved
efficiency and economic reform. In the energy sector, technology transfer would be
achieved by bringing the Bank's experience to bear on project design and implementation
with foreign technical assistance where appropriate. Economic reform would be supported
by assisting utilities to rationalize investment decisions through modernization of system
planning, project preparation, construction, operation and utility management. The project
design generally conformed to this strategy.
6.          The objectives of supporting growth, establishing relations with the power
entities and promoting interconnection in South China were important in view of the
juxtaposition in South China of energy resource-rich inland provinces and fast-growing
coastal provinces, which presents obvious opportunities for synergistic development. The
financial and institutional development objectives were in keeping with the status of reform
in the power sector at the time. They were important in that they laid the groundwork for
the more ambitious commercialization objectives of present-day power projects in China.
7.          The project was not complex.  While the main component shared the
complexity of all hydropower projects, it was evidently within the capabilities of GEPB
given their previous hydropower experience, although such projects were constructed to
less demanding schedules and standards than envisaged for Yantan. In retrospect, the
appraisal assessment of risk as being normal for hydropower projects was understated



- 3 -
given the limited technology transfer and technical assistance envisaged and the heavy
reliance on local resources and technology.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.          The project achieved its primary objective of supporting economic growth
through development of an important indigenous resource. Economic and power demand
growth in Guangxi were in line with expectations. Despite implementation delays, the
original conclusion that Yantan was part of the least-cost expansion plan is confirmed. The
Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) is also greater than originally estimated because
"willingness to pay" for power is demonstrably higher than original estimates.
9.          Good relations have been established with GEPB, and the South China
Electric Power Joint Venture Corporation (SCEP), the successor to SCEPA, thus achieving
this objective. The Bank has been cooperating with both entities in the preparation of
Longtan, a major development immediately upstream of Yantan. The Bank is also
discussing with the Government the establishment of a South China power market,
involving Guangxi, Guizhou and Yunnan, which have relatively large energy resources,
and the fast-growing coastal areas of Guangdong, Shenzhen, Fujian, Hainan and, from
1997, Hong Kong.
10.         The transfer of technology objective was also achieved. The imported
material, equipment and services financed by the Bank loan were vital to the construction
of the project in accordance with the appraisal schedule, which was one year faster than
originally envisaged by the Government. Goods financed included specialized steel
products, large construction equipment and sophisticated electrical and electronic
equipment. The consulting services were particularly useful in construction planning and
quality control. The Special Board of Consultants (SBC) positively contributed to the
execution of the project in terms of cost, quality and completion time.
11.         The institutional development objective was achieved in that the envisaged
training programs were all successfully implemented, and the organizations created to
manage and construct the project grew into substantial entities in their own right.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Inplementation Arrangements
12.         Yantan was one of the first projects implemented under the Government's
construction industry reform measures, which provided for separation of owner, designer
and construction manager, and competitive bidding for most works and goods.
Construction management was entrusted to the Guangxi Yantan Hydropower Construction
Company (GYHPCC). Design was entrusted to the Guangxi Electric Power Investigation
and Design Institute (GEPIDI). While many locally bid contracts were awarded to
suppliers and contractors from outside the province, the contract for dam construction was
awarded to the Guangxi Hydroelectric Construction Bureau (GHCB). Resettlement was



- 4 -
carried out by the Guangxi Resettlement Office (GRO). Consultants were retained to
advise GYHPCC and GEPIDI and a Special Board of Consultants (SBC) was also set up.
Performance of the various parties is discussed in paras. 24 and 25.
Implementation Schedule
13.         The first generating unit was commissioned in September 1992, three months
behind the appraisal schedule. The next two units were commissioned five to six months
behind schedule, and the last unit, to be commissioned in June 1995, will be nine months
behind schedule. Despite early delays, the combined efforts of all parties led to the
generally on-time completion of the dam and powerhouse civil works, except for the
noncritical shiplift, which is designed to handle future rather than current traffic. The
main reason for the delays was the late delivery of the main components (runner and top
cover) of the turbines, due to the heavy commitments of the supplier, the technical
difficulties associated with large units (among the world's largest) and the lack of
experience in such large machines. Because of the overcommitment of the Government
owned supplier, the Government established priorities which caused some delays in Yantan
deliveries.
14.         Delays also occurred in transmission line construction. While transmission
lines were included in the project description, they were not Bank-financed and GEPB
separated them from the project and assigned their implementation to other units. Despite
general transmission delays, temporary arrangements prevented restriction of Yantan output
until the third generating unit was commissioned, when a locally manufactured 500 kV
transformer failed acceptance testing. Corrective measures are underway and a backup
foreign transformer has been ordered, but some loss of output has occurred.
15.         Procurement difficulties (paras. 22 and 23) also caused late delivery of gas
insulated switchgear (GIS). Temporary arrangements were able to prevent delays in
generator commissioning, but it is likely that if the overall commissioning schedule had not
already been affected by turbine deliveries, it would have been delayed by switchgear
deliveries.
Resettlement
16.         The resettlement task proved to be more extensive than originally foreseen:
in the end 43,176 persons were physically relocated and new production arrangements had
to be made for 62,430 persons (compared with 36,435 quoted in the SAR). The task has
taken 10 years and still is not completed as two out of three relocatees are not yet
considered fully rehabilitated economically by the end of 1994. However, this situation
should improve significantly in the next few years as newly planted orchards reach
production and experience with fish cages results in sustainable production. Work is
continuing on production development and, as anticipated in the original plan, grain
subsidies are being provided until income is reestablished.  After the resettlement
construction budget has been expended, two special funds are provided: one that extends
for 10 years for completion work, and another one, which provides for Y 0.001 per kWh



- 5 -
from power plant revenue towards development in the reservoir area, for the life of the
project. On the physical side, more than 1 million square meters of new housing was
constructed and inundated infrastructure was replaced. Housing and infrastructure quantity
and quality are considerably better than the original. Overall, Y 426 million (Y 6,800 per
capita) was spent.
17.         The main factor that affected resettlement implementation was the early
emphasis on physical relocation at the expense of household and village production
systems. Since production systems such as orchards, forestry and fish cages required a
lead time of several years before producing revenue, a time lag developed between the loss
of income and produce from reservoir lands and the production and associated income
from new systems. Furthermore, during implementation a shift in selected orchards was
made, from citrus to "longan, " resulting in further delay. The underestimation of the time
to bring new systems into production stems largely from inexperience, and the lack of
early detailed planning.
Environment
18.         Although the SAR  did not elaborate extensively on the proposed
environmental management and monitoring, a considerable amount of environmental work
was carried out, commencing with an Environmental Impact Assessment Report prepared
over the period 1983-85 (i.e., before start of construction), followed by an environmental
monitoring and management program (EMMP) extending from the start of construction
into the operational stage. In this regard, GEPB, acting in accordance with Government
regulations, may have been ahead of the Bank on environmental issues at the time of
appraisal.
19.         The specific undertaking mentioned in the SAR (the public health program)
actually covered a wide variety of issues including the incidence of schistosomiasis vectors
at several villages near the reservoir thought to be at risk in this regard. Other aspects of
the EMMP included monitoring of:  potential leakage in karst areas; sediment
accumulation in the reservoir; water quality in the reservoir and downstream; climate;
terrestrial and aquatic organisms; impacts of the resettlement program (soil and water
conservation, socioeconomics); and bank stability in the reservoir drawdown area.
20.          Monitoring results indicate that adverse impacts are limited and consistent
with expectations.  The most significant negative impact was unanticipated reservoir
induced waterlogging in some areas, as a result of which affected households were
relocated. The reservoir is presently subject to significant algal blooms, due to nutrient
enrichment from decaying submerged vegetation, but this is to be expected and is likely
to be only a short-term phenomenon. It appears not to be adversely affecting fishing nor
does the water quality monitoring indicate any adverse effects (such as depleted dissolved
oxygen levels).
21.          Procurement. The project included 51 procurement contracts, of which 38
were awarded after International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank



- 6 -
guidelines. For most ICB contracts, there were no major procurement problems, but the
process was protracted largely due to the numerous steps required (according to GYHPCC
18 domestic and 9 external). This resulted in an average period of one year between
completion of a bid document and award of contract. The situation was aggravated
through the inexperience of GHPCC in international tendering and the limited input of
experienced procurement consultants.
22.         There were two cases where procurement delays substantially affected
project implementation, one relating to a high-speed cable crane for construction and the
other relating to gas insulated switchgear (GIS). In the case of the cable crane, initial
problems arose due to unclear interface specifications such that the grounding system was
not supplied with the crane, and later delays arose as differences in interpretation of the
contract continued. These delays could probably have been reduced with improved
documentation, and assistance of consultants experienced in contract administration.
23.         The second instance of delay was in relation to GIS. This was not originally
included in the Bank-financed scope of supply since it was thought that equipment of
adequate quality could be procured locally. When this was found not to be the case, a
protracted process ensued, extending over one year, involving a search for non-Bank
financing, followed by a request and eventual agreement to reallocate a part of the Bank
loan. The procurement process itself took a further two years, involving extensive Bank
comments on documents, bids being received 50 percent above estimates, unsuccessful
negotiations with the lowest bidder, rebidding with reduced scope and eventual award. In
this case, additional delays can be attributed to: overoptimism in assessment of local
supply capabilities; inadequate allowance in loan amount for contingencies; overoptimistic
estimate of equipment cost; and failure to immediately rebid with reduced scope of supply.
24.         Consulting Services and Training. The main consulting services were
financed by an NK 18 million grant from Norway. Members of SBC were financed from
the same source, by an IDA Technical Cooperation Credit (TCC) and from the Bank loan.
The consultants were employed in an advisory capacity, and the main areas where they
made positive contributions were in design for dam safety, computerized scheduling,
construction equipment maintenance and quality control of concrete. In the design area
their main influence was to counterbalance the traditional conservatism of Chinese
designers. In the other areas, their contribution was particularly important because of lack
of experience in China of highly mechanized construction. Areas where additional
consultant input would have been beneficial are international procurement and cost
monitoring. While costs were evidently kept within reasonable bounds, supervision
missions were unable to adequately determine the expected cost to completion, nor to
identify the causes of variations from original estimates.
25.         The SBC consisting of four consultants, from Norway, Canada and China,
met six times during project execution. Their contribution might have been even greater
if their numbers and composition were adjusted in keeping with the construction status.
For example, while a geologist member is very useful in the early stages of construction,
other specialties might be more appropriate during later stages.  A more flexible



- 7 -
arrangement should be considered in future projects. With hindsight, the SBC would also
have benefited from a resettlement expert, who could have provided continuity to
resettlement review.
26.          GEPB took full advantage of the Bank loan to finance technical consultation
and training. Visits abroad totaled 47 person-times to United States, Norway, Australia,
France, Thailand, Hong Kong and Japan. Topics covered were high-strength steel
penstocks, ICB documents, roller-compacted concrete, international loan management,
project budgeting and claim analysis and utility financial management.
27.          Project Costs. The estimated cost of the project at appraisal (excluding
interest during construction) was $139.4 million in foreign costs and Y 1,878.9 million in
local costs, equivalent to a total of $542.0 million (Y 2,941.6 million)2/. The final cost
was $51.9 million in foreign costs and Y 2,941.6 million in local costs, equivalent to a
total of $593.9 million (Y 3,176.7 million) (see Tables 8a-1 and 8a-2 for details).3/
Considering overall costs (foreign plus local), there is a cost underrun of about 22 percent
when expressed in US dollars and a cost overrun of about 38 percent when expressed in
local currency. These variations are due to the higher-than-expected inflation in China and
the devaluation of local currency from an exchange rate of Y 3.0 to $1 at the time of
appraisal to Y 8.6 to $1 by the end of 1994. To obtain a more exact comparison foreign
costs, expressed in US dollars, and local costs, expressed in yuan, were separately
deescalated to the appraisal date and compared to base costs plus physical contingencies.
This analysis shows that foreign costs are 64 percent lower, local costs are 17 percent
higher, and overall costs are 9 percent higher than estimated at appraisal. This represents
relatively good agreement, considering the large local inflation during the period, which
may be imperfectly estimated by the Consumer Price Index at the national level. The
reason for the large reduction in foreign costs is that the appraisal estimate includes
indirect foreign costs, while GYHPCC's final tabulation does not.
28.          Economic Performance. For the appraisal, generation planning studies were
undertaken to demonstrate that Yantan was part of the least-cost expansion plan for South
China, which was independently verified by comparing Yantan with a coal-fired thermal
alternative. The latter analysis, which indicated an equalizing discount rate of 13 percent,
was repeated ex-ante as shown in Table 9, yielding an equalizing discount rate of
19 percent. The long-run average incremental cost (LRAIC) of Yantan is calculated at
25 fen/kWh (1994 price levels) in comparison with 36 fen for the thermal alternative,
demonstrating that, despite delays in project completion, the original conclusion that
Yantan is part of the least-cost expansion program remains valid. Moreover, the analysis
takes no account of future benefits of reduced spill and firming up of Yantan energy by the
upstream reservoirs of Tienshengqiao (TSQ) (under construction) and Longtan.
2/  Transmission lines have been excluded in both cases since they were constructed by another entity, and
insufficient detail in regard to final cost is available for analysis.
3/  Final costs represent costs to date plus estimate to complete since the project works are not yet
complete. In particular, the shiplift is not scheduled to be complete until 1997.



- 8 -
29.          At appraisal, the IERR was calculated on a programmatic basis with costs
of Yantan and TSQ related to estimated 1993 system tariffs at end-1985 price levels,
yielding an IERR of 12 percent. Yantan without TSQ yielded 11 percent. Since TSQ is
being implemented by another agency and costs are not available, the IERR of Yantan
alone was repeated ex-ante. With 1994 economic costs and average system tariff, IERR
decreases from 11 to 8 percent, which is a reflection of low GEPB average tariffs
(17.47 fen/kWh), which considerably underestimate current "willingness to pay". Due to
tariff reforms since the original appraisal, Yantan power is now sold to the grid at a price
(25.04 fen/kWh) which provides a more direct measure of "willingness to pay." At this
price the IERR increases to 12.5 percent. A less conservative estimate based on the price
paid for energy from joint investment thermal power plants, 38 fen/kWh, increases the
IERR to 16 percent. It can be concluded that the economic justification of the project
remains valid.
30.          Financial Performance. GEPB's projected and actual financial statements
for 1986-1994 are presented in Annex 1. Over that period, increases in annual energy
sales and average tariffs were generally higher than projected. Energy sales in 1994 were
double those in 1986, and the average tariff increased from 7.2 fen/kWh in 1986 to
17.47 fen/kWh in 1994. While GEPB's operating revenue increased almost fivefold, net
operating revenue growth was slower than projected due to higher-than-expected inflation,
and higher power purchase costs. The latter have increased dramatically, since nonutility
generation has increased considerably in recent years. This has adversely affected GEPB's
net income; the profit ratio in 1993 was around 8 percent, as opposed to the projected
18 percent. Despite the unfavorable cost structure and lower net income, GEPB has
maintained its profitability to a satisfactory degree.  For the past nine years, it has
complied with the break-even financial covenant, which requires annual operating revenues
to exceed the sum of annual cash operating costs and financial obligations. The Funds
Flow Statement shows that from 1989 to 1991 borrowing and capital expenditures were
less than projected by approximately Y 800 million, again reflecting its reduced share of
new generation. This led to lower fixed assets on the balance sheet than projected until
1993 when fixed assets were revalued pursuant to a nationwide policy. The lower-than-
expected borrowing enabled GEPB to maintain low debt:equity ratios (40 to 60 percent)
and a high debt service coverage, the lowest being 2.9 times in 1993, in comparison with
the covenanted value of 1.3.4/ In summary, GEPB has achieved a satisfactory operating
performance and maintained reasonable capital structure, and complied with financial
performance covenants.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABLrry
31.          All elements are present to ensure sustainability of the project. Technically,
the finished hydroelectric develVpment is of good quality and the units have operated at a
high availability over the initial operating period of up to three years. Efficient and
economic operation is expected based on GEPB's past record of hydroelectric plant
4/  Unaudited 1994 accounts show a debt service ratio of 1.4. However, this is apparently due to
anomalous loan repayment numbers.



- 9 -
operation and the arrangements for the current project, as set out in the Operation Plan.
Financially, the pricing arrangements for the plant output will ensure satisfactory financial
and economic returns. On the institutional side, the tide of economic reform in China is
creating expectations far beyond those at appraisal. Various institutional restructuring
arrangements are being considered including the vesting of the hydro assets on the
Hongshui into a new company, where they will be used to generate funds and raise capital
for future hydro developments on the Hongshui, in particular the Longtan project.
32.         With regard to resettlement, although income targets have not yet been met,
the resettlement is expected to become fully sustainable within a few years, as the
economic base becomes fully established. The replacement of much rice and corn
agriculture with orchards has the potential to significantly improve standards of living in
the medium term. The EMMP is sustainable as evidenced by the fact that it was designed
and implemented in the absence of any apparent influence from the Bank (there were no
conditionalities beyond the public health program), together with the fact that such
programs are standard operational procedure on large dams in China and have been for
many years.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
33.         Bank performance in project preparation and appraisal was satisfactory.
Positive aspects were its agreement to participate based on the Borrower's perception of
the advantages of Bank involvement, early concentration on procure. nent of key items, and
technical assistance to a beneficiary who had no international experience. The appraisal
of the environment and resettlement plan were in keeping with practice at the time. In
retrospect, negative aspects were overoptimism in assessment ot local capabilities and
inadequate allowance in the loan amount for contingencies. An increase in the loan amount
from 5 to 10 percent of project costs would still have entailed minimum use of foreign
exchange, while implementation delays could probably have been avoided.
34.         In the supervision phase, the Bank's performance was generally satisfactory,
although project visits were less frequent in the later phases. 3 Aore importantly, the
supervision of resettlement did not fully reflect the increased emphasis given to this aspect
in China over the implementation period. Each Bank mission covered resettlement, but
the emphasis was on relocation of population rather than reestablishment of income. There
were two specific resettlement missions in 1991 and 1992, the latter in conjunction with
an overall resettlement review in Bank projects in China. While both missions provided
many useful suggestions, neither emphasized that production measures were running behind
relocation measures.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.         GEPB successfully completed the project with only modest cost and time
overruns. It overcame problems as they arose, introduced and absorbed modern
technologies and construction management techniques, and took full advantage of the
training opportunities. It is also worth noting that Yantan was one of the first projects



- 10-
implemented under the Government's construction industry reform measures, which
provided for separation of owner, designer and construction manager, and competitive
bidding for most works and goods. During implementation, the various parties adapted
well to their new roles and responsibilities. In particular, the construction manager,
GYHPCC, has emerged as a strong, competent company which is expected to manage
construction of Longtan. The main contractor, GHCB, reportedly "went through a
tortuous and arduous course" in adapting from force account unit to contractor, but
eventually achieved production rates similar to international contractors. It has now been
successful in winning contracts internationally, and intends to bid in joint venture for
Longtan.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
36.         The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. It would have been rated as
highly satisfactory except for commissioning delays, which extended to one year for later
generating units and delays in full income restoration of resettlers.
H. FUFURE OPERATION
37.         GEPB's Operation Plan summarizes the arrangements made for future
operations of the power plant in terms of organization and staffing of the operating unit,
operating and maintenance procedures, dam safety inspections, spillway operations, and
environmental monitoring. With regard to resettlement, Y 51 million of the budget of
Y 426 million has yet to be spent on production development in 1995. Thereafter, the
reservoir development fund will generate income based on energy production; this should
sustain the workplan of the GRO. It is clear that the GRO should remain fully active until
it has been demonstrated that resettlers have reached income targets and are engaged in
sustainable activities. This may take several years. The EMMP provides for continuation
of monitoring as required (not all aspects need to be continued indefinitely) and, based on
performance to date, there is every expectation that this will happen.
38.         The Bank expects to continue its involvement in South China in connection
with the Longtan project, which will include more ambitious goals for institutional
development and sector commercialization. It will also be important in justifying the
Longtan project to demonstrate that the Yantan project eventually met its resettlement
objectives, and to incorporate lessons learned at Yantan in the Longtan resettlement
planning and implementation. In this context, the Bank will continue to observe and
comment as appropriate on continuing operations at Yantan.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
39.         In a project such as Yantan, which relies heavily on local capabilities, it is
important to guard against overoptimism with respect to these capabilities, particularly in
areas where traditional Chinese hydroelectric implementation has not provided exposure
to modem techniques and technology. In the context of China's rapid economic growth,
it is also important to assess the manufacturing capacity and workload of local suppliers



- 11 -
and thus their capability to deliver on time. The three areas where local capabilities were
evidently overestimated are the following:
(a)   Turbine and generator manufacturing capacity was overestimated given
the advanced technology and the supplier's heavy commitments on other
projects, also with high national priority; an arrangement where a high
proportion of local content is maintained but a fully experienced foreign
manufacturer takes full responsibility and provides enforceable guarantees
would probably have provided on-time commissioning.
(b)   High technology equipment quality was overestimated in two cases: the
500 kV gas insulated switchgear (GIS), and transformers. The lack of
domestic capability to produce the GIS was recognized early, but with
foreign exchange limitations, the decision to use a foreign manufacturer led
to delays. The transformer deficiencies were not recognized until the
equipment failed acceptance tests. While the objective of upgrading local
manufacturing capabilities is laudable, it is important to build safeguards
into the process, such as guarantees by fully experienced manufacturers;
backup of unproven equipment with fully tested designs; and allowance in
schedules for possible delays.
(c)   Local organizations performed admirably, particularly considering that this
was their first exposure to Western contract management methods.
However, the project would probably have benefited from increased
technical assistance in a few areas, including international procurement,
cost control and resettlement.
40.          In the area of resettlement, while the Chinese authorities have been diligent
in the execution of their duties and the resettlement program is expected to eventually
achieve its objectives, the reestablishment of living standard is not yet complete. The key
lesson learned is that, in common with most resettlement projects, the resettlement was
more extensive, more costly, more complex and more time-consuming than originally
contemplated. For a large resettlement project such as Yantan, it is important that project
preparation in relation to resettlement be at least as advanced as that of the construction
component, and preferably further advanced. This would help to solve the underestimation
of numbers and costs, and allow early concentration on the true critical-path activity: the
reestablishment of income. On the Bank side, increased resettlement supervision and, in
particular, an extensive mid-term review of resettlement implementation would probably
have resulted in a more favorable outcome.



- 12 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Achievement of Objectives
Not
Substantial   Partial    Negligible   applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                 X
Sector policies                                                        X
Financial objectives               X
Institutional development          X
Physical objectives                X
Poverty reduction                                                      X
Gender concerns                                                        X
Other social objectives                        X
Environmental objectives           X
Public sector management           X
Private sector development                                             X
Project Sustainability
Likely                           Unlikely                         Uncertain
x
Bank Performance
Highly satisfactory       Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                                         X
Preparation assistance                                 X
Appraisal                                              X
Supervision                                            X



- 13 -
Borrower Performance
Highly satisfactory       Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                                            X
Implementation                                         X
Covenant compliance             X
Assessment of Outcome
Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   Highly unsatisfactory
x



- 14 -
Table 2: RELATED BANK LoANs
Year of
Loan title                    Purpose                     approval            Status
Ln 2382-CHA       To construct a rockfill dam, a spillway,    02/21/84  Loan was closed on
Lubuge            an underground powerhouse, to install                 06/30/92.
Hydroelectric    four generating units of 150 MW each,
Project           three single circuits of 220 kV
transmission lines; to provide consultant
services and a training program.
Ln 2493-CHA       To construct a 500 kV transmission line    02/19/85   Loan was closed on
Second Power      from Xuzhou to Shanghai and 5                         06/30/92.
Project           associated substations totaling 3,500
MVA in capacity, to install tele-control
and telecommunications equipment for
load dispatching, and to provide training
for 500 kV transmission lines and
substations.
Ln 2706-CHA       To construct a coal-fired thermal power  06/14/88     First loan closed
&                 project with two units of 600 MW and                  06/30/94. Closing
Ln 2955-CHA       two single circuit of 500 kV transmission             date for second
Beilungang        lines, and to carry out a tariff study, a             06/30/95.
Thermal Power    study on ZPEPB's reorganization and
Projects I & II   management improvement and a study
for improvement of distribution networks
for the cities of Hangzhou and Ningbo.
Ln 2707-CHA       To construct a 110 m high concrete     05/29/86       Loan was closed on
Yantan Hydro-     gravity dam, a spillway, a powerhouse,                06/30/94.
electric Project    and a shiplift; to install 4 generating
units of 275 MW each, 2 single circuits
of 500 kV transmission lines and 3
associated substations; and to carry out a
training program.
Ln 2775-CHA       To construct a 101 m high, concrete    01/06/87 &     Implementation under
&                 gravity dam, a spillway, a powerhouse  09/01!92       way. Closing dates
Ln 3515-CHA       and a navigation lock; to install 7                   06/30/93 & 12/31/96.
Shuikou           generating units of 200 MW each; to
Hydroelectric     carry out a resettlement program in the
Projects I & 11    reservoir, an action plan for tariff
reform, and a training program for plan-
ning and financial management.



- 15 -
Table 2: (CONT'D)
Year of
Loan title                    Purpose                   approval            Status
Ln 2852-CHA      To install 2 additional coal-fired units of   06/23/87  Two units
Wujing Thermal   300 MW each and associated 220 kV                    commissioned in
Power Project    transmission lines and substations; to               1992. Closing date
provide on-line computer control and                 06/30/95.
automatic load dispatching center; to
carry out a masterplan study for the
distribution network in Shanghai and a
training program.
Ln 3387-CHA      To construct a 240 m high arch dam     07/02/91      Implementation under
Ertan Hydro-     with an underground powerhouse, to                   way. Closing date
electric Project    install 6 550-MW generating units and              12/31/96.
associated equipment; to carry out an
environmental management program,
studies of power pricing and reservoir
operation, and a training program.
Cr 2305 &        To construct a 56 m high gravity dam   10/31/91      Implementation under
LIn 3412-CHA     and an underground powerhouse with 4 x               way. Closing date
Daguangba        60 MW generating units; to erect a 36                 12/31/97.
Multipurpose     km long double-circuit 220 kV
Project          transmission line and to build canals to
irrigate 12,700 ha of land.
Ln 3433-CHA      To install 2 300-MW generating units   01/14/92      Implementation under
Yanshi Thermal   and 5 220-kV transmission lines and                  way. Closing date
Power Project    associated substations; to carry out a                12/31/97.
tariff study, a tariff action plan, and a
training program for upgrading the
technical, financial and management
skills for HPEPB staff.
Ln 3462-CHA      To install 2 additional 600 MW         04/12/92      Implementation under
Zouxian Ther-    generating units; to construct 500 kV and            way. Closing date
mal Power        220 kV transmission lines and                        06/30/99.
Project          substations; and to carry out an air
quality control study, a power tariff
study, an action plan for tariff adjust-
ment, and a training program for the
technical, financial, and management
staff of SPEPB.



- 16 -
Table 2: (CONT'D)
Year of
Loan title                    Purpose                   approval            Status
Ln 3606-CHA      To construct a pumped-storage          05/18/93      Implementation under
Tianhuangping    hydroelectric power plant with six                   way. Closing date
Hydroelectric    300 MW reversible pump-turbine units,                 12/31/2001.
Project          together with upper and lower reservoirs,
a water conveyance system, an
underground powerhouse; to erect 250
km long 500 kV transmission lines; to
carry out studies of optimal power plant
operation and its output pricing; and to
strengthen the beneficiary's organization
through technical assistance and training.
Ln 3718-CHA      To construct a coal-fired thermal power    03/22/94  Implementation under
Yangzhou         plant with two 600 MW generating units;              way. Closing date
Thermal Power   to erect two 500 kV transmission lines                 12/31/2000.
Project          (30 km long); to extend technical
assistance for the development and
implementation of improved accounting
and financial management information
systems; and undertake management
development and staff training.
Ln 3848-CHA      To construct a new 500 kV transmission    02/28/95   Implementation
Sichuan          network consisting of 2,260 km of                    commenced. Closing
Transmission     transmission lines and 5,250 MVA of                  date 12/31/2001
Project          substations, provide technical assistance
for implementation of sector reform
plan, organizational improvements and
financial management systems.
Ln 3846-CHA      To construct Beilungang Phase II power    02/28/95   Implementation
Zhejiang Power    plant consisting of three 600 MW coal               commenced. Closing
Development      fired units; to construct 400 circuit km of          date 12/31/2002
Project          500 kV transmission lines, 2250 MVA of
500 kV substations and reinforce
distribution networks in Hangzhou and
Ningbo; to extend technical assistance to
assist the power company in
commercialization and corporatization,
establish computerized financial
management information system,
improve transmission and distribution
planning and upgrade environmental
monitoring.



- 17 -
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle             Date planned           Date actual/latest estimate
Identification                                                      06/85
Preparation                           09/85                        09/85
Appraisal                             02/86                         11/85
Negotiations                          09/86                        04/86
Board presentation                     12/86                      05/29/86
Signing                                                           07/01/86
Effectiveness                                                     08/27/86
Project Completion                  12/30/92/a                      05/94
Loan closing                         06/30/93                     06/30/94
/a Bank-financed components.
Table 4: LoAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND AcTuAL
FY87 FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
Appraisal estimate    2.0  22.0   34.0   41.0   46.0   50.0   52.0   52.0   52.0
Actual /a             8.6  20.2   26.8   31.5   35.6   38.5   49.9   51.8   51.9
Actual as % of estimate 430.0  91.8   78.8   76.8   77.4   77.0   96.0   99.6   99.8
Final disbursement: October 1994.
/a Total disbursement amount is $51,939,106.



- 18 -
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Indicators                       Appraisal Estimate           Actual
1.   Preparatory                           1/86-12/87              1/86-12/88
2.   Resettlement                          1/88-12/92              1/88-12/93
3.   Civil Works
a. River Closure                        12/88                   12/87
b. Impoundment                          3/92                    3/92
c. Excavation
(1) dam                              1/86-12/88               1/86-12/88
(2) power house                      1/87-12/88               1/87-6/89
(3) shiplift                          1/91-3/92               12/92-2/93
d. Concreting
(1) dam                               4/88-9/91               4/88-3/92
(2) power house                      1/89-12/91               4/88-3/92
(3) shiplift                         1/89-12/91              2/93-12/95
4.   Equipment Installationla
Unit 1                                  6/92                    9/92
Unit 2                                  3/93                    8/93
Unit 3                                  12/93                   6/94
Unit 4                                  9/94                    6/95
5.   Project Completion                     12/94/b
/a Commissioning of generating units.
/b Except for shiplift which will be completed 12/97.



- 19 -
Table 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
(Not Applicable)
Table 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
(Not applicable)



- 20 -
Table 8a-1: PROJECT COSTS
Item                        Appraisal estimate (Y M)            Actual/latest (Y M)
Local    Foreign      Total    Local      Foreign        Total
Preparatory work            35.9      -         35.9       81.7          -         81.7
Land, compensation and
resettlement              75.8       -         75.8       88.2         -          88.2
Construction equipment
and plants                78.3      19.4       97.7       20.4        21.9        42.3
Civil works                124.1     72.0       196.1     203.0         12.9      215.9
Electrical, mechanical
equipment and computers   100.5     2.8       103.3      101.4        16.5       117.9
Engineering and consulting
services                   5.3      2.5         7.8        1.9         0.2         2.1
Supervision and administration   1.8  -           1.8       4.7          -          4.7
Training                     1.6      1.0         2.6       0.7         0.4         1.1
Base Cost              423.3     97.7       521.0      502.0        51.9       553.9
Contingencies
Physical                  39.5       8.5       48.0       21.8/a       -          21.8
Price                    163.5     33.2       196.7       18.2         -          18.2
Total Project Cost     626.3    139.4       765.7      542.0        51.9       593.9
Interest during construction
Bank loan                   -       17.5       17.5        -          14.0        14.0
Local loans              133.0       -        133.0       47.0         -          47.0
Total Financing
Required              759.3    156.9       916.2     589.0         65.9      654.9
/a Physical and price contingencies until completion of shiplift. These represent balance of contingency
remaining after last reestimate and probably overestimate actual cost at completion.



- 21 -
Table 8a-2: PROJECT COSTS
Item                        Appraisal estimate (Y M)           Actual/latest (Y M)
Local    Foreign     Total    Local       Foreign        Total
Preparatory work          107.6       -        107.6     336.5          -        336.5
Land, compensation and
resettlement             227.5       -        227.5     439.3          -        439.3
Construction equipment
and plants               234.9     58.2       293.1      80.3        82.7       163.0
Civil works               372.3    216.0       588.3    1,088.4        57.2     1,145.6
Electrical, mechanical
equipment and computers   301.4     8.4       309.8     685.3        74.9       760.2
Engineering and consulting
services                  15.9      7.5        23.4      10.4         0.8        11.2
Supervision and administration   5.4  -          5.4       23.4         -         23.4
Training                    4.8      3.0         7.8        3.5         1.6        5.1
Base Cost            1,269.8   293.1      1,562.9   2,667.1       217.2     2,884.3
Contingencies
Physical                 118.4     25.7       144.1     139.0         5.9       144.9
Price                    490.7     99.7       590.4     135.5        12.0       147.6
Total Proiect Cost   1,878.9    418.5    2,297.4   2.941.6        235.1     3.176.7
Interest during construction
Bank loan                  -       52.4        52.4        -         80.0        80.0
Local loans              398.9      -         398.9     346.1          -        346.1
Total Financinn
Required            2,277.83   470.9    2,748.7   3.287.7        315.1     3,602.8
Table 8b: PROJECT FINANCING /a
Source                        Appraisal estimate ($ M)              Actual ($ M)
Local    Foreign    Total   Local    Foreign    Total
IBRD                          0          52.0        52.0      0.0       51.9     51.9
Local bank                  759.3       104.9       864.2    590.0       13.0    603.0
Total                   759.3       156.9      916.2    590.0       64.9    654.9
/a  Does not include NK 18 million financing from Norway, which was anticipated at
appraisal (but not included in tables) and actually occurred.



Table 8c: ACTUAL AND PROJECTED PROJECT COSTS
(in Y or $ million)                    1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991   1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997    Total
Foreign
I. construction equipment              0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  14.06   5.47   1.30   0.29   0.05   0.00   0.01   0.03   0.00   0.00   0.00    21.22
2. steel                               0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0 00   4 42   0 64   7.54   0.37   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    12.97
3. station automation                  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0 00   0 00   0 00   0.00   0.80   0.99   0.20   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.00
4. penstock processing equipment       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.47   0.07   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.10   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.64
5. computers for design                0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.20   0.47   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.67
6. GIS equipment                       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.25  11.20   1.41   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    13.85
7. technical consultation              0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.06   0.06   0.10  0.01   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.23
8. technical training                  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.11   0.21   0.04   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.36
Total LBRD Loan                        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  14.12  10.43   2.22   8.05   2.51  12.19   1.82   0.60   0.00   0.00   0.00    51.94
1}3RD Loan in Yuan                      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  52.69  38.90   8.48  38.80  13.44  67.42  10.51   5.22   0.00   0.00   0.00   235.47
Domestic
1. capital training in yuan            8.76  57.03 100.42 145.00 135.47 131.51 131.02 201.20 303.46 298.81 317.19 604.85 160.00 194.49 152.34 2,941.56
2. interest during construction
Foreign - accrued ($)            0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.72   0.18   2.11   2.78   1.47   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
" (Y)                           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.68   6.74   8.96  13.94   7.86   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    40.17
Foreign -paid ($)                0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.67   3.76   1.94   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
" (YM                         0000   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   8.43  21.20  10.33   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    39.97
Domestic IDC                      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   4.16  27.56  88.97  89.86 100.00  35.51   0.00   346.06
Total local investment                  8.76  57.03 100.42 145.00 135.47 131.51 131.02 201.20 316.06 347.58 416.49 694.71 260.00 230.00 152.34 3,327.59
Total Project Costs in Yuan             8.76  57.03 100.42 145.00 188.16 170.42 139.50 240.00 329.50 415.00 427.00 699.93 260.00 230.00 152.34 3,563.06
Total Project Costs (excl. IDC)         8.76  57.03 100.42 145.00 188.16 170.42 139.50 240.00 316.91 366.24 327.70 610.07 160.00 194.49 152.34 3,177.03
Official exchange rate                1.9859 2.7032   3.62 3.7314 3.7314 3.7314 3.8149 4.8174 5.3643 5.5305 5.7737   8.72   8.72   8.43   8.43
Shadow exchange rate                  1.9859 2.7032   3.62    3.2     4    5.5   5.5   5.5   5.5   6.3   7.5          9   8.43   8.43   8.43
SCF (standard conversion factor)        1.00   1.00   1.00   0.86   1.07   1.47   1.44   1.14   1.03   1.14   1.30   1.03   0.97   1.00   1.00
CF used for Yantan project              1.20   1.20   1.20   1.03   1.29   1.77   1.73   1.37   1.23   1.37   1.56   1.24   1.16   1.20   1.20
Inflation (actual rates before 1994)
foreign (MUV)                     -2.3  -2.1   0.8  17.9   9.8   7.3  -0.7   5.7   2.1   4.3  -0.4   3.1   2.6   2.6   2.6
domestic                           1.5   2.8   8.8       6    7.3  18.5  17.8   2.1   2.9   5.4    13    20    14   10.5   8.5
Deescalation factor (1985 price level)
foreign                                           1   1.09   1.24   1.34   1.38   1.42   1.47   1.52   1.55   1.57   1.62   1.66   1.70
domestic                                          1   1.03   1.10   1.24   1.47   1.60   1.64   1.71   1.87   2.19   2.55   2.86   3.13
Deescalated costs (1985 price level)
foreign                           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  11.42   7.77   1.61   5.68   1.70   8.02   1.17   0.38   0.00   0.00   0.00    37.74
local (excl. IDC)                 8.76  57.03 100.42 140.78 123.30 105.84  89.27 125.41 184.53 174.43 169.40 276.78  62.72  67.99  48.66 1,735.31
Total deescal. costs (1985 price level)                                                                                                      1,871.95



Table 9: EcoNoMIc ANALYSIS OF POWER PLANT
Year                                             1983    1984     1985    1986       1987     1988    1989     1990    1991       1992      1993     1994
Yantan
Power absorption bv grid (MW)                                                                                                       81       31       688
Energy absorption by grid (GWh)                     0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       442     2,274    3,099
Economic capital cost NYxl0', 1994 constant) /a  72.64  354.80   462.76   471.56   696.62   808.51   637.63   650.84  678.84    810.57    795.40   755.59
Operating cost (Yx106)                                                                                                           10.74     32.22    53.70
Total cost (YxlO6I                              72.64  354.80   462.76   471.56   696.62   808.51   637.63   650.84  678.84    821.31    827.62   809.29
AIC of Yantan (Yuan)                           0.2516
Coal Alternative
Equivalent coal capacity                                                                                                        100.15    473.70   854.25
Equivalent coal energy                              0       0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0    468.52   2,410.44  3,284.94
Installation schedule                                                                                                              300       300      300
Cumulative capacity                                                                                                                300       600      900
Coal unit 1                                                                                          183.18   549.54  732.72    366.36
Coal unit 2                                                                                                   183.18  549.54    732.72    366.36
Coal unit 3                                                                                                           183.18    549.54    732.72   366.36
Coal unit 4                                                                                                                     183.18    549.54   732.72
Coal unit 5                                                                                                                               183.18   549.54
Capital cost (YxlO6)                                                                                 183.18   732.72 1,465.44  1,831.80   1,831.80  1,648.62
Fuel cost (YxI06)                                                                                                                58.75    302.27   411.93
Operating and maint. (YxlO6)                                                                                                     54.95    109.91   164.86
Total cost (Yx106)                                  0       0        0        0         0        0   183.18   732.72 1,465.44  1,945.51   2,243.98  2,225.41
AIC of coal alternative (Yuan)                 0.3579
Cost difference (coal-hydro)                    (72.64) (354.80) (462.76) (471.56)  (696.62) (808.51) (454.45)   81.88   786.60  1,134.94   1,448.58  1,469.82
Equalizing discount rate                       ' 9 .
U V of Yantan project costs                   3,387.82
NPV of thermal alternative                    5,420.52
NPV of thermal/NPV of hydro                      1.60
IRR calculations
Benefit (GEPB 1994 average tariff)               0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00     61.37    315.73   430.27
Benefit - cost                                  (72.64) (354.80) (462.76) (471.56)  (696.62) (808.51) (637.63) (650.84) (678.84)  (749.20)  (479.67)  (325.32)
IRR based on GEPB 1994 tariff                   8.12%
Benefit (tariff to the grid)                     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    110.68    569.41   775.99
Benefit - cost                                  (72.64) (354.80) (462.76) (471.56)  (696.62) (808.51) (637.63) (650.84) (678.84)  (699.89)  (225.99)   20.40
IRR based on Yantan tariff to grid             12.45%
Benefit (willingness to pay)                     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    167.96    864.12  1,177.62
Benefit - cost                                  (72.64) (354.80) (462.76) (471.56)  (696.62) (808.51) (637.63) (650.84) (678.84)  (642.61)    68.72   422.03
IRR based on willingness to pav                16.16%
Assumptions
Coal plant (economic costs)                                                        Yantan
Capacity cost (Y/kW een.)                       6,i06                              Operating and maint. Hydro (Y/kW)    78.11
Fuel consumptnon (g/kWh gen)                      330                               Design life hydro (years)             50
Coal cost (Ylton std.)                            380                              Auxiliary power use (%)               0.3
Fuel cost per kWh gen                          0.1254                              Forced outage (%)                               0.5
Disbursement rate coal plants                     0.1      0.3      0.4      0.2    Annual overhaul (days)                 7
Operating and maintenance (Y/kW)               183.18
Economuc life (years)                              30
Auxiliary power use %                               6                               GEPB 1994 average tariff           0.1747
Forced outage %                                     8                               Yantan tariff to gnd               0.2504
Annual overhaul (days)                             42                               Willingness to pay                          0.3800



Table 9:  (CoNT'D)
Year                                                  1995      1996      1997      1998       1999     2000      2001      2002      2003       2004     2005
Yantan
Power absorption by grid (MW)                          963     1,000     1,000      1,000     1,000     1,000     1,000     1,000     1,000
Energy absorption by grid (GWh)                      4,300     5.100     5,500      6.000     6,420     6.420     6,420     6,420     6,420     6,420    6,420
Economic capital cost (YxlO6, 1994 constant)        185.61    241.41    189.09
Operating cost (Yx106)                               75.18     85.92     85.92      85.92     85.92     85.92     85.92     85.92     85.92     85.92    85.92
Total cost (YxI16)                                  260.80    327.33    275.02      85.92     85.92     85.92     85.92     85.92     85.92     85.92    85.092
AIC of Yantan (Yuan)
Coal Alternative
Equivalent coal capacity                           1,195.95  1,242.55
Equivalent coal energy                            4,558.00  5,406.00  5,830.00   6,360.00  6,805.20  6,805.20  6,805.20  6,805.20  6,805.20   6,805.20  6,805.20
Installation schedule                                  300       300
Cumulative capacity                                  1,200     1,500     1,500      1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500      1,500    1,500
Coal unit I
Coal unit 2
Coal unit 3
Coal unit 4                                         366.36
Coal unit 5                                         732.72    366.36
Capital cost (Yx106)                               1,099.08    366.36
Fuel cost (YxlO6)                                   571.57   677.91    731.08    797.54    853.37    853.37    853.37    853.37    853.37    853.37   853.37
Operating and maint. (Yx106)                        219.82    274.77    274.77    274.77    274.77    274.77    274.77    274.77    274.77    274.77   274.77
Total cost (Yx106)                                 1,890.47  1,319.04   1,005.85   1,072.31   1,128.14  1,128.14  1,128.14  1,128.14  1,128.14   1,128.14  1,128.14
AIC of coal alternative (Yuan)
Cost difference (coal-hydro)                       1,704.85  1,077.63    816.76   1,072.31   1,128.14  1,128.14   1,128.14  1,128.14  l,I1282X14 1,128.14
Equalizing discount rate
NPV of Yantan project costs
NPV of thermal alternative
NPV of thermal/NPV of hvdro
3RR cakulations
Benefit (GEPB 1994 average tariff)                  597.02    708.10    763.64    833.06    891.37    891.37    891.37    891.37    891.37    891.37   891.37
Benefit- cost                                       411.41    466.69    574.54    833.06    891.37    891.37    891.37    891.37    891.37    891.37   891.37
IRR based on GEPB 1994 tariff
Benefit (tariff to the grid)                       1,076.72  1,277.04  1,377.20   1,502.40  1,607.57  1,607.57  1,607.57  1,607.57  1,607.57   1,607.57  1,607.57
Benefit - cost                                      891.11  1,035.63  1,188.11   1,502.40  1,607.57  1,607.57  1,607.57  1,607.57  1,607.57   1,607.57  1,607.57
IRR based on Yantan tariff to grid
Benef'it (willingness to pay)                      1,634 00  1,938.00  2,090.00  2,280.00  2,439.60  2,439.60  2,439.60  2,439.60  2,439.60   2,439.60  2,439.60
Benefit - cost                                     1,448.39  1,696.59  1,900.91   2,280.00  2,439.60  2,439.60  2,439.60  2,439.60  2,439.60   2,439.60  2,439.60
IRR based on willingness to pay
/a   Economic costs in tUS dollars calculated annually by (i) multiplying local costs by conversion factor (2.0 for mechanical and electrical equipment, and standard conversion factor for other
items); (ii) converting at the official exchange rate; and (iii) adding to foreign costs. These were escalated to 1994 using MUV index, and reconverted to Yuan using the 1994 exchange
rate.



Table 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement   Section  Covenant Present   Original     Revised    Description of covenant                    Comments
type   status   fulfillment   fulfillment
date        date
Loan        3.01     10        C                                 Government to carry out training
program to strengthen capability of
MWREP and other related
institution in financial planning.
3.04    7         C                                 Government to carry out
resettlement program satisfactory to
the Bank.
4.01(b)  1        C                                 Government to furnish to the Bank,
& (c)                                              not later than June 30, annual audit
reports by independent auditors.
Project     2.05(b)  10        C                                 GEPB to carry out training
program to strengthen capability of
GEPB in operation and
maintenance, financial management
and planning.
3.04    10        C                                 GEPB to carry out a program
acceptable to the Bank to improve
public health in the reservoir area
3.05     10       C                                 GEPB to provide for periodic
independent inspection of dams
during construction and after
completion
4.01(b)  1,2      C                                 GEPB to furnish to the Bank, not
later than June 30, (a) annual
financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank, and (b) audit reports.



Table 10: (CONT'D)
Agreement   Section   Covenant Present    Original      Revised     Description of covenant                      Comments
type    status    fulfillment   fulfillment
date         date
4.02     2         C                                   GEPB will take, or cause to be
taken, measures as shall be
required to produce for each of its
fiscal years after December 31,
1985, operating revenues equivalent
to not less than the sum of its total
operating expenses and the amount
by which its financial obligations
exceed the provision for
depreciation and any other noncash
operating expenses.
4.03     2         C                                   GEPB will not incur any long-term
debt if the debt service coverage is
projected to be less than 1.3 times.
4.04     2         C                                   GEPB will furnish to the Bank by
December 31 of each year, for its
comment, a five-year rolling
financial plan containing income
statements, sources and uses of
funds, and balance sheets.



- 27 -
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
(Not Applicable)
Table 12: BANK REsouRcEs: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of                                                 Actual
project cycle                                   Weeks               $'000
Preparation to appraisal                         17.4                n.a.
Appraisal                                        25.8                n.a.
Negotiations through Board approval               3.8                n.a.
Supervision                                      53.5                n.a.
Completion                                        9.0                n.a.
Total                                        109.6                n.a.



Table 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance ratinz
Stage of                Month/ No. of   Days in       Specialized staff   Implem.    Dev.
project cycle              year  persons    field     skills represented/a   status    objectives       Types of problems
Through appraisal         06/85    2          2             E,FA
11/85    4         15         E,FA,FA,R
Appraisal through
Board approval
Board approval through
effectiveness
Supervision                (1)   10/86        1               5              E        NRib       Flood damage.
(2)   11/87       2               8            E,FA         I        Training delays, progress reports.           oo
(3)   08/88       2               6            E,FA         1        Procurement,  foreign  fund  shortage,
cableway, progress reports.
(4)   10/89       2               4            E,FA         1        Cableway, delay, spare part shortages,
procurement, resettlement financing.
(5)   10/90       3               5           E,E,FA        1        Cableway  delays, procurement, foreign
fund, cost control.
(6)  12/91/c      1               6              R         NR        Economic rehabilitation planning.
(7)  09/92/c      1                              R         NR
(8)   05/93       1               3              E          1        Concrete quality, cost overrun, progress
reports, equipment delivery delays.
(9)   10/93       1               7              E          1        Equipment delivery delays
/a E: Engineer, FA: Financial Analvst, EC: Economist, R: Resettlement Specialist.
/b NR: Not Rated.
/c Supervision of resettlement component. No Form 590 prepared.



- 29 -             ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: PROJECTED AND ACTUAL
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF GEPB (1986-94)



Table 1: INCOME STATEMENT
(Y million)
1986          1987           1988          1989          1990           1991           1992           1993            1994
Year Ended December 31            Proj.  Actual Proj.  Actual Proj.  Actual Proj.  Actual Proj.  Actual Proj.  Actual Proj.  Actual  Proj.  Actual   Proj.  Actual
Operating Revenues
Sales Increase (%)                 7.1  15.3   10.0  13.1   10.5  (4.1)   10.3   8.9   15.0  15.0    9.3   9.1    9.0   9.5              9.2   23.1       9.3   12.7
Energy Sales (GWh)               5,280 5,908   5,810 6,683  6,420 6,410  7,080 6,984  8,142 8,033   8,900 8,760  9,700 9,596  10,590 11,812  11.570 13,316
Average Price (fenlkWh)            7.1   7.2    7.1   7.4    7.1   7.7    7.1   9.1    7.7   8.7    7.7  10.9    8.6  11.1    11.3   11.8    11.3   17.5
Total Operating Revenues        375   424    413   491    456   491    503   634    630   699    689   953    838  1,063    1,201  1.397   1,312  2.326
Operating Costs
Fuel                                83   104    113   145    140   149    184   158    222   148    251   297    303   328               296             307
Purchased Power                    22    24       22    23      22    23       25   120       67   124      50   177      70   214        77              47
Operation & Maintenance             36    42      45    51      48    56       57    63      65    86       73   100       77   115      104              130
Administration                      10    12      11    13       13    16      14    18       15    30      17    30       19    43       20              22
Sales Tax                          56   104       62   117      69    85       75    99       95   105    103   122    126   135         180    152       197    356
Depreciation                       38    45       45    54       50    61      57    64      67    71       77    86       84    95      III              158
Other Expenses                      0      0       0      1      0       1      0      6       0     7       0      8       0    15        0               0
Total Operatinx Costs           245   331    298   403    342   390    412   528    531   571    571   820    679   945                788   1,240     861   1.967              
Operating Income                 130    93    115    88    114   101         91   105      99   128    118   133    159   118          413    158      451    359
Other Income (Losses)                 0     (3)      0     (2)     0     (3)      0     8       0     (3)      0     (9)     0     (8)       0      (4)      0      67
Interest Charged to Operation         0      0       4     0       9      0      12     0      10      0      i0     0      40      0       41     13       38    185
NetIncomeBeforeIncomeTax         130    90    111    86    105    98         79   113       89   125    108   123    119   110         372    141      413    241
Income Tax                           72    38       51    36      51    27       30    35      40    38       50    36      19    30       156     26      198      65
Net Income                        58    52      60    50       54    70      49    78       49    86      58    87    100    80        216    115      215    176
Distribution of Net Income
RemittancetoGovemment               49    18      32    11       32    15       11    17      11    17       6    13        4     18       19      0       47       0
Transferred to Govemment Fund        0     18      18    19      12    46      25    48       17    53       19    57      84    54       87       0       54       0
Retained Earnings                    9    16       10    20      10      9      13    14      21    16      33    17       12      7      109    115      115    176
Rate of Retum on Average Net Fixed
Assets in Service                 13.6   4.4   10.1   3.8    8.9   5.3    6.3   5.2    5.7   5.2    6.0   4.8    7.5   4.3    14.1    3.6    10.3    8.1
._                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~z
z



Table 2: BALANCE SHEET
(Y million)
1986          1987           1988          1989           1990          1991           1992          1993           1994
Year Ended December 31    Proj.  Actual Proj.   Actual Proj.   Actual PFroj.Act`ua  Proj,  Actual Proj. Actuaif  Proj.   Actual Proj.   Actual  Pro-Actu
ASSETS
Current Assets
C'asF                      72     78     86      67    101     75    118    171    136    267    157    245    184    271    195        650    227   1,084
Inventories                25     39     29      42     33     48     38      61     43     77     47      65     52     70     56       92     61     128
Accounts Receivable        42     44     44      34     46     44     48      54     50    118     52    234      54    232     55      560     58     529
Other Current Assets        0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      1      0        1      0       9
Total Current Assets    139    161    159    143    180    166    204    287    229    462    256    543    290    575    306   1,303    346   1,749
Long-term Investment         0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0      18      0      77      0   1,000
Fixed Assets
Plant -m Service        1,317  1,689  1,662  1,757  1,702  1,820  2,086  1,938  2,397  2,033  2,708  2,173  2,893  2,219  4,495   4,535  6,032   5,098
Less: Accum. Depreciation  (330)  (332)  (374)  (383)  (425)  (438)  (482)  (498)  (549)  (555)  (625)  (640)  (709)  (721)  (820) (1,195)  (978) (1,260)
Net Plant in Service    987  1,358  1,288  1,374  1,277  1,382  1,604  1,441  1,848  1,478  2,083  1,533  2,184  1,498  3,675   3,340  5,054   3,837
Construction WIP          704    506    768    772  1,225  1,004  1,448  1,099  1,990  1,363  2,746  1,814  3,471  2,522  2,867   3,215  2,278   2,662
Total Fixed Assets    1691  1,863  2.056  2,147  2,502  2,385  3,052  2,540  3.838  2.84   4,829  3,347  5.655  4,020  6,542   6.556  7.332   6,499
Special Fund Assets         50      89     54    145     54    144      65     85     67    118      76    116     82       0    106       0    116        0
Deferred and Intangible Assets   0  0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      30      0      67      0      194
Total Assets          1,880  2113  2,269  2435  2,736  2,696  3,321  2,912  4,134  3421  5161  4.006  6,027  4,642  6,954   8.003  7,794   9,442
LIABILrES & EQUITY
(u-rrentELiabilinies
Accounts Payable           33     38      32     42     33     68      30     87     31    199      28    271     30    135      35     413     27     471
Due to Government          40     41      42     17    43      21      45     22     47      31     49     27     51     56      24     134     25      157
Short-term Loan             0      0       0      0      0      0       0     34      0     49       0     49      0      54      0       9      0      28
Other Current Liabilities   0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0    261       0     515      0     784
Total Current Liabilities  73   78      74     59     76     89      75    142     78    279      77    346     81    505      59   1,071     52   1,440
Consumer Deposits             2      0      2      0       2      0      2      0       2      0      2      0       2      0      2       0       2       0
Working Cpital Funds         20     33     20     35      20     39     22     24      22     27     22     27      24      0     24       0      24       0
Long-term Debt              753    848  1,107  1,129  1,545  1,321  2,084  1,391  2,838  1,653  3,796  2,050  4,549  2,663  5,279   4,203  5,947   4,598
Government Funds           938  1,016    951    941    960    990    972  1,058  1,005  1,108  1,039  1,211  1,112          0  1,268       0  1,391        0
Special Funds                94    139    115    194    133    183    165    206    189    273    225    285    259         0    322       0    378        0
Capital Construction Alloc.   0      0      0     77       0     74      0     91       0     80      0      86      0      0      0       0       0       0
Capital                       0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0  1,435      0   1,619       0   2,549
Capital Surplus               0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0   1,036       0     609
Retained Earnings            0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0     39      0      74       0     245
Total Liab. & Equitv    1,880  2.113  2.269  2,435  2,736  2,696  3_320    912  4.134  ,3421  5, 61  4.006  6.027  4,642  6,954   8.003  7,794   9,442
Long-term Debt % as of LT                                                                                                                                                Z
Debt and Equity          42.2   42.3   50.9   49.9   58.6   53.0   64.7   52.4   70.4   54.5   75.0   57.8   76.8   64.4   76.9    60.6   77.1    57.5                 Z
Current Ratio               1.9    2.1    2.1    2.4    2.4    1.9    2.7    2.0    2.9    1.7    3.3    1.6    3.6    1.1    5.2         1.2    6.7      1.2



Table 3: FUNDS FLow STATEMENT
(Y million)
1986         1987          1988          1989          1990         1991          1992           1993            1994
Year Ended December 31           Proj.  ActuuaI VjT-EctaI PF        zaI Pj. Actual Prj-Ac-tial Proj.  Actual Prj.ojc.uaI  Prj.  Actua                   Aetual
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Net Income                        59    52     60    50      54    70      49    78      49    86      59    87    100    80      215    115      215    176
Depreciation & Amortizaton        38    46     45    55      50    62      57    65      67    72      77    88      84    97     111    132      158    308
Maintenance                       18    21      23    23     24    24      29    25      34    37      38    50     41    52       63      0       84      0
Connection Charge                  9    19       9    19     10    20      10    18      10    13      11    13      11    25      11       0      12      0
Other Resources                    0    36       0    46      0    10       0    29       0    53       0    35       0    62       0       0       0      0
Total Intemal Sources          124   173    137   194    138   187    145   216    160   261    185   273    236   316          400    247      469    484
Borrow,pgs
PIrpoe EBRD Loan                   0     0      36    53     48    39      29    10      18    42      14    15      12    70       0               0
Other Yantan Project Loan        199     0    213   173    262   143    285   247    421   268    496   359    457   377          239             203
Other Loans                      114   298    122   142    141   182    238    66    319    46    439    81    369   259          499             476
Total Borrowings               313   298    371   368    451   364    552   323    758   356    949   455    838   707          738  1.607      679    396
Government Funds - Grants           7     9       8     8       7     5      6    12      19    17      16    16      10    19       18  1,255       2       0
Total Sources of Funds         444   480    516   570    596   556    703   551    937   635  1150   743  1,084 1.041   1.156  3.109   1.150    880
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Cavital Exnenditure
Prposed Yantin Project           183   148    227   203    281   194    275   264    384   324    435   382    367   490          200             139
Other Construction               121   159    126   137    145   175    242    71    336    50    454    89    379   235           517            478
Interest During Construction      16     0      23     0      30     0     43      0     66      0     98      0    102     0      135            166
Renovations                       28     0      31     0      35     0     34      0     45      0     47      0     56     0       62             86
Total Capital Expenditures     348   307    407   339    491   369    594   335    831   374  1 034   470    904   725           914  2.656     869    (57)
g[rational eauirements
Changes in Working Capital         5   (11)      7    47       5   (18)      8   (14)     7   (61)      8    34       3   (67)       1    217       15    357
Changes in Special Funds Assets    2    25       4    56       0    (1)    11   (59)      2    33       9    (2)      6    92       24      0       11      0
Loan Repayment                     0    25      19    30      19    56      25    56     25    60      25    65      90    62       90     67      90    310
Remittances to Government         48    18      31    11      30    15       9    17      9    17       4    13       2    18       46     76      46       0
Special Fund Expenditures         29    96      34    97      35   127     40   120      44   117      48   185      51   185       69      0      87       0
Increase in LT Investmnent         0      0      0     0       0     0       0     0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0     59        0    923
Total Oper. ReQuirements        84   153      95   242      89   179      93   120     87   166      94   295    152   290       230    419     249  1.590
Total Applications of Funds    432   460    502   581    580   548    687   454    918   539  1128   765  1.056 1.015   1,144  3.075   1.118  .L533
ln(de)creases in Cash               12    20     14   (11)    16       7     16    96      19    96      22   (22)    28    26        12     34      32   (653)            >
Annual Debt Service Coverage
(times)                                 6.8    6.1   6.4    5.3   3.3    4.2   3.9    4.9   4.3    5.6   4.2    2.1   5.1          3.4    3.3      4.0    1.4



- 33 -                        ANNEX 2
ANNEX 2: PROJECT REVIEW FROM
THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Part One: Dam and Power House Works
Dam and power house works of Yantan Hydroelectric Project were wholly
completed in 1994. Units 1, 2, 3 have been duly put into operation. Unit 4 shall be put
into operation in June 1995. The last item of the Project is ship lift works with 250t,
which is under construction and scheduled for navigation in 1997.
We are satisfied with the enforcement results and benefits of this Project.
From the construction duration point of view, the construction time has certain ahead of
schedule; from the project quality point of view, based on the requirements of design and
specification, the percentage of qualification is 100%, the percentage of good quality 70%,
the percentage of good quality of concrete 87.5%, the overall construction quality is good.
From finance point of view, it is controlled very well and about 5 % of the investment be
saved; from procurement contracts point of view, they are implemented quite smoothly,
which play an active role in speeding up the construction schedule of Yantan Project; from
power grid systems point of view, three units put into operation up to 1994 was
accumulated to 907.5 MW, which occupied 33% of capacity of the whole Guangxi power
grid and 50% of hydro power capacity. The power generation capacity of Yantan in 1994
was 3.099 TW.h, which occupied 25% of total power amount of Guangxi power grid and
42.8% of hydropower capacity. This Project can more develop regulating benefits and
improve economic characteristics of power grid operation. More power energy can be
transmitted to Guangzhou before flood, which has realized power transmission from west
to east.
The cooperation between international consultancy companies and the units
concerned at home is good, which is an important guarantee to realize project target.
Part Two: Environment
The systematic environmental monitoring activities have been carried out
during the construction of Yantan Hydroelectric Project.  After impounding, the
environmental monitoring in the initial operation are being made one after another. Based
on the present monitoring results, they are basically consistent with the prediction results
in the "Environmental Impact Report."



- 34 -                         ANNEX 2
According to the environmental problems revealed by the impounding of
Yantan Project, the monitoring work for karst water logging areas, slopeslipes and induced
earthquake should be strengthened.
In order to meet the requirements of the relocatees' production, solution
oxygen, nutrient level should be monitored for cage fisheries, besides monitoring aquatic
organisms in the reservoir area.
Due to reservoir impounding, variations of climate in some areas are
advantageous to growth of vegetation and no big changes happen in plant area. So,
planting industry in reservoir area should be emphatically studied and developed.
Environmental problems must be paid attention to in the capital construction.
The environmental protection activities must be carried out with design, construction and
management of the main works in parallel.
Part Three: Resettlement
On the basis of carrying out conscientiously the resettlement plan of Yantan
reservoir, the relocation and construction of resettled people were started in 1985 and
ended in 1995.  At present, 20,980 resettled people have been well relocated for
production and development. The rest people 41,550 have got preliminary arrangement,
but their income is below the standard of Guangxi income target. They still belong to
unsteadily relocation. In order to have a good relocation and catch up the local average
living standard, efforts must be made from this year and several years in the future.
In 1991, the total investment of submergence approved was added from
195.30 million yuan to 426.30 million yuan. In 1994, all the fund had been obtained, of
which there are still 51 million yuan for 1995, which will be mainly used for production
and development.
As for 1995, there is still 12 million yuan for reservoir maintenance. In the
future, there will be about 20 million yuan for reservoir maintenance year by year. All
these funds will be used for development and construction in the reservoir area and
improving the living standard of the resettled people.
Part Four: Financial Management
Guangxi Electric Power Bureau (GEPB) is a large electric power enterprise
of State under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Electric Power of China, which
implements independent accounting.  In regard to finance and accounting, GEPB
implements "General Provisions of Enterprise Finance," "Guidelines of Enterprise
Accounting" and "System of Finance and Accounting of Industrial Enterprise" issued by
the Ministry of Finance.



- 35 -                         ANNEX 2
Part Five: Operation Plan of Yantan Power Plant
1. Dam and Power House Works
From September 16, 1992 to April 30, 1995, power generating capacity of
three units of Yantan Power Plant accumulated to 6.876 billion kWh, with unit cost of
17.5 yuan/MWh. The utilization for three units were 90.5% for Unit 1, 72.31% for
Unit 2 and 46.12% for Unit 3 respectively.
The preparatory works for Yantan Power Plant was started early in 1986 and
preparation for production was ready in August 1992. Through the actual operation and
inspection for more than three years, the preparation for production is in a better and
solider condition. Today, the organization for the Plant is simplified and its personnel
have a high level of competence through professional tr ining.
Procedures for Equipment Operation and Msintenance of the Power Plant:
Work in the power house is carried out according to the relative regulations
of the Ministry of Electric Power. Every operator has one copy of Operation Manual in
hand and implements regular maintenance schedule. Once some problems appear, they
must be solved in time. The regular maintenance schedule for units and main equipments
shall be made (one overhaul in every 5 years and one routine maintenance in every year).
Reservoir dispatching shall be carried out correctly and effectively, which
is the dispatching rules to minimize water loss and maximize operating efficiency.
Safety procedures shall be done according to the safety standard procedures
and plan for power house operation, including regular observation and maintenance for
dam and power house structures and safety inspection for dam, spillway operation and gate
operating procedures.
2. Environment
Environmental work shall be implemented according to Environmental
Monitoring Plan of Yantan Hydroelectric Project approved by the Ministry of Electric
Power and State Energy Investment Corp., including submergence monitoring, sand and
mud accretion in the reservoir monitoring, water quality monitoring, climate monitoring,
earthquake monitoring, ecological impact monitoring, bank caving and depression
monitoring, schistosomiasis and snail vectors monitoring in Hase of Dahua county, etc.
The total fund for monitoring is estimated about 2.10 million yuan.
3. Resettlement
Based on the total investment for submergence approved in 1991, it is
426.30 million yuan, all the fund was obtained in 1994. There is still 51.00 million yuan
in 1995, which shall be mainly used for production and development. As for 1995, there



- 36 -                         ANNEX 2
is still 12 million yuan for reservoir maintenance. In the future, there will be 20 million
yuan for reservoir maintenance year by year, which will be used for production and
development and improving living standard of the resettled people.



- 37 -                         ANNEX 3
ANNEX 3: AIDE-MEMOIRE FOR
COMPLETION MISSION
Yantan, China
April 8, 1995
1.          A World Bank mission consisting of Barry Trembath, Robert Crooks, Martin
ter Woort, Scott Ferguson and Youxuan Zhu visited Guangxi Electric Power Bureau
(GXEPB) and the Yantan project from March 29 to 31, 1995 and the Yantan Reservoir
over the period April 4 to April 7, 1995 to discuss requirements for the completion report
for the Yantan project. Officials from the Bureau and from the Guangxi Yantan
Hydroelectric Project Construction Corporation (YHPCC) were joined by representatives
of the Guangxi Resettlement Office (GRO)in the discussions. The mission would like to
express its appreciation for the excellent arrangements for the visit, the courtesy and co-
operation of the participants to the various discussions, and for the gracious hospitality
extended to the mission. This aide-memoire outlines the mission's fmdings and suggestions
for finalization of the completion report.
Borrower's Completion Report
2.          The mission was provided with a draft completion report for the main
project, and detailed reports on environmental and resettlement aspects. These are close
to meeting the requirements for the Borrower's completion report, required by the new
Bank guidelines. Comments on the reports were provided by the mission. A report
should also be provided by GXEPB on the rmancial and utility management
component of the project. Since these four reports in total are longer than eight pages,
the mission requested that a summary report of less than eight single spaced pages
also be prepared for attachment (unedited) to the Bank's own completion report.
Operation Plan
3.          The new guidelines also require that an Operation Plan be prepared setting
out the plans for future operations to ensure efficient, economical operations of the
project. The mission suggested that this plan be prepared for the Yantan dam and power
station (prepared by the Yantan Power Plant), the reservoir (prepared by the GRO) and the
environment (prepared by the Environmental Monitoring Center). Suggested outlines were
provided by the mission.



- 38 -                         ANNEX 3
Reevaluation of Economics
4.          The mission was advised that Yantan power is being sold to the grid at
25.04 fen/kWh. This value will be used for re-evaluating the economics of the project.
The mission also requested disbursements to be prepared in the form set out in Annex
A in the comments on Section 1-2 of the dam and power station completion report, to
facilitate the economic analysis. The mission also requested that the current tariff
schedule of GXEPB be provided.
Financial Data
5.          The mission received financial tables from GXEPB. These will be reviewed
by financial analysts in Washington and any further requirements will be advised from
there.
Timing
6.          The mission requested that the revised and additional reports and data be
forwarded to Washington by courier by May 20, 1995.












I MAG i >qN;
Report No:         1477:;
Type : D12-R



