Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6050-CiA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
May 5, 1986
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency - Yuan (Y)
} Yuan (Y) = US$0.333
1 Yuan     = 100 fen
(As of November 1985)
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
m3        Meter (= 3.2808 ft)
m'    =   Cubic meter (= 35.3147 ft3)
km    =   Kilometer (= 0.6214 miles)
ha    =   Hectare (=0.01 km )
kWh   =   Kilowatt hour (= 860.42 kcals)
CWh   =   Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
TWh   -   Terawatt hour (1,000,000,000 kilowatt hours)
kW    =   Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW    -   Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kV    =   Kilovolt (1,C00 volts)
kVA   =   Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA       Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CAB      -   Cuangxi Audit Bureau
GEPB     -   Guangxi Electric Power Bureau
GIDI     -   Guangxi Investigation and Design Institute
GOC      -   Government of China
IAEA     -   International Atomic Energy Agency
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MWREP    -   Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
PCBC     -   People's Construction Bank of China
SAA      -   State Audit Administration
SBC      -   Special Board of Consultants
SCEPA    -   South China Electric Power Administration
SEC      -   State Economic Commission
SPC      -   State Planning Commission
WREPERI  -   Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research
Institute



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I *THE ENERGY SECTOR.................                                               1
A.  Overview -oe.*.          ........                                          I
B.  Resource Endowment    .............................. .                     2
C.  Efficiency of Energy Use.................................                  2
II.  THE POWER SUBSECTOR ................ ......... .. ............ .    3
A.  Background. ........                            ...... *                   3
B.  The Market for Electricity................................                 3
C.  Institutions ...... 0  ........0 ........ ,.00..  *    4
De   ..................................... .......... a a a a    4
E.  Manpower and Training           .................          ......... .    5
Fe  Planning ..... o......  ,.                                                 5
C.  Technology Transfer .......            ................... .......... a a .  6
H.  Subsector Objectives and Policies.^ ,.,...................                 6
I.  Subsector Problems ....        .....    .......................... a a    7
T.  Role of the Bank .....................         ................ # a ............  8
III.  THE BENEFICIARY          ...........         .....**.....*..                    9
A.  Legal Status and Organization ......... ............   9
Be  Management,* ........... o............................. 9
C.  Staffing and Training*......,.....*.....................                  10
D.  Planning, Budget andControl................,.........    11
E.  Accounting,an   Cl i.................. .................   13
F.  Audit .Proesin...........................................    14
G.  Tariffsbutio    yst..................... ................   15
H.  Billing and Co1lection#*..*.*ee.s*.* ..........                             , 15
I.  Data Processing-  ....9......                     .......        .       ..,,  17
J.                                                                           nuac ............t  17
K.  Distribution System ...................  17
IV.  THE POWER MARKET AND THE PROGRAM              .........         ........    19
A.  The Guangxi Power Grid.            ....   .......................    19
B.  Load Forecast ..... ..... .. .. O..* ...........                          20
C.  The Power Development Program ..................    20
This report was written by K.C. Ling and J. Sopher, who appraised the pr ject
in November 1985.
This document has a retrictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V.  THE PROJECT . *  ****, ......... 44 ........*                     22
A.  Project Objectives ................. ...o.*.. e44*064044&     22
B. Project ................... 4     ee       eo.    22
C.  Cost Kstimte.............. ..... .440440 00         e   ...   24
D.  Financing Plan        ................            .           26
Ea Procurement..........................,..                       27
F.  Project Implementation ..............................e.*      28
CoDsusmetvee 29
H.  Monitoring and  R                                             29
I Environmental Aspects                                           30
Jo   ..................          ,                                30
K.  Risks    .................. e  4                              31
VI*   IAC*^**es*r****^*Xsv**s**vv    32
A.  Introduction...                                               32
B.  Financial Syeem                                              32
C.  Past and Present Financial Performance....o....nce.....    33
D. Financial Plan ..... ..00...0...4... ................          35
E. Future Finances......4.....4...4 , 4    37
VII.  JUSTIFICATION                 ................                    40
A.  Need for the Pro                   j      e 4        0        40
B.  Least Cost Stid                          i      e      s      42
C.  Economic Rate of Retur                                 n      42
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMOMENDATIONS...........O........ *      44
ANNEXES
1. Installed Capacity, Electricity Generation and Sales for the Power
Subsector
2. Electricity Generation by Region and by Type of Plant
3. Performance Indicators of GEPB (1980-84)
4. Manpower Development and Training
5. Diagnostic Analyses of Computer-based Information System Needs
6. Electricity Tariff of GEPB
7. Installed Capacity, Energy Generation and Sales of GEPB
8. Major Generating Facilities of GEPB
9. Energy Consumption by Category of Consumers
10.  Balance of System Load and Capability of GEPB
11.  Estimated Monthly Output of Yentan Hydroelectric Project under
various Hydro Conditions
12.  Cascade Development of Hongshui River Basin
13.  Pertinent Physical Data for Yantan Hydroelectric Project
14.  Summary and Recommendations of the first meeting of SBC
15.  Project Cost Estimate
16.  List of Equipment ad Materials to be procured under Bank Loan



- iii -
ANNEXES (Cont'd)
17. Disbursement Schedule
18. Resettlement Plan
19. Financial System in China
20. GEPB's Financial Statements (1980-84)
21.  GEPB's Financial Forecasts (1985-95)
22. Assumptions to Financial Projections
23. Economic Rate of Return
24. Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
CHARTS
1. Organization of MWREP
2. Organization of CEPB
3. Development Program of Guangxi Power Grid
4. Organization of the Construction Management Unit
5. Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
Yantan Hydroelectric Project (IBRD 19418)



- iv -
Estimated Costs:
Local     Forsign     Total
---($ million) --
Preparatory work                           35.9        -         35.9
Land, compensation and resettlement        75.8        -         75.8
Construction equipment and plant           78.3      19.4        97.7
Civil works                               124.1      72.0       196.1
Electrical, mechanical equipment
and computers                           100.5       2.8      103.3
Transmission lines and substations         49.3      17.3        66.6
Engineering and consulting services         5.3       2.5         7.8
Supervision and administration              1.8        -          1.8
Training                                    1.6       1.0         2.6
Base Cost:                             472.6     115.0      587.6
Physical contingencies                     44.4      10.3        54.7
Price contingencies                       182.6      39.1      221.7
Total Project Cost:                    699.6     164.4      864.0
Interest during construction              148.5      20.6       169.1
Total Financing Required:              848.1     185.0    1,033.1
Note: The project is exempted from import duties and taxes.
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign     Total
(-$ million)    -
IBRD loan                                    -       52.0        52.0
Bilateral grants                             -        2.0         2.0
Local bank loans                          848.1     131.0       979.1
Total                                  848.1     185.0    1,033.1
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY            1987   1988   1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
… ----------- ($  million)----------------__
Annual                   2.0   20.0    12.0      7.0     5.0      4.0    2.0
Cumulative               2.0   22.0    34.0    41.0    46.0    50.0   52.0
Economic Rate of Return: 12%



CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  The People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:               Guangxi Electric Power Bureau (GEPB)
Amount:                    $52.0 million equivalent
Terms:                     20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard
variable interest rate
Onlending Terms:           The proceeds of the loan would be onlent from the
Government to GEPB under a subsidiary loan agreement
with a 20-year term, including 5 years of grace and
at an interest rate of 8.5% p.a. The foreign
exchange risk (between the dollar and RMB) and
commitment fees would be borne by GEPB.
Project Description:       The project seeks to support economic growth in
South China through the cascade development of the
Hongshui river. The project would be the Bank's
first involvement in the power subsector in the
Guangxi autonomous region and would help to build
relations with CiPB and, later, the South China
Electric Power Administration (SCEPA)p with whom the
Bank is expecting to collaborate on future power
generation projects. The project would introduce
state-of-the-art dam construction techniques, pro-
vide a link between the Yantan power station and
South China power grid using 500 kV transmission
lines, and help to strengthen and update the power
bureau's financial planning and management
practices. The project comprises the construction
of a 110 m high concrete gravity dam, a spillway, a
powerhouse and a ship lift; provision and
installation of four generating units of 275 NW
each; construction of two single circuits of 500 kV
transmission lines and three associated substations;
provision of consulting service for design and
construction management; and implementation of a
training program. Bilateral technical assistance on
a grant basis is being arranged with the Canadian
and Norwegian governments. The project presents no
special risks.



CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Overview
1.01      China is the world's fourth largest producer and third largest
consumer of commercial energy. Coal is by far the most important source of
energy in China, accounting for some 701 of its commercial energy consump-
tion. Oil production has increased rapidly over the last three decades tc
become an important source of both commercial energy and export earnings,
representing about 181 and 201 of the respective totals. Some 201 of oil pro-
duction and 1X of coal production are currently exported. Natural gas (2X),
hydroelectric power (51) and limited quantities of shale oil and geothermal
power make up the balance of commercial energy. Noncommercial energy
resources supply energy equivalent to about 401 of commercial production.
1.02      China's achievement in developing its energy resources over the last
three decades has been remarkable. The annual production of coal has increased
from some 60 million tons in 1952 to 760 million tons in 1984. During the
same period, annual oil production increased from 0.1 million tons to 114 mil-
lion tons, and annual electricity generation increased from 7bout 7.3 TWh to
377 TWh.  Nevertheless, the recent economic report on China-  has concluded
that the slow growth of energy supplies could constitute a constraint to the
Government's efforts to quadruple the Gross Value of Industrial and Agricul-
tural Output (GVIAO) from 1980 to 2000. To ensure sufficient energy for
economic development, China will need to increase coal production beyond cur-
rent targets for the year 2000 and meet at least the official output targets
set for other types of energy resources. Meeting these targets will require
the modernization of technology and management throughout the sector, the
increased commitment of financial resources, and strengthening of planning and
coordination among the diverse components of the energy sector and also the
transportation sector. In addition, serious subsectoral constraints which
exist in various aspects of technology, logistics, management and incentives
need to be overcome.
1.03      In view of the complexity and difficulty of the problems anticipated
in the attempt to balance supply and demand, it is crucial for China to formu-
late and implement a comprehensive and coherent long-term strategy directed at
both efficient energy development and utilization. The Government, in its
Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85), accorded high priority to the development of
energy and transport sectws, and these objectives will be further emphasized
1/   China:  Long Term Issues and Options, World Bank Report No. 5206-CHA, May
1985.



-2-
in the Seventh Five-Year Plan (198(-90). The Bank has supported the Govern-
ment's objectives and formulation of a coherent sectoral strategy through
economic and sector work as well as lending operations.
B. Resource Endowment
i.O4      China is well endowed with primary energy.  Coal and lignite
reserves are concentrated in the north and northeast, which have about 7OX of
the total recoverable reserves (640 billion tons).  Future plans call for
increasing coal production significantly, but difficulty in transport (essen-
tially a shortage of railroad capacity) appears to be a serious obstacle to
achieving this objective. Biomass fuels are the second most important source
of energy in China, accounting for an estimated 30% of final consumption.
Recoverable reserves of oil onshore have been variously estimated between 6-15
billion tons, and estimates for offshore oil reserves range from 3-10 billion
tons. Recoverable reserves of nonassociated gas have so far been estimated at
about 3 trillion cubic feet (TCF), about 90X of which are located in Sichuan
province. In addition, recoverable reserves of associated gas are estimated
at about 1.8 TCF. Unofficial estimates of oil shale in China place reserves
at 400 billion tons. China's hydropower potential, among the largest in the
world, is estimated at 1900 TWh p.a., of which 87 TWh p.a. have so far been
developed. A major constraint has been that the bulk of the undeveloped
potential is in 4 major basins in the southwest and the northwest of China,
where large-scale development would require transmission distances of 1,200-
1,500 km to major industrial load centers. The known uranium reserves in
China are sufficient to sustain 15,000 MW of nuclear power plant for 30 years.
Although potential sources of geothermal energy are abundant in the moun-
tainous southwestern part of the country, their role is likely to remain
limited, due to their distance from major load centers.
C. Efficiency of Energy Use
1.05      China's consumption of energy per unit of GDP is well above that of
any major developed or developing country. Several factors contribute to the
high intensity and relative inefficiency of fuel use, which is particularly
evident in the industrial sector: the structure of industrial production, the
scale of industrial units, the raw materials used, the technology employed,
and industrial organization and operating practices. In the late 1970s, it
became evident that this high energy consumption rate could not be sus-
tained. The Government took administrative measures to reduce the rapid
growth of energy consumption including quotas, adoption of energy efficiency
measures, retrofitting, marginal adjustments of industrial sttucture and the
importation of energy efficient technology. These measure3 have had some
success. Primary commercial energy consumption per unit of industrial and
agricultural output has been dropping steadily since 1979.
1.06      As a result, there has been an impressive improvement in overall
energy efficiency during the past five years. Energy consumption per unit of
GVIAO declined by 7% p.a. during 1979-81, and by 3% p.a. during 1982-83.
Preliminary data indicate a further reduction of almost .% in 1984. Technical
and operational improvements are estimated to have accounted for about 40% of
these energy savings. The other 60% came from a decline in the relative



importance of heavy industry, the closure of some inefficient small-scale
plants and other structural changes within industrial subsectors.
1.07      Although the recent administrative measures have been effective in
promoting energy efficiency, the process of fine tuning the current system to
provide economic signals to consumers and incentives for further improvements
in efficiency will become increasingly complex. There is thus a need
initially to complement and gradually to replace the current administrative
controls with a more flexible allocation system that would provide more
autonomy to individual entities. The system would increasingly rely on an
energy price structure that reflects the relative scarcity of each source of
energy. This would influence consumption in the direction of the optimal
least cost mix of energy sources required to meet future demand. Such reform
of the allocation system would be a key component of a strategy to stimulate
the adjustments in the structure of energy consumption which are necesaary for
balancing energy supply with demand in the long term.
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. Background
2.01      Power development in China has registered high rates of growth
during the last three decades. Annual per capita generation of electricity
has grown from 8 kWh in 1949 to 363 kWh in 1984. Of the total installed
capacity of 79,920 MW in 1984, 32% was hydro and 68% was thermal. Power is
distributed through 30 grids, of which 13 (representing over 80% of the total
capacity) exceed 1,000 MW each. Energy sales in 1984 reached 319 TWh, having
grown at an average 13.8% p.a. since 1949. Of these sales, 80% represented
industrial consumption, 9% agricultural, 1 tr4nsportation and 10X residential
and urban commercial usage. About 60% of the population has access to elec-
tricity. Annex 1 summarizes the growth of installed capacity, electricity
generation and sales since 1949, and Annex 2 shows electricity generation by
region and by type of plant.
B. The Market for Electricity
2.02      Electricity consumption increased at an average rate of 10.7Z p.a.
between 1965 and 1979, but this rate slowed during 1979-84 when it averaged
only 6.4% p.a. The major reason for the lag has been the inability of the
power subsector to fully meet demand, particularly in China's major industrial
centers. On a countrywide basis, the power shortage was estimated at about
40 TWh p.a. equivalent to over 15% of industrial electricity requirements.
The recent economic report on China estimates that, by the year 2000, gener-
ation of 960-1,290 TWh (equivalent to 109,000-178,000 MW in additional
generating capacity) would be needed to meet the requirements of China's
national income growth targets.
2.03      The share of electricity in total energy consumption, has his-
torically been leow compared to that of other countries. The principal
features underlying this low share appear to be: (a) the relatively low level



- 4 -
of electricity use in the residential and commercial sectors; and (b) the
relative inefficiency of fuel consumption in the industrial sector, which
decreases the relative share of electricity in total industrial energy
consumption. As a result of China's rapid development in recent years, the
share of electricity in total energy consumption has been increasing despite
serious supply constraints, rising from about 13% of final commercial energy
use in 1970 to about 15% in 1975 and 18% in 1980. This share is expected to
continue to grow, reaching 26-27% in year 2000 which is a level comparable to
that currently prevailing in other major developing countries. The manufac-
turing sector is projected to continue to account for at least three quarters
of final electricity consumption, although electricity use per unit of value
added is likely to fall slightly. Electricity use in residential and commer-
cial sectors is expected to grow at 11-13% p.a., reflecting a gradual improve-
ment in the living conditions of the population and the rapid growth of the
services sector. Electricity use in transportation is also projected to grow,
reflecting the increase in the share of electric locomotives in total railway
haulage.
C. Institutions
2.04      In the Government reorganization of 1982, the Ministry of Water
Resources and Electric Power (MWREP) was deeignated to oversee electric power
development and water resource management, including policy making, system
planning and the design, construction and operation of major power and water
resource projects. Under MWREP, there are six regional power administrations
which coordinate operations and load dispatching for the regional power grids
and formulate long-term development plans for approval by MWREP and the State
Planning Commission (SPC). Below the regional administrations are 22 provin-
cial and municipal power bureaus operating as parts of the regional grids,
while 8 other power bureaus still operate in isolation (see Chart 1, Organiza-
tion of MWREP).
D. Tariffs
2.05      Electricity tariffs have in general remained constant since 1953.
Through minor regional adjustments over the years, they have become reasonably
uniform all over the country except in the Northeast where costs have been
lower because electricity was supplied predominantly by hydropower generation
in the early years.  The average revenue per unit has been increasing due to
the growing share of consumption by light industries, commercial and residen-
tial users which pay higher rates. The national average was about 6.9 fen/kWh
(USC2.3/kWh) in 1984 compared with US07.8 in Korea, US¢7.1 in Indonesia and
USC6.3 in Thailand.
2.06      In the context of Chinese accounting practices, which in the past
did not include in costs any return on capital (other than depreciation), this
tariff yieLded satisfactory financial performance for the power subsector as a
whole. However, this situation is changing because of recent changes in the
financial policies of the Government. Since 1982, capital investments in the
power subsector have been financed through domestic and foreign borrowing
rather than through government budgetary allocations as in the past. In addi-
tion, fuel costs have been rising and are expected to rise further. As a



- 5 -
result of these changes in the costs of electricity supply, and in line with
the Government's policy to reform its economic allocation system, the Govern-
ment is considering a review of the electricity tariffs. To assist the
Government with this review, a tariff study was included under the Beilungang
thermal power project and is expected to be completed by mld 1987.
E. Manpouer and Training
2.07      MWREP has about 2e5 million employees of whom about 51% are directly
under the Ministry and about 49Z are under the provincial administrations. Of
the total, less than 30% have received formal education beyond junior secon-
dary school level. In general, the quality of staff intake has been low;
there is a severe shortage of trained manpower, particularly for administra-
tive and technical positions.
2.08      In the late 1970s, MWREP initiated a long-term training program to
upgrade the quality of its staff at all levels. Although MWREP has organized
the program, much of the implementation is carried out by the provincial power
bureaus. The Ministry's immediate goal is to establish a comprehensive pro-
gram which will systematically provide training to existing staff. MWREP is
also strengthening its capacity for full-time training of potential employees
through its Educatiot Department which sponsors 4 universities, 39 technical
colleges, television and correspondence universities and 27 secondary-level
vocational schools. The total number of students was 17,700 in 1984. About
15,300 graduates enrolled in these institutions are assigned to MWREP annually
-- 7,000 at four-year college level and 8,300 at junior college level. These
programs, supplemented by periodic in-service short courses for managerial and
technical staff and by on-the-job training for workers, are expected to lead
gradually to improve productivity in the sector. The quality of staff will
eventually improve, but the rate of change is still low. In support of these
activities and the project entity's objectives for human resource require-
ments, the proposed project would include a training component (paras. 5.08,
5 .09).
F. Planning
2.09      Power system planning at the regional and provincial levels is
carried out by the regional electric power administrations and the provincial
electric power bureaus. Overall planning is the responsibility of the Pla--
ning Department of MWREP which reviews the plans proposed by the regional
administrations and provincial bureaus on short-term (annual), medium term
(5-year) and long-term (10-15 year) bases. For major hydro projects, the
investigation, planning and design are carried out by the regional hydro-
electric investigation and design institutes. For system expansion, trans-
mission lines and substations above llOkV and major thermal projects, the
studies, planning and design are carried out by the regional electric power
design institutes. MWREP, like other line ministries, operates under the
overall supervision of SPC and the State Economic Commission (SEC), in which
are vested the ultimate authority for project approval, budget allocation,
financing arrangements and supervision.



- 6 -
2.10      Under current plans, coal-based thermal power generation will
continue to provide at least three quarters of total generation till the end
of the century. There are important issues in this area concerning plant
location and transmission network planning. For example, the locational
decisions will have to carefully balance the advantages of plant location at
the coal mine sites -- requiring long-distance transmission to major load
centers -- versus development near load centers and port areas to which large
quantities of coal would be transported by rail and/or water. Thus planning
decisions ha.ve to take into account factors such as the regional distribution
of coal resources, regional differences in coal development costs, relative
costs of coal transportation and power transmission, environmental implica-
tions, and external conditions such as the availability of water for cooling
purposes.
2.11      As the planning of China's power subsector development becomes
increasingly complex, up-to-date system planning techniques will need to be
adopted, particularly to evaluate the feasibility and optimal timing of large-
scale prujects with long lead times and to make decisions about the generating
plant mix, power plant location, and grid architecture. To assist MWREP in
acquiring these techniques, arrangements were made under the second power pro-
ject (Loan No. 2493) for introducing least cost investment programming tech-
niques through the assistance of the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA). The Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research Institute
(WREPERI) in Beijing has assisted the Guangxi Electric Power Bureau (GEPB) to
formulate a least cost development program for the Guangxi power grid
(para. 4.07).
G. Technology Transfer
2.12      The transfer and development of modern technologies will be crucial
if China is to increase energy production and efficiency sufficiently to
achieve its broader economic goals. Technology transfer is especially
important for thermal power plants, where increasing deployment of high-
pressure, large-scale units and greater development of cogeneration could
reduce net fuel consumption by some 20X by the year 2000, thus greatly allevi-
ating pressures on coal supplies and transportation. The Government is
already implementing this strategy through the gradual introduction of stan-
dardized 300 MW and 600 MW coal-fired units. The Bank is assisting the provi-
sion of state-of-the-art technology in the construction and operation of
600 MW units under the third power project. Technology transfer needed for
hydroelectric projects would include interpretation of geological data,
judgment of foundation excavation, design for sophisticated structures and
construction management. These are being provided under the proposed project
(para. 5.12 and Annex 12).
H. Subsector Objectives and Policies
2.13      The basic objectives of the Government for the power subsector are
to modernize, increase efficiency, and expand it at a rate sufficient to meet
the requirements of industrial development. To achieve these objectives, the
Government is pursuing the following policies:



(a) a phased increase in the financial autonomy of the enterprises;
(b) gradual introduction of a more rational pricing system;
(c) introduction of modern techniques in project design and aystem
planning;
(d) acceleration of hydro development;
(e) development of mine-mouth, coal-fired thermal stations supplemented,
where necessary, by stations located near port areas and load
centers;
(f) construction of extra high voltage transmission Lines to transmit
power from remote hydro sites and mine-mouth thermal stations and
for interconnection between regions;
(g) progressive replacement of medium and low pressure thermal units by
larger size and higher pressure units to improve fuel efficiency,
and the conversion of oil-fired units to coal-firing;
(h) development of nuclear units in areas where other forms of energy
are scarce; and
(i) improvement of energy efficiency.
I. Subsector Problems
2.14      Shortage of Generating Capacity.  in spite of considerable growth in
generating capacity, supply has lagged behind demand and shortages are
reported in the Northeast, North, South and East China grids. The power
shortage countrywide was estimated at about 40 TWh in energy in 1984. Demand
management has been carried out in these regions by staggering holidays,
changing working hours, and load shedding during shortages according to agreed
priorities.
2.15      Inadequate Transmission and Distribution Facilities.  The develop-
ment of transmission lines and substation facilities has lagged behind that of
generation. No interconnection has yet been made between regions and there
are about eight provincial grids still operating in isolation. MWREP has
estimated that China has a shortage of about 10,000 km of transmission lines
at voltages above 110 kV. Similar shortages exist in substation capacity.
Lower voltage subtransmission and eistribution facilities are currently being
financed by the provincial governments or municipalities. The local authori-
ties usually do not allocate sufficient funds for the improvement and exten-
sion of these facilities which results in high system losses and inefficienct
use of energy (para. 3.32).
2.16      Financial Constraints.  Financial constraints have been a major
factor in the shortage of generating capacity and the inadequacy of trans-
mission and distribution facilities. In the past, limited budgetary
allocations have caused considerable slow-down of power projects. Recently,



the funding mechanism has undergone considerable revision (para. 3.10) which
has given rise to the expectation that Power Bureaus can cover about 10X of
their investment requirements through internal cash generation (para. 6.10).
In the future, tariff increases should lead to increases in the amount of
resources available for investment in the subsector and in the levels of self
financing by the Power Bureaus themselves.
2.17      Technology Transfer and Trainin8.  Despite some progress, China's
technology in thermal power plant design, least-cost investment programming,
load dispatching and application of computers falls short of levels prevailing
in developed countries. The age profile of the engineering staff is highly
skewed: most are in their 50s and 60s. Only strenuous efforts to train young
graduates now emerging from universities will narrow the gap. This may
involve establishing specialized training institutes as well as providing on-
the-job training within the country and training abroad at utility companies
and other institutions. A greater understanding of the subsector's training
requirements is necessary before an appropriate solution can be developed and
encouraged. The Bank plans to address this issue in the context of a
subsector-oriented training program.
J. Role of the Bank
2.18      The Bank's role has been to use its lending operations to assist the
Government in solving technical problems and rationalizing investment deci-
sions. The Bank is implementing this strategy by introducting to China modern
methods of system planning, project preparation, construction, operation and
utility management.
2.19      The first power project (Lubuge hydroelectric, Loan 2382) will
provide 600 MW of generating capacity and associated transmission system to
the Yunnan power grid. The project successfully promoted cofinancing arrange-
ments including export credits for the major electrical and mechanical equip-
ment and bilateral grants for engineering services. It also introduced inter-
national competitive bidding for civil works and modern construction techni-
ques for a rockfill dam, power tunnel and underground powerhouse and enhanced
the financial autonomy of the Yunnan Provincial Electric Power Bureau
(YPEPB). The project included training for staff of the Kunming Hydroelectric
Investigation and Design Institute (KHIDI), the Lubuge Construction Management
Bureau (LPCMB) and YPEPB in the areas of design, construction management,
quality control, accounting and cost control through consulting services. The
project also included upgrading and equipping of an electrical training school
in Kunming.
2.20      The second power project (500 kV transmission line from Xuzhou to
Shanghai, Loan 2493) will transmit a large block of power from a mine-mouth
coal-fired thermal power station at Xuzhou (500 MW in operation and 4 units of
200 MW under construction) to the East China power grid. This project also
successfully promoted cofinancing with a bilateral loan for the Yangtze river
crossing works, and provided for the transfer of the latest technology in
500 kV transmission line and substation design, construction, operation and
maintenance to the East China Electric Power Design Institute (ECEPDI) and the
Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Bur-au (JPEPB). A training component



- 9 -
included the establishment of a training center and equipping of two other
technical schools in Nanjing and Shanghai for the operation and maintenance of
500 kV transmission lines and substations.
2.21      Under the third power project (Beilungang thermal power) the Bank
will finance a fully integrated state-of-the-art 600 MW coal-fired unit that
will be used to set technical and economic performance standards for a series
of same-size units to be installed in China and a 500 kV transmission system
connect-d to the East China power grid. Co-financing arrangement is being
sought for the second 600 MW unit. The project would also introduce the con-
cept of a least-cost expansion plan as a basis for evaluating power projects,
and is expected to contribute to the formul&.ion of a more rational tariff
through a cooperative tariff study. A program to meet the needs for project-
related training and long-term human resources development would also be
included.
III. THE BENEFICIARY
3.01      The beneficiary of the proposed loan would be the Guangxi Electric
Power Bureau (GEPB).
A. Legal Status and Organization
3.02      GEPB is a state-owned enterprise under the jurisdiction of MWREP.
It is a legal entity with contractual and self accounting capacity. GEPB
assigned responsibility by the State for the execution within its jurisdiction
of the government program for power generation, capital investment, power
sales and tariffs, employment and payroll, materials consumption and tax and
profit remittances to the State. A charter of GEPB acceptable to the Bank has
been issued.
3.03      GEPB is headed by a director who is appointed by MWREP.  Four deputy
directors are functionally responsible to him respectively for capital con-
struction; production and power supply; planning, science and technology; and
labor and wages and finance. Political, education and security departments
report directly to the Director. Operations are carried out through a number
of units engaged in power generation, distribution, construction, and
repair. Each of these units is headed by a director with line responsibility
to the director of GEPB. The structure of GEPB is shown in Chart 2.
B. Management
3.04      Under the current institutional framework, within which the central
government maintains a high degree of control over the power subsector, CEPB
appears to be well managed. This is reflected in the recent performance indi-
cators which show among others that GEPB has been expanding steadily and that
its transmission and distribution losses are reducing, no greater than is
typical in the Chinese power subsector (Annex 3 and paras. 3.30-3.32). In
addition, GEPB prepares accounting information it a timely fashion
(para. 3.16) and maintains an effective billing and collection system



- 10 -
(paras. 3.26-27). Nevertheless, as the institutional framework is moving
toward a reduction in centralized control with corresponding increases in
financial autonomy and responsibility for decision-making at the power bureau
level, GEPB management needs to prepare itself for greater responsibilities.
3.05      Areas deserving special attention in this regard are the upgrading
of management skills (paras. 3.13 and 3.17) and the strengthening of financial
planning (para 3.12). In particular, senior officials of relevant ministries
and planning organizations need to familiarize themselves with modern concepts
of utility management through a carefully designed overseas study tour
(para. 5.08); in addition, power bureau managers and administrators need to
master these concepts through a well designed program of training and seminars
organized in China which would be defined under a future project. The imple-
mentation of modern management methods and the strengthening of financial
planning should include development of a management information system
(paras. 3.13-3.14) that is oriented towards meeting the needs of management in
addition to the reporting requirements of the Government.
3.06      GEPB is able to formulate its expansion program and to oversee
implementation of mediuim size thermal (100-200 MW) and hydro projects
(400 MW) by itself. However for a large project such as Yantan, outside
assistance will be required in least cost programming, in engineering and
design, and in construction management which will be provided under the pro-
posed project. (para. 5.12).
C. Staffing and Training
3.07      As of the end of 1984, GEPB had a total staff of about 32,037, of
which about 2,084 or 6.5% are college graduates, and 6,380 or about 20% have
received education beyond secondary level. Except for the core group of key
technical and managerial personnel who are assigned by MWREP, virtually all of
GEPB's employees are recruited locally. They are hired on a permanent basis
with the exception of some contract labor for construction work. GEPB has
16 departments and offices in its headquarters with a staff of 283. Of the
33 outside units, 14 are power plants having a total number of staff and
workers of 7,614, four are area power supply bureaus having a total number of
staff and workers of 3,344, four are repairing and manufacturing enterprises
having a total number of staff and workers of 1,928, four are construction
enterprises having a total number of staff and workers of 17,096, one design
institute having a total staff and workers of 915, three are scientific
research institute and technical schools, having a total number of staff and
workers of 374, and one load dispatching center having a total number of staff
and workers of 219, and 547 are newly recruited operation staff now under
training. Of the entire staff and workers, 2,604 people are engaged in tech-
nical work accounting for 8.1%, 3,299 people are engaged in administrative or
managerial work accounting for 10.3%, 2,937 people are engaged in operation
accounting for 9.2%; and 4,517 are engaged in services accounting for 14.1%.
In general, GEPB does not have sufficient engineering and technical staff, but
does have excessive numbers of semiskilled and unskilled workers.
3.08      The Education Division of GEPa administers two technical schools for
skilled workers, one for electrical and mechanical works and one for civil



- 11 -
works. An electrical institute for the training of technicians has been
established. The first group of about 80 students started in autumn 1985.
However, the training capacity is not adequate to meet the long-term need.
The quality of teaching staff as well as teaching facilities need to be
upgraded and modernized. A training component has therefore been included in
the proposed project.
D. Planning, Budget and Control
3.09      The power bureaus are responsible for developing annuail and five-
year production and investment plans which are integrated with the national
plans and are approved, through MWREP's auspices, by SPC. HWREP plays a major
role in shaping the bureaus' individual plans. The ministry, in conjunction
with regional administrations, uses past operating results received from all
the bureaus to compile the quantities and related prices to be used by the
bureaus in develooing their operating plans. The investment plans are
developed on a project by project basis using estimates of quantities and
prices of inputs included in feasibility studies prepared by the regional
design institutes; however, the investment plans do not take account of the
movement of prices after completion of final design. Thus, in the planning
process, the bureaus themselves do not make a direct linkage between their
projected costs and their realized costs. The bureaus' operating plans do
include monitoring indicators; and variance analyses are conducted to compare
quantities actually produced or consumed with plan targets. Because the
bureaus themselves do not link their plan targets directly to realized
financial performance, the variance analyses have limited usefulness as
measures of the efficiency of their operations or the cost effectiveness of
their investment programs. Still, within the environment of a centrally
planned economy where large grants have been used to finance significant
portions of investment and prices have been maintained at stable levels, this
approach to planning has served reasonably well.
3.10      Until 1980, all funds required for implementation of the annual
construction plans were provided through grants allocated from the State
budget. The State also provided minor amounts of finance to cover liquidity
requirements through an account entitled Working Capital Funds. Under China's
economic reform program which began about 1978, major changes have been
introduced to encourage the economic use of the Government's limited
resources. Funds for major new investments are now being provided in the form
of loans from the People's Construction Bank of China.  These loans are made
only after projects have been extensivelv reviewed and cost estimates have
been approved. In addition to construction loans, now bearing an annual
interest rate of about 3.6%, funds are provided for liquidity by way of non-
repayable government contributions, which carry annual finance charges of
3%. The construction loans are scheduled for repayment over 15 years after
completion of the work.
3.11      So far, the prices the power bureaus have been paying for the
constituents of operating and investment costs have been controlled, mostly at
constant levels. However, the Government has recently announced that it is
relaxing some controls over the pricing system so that, slowly, prices will
move toward market levels. In coming years, with the power bureaus continuing



- 12 -
to expand their operations rapidly (paras. 6.14-6.16) and costs increasingly
becoming variable (para. 6.08), actual cost data used together with projec-
tions of (i) productivity improvements, (ii) future price movements, and
(iii) interest rates, will become more important as the basis for planing and
budgeting. Moreover, as the cost of inefficiency will certainly increase,
management will need to enhance its ability to evaluate and control more
closely the operations of individual cost centers.
3.12      The Chinese system of planning and budgeting does not include
provision for long term financial planning. In connection with the Lubuge
hydroelectric project (Loan 2382), the Bsank furnished MWREP with a financial
forecasting model to enable the power bureaus to study the impact of both
their expansion plans ard variations in prices on their future financial posi-
tions. Assurances have been obtained that, by December 31 of each year
commencing December 31, 1986, GEPS will furnish to the Bank a financial plan
containing forecast income statements, sources and uses of funds, and balance
sheets for the next five years. In addition, an understanding was reached
that, at the Bank's request, GEPB would prepare and furnish finoncial
projections for five years subsequent to the period of the agreed financial
plans.
3.13      MWREP recognizes that it needs to modernize the financial and
management procedures being followed by the power bureaus. It has authorized
numerous power bureaus to acquire microprocessors to be used for financial,
planning, and administrative purposes. Additionally, it has developed some
software aimed at enabling the bureaus to produce computerized standard
reports regularly. For its part, GEPS has already computerized sose of its
personnel, payroll, and administrative records and is adapting software to
computerize materials management, system planning, and production manage-
ment. Once GEPB completes computerization of these records, it will be expec-
ted to furnish its monthly reports to MWREP on diskettes rather than on
paper. The proposed project includes a provision under which CEPR can obtain
additional microprocessors and both it and MWREP can obtain software support
needed to facilitate implementation of this first generation of computeriaed
reporting.
3.14      The first generation of computerized reporting should enable HUMP,
as well as the power bureaus themselves, to process, compile, consolidate and
retain far more information more rapidly than before. However, the approachas
to systemization made to date have been designed almost exclusively to satisfy
MWREP's reporting requirements. The software thus far developed anticipates
neither a more active role for the power bureaus nor a broader use of data by
bureau management. Moreover, the systems under development would still
neither include rudimentary financial planning nor enable the necessary direct
linkages between realized performance and planning forecasts. Thus, while the
systems under development represent substantial progress over the reporting
systems currently in use, a second generation of reporting systems will
inevitably be needed to accommodate changes already in progress in the
managerial environment. In the context of appraisal of the proposed project,
the Bank asked a consultant to assess the processes of data accumulation and
compilation in several power bureaus, as well as the manner in which dta is
used by HWREP and those bureaus.  A summary of his findings is presented in



- 13 -
Annex 5; he confirms that the systems which are currently under development
are adequate and appropriate to the existing environment but are not
sufficiently flexible to adapt to expected future trends. However, IWREP has
doubts about the extent and substance of these changes and prefers to be
cautious about making further adjustments to reporting procedures in the near
to intermediate term future.
3.15      In considering modernization of financial and management practices,
the Government is taking the initiative in adapting modern methodology for use
in the Chinese environment. However, given the additional adjustments that
will most likely become necessary within a few years, the Government would
benefit from greater exposure to state of the art hard and soft technology and
greater understanding of the internal disruptions encountered by organizations
that have already modernized their management systems. Under the proposed
project, the Government will carry out training in up-to-date financial
management and planning and utility accounting practices. Study tours are
included in the proposed project, so that senior officials of relevant govern-
mental units can visit utilities and service organizations in other countries
which have been carefully selected because of their appropriate experiences in
introducing modern managerial techniques. MWREP will design the study tour,
with the assistance of consultants where necessary and appropriate.
E. Accounting
3.16      Each of GEPB's operating departments maintains financial accounts
which are consolidated with those of all other GEPB operating departments.
The units prepare accounting information in a timely fashion monthly; head-
quarters compiles consolidated accounts monthly, quarterly and annuallyj
Accounts are prepared on an accrual basis using a double entry system. Finan-
cial regulations are established by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) for all
sectors. The MOF regulations cover matters such as accounting methods and
procedures; form of accounts; procedures for distribution of net income and
depreciation; taxation; allocations to and use of proceeds from Special Funds;
etc. MOF reviews these regulations and corresponding accounting standards on
an ongoing basis. These are supplemented by detailed implementation
procedures issued by MWREP.
3.17      GEPB has an extensive accounting staff who are well trained in
maintaining ledgers and compiling accounts in the ptescribed manner. However,
as the accounts are used essentially to document historical financial informa-
tion, GEPB neither possesses nor has perceived a need for other financial
analytical skills. As and when GEPB modernizes its financial management prac-
tices, its staff will have to become capable of using management techniques
involving the analysis of financial and cost accounts for decision-making pur-
poses; however, development of these skills is neither necessary nor appro-
priate prior to that modernization. Since the need to develop these skills is
neither imediate nor peculiar to GEPB, appropriate training can be financed
through either a free-standing future power subsector training project or
training components of future power projects.



- 14 -
Fixed Asset Accounting
3.18      GEPB has several construction enterprises that are responsible for
constructing hydro and thermal projects, erecting transmission and distribution
facilities, and implementing asset renovations. The accounts of GEPB's own
construction units, which are engaged primarily in managing construction, are
consolidated with those of CEPS's operating units. The accounts of the MWREP
construction units, which are not under GEPB's jurisdiction but work as con-
tractors for the bureau, are not consolidated with GEPB's accounts. In the
past, with new investments being financed by grants paid directly to these
construction units, GEPB's own consolidated statements did not properly
reflect the construction in process of major new assets. For the future, how-
ever, major new assets are being financed with loans made directly to power
bureaus; in turn, the bureaus are required to make progress payments to those
construction units functioning as contractors. As a result, GEPB's future
accounts will more properly reflect the value of major new assets under
construction.
F. Audit
3.19      The financial statements of entities in China have not been subject
to comprehensive audit. Historically, various bodies -- including MOF, line
ministries, tax bureaus, provincial financial bureaus, and banke -- have con-
ducted checks to meet their own particular needs. None of these bodies pre-
pared an independent report on the accuracy and reliability of the annual
financial statements. China has had no professional body of auditors to
prescribe auditing standards and regulations.
3.20      With the ratification of China's new Constitution by the People's
Congress in December 1982, this situation has changed. A State Audit Adminis-
tration (SAA) was establi3hed in September 1983. It has the status of a
ministry and reports directly to the State Council. Provincial audit bureaus
are also being established in each province and municipality (large cities).
MOF has been responsible for establishing the audit bureaus and has drafted
regulations and standards based on international auditing practices in other
countries. These interim regulations have recently been promulgated by the
State Council.
3.21      Thus far, SAA's Foreign Investment Audit Bureau is conducting the
audits of Bank-financed projects. The Bank assisted the establishment of this
Bureau (which focusses particularly on audits of enterprises or undertakings
with foreign participation in the form of equity or loan finance) through an
initial three-week training seminar (held in late 1984); extensive comments on
SAA's first few draft audit reports; and a follow-up seminar to review field
experience with SAA's staff and Llients. As evidenced by its first few audit
reports, SAA's work is of a generally good standard; now, the challenges are
to enhance the central and provincial staff capacity for handling an
increasing work load and to develop procedures for ensuring a consistently
high standard of work in the provincial offices.
3.22      The Guangxi Audit Bureau (CAB) was established in December 1983.
Under the proposed project, GEPB's annual accounts will be audited by GAB



- 15 -
GRA under the overall supervision of SAM. This arrangement is satisfactory.
Assurances have been obtained from GEPB that it will furnish annual financial
statements, certified by an acceptable auditor, to the Bank within six months
of the end of each financial year. COC has agreed that project accounts for
the MWREP-implemented training (paras. 5.08 and 5.10) would be similarly
audited and provided to the Bank.
internal Audit
3.23      GEPB has recently developed an internal audit staff who will conduct
periodic examinations of the accounts of each operating unit; they will also
conduct occasional spot checks. The object of these examinations is primarily
testing for accuracy and compliance with MOF regulations. The internal audit
unit is not expected to review the appropriateness of accounting regulations
and procedures; such reviews are considered to be the responsibilities of MOF
and MWREP respectively. The Bank will review the internal audit function
during project implementation with a view toward increasing its efficacy and
usefulness to GEPB. The first SAA audit of GEPB in 1987 is expected to
include a review and commentary on GEPB's internal checks and controls and
internal audit.
G. Tariffs
3.24      GEPB's tariff is shown in Annex 6.  The same tariff has largely been
in effect since 1962. Large industrial consumers pay both a demand charge,
based on maximum demand or capacity of the installed transformer, and an
energy charge based on consumption; all other consumers pay only an energy
charge. Its rate for domestic customers (19 fen or about US¢ 6.3 per/kWh) is
nearly three times as great as GEPB's average revenue per kWh of 7.0 fen
(about USo 2.3/kWh); agricultural and large industrial consumers pay an energy
charge averaging about 5.0 fen/kWh (USO 1.7/kWh), or ahout 71% of the
average. Domestic consumers do not pay a connection charge to GEPB but must
provide their own meter and internal wiring. Industrial consumers pay
connection charges, which include the cost of substations, distribution lines
(if any), and service drops.
H. Billing and Collection
3.25      As of end of 1984, GEPB's sales were distributed according to
consumer categories as shown in Table 3.1. Municipal customers include
domestic households, commercial enterprises, public service establishments
such as schools and hospitals, and specific municipal users, such as public
transportation systems and street lighting. Although this category contains a
large number of customers, they consume only about 15% of GEPB's power sales.



- 16 -
Table 3.1: DISTRIBUTION OF CEP8's CONSUMPTION
(As of December 31, 1984)
No. of          Consumption
consumers    X        (GWh)       Z
Heavy industria'               2oO39       1      2,615        59
Light industrial                 493       5        644        14
Agriculture                   86,790      63        532        12
Transportation                   260       -         45         1
Residential & commercial      40,789      30        454        10
Others                             2       -        104         4
Total                   136,373    100       4,454       100
3.26      GEPB conducts its billing and collection activities through four
district offices. All major industrial consumers are charged in advance two
times per month at 15 day intervals. The first bill, rendered at mid month is
based on estimated usage derived from the consumer's production or sales
plans. The second bill, rendered at the end of the month, reflects actual
usage based on a meter reading. Low voitage customers, are billed once a
month based on actual usage. All consumers buying power from GEPB are metered
individually. Demand in most rural areas of Cuangxi is met by county owned
distribution enterprises who purchase power in bulk from GEPB and distribute
it to agricultural, light industrial, and low voltage consumers within their
jurisdiction. GEPB measures these sales at its lowest step down transformer
normally 35 kV, serving the county. Higher voltage consumption within the
county is usually metered; lower voltage consumption usually is not.
3.27      Industrial commercial and bulk consumers pay their bills through
direct debit from their bank accounts. Domestic and agricultural consumers
receiving power directly from GEPB render payments to GEPB offices or to meter
readers who return to metered premises about three to five days after
presenting the bill. Regulations stipulate that consumers with unpaid amounts
outstanding are disconnected after 10 days; because this regulation is
enforced !or billings incurred since 1980, consumers very rarely allow
themselves to fall into arrears (para. 6.07). Any nonagricultural consumer is
required to pay a charge for reconnection. These arrangements (para. 3.26)
have established a reliable cash flow from sales and reduced GEPB's accounts
receivable from current power sales to an unusually low level; at the end of
1984 they were less thaui Y 10 million on sales of Y 360 million. Obviously,
this is satisfactory to the Bank.



- 17 -
I. Data Processing
3.28      Recently, GEPB has purchased computer facilities which it plans to
use to modernise its load disptaching and design functions. Microprocessors
would be used to modernize GEPB's financial management practices and planning
activities. CEPB has purchased the computer hardware and some software based
on an eiiAP analysis of its data processing needs and of available financial
resources. The proposed project includes a small component to finance
additional data processing equipment and software which CEPB needs in
connection with modernizing its financial management practices.
J. Insurance
3.29      Until recently coverage was not available from domestic insurance
industty; GEPI relied on self-insurance. GEPB currently is sufficiently
liquid to self-insure all of its assets adequately against normal levels of
risk*. owever, as agencies such as the People's Insurance Company of China
are nov making various kinds of commercial coverage available, CEPB intends to
consider purchasing comercial insurance, particularly for vehicles and public
liability, if satisfactory coverage can be obtained at a reasonable price.
GEPS agreed to ensure that its insurance arrangements are satisfactory to the
Bank.
K. Distribution System
3.30      CRPB's primary distribution system operates at the 1 kV, 10 kV and
35 kV voltage levels. Due to power shortages in China, much attention has
been paid to the development of generation and transmission (110 kV and above)
projects. In cases where the extension of the distribution network has been
the responsibility of the municipal or local governments, this has often been
neglected owing to the lack of funds.
3.31      C1PB affirmed that, based on measurements, total system losses have
ben averaging about 10%   This level would appear low compared with other
countries in the region;V however, the modest level of measured losses
appears suspect in view of the inattention given to investment in distribu-
tion. In fact, because GEPS sells a very significant percentage of its power
in bulk to industrial, agricultural, and municipal consumers, the system has
substantial scope for unmeasured losses. While the consumers are currently
bearing the financial cost, those unmeasured losses still need to be brought
under control if the consumers are to enjoy the full benefits of GEPB's
extensive investment in generation and transmission.
2/   C8P 's transmission and distribution losses were about 6% in 1984, com-
pared with 7.6% in Malaysia, 10% in Indonesia, 6.82 in Korea and 9.9Z in
Thailand (all in 1983).



- 18 -
3.32      The Bank appreciates that aging distribution systems and unmeasured
system losses might represent problems that are neither fully understood nor
peculiar to GEPB. The Bank is engaging in a policy dialogue with MWREP aimed
at developing a means for all parties to acquire a firmer grasp on system
losses and distribution requirements. The system losses at different voltage
levels will be analyzed under the tariff study, to be carried out under the
proposed Beilungang thermal power project for the East China power grid.



- 19 -
IV. THE POWER MARKET AND THE PROGRAM
A. The Guangxi Power Crid
4.01      The Guangxi autonomous region extends about 550 km from north to
south and 750 km from east to west and includes 5 municipalities and 82 coun-
ties. By the end of 1985 GEP8 grid will be interconnected with the Wushou
grid by a new 220 kV transmission line, which will further link with the
Guangdong power grid. The total installed capacity of GEPS in 1984 was
1,264 MW, of which 836 KW or 66X was hydro and 428 MW or 34Z thermal. The
total energy generation and sales in 1984 were 5,019 GWh and 4,522 GWh respec-
tively (Annex 7). The major generation facilities are listed in Annex 8.
4.02      At present, the highest transmission voltage level is 220 kV.  The
total length of 220 kV transmission lines was 1,105 km at the end of 1984 and
the total capacity of 220 kV transformers was 1983 MVA involving 10 substa-
tions. A network of 500 kV transmission lines in being planned under the
Tianshengqiao low-dam scheme and the proposed project (see Map 1).
4.03      Before 1949, the electricity sales of GEPB system was only 4 GWh
with a total installed capacity of 5 MW. Crowth rates in peak demand and
energy generation over the past 15 years 1970-1984 are shown in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: HISTORICAL LOAD GROWTH
Year           Peak Demand (MW)         Energy Generation (GWh)    Annual load factor
1970                 170.0                       921.0                     61.8
1971                 228.0                     1,147.0                     57.4
1972                 273.0                     1,691.0                     70.7
1973                 306.0                     1,905.0                     71.1
1974                 335.0                     2,078.0                     70.8
1975                 383.0                     2,502.0                     74.6
1976                 416.0                     2,733.0                     75.0
1977                 461.0                     3,088.0                     76.5
1978                 487.0                     3,392.0                     79.5
1979                 563.0                     1,563.0                     72.2
1980                 631.0                     3,727.0                     67.4
1981                 638.0                     3,761.0                     67.3
1982                 693.0                     4,033.0                     66.4
1983                 723.0                     4,367.0                     69.0
1984                 832.0                     5,019.0                     68.9
Average rate of
growth (p.a.)      12.01                        12.8%
4.04      Of the 4,454 GWh total energy consumption by CEPB's customers in
1984, 73Z was consumed by industrial users, 12X by agricultural users, 101 by
residential and commercial users, 11 by transportation and 41 by others.



- 20 -
Annex 9 gives details of energy consumption by categories of users from 1980
to 1984.
B. Load Forecast
4.05      The load forecasts of GEPB were made by means of time regression
analysis for different categories of consumrs on the basis of the past growth
trends adjusted for new large industrial loads expected to be connected to the
system. The forecast peak demand and energy generation for the period 1985-
1.995 are shown in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2:  WAD FORIECAST (1985-1992)
Year           Peak Demand (MW)         Knergy Generation (GWh)
1985                  930                       5,650
1986                1,000                       6,000
1987                1,1C2                       6,600
1988                1,220                       7,300
1989                1,330                       8,000
1990                1,530                       9,200
1991                1,670                      10,000
1992                1,820                      lO,900
1993                1,980                      11,900
1994                2,170                      13,OOO
1995                2,350                      14,100
Average rate of
growth (p.a.)       9.9                         9.8
4.06      The peak demand and energy generation for GEPB would increase from
832 MW and 5,019 GWh in 1984 to 2,350 and 14,100 GWh in 1995, which represent
average annual growth rates of 9.9Z and 9.8Z respectively.
C. The Power Development Program
4.07      WREPERI has recently completed a long-range power development
optimization study for the Guangxi power grid using IAEA's computer program
for system planning. It shows that the proposed Yantan hydroelectric project
with four units of 275 MW each forms part of the system's least cost expansion
program for 1992/94 operation. The details of the program are given in Table
4.3. The balance of system loads and capabilities is given in Annex 10 and
the power development program is shown graphically in Chart 3.



- 21 -
Table 4.3: CEPB POWFa DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Installed    Number of   Unit size          Scheduled
Name                     capacity       units        (MW)       commissioning date
Dahua Hydro                  100          1          100            1985
Heshan Thermal               200          2          100            1985,86
Tiandong Thermal              25          1           25            1986
Laibin Thermal               250          2          125            1988,89
300         1           300           1990
Yantan Hydro               1,100          4          275            1992,93,94
4.08      Tianshengqiao Phase I (4 x 220 MW, low dam scheme), now under
construction, is scheduled for completion by 1990/91. Construction of
Tianshengqiao Phase II (6 x 200 MW, high dam scheme) is expected to begin by
1988/89. These two projects, both located on the upstream reach of the
Hongshui river along the border of Guizhou province and the Autonomous Region
of Guangxi, would be managed directly by MWREP as state projects. The major
portion of output of these two projects will be transmitted in bulk by 500 kV
transmission lines, to the Guangdong power grid. Currently, the Guangdong
power grid is experiencing an acute shortage of power (para. 7.04). Two
substations, Pinggou and Liuzhou, being financed under the proposed project,
will be built along the Tianshengqiao-Guangzhou transmission line, for
interconnection into the Guangxi system. A South China Electric Power
Administration (SCEPA) will be established before 1990 to oversee the
operation and load dispatching of the South China power grid, which would
include Guangdong and Guangxi.
4.09      More than two-thirds of the currently installed capacity in GEPB
system is hydro. Before the completion of the upstream reservoirs, the
dependable capacity of hydro plants during the low water season would be
considerably reduced (Annex 11) thus affecting the dependable generating
capacity of the hydro plants. In addition, most of the thermal plants are old
and small in unit size. There is considerable amount of capacity derating.
These factors have been taken into consideration in the formulation of the
development program. A reserve margin of 1OS calculated on the basis of
dependable capacity has been provided.
4.10      Power shortages in Guangxi region (about 150 MW in 1985) occur
mostly in the dry season, when the power demand is high and output from hydro
plants is reduced. Thermal power stations normally operate at a high capacity
factor in the dry season and at a very low capacity factor during the wet
season, when the higher output from hydro plants can be used and fuel can be
conserved. This accounts for the low overall annual capacity factor of
thermal plants for GEPB's grid (Annex 8).



- 22 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
5.01      This fourth power project is needed to help address the acute energy
shortage in the autonomous region of Guangxi and in Guangdong province in
South China. At present, the region's major source of energy, besides hydro,
is coal which has to be shipped from North China and is very costly. To
relieve the energy shortage, the Government has already undertaken four
projects to develop power from the Hongshui river and is also building a
nuclear power plant near Guangzhou with assistance from the French and British
governments. In spite of these efforts there is urgent need for more
systematic development of other power resources in the region, such as hydro
potential and naturai gas.
5.02      The project would be the Bank's first involvement in the power
subsector in Guangxi. The Bank was invited to participate in this project,
even though some civil works had already been started in the belief that the
Bank could provide useful technical inputs in dam design and construction
(para. 5.11). The Government considers this assistance to be critical for
upgrading the technical capabilities of GEPB. Iv fact, the contribution
already made by the Special Board of Consultants (SBC) has demonstrated the
usefulness of Bank involvement (Annex 14). The Bank would, in the course of
financing the proposed project, build a sound relationship with GEPB and,
later, with SCEPA, the primary institutions charged with developing power
resources for the region. After helping the planning of future resource
development for the region, the Bank might be asked to collaborate in
financing future power projects (possibly including two large reservoir
projects on the Hongshui river and a gas-fired thermal power project to be
developed in conjunction with a natural gas development project in Guangdong
province).
B. Project Description
5.03      The project would comprise:
(a) construction of a 110 m high concrete gravity dam, a spillway, a
powerhouse and a ship lift;
(b) provision and installation of four generating units of 275 MW each;
(c) construction of two single circuits of 500 kV transmission lines and
three associated substations;
(d) provision of about 160 man-months of consulting services for
construction management; and
(e) training for GEPB staff and upgrading of GEPB training facilities,
and training for Government officials in financial management and
planning and utility accounting practices.



- 23 -
5.04      The Yantan hydroelectric project is located on the Hongshuti river in
the autonomous region of Guangxi. According to the basin-wide development
plan, this is the fifth stage of the Hongshui river cascade development with a
total installed capacity of about 11,000 MW (see Annex 12 for details). Out
of the 10 projects9 Etan (56 MW) and Dahua (400 MW) were completed in 1981 and
1984 respectively and the Tianshengqiao low dam scheme (Cascade No. 2; 4 x 220
MW) is now under construction, financed under a Japanese bilateral credit.
The pertinent physical data of the proposed project is summarized in Annex 13.
5.05      The investigation and planning of this river basin began in the
1950s. The development plan was finalized by MWREP in 1978/79 and approved by
the State Council in November 1981. Yantan, the proposed project, is among
one of the key projects for basin-wide development and has beei approved for
early implementation.
5.06      The dam site of Yantan was investigated by the Guangxi Investigation
and Design Institute (GIDI) of GEPB beginning 1958. A preliminary design
report was prepared by GIDI in February 1982 and reviewed and approved by SPC
in September 1983 after intensive review. The first meeting of SBC was
conducted in November 1985 during appraisal and the technical soundness and
feasibility of the project, including project layout and design, dam site
geology and reservoir geology, were reviewed and confirmed (see Annex 14).
5.07      Transmission System.  The transmission system will include 2 single
circuits of 500 kV transmission line from Yantan to Pinggou (about 100 km) and
from Yantan to Liuzhou (about 210 km). One step-up substation will be estab-
lished at Yantan and two associated substations at Pinggou and Liuzhou respec-
tively to interconnect with the 500 kV Tianshengqiao-Guangzhou tie line, and
to feed into South China power grid.
5.08      Training Component.  The proposed project will provide the following
training:  (    on-the-job training for the staff of GEPB on project design and
construction management by working together with consultants; (ii) training
for long-term manpower development; and (iii) training in up-to-date financial
management and planning and utility accounting practices. The first and
second parts will be carried out by GEPB and the third part will be carried
out by MWREP.
5.09      To meet the long-term needs of GEPB's human resources, GEPB's
Electric Institute at Nanning and two skilled workers schools at Nanning and
Dahua (para. 3.08) will be expanded through provision of teaching facilities
and laboratory testing equipment, updating of curricula and teaching materials
and upgrading of teaching staff. The program has been identified as detailed
in Annex 4. The third training component mentioned above is to provide useful
background for current efforts to modernize financial management and planning
and utility accounting. The program will include study tours and training for
financial staff of MWREP and other related institutions.
5.10      Assurances have been obtained from GEPB and the Government that a
training program acceptable to the Bank will be implemented.



- 24 -
5.11      Technical Assistance.  For project preparation and design, the
following technical assistances would be required: (i) design of steel pen-
stock through the dam (about 10.8 in diameter) and; (ii) design and
construction of rolled concrete cofferdams to withstand floods. This techni-
cal assist ce is being provided by SBC and short-term consultants, as
necessary.    Arrangements are being made to finance the services of a
Canadian member of SBC with a grant from the Canadian government.
5.12      In order to expedite project construction, consulting services would
be required to assist in the management and supervision of dam construction
(1987-1991). The Norwegian government has agreed in principle to provide a
grant of about US$2.0 million equivalent to finance such services.
C. Cost Estimate
5.13      The estimated cost of the project is sutmmarized in Table 5.1.  The
cost estimates are at end-1985 price levels based on unit costs of civil works
for the Dahua hydroelectric project (completed in 1984) located downstream of
the proposed project and latest tendering information of the Lubuge
hydroelectric project for sonstruction equipment and steel products on
international competitive bidding basis. Physical contingencies are
calculated at 5% for equipment, 15% for civil works and 10% for transmission
lines, substations and other local costs.  Price contingencies for both
foreign and local costs are calculated on the basis of the projected inflation
rates of 7.0% for 1986 and 1987, 7.5% for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for 1990
and 4.5% for 1991 and thereafter. Detailed project cost estimate is provided
in Annex 15.
3/   SBC members visited the site in February and March 1986 to consult on
these design issues.



25 -
Table 5.1 SUDNARY OF PROJECT COSTS /a
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Locol  Foreign  Total    as Z of
-  Yuan million -     -     Us$ million ----      total
Preparatory work                   107.6     -      107.6   35.9      -       35.9        -
Land, compensetion and
resettlement                    227.5      -     227.5   75.8       -       75.8        -
Construction equipment
and plants                      234.9   58.2    293.1   78.3    19.4        9t.7       20
Civil works                       372.3  216.0    588.3  124.1    72.0    196.1          36
Electrical, mechanical
equipment and computers         301.4    8.4    309.8  100.5       2.8    103.3         3
Transmission lines and
substations                     147.9   51.9    199.8   49.3    17.3        66.6       26
Engineering and con-
sulting services                 15.9    7.5      23.4    5.3      2.5       7.8       32
Supervision and
administration                    5.4      -        5.4    1.8      -        1.8        -
Training                             4.8    3.0       7.8    1.6      1.0      2.6       62
Total Base Cost              1,417.7  345.0  1,762.7  472.6   115.0    587.6          20
Contingencies
Physical                        133.2   30.9    164.1   44.4    10.3        54.7       19
Price                           547.9  117.3    665,2  182.6    39.1    221.7          18
Total Project Cost           2,098.8  493.2  2,592.0  699.6   164.4    864.0          19
Interest during construction
Bank loan                           -    61.7     61.7      -     20.6      20.6      100
Local loans                     445.4      -     445.4  148.5       -      148.5        -
Total Financing Required    2,544.2  554.9  3.099.1  848.1   185.0  1,033.1           19
/a   Base cost and physical contingency (at end-1985 prices) have been calculated using an
exchange rate of Y 3.00 a US$1.
Note: 1. The project would be exempted from import duties and taxes.
2. Total physical contingencies are about 9X of base cost; local price
contingencies are about 35Z and foreign cost contingencies are about 31% of the
base cost plus physical contingencies.



- 26 -
D. Financing Plan
5.14      The tentative financing plan for the project would be as shown
belov:
(US$ million equivalent)
Source                   Local           Foreign         Total
rsRD                                        52.0           52.0
Bilateral grants               -             2,0            2.0
Local bank loans /a        848.1           131.0          979.1
Total                      848.1           185.0        1,033.1
/a   This financing plan does not include any self financing input (para. 6.15
and Annex 19).
5.15      The proposed Bank loan of $52.0 million would meet about 61 of total
project cost or about 28X of the foreign exchange requirements. It would be
used to finance the foreign cost of the following items:
(a)  Construction equipment for civil works;
(b)  Instrumentation and control equipment;
(c)  Computer hardware and software for utility management;
(d)  Steel products (reinforcing and structural steel for civil works);
(e)  Steel plate for penstocks and related fabrication equipment;
(f)  Consulting services (for SBC members and short-term consultants);
and
(g)  Training
5.16      The Bank loan would be made to the People's Republic of China at the
standard variable interest rate for a 20 year term including five years of
grace. Assurances have been obtained that the Government would onlend the
proceeds of the Bank loan to CEPB under a subsidiary loan agreement with a 20-
year term including five years of grace and an interest rate of 8.5% p.a.
GEPB would bear the commitment charges and the foreign exchange risk (between
the dollar and the Borrower's currency). A Project Agreement would be signed
between the Bank and GEPB. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement
satisfactory to the Bank and approval of the Loan Agreement by the State
Council would be conditions of effectiveness of the loan.



- 27 -
5.17      All local costs of the project, interest during construction on
local and foreign loans and the remaining foreign costs besides the Bank loan
and bilateral grants would be financed by local bank loans. GOC would provide
necessary funds to cover any shortfall of funds for the project.
E. Procurement
5.18      Equipment and materials financed under the proposed Bank loan will
be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
Bank's Procure%ent Guidelines.  In bid evaluation, qualifying domestic manu-
facturers would be eligible for a preference of 15% or the import duty, which-
ever is lower. Equipment estimated to cost less than US$150,000 per contract
up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million could be procured on the basis of
at least three bids from qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with Limited Intern^tional Bidding (LIB) procedures. Spare parts
and spare tires needed urgently for the construction equipment costing less
than US$100,000 per contract would be procured through direct purchase up to
an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million.
5.19      Civil works, which will not be financed by the Bank, will be
procured using local competitive bidding (LCB) according to procedures satis-
factory to the Bank. For services financed under bilateral grants,
procurement will be carried out according to procedures of the donor
countries.
5.20      The design and technical specifications for instrumentation and
control equipment and computers will be prepared by GIDI, assisted by
consultants as necessary. As electro-mechanical equipment for the proposed
project can be manufactured in China, GOC has decided to procure this
equipment locally and finance it out of local bank loans.
5.21      All bidding packages for goods financed by the Bank and estimated to
cost over US$1.0 million equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior
review of procurement documents, which would cover nearly all of the Bank-
financed contracts. It is estimated that there will be about six main groups
of contracts. The list of equipment and materials to be procured under the
Bank loan is given in Annex 16.
5.22      In order to meet the construction schedule, advanced contracting may
be required for the procurement of some construction equipment, but no
retroactive financing would be needed. Details of procurement of goods and
services are shown in the table below.



- 28 -
Table 5.2: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Project element                      Procurement method                      lotal cost
ICB      LIB         LCB       Qther      N.A.
Equipment and materials  66.3      1.5          -        413.2                48i.0
(48.0)/a (1.5)         -         (1.0)              k50.5)
Engineering and consulting                      -          10.9                10.9
services                                      -         (0.5)                (0.5)
Training                            -           -           3.6                 3.6
-         (1.0)               (1.0)
Preparatory works,
resettlement and
civil works            -          -        366.0           -         -      366.0
Supervision and
administration         -          -           -            -        2.5       2.5
Total                   66.3     1.5       366.0       427.7        2.5    8b4.0
(48.0)   (1.5)         -         (2.5)        -     (52.0)
/a   Figures in the parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
proposed Bank loan.
lb   "Other" include direct purchase, procurement of equipment and matecrials
within the country other than through LCB, plant and transmission line
installation to be executed by local contractors, and consulting services
and overseas training.
F. Project Implementation
5.23      Status of Project Preparation.  All land needed for the project has
been acquired. The detailed design of the project is being completed by
GIDI. A Special Board of Consultants (SBC) has been established to review the
project layout and design, to advise on any engineering problems which may
arise during construction and to review the safety aspects of the damn.
Assistance from the Government of Canada is being arranged for the financing
of the Canadian member of SBC.  All preparatory works with the exception of
coricrete facilities were completed by the end of 1985. Excavation of tiie
diversion channel and dam abutments has been started with good progress-
Procurement of the first group of construction equipment is under way.



- 29 -
5.24      The construction management and supervision of the project including
transmission lines and substations will be the responsibility of CEPB. A con-
struction management office has been set up under GEPB to carry out the
project with the assistance of consulting engineers who will be appointed by
late 1986. The organization of this construction management office is shown
in Chart 4. The project manager, concurrently the Deputy Director of GEPB in
charge of capital construction, and other key staff are already at site
working full time.
5.25      Chart 5 gives the implementation schedule for the various components
of the project. The commissioning dates for the generating units are
scheduled for June 1992, March 1993, December 1993 and September 1994
respectively. The project completion date is December 31, 1994 while the
components financed by the Bank would be completed by December 31, l992. The
closing date of the Bank loan would be June 30, 1993, which would allow
sufficient time for payment of retention monies.
C. Disbursement
5.26      The Bank loan would be disbursed against: (a) 100l   of the foreign
expenditures of directly imported equipment and materials; (b) 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory of locally manufactured items; (c) 75% of the cost of
other items procured locally; and (d) 10OZ of the total expenditures of
consulting services and overseas training. For expenditures relating to
training and contracts for goods and services each valued less than $200,000
equivalent, reimbursements would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Documentation supporting such expenditures need not be submitted
to the Bank but should be retained in GEPB project office in Nanning and made
available for review by Bank's supervisory missions. To facilitate
disbursements under this project, a special account with an authorized
allocation of US$3.0 million (representing approximately four months' average
expenditures) would be established in a bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Applications for replenishment would be made
quarterly or when the special account is drawdown by 50% of the initial
deposit, whichever occurs first.
5.27      Annex 17 gives the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loan
as well as the Bankwide profile of disbursements for power projects. The
total disbursement period would also cover seven years, similar to the Bank
profile. However, the disbursement are estimated to be higher for the earlier
years due to the nature of components to be financed by the Bank (37% of the
Bank loan amount will be used for construction equipment which will be
procured in early 1986).
H. Monitoring and Reporting
5.28      Satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of the project
in terms of physical execution and financial reports (paras. 3.12 and 3.22)
were agreed during negotiations. Quarterly progress reports on the project
and a completion report will be submitted by CEPB.



- 30 -
I. Environmental Aspects
5.29      The full reservoir level of Yantan hydroelectric project i9 at El.
223.0 m with an inundated area of 107.5 km and a length of 166 km. The
reservoir area covers five counties in the Guangxi Autonomous Region. The
losses incurred mainly involve the inundation of farmland (about 3,142 ha of
which 1,415 ha are paddy field), forest land (about 547 ha) and public
facilities including 151 km of roads, 564 km of transmission and distribution
lines (55 km of 35 kY and 75 km of 6-10 kV), 92 km of telephone lines, and 5
mini hydro plants with a total installed capacity of 8 KW. There are,
however, no mineral resources, archaeological sites or artifacts of
significance in the reservoir area.
5.3b      No environmental problems are expected to arise as a result of the
project construction. The average sedimentation is estimated at about 43.4
million tons per annum. After the completion of two upstream reservoirs which
will be undertaken in the late 1980s and early 1990s respectively, sediment
load downstream of these reservoirs would be greatly reduced. No downstrean
degradation is expected as the discharge of Yantan dam will be fed directly
into the backwater zone of Dahua reservoir.
5.31      Since the gross capacity of Yantan reservoir (3,340 million m3)
c3mprises only 6% of the average annual flow of Hongshui river (55,000 million
m ), the reservoir fluctuates a lot during the summer months. However, some
water-borne diseases such as malaria are anticipated in shallow water areas
after impounding. Assurances have been obtained from GEPS that a program,
acceptable to the Bank, to improve public health in the reservoir area will be
carried out.
J. Resettlement
5.32      A total population of about 40,000 would have to be resettled,
taking into account the population growth. About 20,000 people are presently
living on farming and other economic activities, 2,000 on livestock breeding,
10,500 on forestry, and the balance on fish farming and on miscellaneous
industries.
5.33      A Hongshui River Population Resettlement and Arrangement Office
(HRPRAO) has been set up under the Guangxi Autonomous Region Government to be
responsible for the unified development of reservoir regions and population
resettlement. There are also population resettlement offices under each
county government in the reservoir area. The basic principles of resettlement
laid down by HRPRAO are as follows:
(a)  people will be resettled principally on higher land with residents
of the same village resettled together;
(b)  each family will be entitled to maintain the same housing standard
as before;



- 31 -
(c) electricity, water supply and access roads will be provided;
(d) HRPRAO intends to maintain or improve the standard of living of
those to be resettled;
(e) HRPRAO intends to make the best use of the land as available in
implementing the resettlement program; and
(f)  the planning and development of resettled area will employ to the
extent possible local specialists from governmental agencies and
universities for the demonstration, extension and training for such
specialized fields as agriculture, fisheries and forestry.
5.34      The total compensation and resettlement costs are estimated at about
Y 195 million. This amount will be used for reconstruction of public
facilities, compensation for land, housing, trees, and some private facilities
and for resettlement. The resettlement plan is being worked out in details by
the county governments in consultation with the villages to be resettled. The
present plan is as follows: about 65 of the villagers will be resettled for
farming and other economic activities; 3.4Z for fisheries; 5.61 for animal
husbandry; 7.1X for local industries; and 28.9% for forestry. Government
subsidy will be provided if needed in the earlier years of resettlement . To
this end, a special fund of about Y 0.001 for every kWh generated will be
allocated for reservoir operation amounting to about Y 5.5 million per year.
Any costs related to the residual problems resulting from resettlement would
be financed from this fu..d.
5.35      A Bank consultant has reviewed the resettlement plan of the Yantan
hydroelectric project as summarized in Annex 18). While considering the
Chinese approach to resettlement acceptable, he stressed the needs of detailed
planning and retraining with respect to occupational change. Assurances have
been obtained from the Government that it will carry out or cause to be
carried out a resettlement program satisfactory to the Bank.
K. Risks
5.36      The technical soundness of the project has been reviewed and
confirmed by SBC. SBC members will isit the project site regularly during
construction and provide advice on any unusual technical problems. Separate
consulting services will be used to assist in construction management to
ensure the timely completion of the project. No major difficulties are
expected during project implementation. Construction risks are expected to be
normal for a major hydroelectric project of this nature.
5.37      Assurances have been obtained from GEPB that with the assistance of
independent engineering experts whose qualifications will be reviewed by the
Bank, it will undertake periodic inspection of the dam and associated works
during construction and not less than once a year after construction and make
any necessary modifications.



- 32 -
VI. FINANCE
A. Introduction
6.01      GEPB is a self-accounting entity reporting directly to MWREP.  It
must follow financial regulations issued by MOF for all state enterprises, and
procedures developed by NMWREP for adapting those MOF regulations for use by
all power bureaus. Within that framework, GEPB enjoys broad autonomy for
managing its own affairs. It realizes revenues which have in the past covered
its operating requirements and left it with comfortable liquidity. Most
surpluses, however, have been remitted to the Government; in turn, the
Government has provided all the funds necessary for investment in approved
projects, historically on a grant basis but more recently as loans. In the
following discussion, GEPB's financial system as well as its financial
performance and future prospects will be examined.
B. Financial System
6.02      All Chinese power bureaus conduct their affairs according to a
standardized financial system, the salient points of which are described
briefly in Annex 19. As was the case under previous Bank-financed projects in
the Chinese power subsector, the power bureaus are not permitted to retain
more than a nominal amount of their earnings, and the cash corresponding to
the earnings that are retained must ultimately be applied to certain specified
categories of expenditures or investments. Thus, a power bureau's incentive
to realize revenues in excess of its obligations is limited. Thus also, the
familiar indicators of financial performance, such as rate of return and self-
financing ratio, have very limited applicability to financial analysis of a
Chinese power bureau.
6.03      Changes in progress in China's economic environment will inevitably
result in changes to the financial system. Already, the use of loans rather
than grants to finance power sector investments has caused investment funds to
be channelled from the Government to the power bureaus for payment to con-
struction units which act as contractors; thus, the consolidated accounts of
the power bureaus should in the future more accurately reflect the value of
construction in progress (para. 3.18). In the future, some adjustment in the
system of special funds accounting will likely be necessary; as allocations to
those funds are directly related to historically valued gross fixed assets
while expenditures from those funds are vulnerable to price changes, annual
allocations to those funds made according to existing regulatioas may not be
sufficient to cover necessary expenditures in a few years.
6.04      In short, while the financial system is adequate for current
economic conditions, the Government should begin considering adjustments to
accommodate changes in the economic environment. As part of that adjustment
process, st..dy ton;rs have been included in the proposed project, so that
senior officials of relevant governmental units may visit carefully selected
utilities, professional accounting associations, and regulatory organizations



- 33 -
and Lhereby gaitn exposure to the systet4atic approaches used elsewhere in
coping wYiith irfiating costs and extensive use of debt for financing
invest ment * ,
C. Past and Present Financial Performance
6i05      cf'tB's financial statements for the period 1980-1984 are shown in
Annex 2U and summarized in Table 6.1 below.  The balance sheet for each- of
these veiars hlas been adjusted to include some construction work in progress,
which 1i~td 1>ben carried on the books of MWREP's construction units acting as
contractors for CEPB, and not consolidated into CEPB's own operating accounts
(paret  t,Ie t )!Z
Table 6.1:  GEPB's KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS 195)-1984
Year ended December 31              1980      198J       1982       1983      1984
…(--------- (Millions of Yuan) -------------
Electricitv sales (GWh)            3,307     3,357      3,627      3,926     4,522
Average revenue (fen/kWh)            6.8       6.8        6.8        6.9        7.0
Rev,?rwle,                           225       228        247        271       317
Operating  nfcotne /a                104        112       119        112        119
Capital expendicure                   40        43         75         90       270
Net fixed assets in operation        561       588        588        615        901
Cash at enn of year                  19        27         31         40         39
Operatliiig ratio (%)                 54         51        52         59         62
Rate *otf return (%) /b             18.5      19.5       20.2       18.6       15.6
Debt service coverage                           20         14         14         11
/a   Opera! ing revenues less the aggregate of fuel, power purchases, adminis-
'-11_or, operation and maintenance, and depreciation.
/b   %he histiorically valued average net fixed assets in operation.
6.06t'Zb  Duting the period, GEPB's sales increased by about 37% while
revernues irfreased by about 41%.  Although the tariff has not been adjusted
during rhe. ppriod, average revenues per kWh have increased by about 3%,
reflecting s very modest increase in the proportion of higher priced domestic
and commiiercial consumption.  The operating rati-, which had previously held
constaotk a, about 52%, increased rapidly to 59% in 1983 and 62% in 1984,
ref loc eirg ,he fact that thermal generation provided the incremental power
availah!c  er sale during the period.  Similarly, GEPB's rate of return, which
had pre; n't'lxl held steady at about 19% on historically valued net fixed
Ssfs 14 ir cfi ration, dropped to 15.6% in 1984.  This results from the
incrim.eita) revenues associated with the new power available for sale having
tti CQvu  hi ';er izoremental costs associated with thermal generation.  During



- 34 -
the period, GEPB has managed to increase its liquidity substantially,
primarily because increases in cash receipts for connections, which are not
considered as operating revenues and are allocated entirely to corresponding
special funds, have considerably exceeded increases in the cash cost of
providing connections.
Arrears
6.07      GEPB currently has on its books of accounts, arrears of Y 23 million
representing the sale of power to agricultural production units. These
arrears were accrued prior to 1980. In effect, the production units owe the
money to county distribution enterprises and those enterprises, in turn, are
obligated for corresponding amounts to GEPB. However, the amounts involved
exceed substantially the financial capabilities of the county distribution
enterprises. These arrears have proven uncollectible for too long to continue
being shown as an asset on GEPB's balance sheet. At appraisal, HWREP
indicated that it would make its best effort to arrange for GEPB to treat as
an extraordinary expense all arrears outstanding since before January 1, 1983.
Valuation of Assets
6.08      The Chinese financial system has so far not adopted the concept of
revaluation of fixed assets. In fact, in the past, an average of only about
85% of the amount of Government grants used to finance new fixed assets was
transferred upon project completion from the books of KWREP's construction
units to GEPB's consolidated balance sheet. The residual had been expended to
purchase moving assets, which remained with the construction units upon the
completion of construction. Because inflation in China during the past 30
years has been low, and because most existing power related fixed assets have
negligible foreign content, asset revaluation would have a limited financial
impact on GEPB in the short to intermediate term. Because of incipient
changes in the structure of prices, revaluation of assets will become
increasingly relevant for the Chinese power subsector in the longer term;
however, adoption of revaluation would have a nationwide impact and not one
restricted to the power subsector. Therefore, this matter cannot be addressed
in the context of the proposed project; rather, it will become a component of
the continuing policy dialog between the Bank, MOF, and SAA. A pro forma
revaluation conducted in the context of appraisal of the proposed project,
making broad assumptions about the average age of GEPB's plant and equipment,
indicated that for the period 1985-1995, an average rate of return of about
9.7% on historically valued assets corresponds to an average of about 4.2% on
revalued assets.
Tariffs
6.09      GEPB's present tariff was established in 1962.  Historically, after
covering operating costs, tariff revenues have provided substantial general
revenues to the State. Currently the average revenue per kWh sold (7.0 fen or
about US¢2.3) provides GEPB with adequate operating revenue (para. 6.05).
However, inflation and other specific price adjustments are beginning to
become perceptible in CEPB's cost structure. In the future, the impact of
price changes is expected to become much more pronounced as the price GEPB



- 35 -
pays for coal is projected to increase substantially in real terms. MWREP has
indicated that the power bureaus will have flexibility to increase their
tariffs to meet increases in their cost structures. However, price increases
are expected to be gradual. Exactly how price adjustments are to be
implemented has not yet been determined, and a number of policy parameters
have yet to be decided. These include: (a) whether prices would be
maintained for current levels of plan approved with higher prices charged only
to new customers and to present consumers in proportion to their increases in
power usage; (b) whether increases in costs will be reflected in an average
price increase applicable to all sales; and (c) whether certain specified
classes of consumers should bear the primary responsibility for meeting
increases in the cost structure, with none or only a minor portion of the
increase being borne by the remaining classes of consumers. As GEPS's energy
available for sale is expected to increase by about 155% during the coming ten
years, it has ample scope for satisfactorily increasing its average revenues
to reflect increases in its costs.
D. Financing Plan
6.10      CEPB's financing plan for the period of project implementation 1986-
1994 is displayed in Table 6.2:



- 36 -
Table 6.2: CEPB's FINANCING PLAN 1986-1994
(Years ended December 31)
Y million            US$ million/a   %
Sources of Funds
Internal cash generation                1,995                 665         31
(less) Incr. in working capital            59                  20          1
(less) Incr. in Special Fund assets        68                  23          1
(less) Repayment of loans                 385                 128          6
(less) Remittances to Government          225                  75          4
(less) Special Fund expenditures          438                 146          7
(less) Operating cash                     161                  54          2
Cash available for investment             659                 219         10
Proposed IBRD loan                        156                  52          2
Other loans for proposed project        2,637 lb              879         42
All other loans                         2,854                 951         45
Government grants                          92                  31          1
Total Financing                         5,739               1,913         90
Total Sources of Funds                  6,398               2,132        100
Application of Funds
Proposed project                        2,498                 832         39
Other construction                      2,797                 933         44
Interest during construction              678                 226         11
Renovations                               425                 141          6
Total Application of Funds              6,398               2,132        100
/a   US$1 = Yuan 3.0.
Th   GEPB is expected to have borrowed about Yuan 100 million in 1984 and 1985
to finance expenditures related to the proposed project.
The Chinese financial system constrains a power bureau from meeting signifi-
cant amounts of its investment program from internal cash generation. GEPB is
projecting meeting from operations, investments corresponding only to (a)
renovations, which must be financed from the special funds earmarked for that
purpose, and (b) that portion of interest during construction which must be
met from net income; together, these two components comprise about 10% of
GEPB's investment program for the period. The proposed project by itself
accounts for about 39% of GEPB's investment program for the period (or about
44% if associated interest during construction is added to the value of the
project). The proposed Bank loan, the proceeds of which will be onlent
according to acceptable terms and conditions (para. 5.16), will only meet
about 2.4% of GEPB's financing requirements.



- 37 -
6.11      The project's expected foreign cost exceeds the proposed Bank loan
and the expected bilateral grant by about Y 392 million (US$131 million);
however, of that amount about Y 158 million (US$53 million) represents
indirect foreign expenditures which GEPB expects to meet with local
currency. Of the balance of Y 234 million equivalent (US$78 million) in
foreign exchange, about Y 55 million (US$18 million) represents the proposed
project's transmission component; about Y 62 million (US$21 million)
represents interest during construction; and about Y li7 million (US$39
million) corresponds to price contingencies. MWREP is likely to seek
independent foreign financing for the transmission component, but since
construction of that component is not scheduled to begin until 1988/1989, the
Government considered it premature to make definitive provisions for that
cofinancing now. Moreover, the Government has an often stated preference for
itself financing price contingencies because it does not consider price
contingencies in the amounts estimated by the Bank very likely to be realized
given conditions currentl.y prevailing in international markets for goods being
procured under the proposed project. Therefore, because the amounts of
residual foreign exchange for which financing would be needed are small, GEPB
will be authorized to purchase the necessary increments of foreign exchange
with local currency; and, GEPB will be financing those increments of foreign
exchange by the same means as it would finance the proposed project's local
costs. GEBP will assume the foreign exchange risk associated with the pro-
posed Bank loan.
6.12      GEPB will borrow most of the local currency portion of its financing
requirements from the People's Construction Bank of China on terms prevailing
at the time of commitment. Currently, these items include interest at 3.6%
and repayment in equal installments over 15 years beginning upon completion of
construction. GEPB projects receivino a small portion of its financing
requirements in the form of grants. Those grants have already been committed
by MWREP and are intended to finance projects which were approved several
years ago. MOF is no longer making grants available to finance new projects.
E. Future Finances
6.13      Projections of GEPB's financial performance for the period 1985-1995
are displayed in Annex 21 and summarized in Table 6.3. These projections are
made on the bases presented in Annex 22.
6.14      During the 1985-1995 period, GEPB is projected to maintain high
rates of growth. Energy sales are expected to increase by about 177% over
1984 levels, representing a compound annual growth rate of about 10%. Net
fixed assets in operation are expected to increase by about 510% over current
levels, representing a compound annual growth rate of about 18%. Yearly
capital expenditure is expected to increase by about 154% over the 1984 level,
representing a compound annual growth rate of about 9%.
6.15      If GEPB is to maintain its financial viability in the face of this
growth, the forecast implies that it will need to increase its average revenue
by about 59Z over the current Level by 1995. This represents a compound
annual growth rate of about 4.8% in nominal terms, or slightly less than



Table 6.3: KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS 1985-1995
(Million Yuan)
Year ended December 31                1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992   1993    1994    1995
Energy sales (GWh)                   4,930   5,280   5,810   6,420   7,080   8,142   8,900   9,700  10,590  11,570  12,550
Average price (fenlkWh)                7.1      7.1     7.1      7.1      7.1      7.7     7.7      8.6    11.3    11.3    11.3
Operating revenue                      350      375     413      456      503      630      689     838   1,201   1,312   1,423
Operating income                       133      130      115     114       91       99      118     159      413      451      500
Capital expenditure                    245      348     407      491      595      832   1,034      904    .914       869     686
Net fixed assets in operation          927      988   1,2R8   1,277   1,604   1,849   2,082   2,184   3,674   5,054   5,494
Long-term debt                         439      753   1,107   1,545   2,084   2,838   3,796   4,549   5,279   5,947   6,174
Debt service                             n        0       23      29       40       46       57     130      228      230      483   X
Cash on hand                            61       72      86      101      118      136      157     184      195      227      270
Rate of Return
Historically valued assets (%)   14.6    13.6    10.1          8.9      6.3      5.7     6.0      7.5    14.1    10.3       9.5
Notionally revalued assets (%)    8.1         6.7     4.5      3.5      1.8      1.5     1.6      2.3      6.6      5.2     4.8
Self financing ratio (%)                35       27       18      16       10       to       10       9       21       33       17
Operating ratio (2)                     62       65       72      75       82       84       83      81       66       66       65
Debt service coverage                  0.0      0.0      5.9     4.8      3.6      3.5      3.2     1.8      1.8      2.0      1.3
Debt/total capital (X)                  30       42       51      59       65       70       75      77       77       77       75



- 39 -
inflation projected for the same period. Assurances have been obtained that
GEPB will take measures, including but not limited to tariff adjustments, to
ensure that operating revenues are sufficient to meet the aggregate of its
total operating expenses and the amount by which its financial obligations
exceed depreciation and non-cash operating expenses. Thus, GEPB's operating
revenues will need to cover: (i) costs directly chargeable to operations
including provisions for depreciation and allocations to the maintenance
special funds; (ii) interest chargeable to operations; (iii) income tax;
(iv) debt repayment in excess of the amount repayable from the provisions for
depreciation; (v) required allocations from net income for the special funds
for employee benefits; and (vi) the portion of capitalized interest during
construction required to be met from net income. Compliance with this
agreement during the project period would result in GEPB realizing (a) average
rates of return of 9.71 on his;qrically valued net fixed assets in operation;
and (b) a self financing ratio'" averaging about 19X annually (Annex 22).
These are satisfactory levels of financial performance. As indicated
(para. 7.08), the projected tariff levels are lower than the estimated average
incremental cost of electricity. A tariff study to be conducted under the
proposed Beilungang thermal power project (taken together with the
Government's policy to reform its economic allocation system to place greater
reliance on prices rather than physical quotas (para. 2.06)) may lead to
changes in the criteria for setting tariff levels that would result in
increasingly satisfactory levels of financial performance.
6.16      The Government's recent policy of using loans rather than grants to
finance capital expenditure is expected to have a dramatic impact on GEPB
during the projection period. From a capital structure which includes only
about 18% debt in 1984, GEPB is projected to move to a debt/total capital
ratio of about 77X in 1994 (decreasing to about 75% in 1995). Debt service
coverage, which is projected to drop from about 11 in 1984 to about 1.3 in
1995, remains satisfactory though barely. Assurances have been obtained from
GEPB that it may incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of its
revenues and expenditures indicates that internal cash generation would
indicate debt service coverage of at least 1.3. This assurance taken in
conjunction with its undertaking to furnish rolling ten year financial
projections (para. 3.12) to the Bank regularly are expected to begin directing
GEPB's attention to the long term financial impact of decisions relating to
its investment program.
4/   As adjustment taxes remitted by GEPB to the Government are in effect
recycled into GEPB through government loans, self financing ratio is
herein defined as the sum of cash available for investment and adjustment
tax as a percentage of average capital expenditure.



- 40 -
VII. JUSTIFICATION
A. Need for the Project
7.01      South China is one of the most important economic regions in China.
It is short of energy resources with the exception of hydro potential which is
mainly located in the Guangxi autonomous region. Future economic growth will
depend on accelerated development of hydro potential, conventional thermal
power plants using coal from North China and natural gas being explored and
developed near the Hainan Island, or rnuclear power development. The first
nuclear plant in South China is being constructed in Guangdong province on an
experimental basis.
7.02      The Hongshui river basin with a total potential of 11,000 MW is the
key hydro development for that region. Tianshengqiao Phase I (4 x 220 MW) is
now under construction, scheduled for completion in 1990/91. Yantan will be
the next project to be implemented. The output of the Yantan hydroelectric
project is estimated as shown in Table 7.1.
Table 7.1: POWER OUTPUT OF YANTAN PROJECT
Before completion       After completion of
of upstream        Tianshengqiao   Longtan Dam
reservoirs           High Dam        (early
(1997)         2000s)
(a) Firm Power (MW)                   231.0                377.0          726.0
(97Z availability)
(b) Dependable Capacity (MW)          880.0              1,100.0       1,100.0
(Provisions will be made to
add an underground power-
house with 2 x 275 MW units
in the right abutment)
(c) Energy Output
Dry year (GWh)                    5,040
Capacity Factor (Z)                52.3                    -              -
Average year (GWh)                6,420                7,000         8,000
Capacity Factor (Z)                66.6                 72.6          83.0
7.03      The demand and capability of GEPB's system with and without the
proposed project is given in Table 7.2. This clearly demonstrates the need
for the project.



- 41 -
Table 7.2:  GEPB SYSTEM WITH AND WITHOUT YANTAN PROJECT
1994                   1995
Without     With       Without     With
project    project    project    project
Peak demand (MW)                          2,170      2,170       2,350       2,350
Dependable capacity (MW) /a               1,750      2,410       1,750       2,630
Gross reserve (MW)                         -520        240        -600         280
Reserve requirement (MW) /b                 217        217         235         235
Net reserve in dependable capacity         -637         23        -835          45
Energy requirement (GWh)                 13,000     13,000      14,100      14,100
Firm energy output (GWh)                  9,600     13,400       9,600      14,640
Average energy output (GWh)               9,900     14,700       9,900      16,320
Reserve in firm energy (GWh) /c          -3,400        400      -4,500         540
/a   Dependable peaking capacity of hydro units is the working capacity during
the peaking hours corresponding to the firm power under a most critical
hydro-year condition.
lb   Reserve requirement on the basis of dependable capacity is calculated at
10% of peak demand corresponding to about 27% on the basis of installed
capacity.
/c   The firm energy of hydro units is defined as the annual energy output
that would be available under a most critical hydro-year condition.
7.04      Before the completion of Yantan project, GEPB would be short of
generating capacity. About 500-1,000 GWh per annum would require to be
procured from Tianshengqiao Phase I plant during the 1990-94 period
(Annex 10). The balance of the output of Tianshengqiao Phase I plant can be
easily absorbed by the Guangdong power grid. After the completion of Yantan,
there will be some surplus from GEPB's grid which can be sold to Guangdong as
shown in Table 7.3.
Table 7.3: ENERGY REQUIREMENT AND SUPPLY OF GUANGDONG POWER SYSTEM
1990            1995
------ (in GWh) ------
Total energy requirement                                28,150           43,300
Total generation by its own system                      23,550           37,100
Total purchase required                                  4,600            6,200
From Tianshengqiao Phase I plant                      1,400            4,700
From GEPB system                                          -            1,500



- 42 -
R. Least Cost Studies
7.05      An economic study of the Yantan hydroelectric project was made by
WREPERI in August 1985 for the Guangxi's power grid using IAEA's computer
program for system planning on a program basis.  It demonstrated that Yantan
project with four units of 275 MW each forms part of Guangxi's least cost
investment program (1992/94).  Alternatives used in the study include the
Tianshengqiao Phase II, Longtan reservoir project and a 300 MW coal-fired
project at Laibin.
7.06      In order to verify the result, an independent study by GEPB was made
by comparing on a project basis with a coal-fired thermal alternative
consisting of three units of 300 MW each. The output of these two
alternatives were compared as follows:
Yantan         Coal-fired Thermal
Installed capacity (MW)                   1,100                  900
Dependable capacity (MW)                    880                  855
Dry-year energy output (GWh)              5,040                5,125
Annual capacity factor (Z)                 52.3                 65.0
7.07      Comparison was made, on a constant price basis, between the total
present worth of capital investment including associated transmission, opera-
tion and maintenance and fuel cost of the Yantan hydroelectric project and a
coal-fired thermX  station. The long-run marginal cost of coal was estimated
at Y 135 (US$45)W per ton (6,000 kcal/kg). Shadow pricing was applied.
7.08      Yantan hydro would be competitive with its thermal alternative at
discount rates up to 13Z. Even with an increase of project cost of Yantan
hydro of 10%, the breakeven discount rate is still above 12%. In fact, both
Tianshengqiao Phase II and Longtan project are still in the planning stage and
will not be ready for implementation in the next two to three years; so the
only realistic alternative is thermal.
C. Economic Rate of Return
7.09      The internal economic rate of return (IERR) was calculated using the
estimated economic prices of inputs (shadow-priced capital cost of generating
plant, associated transmission and subtransmission; operation and maintenance
cost, fuel cost and distribution cost) and pricing output at the projected
5/   Including production cost at mines in south Shanxi at about US$20 per ton
plus railway transportation estimated at US$1.35 per 100 km for 2,000 km.



- 43 -
tariffs by 1993 for GEPB's system but adjusted to end-1985 price level am the
minimum economic value of electricity. The IERR calculated on a program basis
consisting of the proposed project and Tianshengqiao Phase II is about 12%
(see Annex 23 for details). This is a very conservative calculation, as no
surplus benefits were taken into consideration.



- 44 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The following assurances have been obtained that:
(a) Government will:
(i) provide training in up-to-date financial management and planning
and utility accounting practices (para. 5.08 and 5.10) and
provide audited accounts for this component (para. 3.22);
(ii)  onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to GEPB on terms
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.16); and
(iii) carry out or cause to be carried out a resettlement program
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.35).
(b) CEPB will:
(i) furnish to the Bank a five-year financial plan containing finan-
cial income statements, sources and uses of funds, and balance
sheets (para. 3.12);
(ii) submit its annual financial statements, certified by an accept-
able auditor to the Bank within six months of the end of each
financial year (para. 3.22);
(iii) carry out a training program acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.10);
(iv) carry out a program acceptable to the Bank to improve public
health in the reservoir area (para. 5.31);
(v) use independent engineering experts during construction and after
completion to undertake periodic inspections of the dam and
associated works and make any necessary modifications
(para. 5.37).
(vi) take measures, including but not limited to tariff adjustments,
to ensure that operating revenues are sufficient to meet the
aggregate of its total operating expenses and the amount by which
its financial obligations exceed depreciation and non-cash
operating expenses (para. 6.15); and
(vii) incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of its
revenues and expenditures indicates that internal cash generation
would indicate debt service coverage at least 1.3 (para. 6.16).
8.02         Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and GEPB and approval of the Loan Agreement by the State Council would be
conditions of loan effectiveness (para. 5.16).
8.03         Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$52.0 million to the People's Republic of China. The
loan would be for a term of 20 years including a 5-year grace period, and
would be at the standard variable interest rate.



ANNEX I
-    -
CRINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Installed Capacity, Electricity Generation and Sales for the Power Subsector
Energy
Installed capacity (MW)       Energy generation (GWh)    sales
Year              Hydro   Thermal    Total       Hydro  Thermal   Total    (GWh)
1949                 163    1,686    1,849         710    3,600    4,310    3,460
1952                 188    1,776    1,964       1,260    6,001    7,261    6,277
1957               1,019    3,616    4,635       4,820   14,515   19,335   16,407
1962               2,379   10,686   13,065       9,042   36,753   45,795       N.A.
1965               3,020   12,056   15,076    10,414   57,190   67,604   56,802
1970               6,235   17,535   23,770    20,450   95,420  115,870         N.A.
1971               7,804   18,478   26,282    25,060  113,300  138,360  101,274
1972               8,700   20,801   29,501    28,820  123,630  152,450  123,600
1973              10,299   23,626   33,925    38,900  127,860  166,760  135,106
1974              11,817   26,291   38,108    41,440  127,410  168,850  135,708
1975              13,428   29,978   43,406    47,630  148,210  195,840  156,969
1976              14,655   32,492   41,147    45,640  157,490  203,130  164,698
1977              15,765   35,686   51,451    47,670  175,740  223,410  181,691
1978              17,277   39,845   57,122    44,630  211,920  256,550  210,239
1979              19,110   43,906   63,016    50,120  231,827  281,947  233,577
1980              20,318   45,551   65,869    58,211  242,416  300,627  257,300
1981              21,933   47,069   69,002    65,546  243,723  309,269  263,410
1982              22,959   49,401   72,360    74,399  253,279  327,678  280,080
1983              24,160   52,280   76,440    86,450  264,990  351,440  301,600
1984              25,547   54,373   79,920    86,780  290,210  376,990  319,010
Average growth                        11,4%                          13.6%    13.8%
rate (p.a.)
Source: MWREP.



CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Electricity Generation by Region and by Type of Plant GWh)
1970     1975      1976     1977      1978     1979      1980      1981     1982      1983     1984
Total               115 870  195840  203 130  223t410  256 550  281 947  300 627  309 269  327 678  351 440  376497
Rydro              2047630   45640   47,670   44,630   50,120   58,211                         74,399   86,450   86,780
Thermal            95,420  148,210  157,490  175,740  211,920  231,827  242,416  243,723  253,279  264,990  290,201
Northeast            28,820   41,160   43,020   43,610   48,520   51,580   53,995   54.210   56.147   59,613   63,176
Hydro               3,350    5,350    3,560    3,850    2,690    4,746    5,072    6,343    4,509    5,423    6,647
Thermal            25,470   35,810   39,460   39,760   45,830   46,834   48,923   47,867   51,638   54,190   56,529
North                20,870   34,950   35,480   38 640   45,830   50 559   53 556   55,071   57,527   61 061   66 167
Hydro                 680       710      560       800      970    1,376    1,313        873      962    1,282    1,124
Thermal            20,190   34,240   34,920   37,840   44,860   49,183   52,243   54,198   56,565   59,779   65,043   >
East                 29,710   49 490   54,670   60,860   70 140   77,535   83,816   87,429   92 149   98 849  106 431
Hydro               4,320    7,920      ,150    7,900    6,450    5,996    9,018   11,109   11,337   14,816   12,39-2
Thermal            25,390   41,570   47,520   52,960   63,690   71,539   74,798   76,320   80,812   84,033   94,039
Central-South        18,360   35 410   35,000   39,930   46 150   52,534   57 592   60,883   65 922   72,443   75996
Hydro               6 950   17,020   17,170   16,030   15,630   17,178   20,245   23,327 - 30,256   35,569   34,654
Thermal            11,410   18,390   17,830   23,900   30,520   35,356   37,347   37,556   35,666   36,874   41,342
Northwest             8,340   17,010   18,660   20,790   22,460   23,928   24,989   24 774   26 501   27,366   300330
Hydro               2,670    8,580   10,060   10,440    9,750   10,416   10,560   11,060   12,525   12,807   13,330
Thermal             5,670    8,430    8,600   10,3¢0   12,710   13,512   14,429   13,714   13,976   14,559   17,001
Southwest             9,770   17,820   16 300   19,580   23,450   25,811   26,679   26 902   29,432   32108   34886 
Hydro               2,480    8,050    7140    8,650    9 150   10,408   12,003   12,834 14,810   16,553   18,633
Thermal             7,290    9,770    9,160   10,930   14,300   15,403   14,676   14,068   14,622   15,555   16,253    ,
Source:  MWREP.



ANNEX 3
_ 47 -
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Performance Indicators for GEPB
1980      1981       1982       1983      1984
Installed Capacity (MW)          915.0      975.0     966.0   1,091.0   1,264.0
Hydro                          467,0      527.0     527.0      627.0      836.0
Thermal                        448.0     448.0      439.0      464.0      426.0
Energy Generation (GWh)        3 727.0   3,761.0   4*033.0   4,367.n   5,019.0
Hydro                        1,899.0   2,234.0   2,647.0   2,795.0   3,313.0
Thermal                      1,828.0   1,527.0   1,386.0   1,572.0   1,706.0
Capacity Factor (%)               46.5       44.0      47.7       45.7       45.3
Hydro                           46.4       48.4      57.3       50.1       45.2
Thermal                         46.6       38.9      36.0       38.7       45.5
Peak demand (MW)                 631.0      637.6     692.8      723.1      831.6
Annual load factor (2)            67.4       67.3      66.5       68.9       68.9
Energy sales (GWh)             3,307.0   3,357.0   3,626.0   3,926.0   4,522.0
Total system losses (%)           11.3       10.8      10.1       10.1       10.0
Of which station use (M)        6.05       5.34      4.69       5.01       4.40
Average coal consumption
(kg of standard coal of
7,000 kcal/kg)                 0.497     0.493      0.485      0.503      0.493
Number of customers            128,379   129,039   129,800   135,557   136,371
Number of employees             11,064    11,392    12,020    12,775    13,239
Sales per employee (MWh)           299        295       302        307        342
Source: GEPB.



48 -                 ~~~~~ANNEX 4
-  48 -                          Page 1 of 4
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Manpower Development and TraininR
1.   Projected Requirement
GEPB's system will be expanded substantially during its 7th f£ve
year plan from 1986 to 1990. Thermal power stations planned to be completed
would include Heshan (100 MW), Tiandong (25 MW), Laibin (2 x 125 MW and 1 x
300 MW) totalling 675 MW. Hydroelectric stations to be completed would
include the First unit of Tianshengqiao low dam scheme (1 x 220 MW) followed
by No. 2, No. 3 and No. 4 units in 1990/92 and Yantan project (4 x 275 MW) in
1992/94. In addition, there will be about 150 km of 110 kV, 715 km of 220 kV
and 756 km of 500 kV transmission lines to be completed during that period.
In order to meet the long-term manpower need, it is estimated that during the
period of 1986-90 a total of about 800 students would need to be trained and
graduated at the Nanning Electric Institute for technicians and 1,500 students
at the other two training schools for skilled labors, with categories broken
down as follows:
Graduates
Technicians                         required
Thermal power                          200
Hydro power                             80
Generation and distribution            200
Transmission and substation             20
Plant automation                        20
Hydraulic structure                     20
Civil construction                      20
Material management                     80
Economic and financial management       80
Power supply management                 30
Others                                  50
Total                                800



- 49 -             oANEX 4
-                   ~~~~~~Page 2 of 4
Graduates
Skilled labor                       required
T-G operation and maintenance          200
Boiler operation and main-
tenance                                315
Electrical equipment O&M               265
Thermal dynamics                        40
Electrical testing                      20
Plant chemistry                         40
Communication                           20
Remote control                          20
Hydraulic turbine and accessories       80
Boiler erection                         50
T-G erection                            30
Electrical installation                 30
Welding                                160
Lifting                                 40
Survey                                  20
Carpenter                               40
Plumbing                                40
Others                                  90
Total                              1,500
2.   Recruitment
To meet the above requirement, the GEP8's plan is as follows:
Number    Percentage
(a) Technicians
Trained by Nanning Electric Institute        280          36
Trained by other vocational schools
in Guangxi                                240           31
Recruited from schools within or
outside the region                        250           33
Total                                  770          100
(b) Skilled Workers
Trained by GEPB's own training schools   1,235          80.0
Upgrading training on job                   320         20.0
Total                                1,565        100.0



- 50 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
3.   Training Capacity
Student    Training   Student
admitted   capacity   graduated
per year   required   per year
Nanning Electrical Institute                 240       960         240
(4-year course)
Guangxi electrical training school          200-240   680         200-240
(3-year course)
Guangxi Hydroelectric training school         80       240          80
(3-year course)
The expansion program of those schools is given in Table 1.
4. Training Program
The training program would provide upgrading teaching facilities and
teaching staff for these three schools, including:
(a) provision of testing instruments, laboratory equipment and teaching
aid equipment (about US$1.8 million);
(b) overseas training for teaching staff (totalling 240 man-months about
US$0.2 million).
(c) updating of curricula and teaching materials; and



- 51 -                            ANNEX 4
gage 4 of 4
Table 1: TRAINING FACILITIES WITHIN GEPB
Plan of expansion
Existing   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Nanning Electric Institute
No. of staff                          32                                    279
No. of teaching staff                 19                                    112
Capacity (4-year course)
Students admitted                  80       160    240    280    240    240
Students at school                 80       240    480    720    800    960
Students graduated                   -        -      -      40     80    160
Capacity for upgrade training          -        --                    -    640
Guangxi Electrical Training
School
No. of Staff                         110                                    178
No.  of teaching staff                47                                     68
Capacity (2-year course)
Students admitted                 200       240    200    240    240    200
Students at school                395       440    440    680    680    680
Students graduated                 175      195    200       -    240    280
Guangxi Hydroelectric
Training School
Capacity
Students admitted                    -       80     80      80     80      80
Students at school                 160       80    160    160    240    240
Students graduated                 154       80     80      80      -      80



- 52 -
AN1=E 5
CHI                             Page 1 of 15
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
DIAGNOSTIC ANALYSES OF
CONPUTER-BASED INFORMATION SYSTEK NEED    -
Tables of Contents
Page No
1.  INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY........             .      .............   1
1.1 Introduction.                                               *, 1
1.2  General Conclusion ..................................             1
1.3 Summary of Views.                                                  2
1.4  Summary of Recommendations ...........................   3
1.5  Summary of Projections and Work Plan.                             4
2.  GUANGXI ATONOMOUS REGION ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU.........                4
2.1 Perceived Needs             ..                                     4
2.2  Processing/Planning Uses of Microcomputers.                       5
2.3 Recommendations..    6
3.  YUNNAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU. ..                            7
3.1 Perceived Needs             ..                                     7
3.2  Processing/Planning Uses of Microcomputers. .                    8
3.3 Recommendations             ..                                    8
4.  ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU          .      .            8
4.1 Perceived Needs..    8
4.2  Processing/Planning Uses of Microcomputer..                       9
4.3 Recommendations.                                                  10
5. OTHER INSTALLATIONS    ..10
5.1  Guilin (City) Electric Power Bureau    .           .10
5.2 Kunming Hydroelectric Investigation and
Design Institute   .                   .11
5.3 Lubuge Project Construction Management
Bureau  ..11
5.4 East China Hydroelectric Power
Investigation and Design Institute   .          .12
5.5  East China Electric Power Administration  .           .12
5.6  Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power ...               13
6.  NEED PROJECTION AND PROBABLE WORK PLAN    .            ....  13
6.1  Decentralization of Management Decision-Making Process  13
6.2  Probable Work Plan - Computerization Aspects ...                 14
Probable Work Plan - Accounting and Management
Orientation Aspects  . .. 14
This report was prepared by D. H. Li, Senior Management Systems Officer,
International Finance Corporation, based on field visits from
November 11, 1985, to December 5, 1985, on behalf of the Energy Division,
Projects Department, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, the World Bank



ANNEX 5
53 -                    TPage 2 of is
1. INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
1.1. introduction. At the invitation of the Energy Division of the East
Asia and Pacific Projects Department of IBRD (AEPEN), I made diagnostic
analyses of computer-based information system needs, for purposes of
financial management and planning, at the following provincial power
bureaus:
(a) Guangxi Autonomous Region Electric Power Bureau, Nanning.
(b) Yunnan Provincial Electric Power Bureau, Kunming.
(c) Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Bureau, Hangzhou.
My findings are contained in this report, following a general
conclusion at para 1.2. a summary of views at para. 1.3, a summary of
recommendations at para. 1.4, and a suvmary of projections and probable
work plan at para 1.5. My terms of reference for this assignment are
attached to this report as Annex 1.
While not specifically listed in my terms of references, I was also
asked to visit the following facilities and assess their computer-based
Information systems needs:
(d) Guilin (City) Electric Power Bureau, Guilin.
(e) Kunming Hydroelectric Investigation and Design Institute,
Kunming.
(f) Lubuge Project Construction Management Bureau, Kunming.
(g) East China Hydroelectric Power Investigation and Design
Institute, Hangzhou.
(h) East China Electric Power Administration, Shanghai.
(i) Ministry of Wdater Resources and Electric Power, Beijing.
Comments related to each of the above facilities are also included in
this report, albeit briefly.
1.2.     General Conclusion.  The Provincial Power Bureaus have been
encouraged by the Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power (RWREP)
to use computers for reporting purposes. In this regard, some of the
needed software is being developed by LWREP. While the software
currently in use and under development, at both the Ministry and Bureau
levels, appears useful and appropriate, its applicability is nevertheless
disjointed rather than integrated. The software, in other words, does
not have the adaptability and comprehensiveness to meet major changes in
the managerial environment.



ANNEX 5
- 54 -                           of 15
While the MWREP does not consider major changes in the managerial
environment likely in the next five years, IBRD's perception is
otherwise, on the strength of three phenomena : (1) the more pronounced
upward price movements in recent years, (2) the use of borrowings, rather
than grants, to finance capital investments, and (3) the substantial
expansion in the size and scope of operations of the Bureaus.
Given major changes in the managerial environment, not only must
software be made more adaptable and comprehensive, so must hardware - it
must be better integrated and more responsive. For the immediate future,
the Bureaus can benefit from having additional hardware. For the longer
run, further study is needed, after the impact resulting from these major
changes is better understood, so that hardware, software and training
needs to meet the emerging reporting requirements may be suitably
developed.
1.3.     Summary of Views.  The use of, and need for, ccmtputer facilities
in the Bureaus' operations may be broadly classified into three
categories:
(1) for power dispatching purposes,
(2) for transaction processing purposes, and
(3) for financial planning and control purposes.
While the use of computers in the first category listed above is
engineering/technical, and therefore outside the scope of my assignment,
its importance is such that the other two uses cannot be considered
without some discussion of the first. Indeed, it is not unfair to state
that, at the time of my visit, the use of computers for transaction
processing and financial planning purposes is merely an adjunct to the
engineering/technical use, whether measured in terms of hardware
dedicated, personnel trained, experience logged, financial resources
committed, or management attention directed, as shown in chart form below:
Transaction     Financial
Disratchinz     Processing       Planning
a.  Hardware available      Minicomputers   microcomputers   microcomputers
in use          in use            being
considered
b.  Personnel trained       considerable    Few in number;   Very few in
number;         scattered         number;
concentrated                      isolated
c.  Experience logged       15 or more       About 1 year     Little
years of        of experience    experience
experience
d.  Financial resources    Major             Incidental       None or
committed                                                 indefinite
e.  Management              Major            Incidental        Beginning to
attention directed                                        focus



AMX 5
55 -                  Page4 of s15
While the use of computers for transaction processing and financial
planning purposes by the Bureaus is in its infancy, a dynamic growth is
nevertheless envisaged, in view of the following favorable influences:
(1) The Bureaus' long experience in using computers in
engineering/technical areas,
(2) the innate ability of Bureaus' staff, which facilitates the
transfer of computer usage know-how from engineering/technical
areas to processing/planning areas,
(3) The willingness of AEPEM to consider providing financial
resources for Bureetus' acquiring needed hardware and services,
and
(4) the focusing of Bureau management's attention to using computers
for processing/planning purposes, in the light of AEPENf's
interest and support.
1.4. Suumary of Recommendations. My recommendations, discussed
elsewhere in this report, are svmmarized below:
A. Hardware
1.   Encourage the Guangxi Electric Power Bureau to acquire another
VAX-11/750 and needed IBM-PCs.
2.   Encourage the Yunnan Provincial Electric Power Bureau to assign
IBM-PCs for processing/planning uses.
3.   Endorse the Kunming Hydroelectric Investigation and Design
Institute's request to acquire computer-assisted design
facilities in exchange for the Institute's developing a
construction management software package.
B. Software
1.   Encourage the Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power to
engage in software development of applications that are
Ministry-wide in scope.
2.   Encourage the Guangxi and Yunnan Provincial Electric Power
Bureaus to continue exploring linkage and networking issues,
particularly as they relate to linking IBM and VAX equipment.
3.   Encourage the Kunming Hydroelectric Investigation and Design
Institute to develop a construction management software package
in return for acquiring computer-assisted design facilities.



ANNEX 5
- 56 -                Page 5 of 15
C. Computer Planning and Management
1.   Endorse the MWREP's and Bureaus' efforts to limit computer
acquisitions to IBM, VAX, and IBM compatibles.
2.   Encourage the MWREP and/or Bureaus to develop contacts with
agencies outside of the People's Republic of China such that the
Ministry and Bureaus may receive notices of relevant
developments in hardware and software on a regular basis.
3.   Encourage the Ministry to coordinate the development of software
by various Bureaus and to publicize their availability when
completed.
4.   Encourage the Zhejiang Provincial Ele^tric Power Bureau to
undertake a computer master-planning exercise.
1.5. Summary of Projections and Work Plan.
(1) In the event the management decision-making process is
decentralized, the main area of additional needs would be in training.
(2) Relationship among various reports required by MWREP need be
studied; a definite analysis of the configuration for the Kunming
Hydroelectric Investigation and Design Institute is needed.
(3) A review of accounting and reporting practices in the People's
Republic of China is desirable; study tours for Bureau management and
technical staff concerning management techniques and
financial-control devices would be beneficial, with the composition
of the tour group, the venue, and the content to be defined.
2. GUANGXI AUTONOMOUS REGION ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU (GEPB)
2.1 Perceived Needs. Not unexpectedly, GEPB's main perceived needs in
the area of computer use is to upgrade its automatic dispatching system,
from one with 1 VAX-11/750s (supported by I domestically manufactured
DJS-6, 8 IBM-PCs, and 2 Apple IIs) to a dual system with 2 VAX-11/750s.
In the areas of processing/planning, the goal appears to develop a
microcomputer network in the headquarters. A draft of such a plan, dated
21 May 1985, is included in this report as Annex 2; a free translation of
this draft is included as Annex 2a.* The implementation of the
first-phase of this plan, to broaden the use of microcomputers, is
contained in a set of tentative procedures, dated September 1985 (Annex 3
and 3a). In an announcement, dated 16 October 1985, the Bureau
management directed that these tentative procedures be followed. (Annex
4).
* Materials gathered during this mission, unless otherwise stated, are
in Chinese. Their translation into English, unless otherwise stated, was
done by me. For convenience, translated materials are identified by the
suffix a in Annexes.



ANNEX 5
- 57         ~        Page 6 of 15
2.2.  proi.essi                                  .  At, the time of the
IBRD mission, several Divisions in the Bureau have been equipped with
microcomputers for use in transaction processing and/or planning and
control.  Their status is summarized below.
Division                      Intended Use              Software Available
(a)  Planning            Statistical data compil-       -
ation
(b) Labor                Wage computation               dBase TII
Productivity database
(c) Safety               Factor analysis of             Developed by MWREP
Surveillance         accidents
(d) Political            Personnel database             -
(Management
staff)
(e) Finance              Production accounting          -
Construction accounting
Consolidation/reporting
Pricing
An example of work being done (a productivity database) is shown as
Annex 5. The types of reports to be prepared and submitted to the MWREP
are shown as Annex 6. The format of these reports is promulgated by the
Ministry of Finance and is standardized nationwide.
For use in reporting to MWREP, supplemental reports such as the
following have been specified (Annex 7):
(a) Status of Electric Power Production
(b) Status of Electric Power Transmission/Distribution
(c) Receipts and Disbursements of Electric Power (for use up to year
1985)
(d) Receipts and Disbursements of Electric Power-Classified (for use
in year 1986 and beyond)
(e) Use of Electric Power by Industry classification
(f) Status of Transformer and Transmission
(g) Yet Value of Industrial Production and Value Added.



ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 15
It may be noted that the format of many of the above reports may be
used, by MRURP and Bureau management alike, for both forward planning and
management control purposes. Generally, key performance indicators for
planning purposes are provided by NMREP; Bureau management, by means of
the format of these reports, elaborates on these key indicators to
develop the Bureau's operating plans. Filled in with actual data, these
reports then are used to discharge the Bureau's fiduciary
responsibilities to MWRK?. For reporting to MWREP, monthly flash reports
are to be submitted within 3 days after month end; quarterly reports, 7
days; and annual reports, 25 days. Again, these dates are standardized
nationwide.
Until such time that microcomputers are programmed to process the
above, all work ie done manually.  However, it may be noted that the work
performed at the Bureau level is mainly elaboration and particularization
(at the planning stage) or compilation and consolidation (at the
reporting stage). More specific planning is done by various production,
transmission and/or distributed units. Similarly, raw data are captured
by these sub-bureau units, based on which reports are submitted to the
Bureau.
Since the Bureau management was well served by various reports listed
above, there was no specific areas of information needs that the Bureau
management could identify. The Bureau management's frustration, however,
was mainly in its inability to gain access to specific pieces of
information promptly. The apparent waste of human-resources in tracking
down specific pieces of information prompted the Bureau management to
favor the development of a microcomputer network and supporting databases.
2.3. Recommendations. It may be seen that the Bureau's master plan of
developing a microcomputer network is well conceived and its first-phase
implementation scheme is reasonably planned. Assuming that the dual
system for the Bureau's automatic dispatching system materializes, it is
perhaps not unreasonable to suggest that the microcomputer network be
linked to that dual system when the time comes. With this in mind,
perhaps the following may be suggested:
(a) Immediate
i. Encourage the Bureau to procure another VAX-11/750 as a dual
to the automatic dispatching system. (This VAX-l1/750 may
eventually be used, when needed, as the host to the
microcomputer network; at that time, a substitute, perhaps a
VAX-11/780 or VAX-ll/785, could be acquired as a dual to the
dispatching system)



ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 15
it. Encourage the Bureau to acquire microcomputers for
processing/planning purposes as planned.
iii. Encourage the Bureau to consider using microcomputers for
stock control purposes and to develop needed software.
iv. Encourage the MWREP to develop software, such as planning
and reporting packages, that may be used by all Bureaus under
its jurisdiction.
(b) Longer Term
i. Support the Bureau's plan to develop a local-area
microcomputer network as planned.
ii. Encourage the Bureau to link the microcomputer network to a
minicomputer as a hoot.
3. YUNNAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU (YPEPB)
3.1.  Perceived Needs.  YPEPB's perceived needs are contained in a
discussion memorandum, dated 26 January 1985 (Annex 8). As more
adequately presented in Annex 8a, a three-phase development plan was
envisaged, with the following features:
Phase 1          Phase 2          Phase 3
(1985)           (1986-1990)      (1990-1995)
Computer Office            VAX-11/730        VAX-11/730      IBM4341 or
IBM-PC (2)       IBM-PC(9)          4361
Management
Sub-network                                                 VAX-1/ 730
Dispatching                SDJ-1             VAX-11/780      VAX-11/780(2)
TQ-16            (2)
Provincial Electric
Power Design                                -               VAX-11/750
Institute
Provincial Electric
Power Training Institute     -                               VAX-11/750
or VAX-il!73O
Kunming Distribution       IBM-PC            IBM-S/36 or     IBE-S/36 or
Bureau                                       VAX-11/730 or   VAX-11/730 or
IBN-PC/AT       IBM-PC/AT
Xiao Lung-tan Plant        IBM-PC            IBM-S/36 or     IBM-S/36 or
VAX-11/730 or  VAX-11/730 or
IBM-PC/AT       IBM-PC/AT
Bureau's Testing           IBM-PC            IBM-S/36 or     IBK-S/30 or
Service                                      VAX-11/730 or   VAX-11/730 or
I5H-PC/AT       18*-PC/AT



Page 9 of 15
A proposed configuration for the liear future is included in this
report as Annex 9.
3.2. Processint/Planning User of Microcomputers. At the time of the
IBiD mission, there was no microcomputer devoted to processing/planning,
nor was there any staff using microcomputers for processing/planning
purposes. However, Section 3 of the discussion memorandum (Annex ga)
lists some of the possible applications, such as the follows:
a. production reporting
b.  financial reporting
c.  document indexation
d.  payroll computation
e.  equipment, spare parts, supplies, and materials management
f.  electricity bill computation.
3.3. Recommendations. It may be seen that YPEPB's actual use of
computers for processing/planning purposes is as dismal as its master
plan in the discussion memorandum is ambitious. Given this zero
beginning, perhaps the following may be suggested:
i. Suggest the Bureau to acquire or allocate microcomputers for
processing/planning purposes.
ii. Suggest the Bureau to identify staff members to begin
experimenting with using the microcomputer for processing/planning
purposes.
4. ZHEJIA5*G PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU (ZPEPB)
4.1. Perceived Needs. Unlike Guangxi and Yunnan Provincial Electric
Power Bureaus, the Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Bureau did not have
a computerization master plan. Because of this lack, the Bureau
management's major interest was to develop such a long-range plan.
Correctly, the Bureau management felt that a list of perceived needs
should be prepared only after a long-range computerization plan is in
place.



ANNEX 5
-61 -                 Page 10 of 15
4.2. Processing/Planning User of NicrocoMputerv. The lack of a
computerization master plan does not imply that there were no
processing/planning uses of microcomputers. On the contrary, the level
of such uses was somewhat more advanced than that at the Guangxi Electric
Power Bureau. The list is as follows; those with aster3sks were also
done at the Guangxi Electric Power Bureau:
*    Statistical data compilation
*    Wage computation
*    Factor analysis of accidents
*    Personnel database
*    Production accounting
*S   Consolidation/reporting
Safety-surveillance statistical reporting
Daily production/consumption of electric power
Stability of power generation
Stock control procedures
Wachine reliability/maintainability analysis.
An example of work done (wage computation) is attached as Annex 10.
The Bureau's current hardware configuration is shown as Annex 11.
The Bureau management had appreciated the interlationship between
computer systems and management systems, as well as the relationship
between production information and financial information. Accordingly,
the Bureau management favored a database approach to the development of a
long-range master plan. It was recognized that analytical or
decision-making uses of information could readily flow from a
comprehensive database maintained through diverse applications such as
the following:
Engineering/construction management
Planning/forecasting management
Fuel consumption management
Hydro level management
Technical information management
Cash resource movement and depository



ANNEX 5
- 62 -                  Page 11 of 15
X mentioned a master-plan development approach recommended by IBM
(which was followed by both IBRD and IFC in their planning exercises'.
The Bureau management liked the approach and would welcome AEPEV's
assistance in the Bureau's developing a master plan using such an
approach.
4.3 Recommendations. With the Bureau's management clearly having given
substantial thought but preferring a more systematic approach to
developing a computerizatior master plan, conditions appear to be present
for using an approach similar to that recoumended by IM. Perhaps the
following may be suggested:
i.   Encourage the Bureau management to sponsor the development of a
computerization master plan using an approach similar to that
recoummended by IBM.
ii. Consider hardware aequisitions and software support after such
needs become better defined by the master plan to be developed.
5. OTHER INSTALLATIONS
5.1. Guijin (City) Electric Power Bureu. Guilin (City) Electric Power
Bureau is one of many production, transmission and/or distribution units
reporting to the Guangxi Autonomous Region Electric Power Bureau. It is
in such sub-bureau units that detailed operating plans are formulated and
raw data captured.  (See para. 2.2).   Not surprisingly, then, these
sub-bureaus need and make use of computers for operating and reporting
purposes. A set of reports the Guilin Electric Power Bureau is required
to prepare and submit is attached as Annex 12. In addition to the
conventional financial information, emphasis of these reports appears to
be on cost data and productivity measures, along with comparisons of
actual performance against predetermined indicators. At the time of the
IBRD visit, the preparation of these reports was done manually.
The Gullin Electric Power Bureau has a CCE microcomputer, an IBM
compatible, which was purchased in 1984. One use was to prepare
electricity bills. An example is shown as Annex 13. Applications being
planned included client information (particularly facilities installed on
each client's premises), collection pattern, operating statistics, and
construction status. A planning module was under development, in
cooperation with the Computer Science Department of the Zhejiang
University.



ANNEX 5
-63-                    Page12 of 15
5.2  Kunmini Hydroelectric Investiatizon apd Design Institute (KIIDI).
Before the Lubuge Project Construction Management Bureau (see para
5.3) was established, KHIDI was responsible for some of the design work
related to the Lubuge project as well as some of its construction
management functions. With large volumes of designs to be prepared.
xHIDI appeared to be in need of additional computer-assisted design (CAD)
facilities. Considering the size of the Lubug" and similar projects, any
speedup in design management would directly save months of interest
charges during construction and indirectly promote productivity as a
result of bringing such projects on stream earlier. Investment in CAD
facilities appears, therefore, to be cost-eff6ctive.
While preliminary discussions among IBR), HWREP and the Yunnan
Provincial Eiectric Power Bureau had been made concerning RHIDI's
acquiring CAD facilitites, there was no definite meeting of the minds.
After reviewing the situation, I suggested that KHIDI undertake the
design of a construction management software package (see paragraph
i&mmediately below) as a consideration for its being appropriated funds,
from the Lubuge project, to acquire the needed CAD facilitites. I also
suggested that the configuration envisaged by KHIID be toned down so that
its investment would be more manageable, to an amount in the neighborhood
of USS750,000. A revised configuration in that vein was thus prepared
and approved by the Institute Director (Annex 14).
In IBRD visits, I noted that software related to construction
management was not being developed by any Bureau. Considering that each
project, particularly those involving IBRD funding, runs into hundreds of
millions of dollars, I feel that the development of such a software
package should be very high on IBRD/RWREP's list. The issue was really
to identify an organization capable of undertaking such an assignment,
both in terms of its understanding of power plant/dam construction needs
and having computer application know-how. I believe XHIDI would be a
logical choice. Given its motivation, it would be an ideal choice.
5 3 Lubuse ProJect Construction Manatement Bureau (LPCMB). LPCKB, set
up to manage the Lubuge project a year or two ago, has an IBM-PC.
However, it has proposed to create an information network (Annex 15), as
well as to develop a construction management software package (Annex 16).
While a flowchart related to the latter proposal is impressive (Annex
17), I did not feel this should be encouraged, on the following grounds:
1.   LPCMB has a clear-cut charge, which is to manage the Lubuge
project; attention must not be diverted from this charge.



-64-               ANNEX  5
Page 13 of 15
2. LPCNB has a finite mission, whose life will end when the Lubuge
project is complete; any activities undertaken that are
unrelated to its charge but might prolong its life should be
resisted.
3.   LPCMB has a small staff and does not have the needed expertize
to undertake a major assignment such as the construction
management software package; any activities undertaken that are
unrelated to its charge but would greatly increase its staff
size should be avoided.
5.4 East China Hydroelectric Power Investigation and Desizn Institute
(ECHIID). I was asked to meet the Institute management for an orientation
session. It later developed into a request for IBRD's support for
additional CAD facilities (Annex 18). As the relationship of ECHID to
IBiD was unclear to me, I expressed no views other than to bring the
proposal to the attention of IBRD.
5.5. East China Electric Power Administration (ECEPA). With its
employing some 110,000 people, and with its jurisdiction covering three
provinces (Anhui, Kiangsu, and Zhejiang) and the municipality of
Shanghai, ECEPA had considerable experience in using computers for
processing/planning purposes. A feasibility study concerning a
management information system was presented during the 1984 annual
management conference of EWREP (Annex 19). At the time of the IBID
visit. ECEPA had a VAX-ll/780 for dispatching purposes; daily production
reports were prepared on three IBM-PCs. Altogether, there were some 35
IBM-PC/XTs, with plans to buy as many as 140 IBM-PC/XTs. There was also
some preliminary discussions on acquiring an IBM mainframe.
In addition to the above, ECEPA also acquired a CADBEX 1641, model 1,
an IBM compatible with capabilities somewhat inferior to the IBM 4361
model 4 (except machine cycle time). The machine was to be used
exclusively for management purposes. With spare parts and technology
transfa;, the total purchase price was said to be about US$ 750,000.
(The list price for U.S. delivery, without spare parts and technology
transfer, was US$ 130,000). Funding for the package's acquisition was
provided by a social agency in Shanghai. Of interest was that the
machine was suspected to be a painted-over used one so that, after about
9 months after delivery, the machine was still in crates and not
installed. There appeared to be no definite plans to make use of the
technology purchased.
Based on the above, it appears that some review or information
provision agency might be desirable before Bureaus commit resources to
acquire computer facilities.



ANNEX 5
-65 -                  Page 14 of 15
5.6. Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power (MWREP). The main
purpose of visiting MWREP was to report to its relevant departments my
findings and to suggest that these relevant departments undertake
software development on applications that are Ministry-wide (see para
2.3). The Ministry had initiated a lot of projects, but most were in
various stages of development. It was also quite conversant with
projects being developed by various Bureaus. In some areas, worldwide
guidance was sought, such as from UN in planning and demand analysis, and
from France and Italy in networking.
The People's Republic of China had initiated to develop a Nationwide
Management information system. In its first phase, three ministries
which have direct jurisdiction over various organizational units at the
provincial, county, or district levels were singled out for development.
One of these ministries is MWREP. AccordingLy, the MWREP could expect
favorable consideration of its requests related to information system
design and development.
6. NEED PROJECTION AND PROiABLE WORK PLAN
6.1. Decentralization of Management Decision-Making Process. A secondary
item in my terms of reference is to make "a projection of additional
needs in the event that the management decision-making process is
decentralized". Given that scenario, it may be postulated that some of
the functions currently performed by MWREP will be filtered down and be
assumed by the Bureaus, some of the functions currently performed by the
Bureau will be filtered down and be assumed by sub-bureau units, and so
on. Even under such a scenario, it is envisaged that both the process
(elaboration and particularization during planning, and compilation and
consolidation during reporting) and the medium (using various reporting
formats, augmented perhaps by the use of computers) wili remain
substantially unchanged. The key element that is likely to undergo
substantial changes is human resources.
During the IBRD visit, it was already quite clear that Bureeu
management and high-level management positions were being, or beginning
to be, occupied by people who are technically qualified, as opposed to
those who are politically qualified. With reduced centralization, the
extent of staffing with technically qualified personnel will be filtered
down to middle or lower level management; there will be depth. Further,
management personnel, in addition to being technically qualified, will
need to be equipped with an understanding of modern management techniques
and an appreciation of the importance of financial controls; there will
be breadth.
In anticipation of these changes in the managerial environment, it
appears that the main area of additional needs would be in training (See
also para 6.3).



ANNEX 5
- 66 -                Page 15 of 15
6.2  Probable Work Plan - Computerization Aspects.  The probable work
plan for follow-up studies, as it relates to the computerization aspects,
is to monitor the implementation of various recommendations summarized at
para 1.4.  For some steps bevond the scope of my terms of reference,
additional work is needed before implementation may take place. An
example is a detailed study of the interrelationship of various reports -
as well as data flows through these reports - whose processing is to be
programmed by MhREP. Another example is a definite analysis of the
configuration needed to support the computer-assisted design equipment
requested by KHIDI.
6.3. Probable Work Plan - Accounting and Management Orientation
Aspects. Another aspect of follow-up studies that is needed, which is
also outside of my terms of reference, relates to accounting and
management orientation issues.
While accounting and reporting practices in the People's Republic of
China are adequate in the context of its existing environment, some of
these practices are at variance with international standards. Further,
as the environment in China changes, these practices might not be able to
reflect the country's needs. In the process of designing the MWREP's
financial planning and reporting software packages, it might be opportune
to identify these variations and propose possible
modifications/adjustmeints so that, as revised, these practices would be
in line with international standards and/or more reflective of China's
changing needs.
Similarly, the rapid expansion in the scope of operations, the use of
borrowings (instead of grants) to finance expansions, and the need to
consider the monetary dimension (in addition to the quantitative
dimension) of operations, all suggest that the Bureau management and
MWREP officialdom would benefit from exposure to management techniques
and financial-control devices commonly used by utility management in
industrialized countries.   The idea of having study tours for Bureau
management and technical staff was discussed by the IBRD appraisal
mission in Nanning. My subsequent discussions on the subject of study
tours with Bureau management in Kunming and Hangzhou, and with MMREP in
Beijing were generally favorable. Reflecting upon these discussions,
additional work appears needed concerning the composition of the tour
group, the venue, and the subject matters to be studied during these
tours.



- 67 -
ANNEX 6
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Electricity Tariffs, 1985
Tariff Category                                            2ate /a      Unit
Lighting (residential/commercial/small industries)
Up to 1 kV                                                 20.0      Fen/kWh
Over I kV                                                  19.5      Fen/kWh
Average                                                    19.1
Commercial & small industrial /b
Up to 1 kV                                                  8.5      Fen/kWh
1-10 kV                                                     8.5      Fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                                 8.0      Fen/kWh
Average                                                     8.3
Large industrial (above 320 kYA)
Energy charge: /b
1-10 kV                                                  5.8      Fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                              5.5      Fen/kWh
Capacity charge (per month) /c
Based on peak demand                                     6.0      Yuan/kW
Based on installed capacity                              4.0      Yuan/kVA
Average                                                     5-3
Agriculture /d
Up to 1 kV                                                  5.0      Fen/kWh
10 kV                                                       5.0      Fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                                 5.0      Fen/kWh
Average                                                     5.0      Fen/kWh
Bulk supply (to rural villages)
10 kV - 35 kV                                                -       Fen/kWh
Average                                                     5.7
Total Average                                            7.0
/a   This tariff is applied to productive uses.  Lighting consumption by
commercial and small industrial customers is billed at the lighting rate.
/b   Certain industries (aluminum, caustic soda, oxygen/acetylene, synthetic
ammonia and phosphate fertilizer) enjoy a 1.0 Fen/kWh discount in the
energy charge.
/c   Choice of two rates based on availability of demand meters.
71   Applies only to activities related to agricultural production (e.g.,
threshing) not to rural industries or rurutl residential consumption.



ANNEX 7
- 68 -
CHINA
YANTAN NYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Installed Capacity, Energy Generation and Sales of GRPB
Installed capacity           Energy generation        Energy
Year              Hydro   Thermal   Total    Hydro   Thermal   Total    sales
(MW)          --           (GWh)   (-(m)
1962                 -        57         57        -       142      142         -
1965                 57       57        114      103       203      306         -
1970                144      108        252      570       351      921         -
1971                181      117        298      579       568    1,147         -
1972                229      154        383      950      741    1,691          -
1973               241       170        411    1,126       179    1,905         -
1974                262      226        488    1,115      963    2,078          -
1975                322      297        619    1,302    1,200    2,502          -
1976               397       372        769    1,62(0    1,113    2,733        -
1977               407       372        779    1,777    1,311    3,088          -
1978               407       448        855    1,880    1,512    3,392          -
1979               467       448        915    2,023    1,540    3,563          -
1980               467       448        915    1,8'i9    1,828    3,727    3,307
1981               527       448       957    2,234    1,527    3,761    3,357
1982                527      439        966    2,647    1,386    4,033    3,626
1983               627       464      1,091    2,795    1,572    4,367    3,926
1984               836       428      1,264    3,313    1,706    5,019    4,522
Average growth
rate (p.a.)                15.1                          17.6                  -
Source: GEPB.



- 69 -                              ANNEX 8
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Major Generatin Facilities of GEPB
(end 1984)
Installed   No. of   Unit       Year         Energy output /a
capacity    units    size   installed    1984    Dec 1984 /b
(MW)                (MW)                         (GW --
H dro Station
Dahua                 300        3       100     1983         933        111.8
(35.5)      (50.2)
Xiji-               234.4        2     57.2      1964       1,092         53.8
2     60.0                (53.2)       (30.9)
Mashi                 100        1     28.0      1972         343         20.9
2     36.0                (39.1)       (28.1)
Etan                   60        1     60.0      1981         339         36.2
(64.5)      (81.0)
Lalang                 51        3      17.0     1971         185          6.6
(41.4)      (17.5)
Luodong                40        2     20.0      1970         233         10.0
(66.5)       (56.0)
Subotal          785.4
Thermal Station
Heshan                295        3     25.0      1970       1,096        143.9
2     60.0                (42.4)       (65.5)
1    100.0
Liuzhou                36        3      12.0     1959         142         21.7
(45.0)      (81.1)
Nanning                24        2     12.0      1960         146         15.5
(69.4)      (86.5)
Tiandong               49        2     12.0      1974         217         28.3
1     25.0                (50.5)       (77.5)
Guilin                 24        2      6.0      1960         105         11.9
1     12.0                (50.0)       (66.8)
Total          1,213.4
/a Figures given in parentheses are capacity factors on annual and monthly
bases, respectively.
/b December is the most critical month in a year. It is the month of peak
demand in a year and is in the dry season.
Source: GEPB.



CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Energy Consumption by Categories of Consumers (GEPB)
1980           1981             1982            1983             1984
'onsumers                      GWh     g       GWh      %      GWh              GWh             GWh%
Residential and commercial       226    7.1      253    7.7      292    8.1        366    9.4       454   10.2
Industrial
Heavy                        2,115   66.7   2,243   68.1   2,341   65.3    2,382   61.4    2,615   58.7
Light                          283    8.9      385   11.7      506   14.1       647   16.7       644   14.5
Subtotal                 2,398   75.6   2,628   79.8   2,847   79.4    3,029   78.1    3,259   73.2
Agricultural                     517   16.3      379   11.5      407   11.4       443   11.4        532   12.0
Transportation                    32    1.0       33    1.0       39    1.1        40    1.1         45   10
Others                             -     -         -     -         -      -         -      -        164    3.6
Total                     3,173  100.0   3,293  100.0   3,585  100.0    3,878  100.0    4,454  100.0
Source: GEPB.
I 



CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Balance of GEPB System Load and CapabilitZ
Annual                                Reserve
System    Load                                     Capacity              energy output      Power purchased        margin
Year     peak    energy       New additions /a       Installed   DepeRdable    Firm    Average   Capacity   Energy   Gross   Net
(MW)    (Gkh)             (MW)             ---_- (MW) - - - -    -         (GWh) --         (MW)      (GWh)    -- (MN) -
1985       930    5,650   Dahua Hydro (100)            1,264         1,030      5,600      5,800         -           -    100       7
Heshan Thruzal (100)
1986     1,000    6,000   Heshan Thermal (100)         1,464         1,200      6,200      6,500         -           -    200    100
Tiandong Thernal (25)                                                                            .
1987     1,100    6,600                                1,589         1,300      7,000      7,300.        -           -    200      90
1988     1,220    7,300   Latbin Thermal (125)         1,589         1,300      7,000      7,300         -           -      80    -42 d
Unit No. 1
1989     1,330    8,000   Laibin Thermal (125)         1,714         1,410      7,700      8,000         -           -      80    -53
Unit No. 2
1990     1,530    9,200   Labin Thermal (300)          1,839         1,510      8,200      8,500       120         700    100    -53
Unit No. 3
1991     1,670   10,000              -                 2,139         1,750      9,200      9,500        85         S00    165      -2
1992     1,820   10,900   Yantan Hydro (275)           2,139         1,750      9,600      9,900       170       1,000    100    -82
Unit No. 1
1993     1,980   11,900   Yantan Hydro (550)           2,414         1,970     10,800    11,500        150         900    140    -58
Unit Nos. 2 & 3
1994     2,170   13,000   Yantan Hydro (275)           2,964         2,410     13,400    14,700         70         400    240      23
Units No. 4
1995     2,350   14,100                                3,239         2,630      14,640    16,320         -           -    280      45
/a  All the generating units are scheduled for comissioning by the end of the year.  When two units of the same plant are   o
scheduled for the same year, the commissioning dates would be June and December, respectively.



ANNEX 11
- 72 -
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Estimated Monthly Output Under Various Hydro Conditions
(MW)
Month                      Dry year             Wet wear             Average year
January                      462.4                524.6                  437.4
February                     443.8                508.2                  426.3
March                        423.8                492.5                  410.4
April                        464.1                659.6                  430.2
May                          499.5              1,001.5                  807.3
June                         637.1              1,100.0                1,020.0
July                         873.9              1,100.0                  992.0
August                       844.3              1,100.0                1,100.0
September                    559,6              1,100.0                1,096.0
October                      498.0              1,100.0                1,100.0
November                     634.6                801.7                  516.4
December                     565.5                590.5                  461.9
Yearly average
(MW)                       575.5                839.9                  733.2
Annual energy
output (GWh)             5,041.4              7,357.5                6,422.8
Source:  GEP.I'



CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Cascade Development of Hongshul River Basin
Tianshengqiao
Tianshengqiao       low dam                                                 Dahua
Project                       high dam      Stage I  Stage 2  Pingban    Longtan        Yantan    Stage 1  Stage 2  8ailongtan    etan        Oicogong  Detengria   Total
Drainag. Area (km2)             49,906            50,194         51,650      98,500    106,580          112,200         112,500    118,000    123,500   190,40n
Mean annual runoff (ems)           612               615            633       1,590       1,750           1,900           1,910       2,050       2,160     4,290
Normal high water level
(a)                              780               645            440         400         223             155             125         112          83       576
Dam type                      Rockfill          Concrete       Rockfill   Rockfill   Concrete          Concrete        Concrete   Concrete   Concrete  Concrete
gravity                               gravity         gravity         gravity    gravity    gravity   gravity
Height (s)                       180                58           61,4         225         110            74.5              22          6n        55,5      78.5
Reservoit  capacity
(mln m)
Gross                          4,000                26            320      27,400       3,250             354               -           -           -     1,760
Effective                      6,800                18              -      22,300       1,530              70               -           -           -       470
Installed capacity (4W)          1,200        880      440          360       4,000       1,100     400       200           18         560         5no     1,200   10,900
Annual energy output (GWb)
Without upstream reservoirs  5,900               4,700            920      18,100       6,420           2,060             520       2,420       2,180     5,R20   49,020
After full development         5,400             8,200          1,860      18,600       8,000           3,600             910       3,620      3,150      6,580   59,820
Source: GEPB.



ANNEX 1 3
-74-
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Pertinent Physical Data for lantan Hydroelectric Project
Unit   Quantity               Remarks
Hydrology
Catchbent area above dam site           km2    106,580
Flood record available                 years         44
Average flow                            cmas      1,760
Maximum recorded flood                  cms      16,700  July 14, 1968
Minimum flaw                            cms         177  June 4, 1958
Flow expected once in 1,000 years       cms      23,600
Annual sediment discharge            mln tons      43.4
Reservoir
Normal storage high water level          m        223.0
Maximm flood water level                 m        229.2
Drawdown level                           m        204.0  (212 m after completion of
Tienshengqiao high dam)
Reservoir capacity
Gross                               mln m'  2,430.0
Effective                           mln m3   1,530.0
Dam
Type                                                     Concrete gravity
Foundation rock                                          Diabase
Crest elevation                          m        233.0
Maximum height of dam                    m        111.0
Crest length                             m        525.0
Spillway
Overflow spillway sill elevation         m        202.0
Gate dimensions (no. of openings,
width and length)                                   7  - 15 m x 21 m
Type of gate                                             Radial
Intake
Number of openings                                    4
Type of gates                                            Vertical fixed wheel
Size of gates                            m               9 m x 15 m
Penstock
Number                                                4
Inside diameter                          m         10.8
Thickness of steel lining               mm        22-32
Powerhouse
Type                                                     Surface
Installed capacity                      MW        1,100  (4 x 275 MW)
Type of turbine                                          Francis
Naximum gross head                       m         68.2
Minimum net head                         mD        37.0
Rated head                               m         55.5
Quantities of Work
Excavation
Common                              mln M3       1.23
Rock                                mln m3       4.43
Concrete                              mln m        3.23
Metallic work installation             tons      21,550
Resettlement
People to be resettled                persons   36,435
Farmland to be inundated                ha        3,142
Source: GEPB.



- 75                           ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST SBC MEETING
1.        After many years of investigation and design, with a great number of
exploration drill holes and adits and various laboratory and field tests, the
geological condition of the reservoir and the dam site at Yantan has been
capably assessed as favorable for the proposed project. The development of
the Yantan hydroelectric power scheme is therefore now well underway.
2.        The layout of the project structures is well adapted to the topo-
graphy and geology. No major changes in the general layout or the type or
locations of the proposed structures are needed.
3.        The original design of the dam foundation excavation was based on
the criteria whereby all of the totally weathered, strongly weathered and
weakly (moderately) weathered rock is to be removed, leaving the slightly
weathered zone as foundation.
4.        The Board believes that the so-called weakly (moderately) weathered
rock at Yantan after treatment by consolidation grouting, is good enough for
the gravity dam foundation. This will considerably reduce the quantity of
required excavation, concrete and construction time. After discussion of this
suggestion, GIDI's geologists and designers have proposed to raise the
upstream foundation level of the dam, right of block No. 18, by 6 meters. The
Board agrees with this preliminary change but recommends that continuing
studies be made to reduce even further the excavation depth on these, and
other parts of the dam foundation.
5.        The Board recommends a drainage system, including drain holes and
galleries, be adopted and designed in both abutment foundazions, especially in
the right abutment where a wide and probably permeable quartz vein extends
from the reservoir to downstream of the dam foundation.
6.        The Board recommends that an area of rock on the left bank excavated
slope, between 0+70 to 0+135, can be stabilized by grouted rock bolts. Simi-
lar treatment can be used in all other such areas. Shotcrete is not necessary
for this Yantan rock except as local special requirements. Slope stabiliza-
tion treatment should be kept up with the excavation.
7.        The blasting that has been done to date in the left bank rock exca-
vations has been too intense in many loca. areas.  This has weakened the rock
structure and reduced the stability of the cut slope. Future blasting must be
improved and better controlled. Specifications for controlled blasting should
be given and should be strictly supervised.
8.        The steepest slope, 0.65:1, for the downstream face of some sections
of the dam is slightly steeper than normally expected for zero tension. The
Board suggests a review be made of the design, particularly the blocks incor-
porating the penstock.



- 76-                            ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
9.        Unit discharge of the spillway of up to 200 m3/s per meter width is
quite large. The problem of energy tissipation has to be carefully studied
and needs further confirmation and improvement by model tests under different
discharges and different tailwater levels.
10.       For the design of the penstocks, 10.8 m in diameter, the Board
recommends that the more conventional method of completely encasing the pen-
stock steel liner in the mass concrete of the dam, without any plastic cushion
layer, should be studied and that steel lining of the transition sections be
reconsidered.
11.       The Board also, recommends that the dam upstream of the powerhouse,
be constructed in four blocks instead of eight, and that the turbine supplier
be requested to reduce the size of the scrollcases so as to reduce as much as
possible the spacing between units, as well as the dam block length.
12.       The Board agrees that for such low pressure penstocks, pressure
testing is normally not required. The welds can be tested by both x-ray and
ultra-sonic methods.
13.       In order to ensure that the cofferdams can be safely completed in
one short dry season and to save a considerable amount of money, the Board
recommends that the present design of the cofferdams be reviewed, to try to
use two higher embankment cofferdams instead uf two embankment cofferdams and
two rollcrete cofferdams.
14.       The embankment cofferdams can be designed for the 20-year flood,
(19,700 cms), or the maximum recorded flood in the last 49 years,
(17,000 cms), with a side spillway of suitable size at the right bank. Design
for the contact of an embankment cofferdam with the side wall of the diversion
channel should be carefully studied for this alternative. The Board recom-
mends that this alternative design should be given detailed study immediately.
15.       Because the preparatory construction work before river diversion has
made such good progress in the last 22 months, it seems possible to make the
river closure and diversion in November 1987, one year ahead of the original
schedule. The Board recomme ds that considerable improvement should be made
in construction planning anu organization and that greater efforts have to be
made to continue to Accelerate and to complete all the necessary work before
river diversion in order to succeed in shortening the whole schedule by at
least one year.
16.       The acceleration of the construction work by means of open bidding
for contracts has proven its advantage on the left bank excavation. The Board
recommends that this principle of management should be retained for the
remainder of the Yantan Project and be enforced.
17.       The Board strongly recommends that the unsatisfactory road condi-
tions on both banks at the project site be improved immediately.



ANNEX 15
- 77-
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Praoject Cost Estimate
(US$ million)
Local     Foreign
Item                                                cost       cost       Total
Preparatory works                                   35.9          -        35.9
Land requisition, compensation
and resettlement                                  75.8          -        75.8
Construction equipment and plant                    78.3        19.4       97.7
Civil Works:
Dam and spillway                                  78.4        9.0        87.4
Intake                                             1.9        6.5         8.4
Penstock                                            -          2.0        2.0
Powerhouse                                        31.0        6.6        37.6
Tailrace                                           5.9         1.4        7.3
Ship lift                                         20.9        0.2        21.1
Switchyard                                         1.8        0.3         2.1
Others                                            30.2         -         30.2
Adjustment for net imported items
(cement and timber)                            (46.0)      46.0          -
Subtotal                                 124.1       72.0       196.1
Electrical, mechanical equipment
and computers                                    100.5         2.8      103.3
Transmission lines and substations                  49.3        17.3       66.6
Engineering and consulting services                  5.3         2.5        7.8
Supervision and administration                       1.8         -          1.8
Training                                             1.6         1.0        2.6
Base Cost                               472.6       115.0      587.6
Physical contingencies                              44.4        10.3       54.7
Price contingencies                                182.6       39.1       221.7
Total Project Cost                      699.6       164.4       864.0
Note: Net of import duties and taxes.



-78  ANNEX 16
_78 -
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
List of Equipment and Materials to be Procured
Under Bank Loan
Group and                                                          Ouan-
package no.    Name of commodity                                   tity     Unit
IFB  1-1       Cable crane (20T)                                     2      set
1-2       Concrete mixing plant                                 1      set
1-3       Dump truck (15T)                                     20      each
1-4       Dump truck (35T)   3                                 24      each
1-5       Wheel loader (5-6 mi)                                 4      each
1-6       Bulk cement truck (14 m3)                            40      each
1-7       Motor grader (180 hp)                                 2      each
1-8       Belt weigher                                          2      each
1-9       Walkie-talkie                                        20      each
IFB  2-1-1     Hydraulic excavator (front hoe, 3.8-4.0 53)           2      each
2-1-2     Hydraulic excavator (back hoe, 2.9-3.0 m )            2      each
2-2       Hydraulic drill (90-150 mm)                           8      each
2-3-1     Bulldozer (335 hp)                                    2      each
2-3-2     Bulldozer (460 hp)                                    2      each
2-4-1     Truck (15T)                                          30      each
2-4-2     Truck (10-15T)                                        2      each
2-5       Trailer (40T)                                         1      each
2-6-1     Concrete vibrating roller (1-2T)                      2      each
2-6-2     Concrete vibrating roller (12T)  3                    2      each
2-7       Concrete track transfer car (129)                     3      each
2-8       Truck-mounted concrste silo (6 m)                    10      each
2-9       Concrete pump (65 m /hr)                              1      set
2-10      Concrete spreader                                     4      set
2-11      Concrete testing equipment and tools                  1      lot
2-12      Truck crane (25-30T)                                  2      set
IFB  3-1       Steel products (about 75,OOOT)                        1      lot
IFB  4-1       Fabrication equipment for penstock                    1      lot
IFB  5-1       Instrumentation and control                           1      lot
IFB  6-1       Computers and accessories                             1      lot



ANNEX 17
- 79 -
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Bank                                                                     Bank /a
fiscal year            Semester         Cumulative          Project         profile
and semester           ----- (US$ million) --(%)
1987
First                     -  
Second                  2.0                2.0               3.0             3.0
1988
First                  10.0               12.0              23.1             8.0
Second                 10.0               22.0              43.3            16.0
1989
First                   6.0               28.0              53.8            26.0
Second                  6.0               34.0              65.4            37.0
1990
First                   3.5               37.5              72.1            48.0
Second                  3.5              41.0               78.8            60.0
1991
First                   2.5               43.5              83.6            71.0
Second                  2.5              46.0               88.5            80.0
1992
First                   2.0               48.0              92.3            87.0
Second                  2.0              50.0               96.1            93.0
1993
First                   1.0               51.0              98.1            97.0
Second                  1.0               52.0             100.0           100.0
/a  Following Bank's Updated Disbursement Profiles dated October 3, 1985.



- 80 -                          ARNME  18
Page 1
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Resettlement Plan
General
1         The Yantan reservoir si I have a storage capacity of 2,430 million
m and a surface area of 107.8 km at the normal pool level of 223 m. It is
narrow and long in shape with many gorges and high mountains along the bank.
Backwater will go back about 166 km, as far as the Longtan dam site. The
reservoir will inundate five counties, namely Bama, Donglan, Du&n, Tiafe and
Nandan. Total number of people to be resettled is about 36,435 involving 423
villages and 6,500 families. About 20,000 people are living presently on
farming and diversified economic activities, 2,000 on livestock, 10,500 on
forestry and the balance on fish farming and miscellaneous industries. Eighty
percent of the population are Chinese minorities including Zhuang, Yao and
Miao.
2.        Based on a survey made in 1982, the losses expected to be incurred
due to reservoir inundation in different counties is as follows:
Item          Unit    Bang   Dunglan   Du'an   Tian'e   Nndan   Total
Inundated farmland      ha    1,594      1055      426       22      45      3,142
of which
rice field          ha       742      377      259        2      35      1,415
dry land            ha       852      678       167      20      10      1,727
Inundated forest
and orchard           ha      1473      681       268      21      18      2,461
Innundated houses       m2  573,480  311,401  195,782   2,163  10,224 1,093,050
of which
dwelling houses         403,325  236,325  152,550   1,601   7,588   801,570
Sundry houses           135,634   46,518   34,149        83   2,226   218,610
Public Houses             34,521   28,377    9,083      479     410    72,870
3.        In addition, about 564 km of transmiss4"n line, 487 km of telephone
line and 193 km of public road would have to be    ocated.
Criteria Used in Resettlement
4.        The State Council's May 14, 1982 "Statute for Land Requisition For
Construction Use of the State" is to be applied to resettlement programs in
autonomous regions as in other areas of China.



-81 -                           ANNEX 18
Page 2
5.        Criteria for resettlement would be 20 year flood for county seats
and 10 year flood for elsewhere.
6.        The basic principles of resettlement are as followss
(a) people will he resettled principally on higher land with residents
of the same village being resettled together (neighborhood
continuity);
(b) each family will be entitled to maintain the same housing standard
as before;
(c) electricity, water supply and road access will be provided;
(d) the standard of living of those being resettled will be maintained
or improved;
(e) land will be utilized as effectively as practicable according to the
topographical and soil conditions;
(f) the planning and development of rreservoir area will be done making
maximum use of local talents from government agencies and
univesities for the demonstration, extension and training for such
specialized fields as agriculture, fisheries and forestry.
Resettlement Organization and Planning
7.        A Hongshiu River Population Resettlement and Arrangement Office
(HRPRAO) has been set up under the Guangxi autonomous region government to be
responsible for the unified development of reservoir regions and population
resettlement. There are also population resettlement offices under each
county government in the reservoir area.
8.        The resettlement plan is being worked out in details by county
governnents in consultation with the villagers to be resettled. Taking into
account of population growth, the total number of people to be resettled is
targeted for 40,000. Due to shortage of farming land in the reservoir area at
higher elevations, fractions of resettlers are planned to be engaged in the
folowing occupations:
Farming and diversified economic activities   64.0%
Fisheries                                        3.4%
Animal husbandry                                 5.6%
Local industries                                 7.1%
Forestry                                        28.9Z



- 82 -
ANNEX 18
Page 3
9.        In realizing that occupational changes would be inevitable, HRPRAO
plans to carry out retraining courses first on an experimental basis by using
local specialists in diferent fielas and then extends it on a larger scale.
10.       It is planned that eight years would be required to resettle the
people starting from 1985: two years for preparation, four years for
implementation and two years for urapping up.
(a) Preparation:
(i)  full censusing of population and property in the reservoi'
area;
(ii)  detailed planning on a village by village basis;
(iii)  -etraining for occupational changes; and
(iv)  designing and contracting for relocation of public facilities.
(b)  Resettlement Schedule
People to be resettled
1986                                     700 (for construction site)
1987                                    4500
1988                                   7,500
1989                                   7,500
1990                                   7,500
1991                                   7,500
1992                                   2,400
1993                                   2,400
Total:                                40,000
Cost Estimate
11.       The cost required for compensation and resettlement is estimated as
below:



- 83 -                          ANNEX 18
Page 4
Table 1: COST FOR COMPENSATION AND RESETTLEMENT
1.   Compensation and Resettlement                              Amount    (Yuan)
(a)  Land requisition and Resettlement                    52,704,500
(0) House removal and rebuilding                          50,644,700
(c)  Compensation for forest and orchard                   4,881,100
(d)  Compensation for farm sideline facilities             1,209,900
(e)  Compansation for factories and other enterprises    2,401,000
(f)  Compensation for small hydro stations                 6,388,800
(g)  Rural water conservancy facilities                    3,110,700
(h)  Others                                                2,741,900
Sub total                                      124,082,600
2.   Relocation of Public Facilities
(a)  Roads and bridges                                    44,798,000
(b)  Telephone lines                                       3,254,000
(c)  Transmission lines                                    3,394,000
(d)  Others                                                  200,000
Sub total                                       51,646,000
3.   Protection of Bama and TiaAe county seats                  6,500,000
4.   Reservoir clearing                                         1,500,000
5.   Subsidies for moving expenses                              2,461,600
6.   Administrative cost                                        9,109,800
Total                                          195,300,000



AME  19
-84-                           Page 1 of 3
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
CUANGXI ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
Financial System Followed by Chinese Power Bureaus
1.        Power bureaus such as GEPB may accumulate capital from three
separate and distinct sources. These include:
(a) Funds for fixed assets, which are obtained from the State in amounts
permitting implementation of approved projects according to agreed
schedules. Until 1980, these funds were provided almost entirely as
grants; since then, the Government has decided to make these funds
available as loans obtained from the banking system or from official
sources. Funds under this category are used exclusively to finance
works classified as capital expenditures. These funds are released
monthly, in accordance with plan provisions, in amwunts needed to
cover actually incurred expenditures. Most Chinese enterprises are
not expected to finance any portion of capital expenditure from
operations; rather, they are expected to remit all surplus income to
the Government through payment of taxes (Annex --, para. 2);
(b) Funds for working capital, which are also received from the State
based on a fixed amount established by regulation and subject to
review at intervals of about 10 years. These funds comprise only a
minor component of the power bureaus' capital; and, because most of
the power bureaus have drawn their entire allocations since the last
review, these funds have been used only as a minor source of capital
in recent power projects proposed for Bank financing. Because
current obligations, both to and from the power bureaus, are settled
virtually as accrued, these working capital funds have been used
primarily to finance operating inventory; and
(e) A number of Special Funds, each of which is earmarked for distinct
purposes and funded from net operating revenues or cash receipts in
amounts which are established according to regulations. The power
bureaus' accounts contain four separate categories of Special Funds,
including Special Funds for: (i) maintenance; (ii) employee bene-
fits; (iii) renovations; and (iv) consumer connections. The Special
Funds for maintenance are financed by allocations charged as
operating expenses in determining net operating income prior to
Income Tax (Annex   , para. 2).  The Special Funds for renovations
are financed by charges against Government Funds (the balance sheet
account showing the Government's equity investment in a power
bureau) equal to the portion of depreciation provisions not used for
debt repayment (Annex --, para. 3). The Special Funds for employee
benefits are financed using distributions from Net Income after
Income Tax but prior to the Adjustment Tax. All allocations to the



ANNEX 19
- 85 -                      Page 2 of 3
Special Funds (other than that which is earmarked to account for
revenues and expenses associated with consumer connections) appear
or are reflected on the Income Statement as though they are
operating costs or distributions from earnings, regardless of
whether corresponding cash expenditures have been incurred.
Receipts and withdrawals from the Special Funds associated with
consumer connections are passed through the Flow of Funds statement
and are specifically excluded from the Income Statement. The items
financed from the Special Funds would largely be classified as
operating costs or working capital under more familiar systems.
However, items charged to the Special Funds for renovations would be
classified as capital costs; and, when the renovations are
completed, their value is deducted from the Special Funds balance
and added to the Government Funds account. As all operating
revenues must be expensed; distributed, either to cover cash
outflows, debt service or taxes; invested in renovations; or
retained for future expenditure chargeable to the Special Funds, the
excess of Special Fund Allocations over the sum of (i) Special Fund
Expenditures, (ii) completed renovations and (iii) increase in
Special Fund Assets is the power bureaus' only means of channeling
tariff revenues into cash. In turn, cash generated through the
Special Funds may be intermingled with other operating cash;
however, allocations to particular Special Funds create for a power
bureau an ultimate obligation to use the accumulated cash only for
certain categories of expenditures.
2.        Until 1983, the power bureaus paid remittances to MWREP equal to
operating revenues less the sum of cash expenditures charged directly to
operations, all allocations to Special Funds, and debt service. Since 1983,
the power bureaus pay to MOF an Income Tax, assessed at 55% of operating
revenues less the sum of costs (including depreciation) charged directly to
operations, all allocation to Special Funds that are treated as expenses, and
debt service in excess of the portion of depreciation provisions specifically
allocated for debt repayment (Annex    , para. 3).  From the residual after
Income Tax, the power bureaus must cover the Special Fund allocations that are
treated as distributions from earnings and the amount of debt repayment and
capitalized interest during construction to b met from net income, and remit
the remainder to MWREP as an Adjustment Tax.- MWREP has some flexibility to
control the power bureaus' liquidity either by changing their allocations to
the Special Funds, making grants for allocation to the Special Funds, or
relieving the power bureaus of a portion of the Adjustment Tax. The power
bureaus appear to have adequate liquidity and MNREP has not indicated any
inclination to adjust those procedures which affect their liquidity.
3.        Under the existing financial system, the Government does not intend
for the power bureaus to retain surpluses. Howe,er, tariff revenues must meet
debt service requirements; and repayment per se cdoes not represent a charge
1/   From an accounting point of view, the Adjustment Tax is treated in a
manner similar to a dividend.



- 86 -                         AE  19
Page 3 of 3
against earnings. Regulations provide that certain stipulated amounts of
repayment shall be met from cash that has been generated by depreciation;
however, the remainder of the cash generated by depreciation must be added to
a bureau's operating cash and corresponding allocation must be made to the
Special Funds for renovations. As a result, the remainder of repayment, which
must be met from an earmarked increment of tariff revenues, creates an
accumulation of equity in the form of a corresponding undistributed earnings.
4.        Given the existing financial system, the power bureaus have limited
financial incentive for increasing the tariff at the present time; once a
power bureau has revenues sufficient to meet the aggregate of costs charged
directly to operations, all Special Fund allocations and debt service, any
additional revenues are remitted to the State through Income or Adjustment
Taxes. Thus, once expenses and required distributions have been met, a tariff
increase, even one of major proportions, would aot increase a power bureau's
financial viability, except to the extent that debt service coverage would be
improved. Thus also, the familiar indicators of financial performance, such
as rate of return and self-financing ratio, have very limited applicability to
financial analysis of a Chinese power bureau.



ANNEX 20
- 87 -                          Page 1 of 3
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Gnangxi Electric Power Bureau
Income Statement
(Yuan million)
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
(Year ended December 31)
Sales increases (Z)                          -     1.5     8.0      8.2    15.2
Energy sales )GWh)                       3,307   3,357   3,627   3,926   4,522
Average prcie/kWh (fen)                    6.8     6.8      6.8     6.9     7.0
Operating revenue                          225     228      247     271     317
Operating Costs
Fuel                                      48      38      42       62      68
Purchased power                            2       5       6        9      24
Operation & maintenance                   16      16       18      20      26
Administration                             4       4        4       s       6
Sale tax                                  33      34      37       40      47
Depreciation                              18      19       21      23      27
Total Operating Costs              121      116     128      159     198
Operating Income                           104     112      119     112     119
Interest charged to operations               -       -       -        -       -
Net Income Before Income Tax        104     112     119      112     119
Income tax                                   -       -       -       55      58
Net Income                         104      112     119       57      61
Distribution of Net Income
Remitted to Government                   100     101      103      44      43
Transferred to Government funds            -       6       10       6      11
Chargeable IDC                            -        -       -        -       -
Employee benefits spec. funds              4       5       6        7       7
Net Income                         104      112     119       57      61
Rate base                                  561     575      588     602     758
Rate of return (x)                        18.5    19.5    20.2    18.6    15.6



ANNEX 20
- 88-                            Page 2 of 3
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Guangxi Electric Power Bureau
Balance Sheet
(Yuan million)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
(Year ended December 31)
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                            15      19       27       31      40       39
Inventories                     24      21       19       23      19       19
Receivables                     35      44       41       39      41       41
Total Current Assets         74      84       87      93      100      99
Fixed Assets
Plant in service               719     735      777      799     847   1,157
(less) Accum. depreciation  (167)   (174)   (189)   (211)   (232)   (256)
Net Plant in Services      562      561      588     588      615     901
Construction WIP                 6       5        5        6      39      270
Total Fixed Assets          568     566      593     594      654   1,171
Special Fund Assets               28      29       26       32      31       38
TOTAL ASSETS                670     679      706     719      785   1,308
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                 9      21       24       28      26       18
Due to Government               30      34       35       37      32       37
Total Current Liab.          42      55       59      65       58  5 55
Long-term debt                     -        -      18        8      12      230
Consumer deposits                  -       -        -       -        -        -
Government funds                 568     566      580      586     642      941
Working capital funds             23       23      21       21      18       18
Special funds                     37      35       33       39      55       64
TOTAL LIABILITIES          670      679      706     719      785   1,308
Debt as % of debt & equity         0.0      0.0     2.1      1.3     1.7    18.6
Current ratio                      1.8      1.5     1.5      1.4     1.7      1.8



ANNEY. 20
-89-                             Page  of 3
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Guangxi Electric Power Bureau
Funds Flow Statement
(Yuan million)
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
(Year ended December 31)
Source of Funds
Interest Sources of Funds
Net income                             104      112      119      57       61
Depreciation                             18      19       21      22       27
Maintenance                               9       9       10      10       12
Consumer connection spec. funds          9        3        4       6       16
Total Interest Source               139      143     154       96      116
Borrowings
Loans                                    0       42       73      50       48
Total Borrowings                      0       42      73       50      48
Government Funds - Grants                  40       1        2      40      222
Total Sources of Funds              179      186     229      186     386
Capital Expenditures                         40      43       75      93      270
Operational Requirements
Inc/dec in working capital                 76      76       42       3        8
Inc/dec in spec. funds assets               1      -3        6      -1        7
Loan repayment                              0       7       11       7       11
Remittances to Government                  98     100      100      38       47
Special fund expenditures                 42       37       33      40       47
Total Operational Requirement       135      135     150       87      120
Total Application of Funds          175      178     225      177     390
Increase/decrease in cash                     4       8        3       9       -4
Annual debt service coverage                  0      20       14      14       11



- 90 -
CR138Z                                                                    811A I 21
181TA3  HRELECRIC PRIIECT                                                             Pap  I
of 3
6U-I EECTRIC FUEl Emm
ICOJIE STRIElNEt
ifillion Ya)
Year Ended  eceimer 31                   t915      198       1987     198       19        1990     1991      192       93       194       15
Salns Increae (1)                         9.0       7.1      10.0     10.5      10.3     15.0       9.3       9.0      9.2       9.3      8.5
Energy Sales (Eb)                        4930      5280     5810      6420      7080     8142      O00       9700    10590    11570    12550
Aveage PricelkUi  (fon)                   7.1       7.1       7.1      7.1       7.1      7.7       7.7       8.6     11.3      11.3      11.3
Operating Rimenue                         350       375       413      456       503       630      619       838     1201      1312      1423
Operating Costs
Fuel                                     63        83       113      140       184      222       251       303      296       307      321
Purchased Pe w                           24        22       22        22        25       67        50        70       77        47       31
Operation & laintmance                   32        36       45        48        57       65        73        77      104       130      143
Administration                           *9        10        11       12        14       15        17        19       20        22       24
Sale Tax                                 53        56       62        68        75       95       103       126     10        197      213
Depreiation                              36        38       45        50        57       67        77        84      Ill       158      19
Total Operating Costs                 217       245      297       342      412       531       570      679       788      861       923
Operating Incite                          133       130       115      114        91       99       118       159      413       451      500
Interest Charged Operations                 0         0         4        9        12       11        10       40        41        38      157
Net Incose before Incoae Tax              133       130       111      105        79       89       109       119      372       413      343
#::U            S:                   :Santa=         tg-:#S  G5=5Y5   # z:  XG::5 xz==_X5ct:#2:#=::GZa:s: r-
lnaoe Tax                                  73        72       51        51        30       40        50        19      156       198       28
Net Inca                                   60        59        60       54        49       49        59       100      215       215      315
Distribution of Net Incoee
Remitted to Governunt                    51        49       32        32        It       11         6        4        19        47       10
Transferred to 6ovt. Funds                0         0        le       12        25       17        19       84        17        54      291
Dharqeable 15C                            0         0        0         0         3       It        23        0        96       102        0
Employee Benefits Spec. Funds             9         9        10       10        11       11        11        12       12        13       13
Net Income                                 60        59        60       54        49       49        59       100      215       215      315
Rate Base                                 914       957      1138     1283      1441     1726      1966      2133     2929      4364     5274
Rate of Return (O)                       14.6      13.6      10.1      8.9       6.3      5.7       6.0       7.5     14.1      10.3      9.5
##::#:#-#:Zzzzl2S5a::52#    33                   Z-Smmx#                                   t:              -        w      :      S -
Depreciation Base                        1188      1268      1490     1682      1894     2242      2553      2801     3694      5263     6347



- 91 -
CHINA                           .                                      l""tI 21
YANtTA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT                                                      Page 2
of 3
6UkMII ELECTRIC PWR BUREAU
BALNCE SlEE
lWillion Yuan)
Year Ended Deceber 31                   1985     1986     1987     1M8      1999      1990     t991     199?     1993     1994    1t95
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                 61        72       86      1O0      118       136      157      194      19S      227      270
Inventories                          22       25        29       33       38       43       47        52       56       61       65
Receivables                          40        42       44       46       48       50       52        54       56       56       60
Total Current Assets                123       139      159      180      203      229      256       290      307      346      396
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service                   1218      1317     1662     1702     2096     2399     2708      2993     4495     6032     6662
(loss) kcue. Depreciation           292      330      374       425      482      549      625      709      820       978     1169
Net Plant in Service                927       999     1288     1277     1604     1849     2082      2184     3674     5054     5494
Construction alP                    453      704       768     1225     1448     1990     2746      3471     2867     2278     2299
Total Fixed Assets                   1380      1691     2056     2502     3052     3838     4829      5655    65i41     7331     7791
Special Fund Assets                    48        50       54       54       65       67       76        82      106      116      144
-   s z         gz z            =wtg:-=s:-- --w-57= :=5-:22t:2S                                          -
TOTAL ASSETS                     1551     181t      2269     2736     3321     4134     5161     6027      6954     7794     9331
zz= Zg=:Z                        u u := z_ 2s                        .
LIASILITIES
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                     33        33       32       33       30       30       21        30       35       27       21
Due to Soverneent                    39        40       42       43       45       47       49        51       24       25       26
- -- -- --  -  -  -- - -        --- - - - -- --- - -  ------ - -- - --- - - -                               
Total Current Liabilities            71        73       74       76       75       77       78        81       59       52       47
uz15:22== 3=2t=CC:2==#mZ=                                                                                                S=Cx        S
ConsumerDeqosits                        2         2        2        2        2        2         2        2        2        2        2
ecrking Capital Funds                  20        20       20       20       22       22       22        24       24       24       24
Long-term Debt                        439      753      1107     1545     2084     2839     3796      4549     5279     5947     6174
overnmnt Funds                        941       938      951      96O      972     1005      1039     1112     1268     1391     1623
Special Funds                          77        94      115      133      165      189      225       259      322      378      461
Revaluatian Reserve                     0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0
TOTAL LIABILITIES                1551     1881      2269     2736     3321     4134     5161     6027      6954     7794     8331
Debt as I of Total Capital             30.1      42.2    50.9      59.6     64.7     70.4     75.0     76.8      76.9     77.1     74.8
Current Ratio                           1.7       1.9      2.2      2.4      2.7      3.0      3.3       3.6      5.2      6.7      8.4



-92-
CHINA                                                                   AMEU  21
YANtA  HOVRELECTRIC PROJECT                                                        Poge 3
of 3
OUmlI EECTRIC POE    EAU
FURNS FLO  STATEKENT
(Nillion Yuan)
Year Ended Deceber 31                   15       1181      197      19K      1l9       1990     191       M        193       99       i%
Internad Source of Funds
Not Incom                               60       59        10       54       49        49       59      100       215      215      315
Depri&tion                              36       38        45       50       57        67       77       84       111     s       190
Nainteunce                              17       18        23       24       29        34       38       41        t3       84       93
Cnnsa.r Conection Spec. Fds.             9        9        10       tO        10       10       11        II       11       12        12
Total Intrnil Sourwce                  122       124      137      131      145       110      184      236       400      469      610
Derroiop
Propsed TRM  Loan                        0        0        36       48       29        18       14        12        0        0        0
Other Yantmn Project Louns             100       163      190      232      245       365      421      355       200      139        0
Other Loas                             103      114       122      142      238       319      439      369       499      476      512
IDC arroud                               6       16        23       30       40        56       75      102        39       64       78
Total Borrowings                       209      313       371      451      552       759      949      839       737      679      599
Bovernnt Funds - 6rants                    6        7         8        7        6        19       16        10       18        2        0
TOTAL SOWRIS OF FU                 337      444      516       596      704      937      1149     1083      1155     1150     1200
=e= =X2222- *2 222            :__:======r=r zrsr a zhzza22z2252zu32 s:u:=::=::=ags=2gs==                                         uz
Capital Expenditures
Proposed Yantan Project                100      193       227      281      275       384      435      367       200      139        0
Other Constraction                     109       121      126      145      242       336      454      379       517      478      512
Interest During Construction             6       16        23       30       43       66        98      102       135      166       78
Reovations                              29       29        30       34       34        45       47       56        62       86       97
Total Capital Expenditure  270         245      348       407      491      595       832     1034      904       914      969      68
Operational Rquirements
Inc/dec in Working Capital             -17        5        7         5        8         7        a        3         1       15       13
Inc/dec in Spec. Funds Assets           10        2         4       -0      1          2        9        6       24        11       28
Lun Repaymt                              0        0        19       19       25        25       25       90        90       90      326
Reittances to 6overnment                50       49        31       30        9         9        4        2        46       46        9
Special Fund Expenditures               28       30        34       35       40        44       48       51        69       87       95
Total Operational Requiremets           71       84        95       90       92        87       94      153       231      249      471
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNOS         315      432      502       580      697      919      1129     1056     1145      1118     1157
Increase/Decrease in Cash                 22       12        13       15       17        19       21       27        11       32       43
Annual Debt Service Coverage                                5.9      4.8      3.6       3.5      3.2      1.8       1.8      2.0      1.3



AMNEX 22
93 -                            Page 1 of 12
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
GUANGXI ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
Assumptions to Financial Projections
Table of Contents
Summary of Assumptions                                       2
A. Income Statement                                       2
B. Balance Sheet                                          3
C. Flow of Funds                                          4
Investment Program                                           5
Capital Expenditures                                      5
Investments (including IDC)                               5
CEPB - Loan Parameters                                       6
Interest                                                  6
Interest during Construction                              6
Chargeable IDC                                            6
Repayments                                                7
Loan Repayment from Depreciation                          7
Fixed Asset Formation                                        8
Fixed Asset Additions                                     8
Construction WIP                                          8
Fuel and Operating Costs                                    10
Fuel Cost Calculations                                   10
Operation Expenss                                        10
Special Fund Calculations                                   11
Derivation of Average Tariff                                12



94                               ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 12
Summary of Assumptions
A.  Income Statement
(i) Average price is derived in the attached table entitled "Derivation
of Average Tariff" (page 12 of this Annex).
(ii)  Operating revenue is the product of energy sales in GWh multiplied
by the average price.
(iii) Fuel costs are derived in the table entitled "Fuel and Operating
Costs" (page 10 of this Annex).
(iv)  Purchased power is based on an agreement between MWREP ai:d GEPB
stipulating quantities of power that GEPB may obtain from other
systems and the price at which that power would be transferred.
(v) Operation expenses are derived in the table entitled "Fuel and
Operating Costs" (page 10 of this Annex).
(vi)  Maintenance costs represent the specific year's allocation to the
Maintenance Special Fund. The allocation represents 1.4% of gross
fixed assets in services. Activity of the Maintenance Special Fund
is derived in the table entitled "Special Fund Calculations"
(page 11 of this Annex).
(vii) Sales tax represents 15Z of operating revenues.
(viii) Depreciation is assumed at 3% of gross fixed assets in operations.
(ix)  Interest.  GEBP's borrowings will be obtained only from two
sources: (a) the onlent proceeds of World Bank loans, at 8.5%
interest; and (b) direct loans from People's Construction Bank of
China, at 3.6%. Interest is derived on a project by project basis
in the subtable entitled "Interest" within the table entitled "GEPB-
Loan Parameters" (page 6 of this Annex). In turn, interest charged
to operations is derived by subtracting interest during construction
and Chargeable IDC, both derived in subtables carrying those very
titles, from total interest.
(x) Income tax represents 55% of net income before income tax less debt
repayments which must be met from distributions of net income.
(This item is entitled "Transferred to Government Funds" on the
income statement).
(xi)  Remitted to Government represents net income after income tax and
after authorized distribution-.   Aese funds are remitted in cash to
MWREP.
(xii)  Employee Benefit Special Fund x.;,Lsents the annual allocation to
this particular special fund; this allocation is met as a
distribution from net income. The operation of that special fund is
summarized in the table entitled "Special Fund Calculations"



95 -                           ANNEX 22
Page 3 of 12
(page 11 of this Annex).  Allocations to this special fund are
assumed to increase by 4% each year.
(xiii) Charneahle IDC repr^sents interest during construction which,
according to regulations, must be met by distributions from net
income. Annual amounts are derived in the subtable entitled
"Chargeable IDC" (page 6 of this Annex.)
B. Balance Sheet
(i) Cash represents the balancing figure for these projections.
(ii)  Inventories are expected to increase in accordance with inflation.
(iii) Accounts receivable are ';xpected to increase by Yuan 2.0 million per
year.
(iv)  Plant in Service is derived in the table "Fixed Asset Formation"
(page 8 of this Annex). Any revaluation of fixed assets would be
derived in the table entitled "Revaluation of Assets" (page 9 of
this Annex).
(v) Construction work in progress is also derived in the table entitled
"Fixed Asset Formation" (page 8 of this Annex).
(vi)  Special fund assets represents renovations under construction.
These renovations are financed by expenditures from the special fund
for renovations. Operation of that fund is derived in the table
entitled "Special Fund Calculations" (page 11 of this Annex).
(vii)  Accounts payable are projected to vary slightly in accordance with a
schedule provided by GEPB.
(viii) Due to Government is expected to increase by 4% per year.
(ix)  Long-term debt is expected to increase by the amount of the
investment program being financed with loans less repayments in each
given year. The amount of the investment program is derived in the
table entitled "Investment Program" (page 5 of this Annex).  The
amount of repayment is derived in the subtable entitled
"Repayments", included within the table entitled "GEPB-Loan
Parameters (page 7 of this Annex).
(x) Government funds includes all paid in equity, plus transfers to
Government for loan repayment and chargeable IDC, less depreciation.
(xi)  Special funds represents the cumulative balance remaining in the
special funds at the end of the given year. This figure is derived
in the table entitled "Special Fund Calculations" (page 11 of this
Annex).



ANNEX 22
-96                              Page 4 of 12
C. Flow of Funds Statement
(i) Consumer connection special funds represents the receipts of this
particular special fund. That fund's operation is summarized in the
table entitled "Special Fund Calculations" (page 11 of this
Annex). The allocation (or for this fund, receipts) is expected to
increase by 3X per year.
(ii) All Borrowings are derived in the table entitled "Investment
Program" (page 5 of this Annex).
(iii) Capital expenditures, other than interest during construction and
renovations, are also derived in the table entitled "Investment
Program" (page 5 of this Annex).
(iv) Interest during construction is derived in the subtable carrying
that name which is included in the main table "CEPB-Loan Parameters"
(page 6 of this Annex.)
(v) Renovations represents the current year's expenditures from the
Special Fund for Renovations, the operation of which is summarized
in the table entitled "Special Fund Calculations" (page 11 of this
Annex).
(vi) Increase in working capital represents the excess of the current
year's current assets (net of cash) over current liabilities, less
the excess of the previous year's current assets (net of cash) over
current liabilities.
(vii) Special fund expenditures represents the aggregate amounts actually
spent from the various special funds in a particular year. In
general, expenditures from the special fund are assumed at 80% of
the particular year's allocations. This relationship is derived in
the table entitled Sgpecial Fund Calculations (page 11 of this
Annex).



- ,7 -
lIJESTIEIIT PR06W                                                                                                  of 12
CAPITI. E9ITUME                      1915    190      1907    1900    1909    1990    1991        I2             1993    1994    15
Ymtan Hydro - PC0C Loan           100.0   103.1   190.0   2;il.7   245.1   3U5.0   421.4   355.3  1If.5   139.0           0.0
tmntan Hydro - tORD Loan            0.0      0.0    36.0    18.0    20.5    13.0    13.5    12.0         0.0      0.0     0.0
Langtan Hydro - PC8C Loan           0.0      0.0     0.O       ,0 A   t3.9   137.6   130.6   10.6   201.4   226.3   316.4
Longtan Hydro - 10RD Loan           0.0      0.0     0.0      0.v,    0.0      0.0    45.0    60.0    90.0   150.0   150.0
Dabua Hydro                        60.0    24.1    22.1       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Iluhan Therual                     35.0    46.6      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Tiandang Thermal                    8.0      6.2     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     9.0
Laibin Thermal                      0.0    10.4    66 4    118.9   153.4   165.1   175.0         0.0     0.0      v.0     0.0
Other construction I                0.0    26.6    31.7    21.6        0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Othe Construction 11                0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    19.6    15.1 .  80.2        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Otber Construction III              0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      .0   160.0   200.7    99.9    45.2
WAITS
vMtan                                               1.5      1.5     1.2      t.2      0.6
Diua
Hashan                              6.0      7.0     6.0      5.0      5.)    19.0    15.0    10.0    18.0        2.0
Other Construction I
Total                         209.0   303.9   353.7   426.6   516.9   720.0   09.3   745.9   716.6   617.1   S11.1
INVESTlES (INCLUDINS IDC)            1985    1986       S? 87    198    19      199O    199      1992      993    1994    1995
LOANS
Yantan Hydro - PCK Loan           101.8   191.2   206.6   259.7   285.0   419.9   493.7   445.2   2M9.7   235.3           0.0
Yantan Hydra - IBRD Loan            0.0      0.0    36.0    48.0    28.5    19.0    13.5    12.0         0.0      0.0     0.0
.ongtan Hydro - PCnC Loan           0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    65.1   142.4   148.6   164.1   230.8   257.4   359.4
Longtan Hydro - IDRD Loan           0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0    45.0    60.0    90.0   150.0   150.0
Dahua Hydro              34        63.3    29.1    28.1       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Heship Thermal            12       36.1    49.1      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Tiandonq Thermal                    6.1      6.6     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
LUibin Thereal                      0.0    10.5    6b.0   123.7   163.4   181.2   197.8         0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Other Construction I                0.0    27.1    33.2    24.2       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Other Construction 11               0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    20.2    16.1    63.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Other Construction III              0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   162.9   210.1   115.1    45.2
6RANTS
Yantan                   66                          1.5      1.5      1.2     1.2      0.6
Dahu;                    120
Heshan                   26         6.0      7.0     6.0      5.0     5.0    19.0    15.0    10.0    18.O         2.0
Other Construction 1      12
Total                         215.4   320.7   379.4   46.2   569.1   796.9   997.2   854.2   838.7   759.7   553.6
…5--55=5:=a SS#::55# #S:  lS S:B Sa:##=tS S 552#5w -55



- 98 -
VD - LowN P       Te &
of 12
INTEREST                               195       191      1987     19       1919     1990      19I      I99      I3       m         15
Yantmn Hydra - PCBC Loan                 1.0      7.0     14.0     22.3     31.9     44.4      60.5     77.1     90.1     %.2      ".7
Yant. Hydro - IBRI Ln                   0.0       0.0      1.5      5.1      8.4      10.3     11.7     12.6     12.4     11.5      10.4
Lonqtan Hydro - PK1 Loan                0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       1.2      4.8     10.0     15.5     22.5     31.       42.0
Longtan Hydir - IM  Loa                 0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      1.9      4.4     12.8    23.0       35.7
ahi Hydra                                3.3      5.0      6.0      5.7      5.2       4.8      4.4      4.0      3.5      3.1       2.7
"uhan Tberal                             1.1      2.4      3.5      3.1      2.9       2.7      2.4      2.2      2.0       1.7      1.5
Tiandeng Thrwal                         0.1       0.4      0.5      0.5      0.4       0.4      0.4      0.3      0.3      0.3       0.2
Latbin Thermal                           0.0      0.2      1.4      5.0      10.0    1.1      22.8    21.8      '.1      21.4      19.7
Other Construction I                    0.0       0.5      1.5      2.A       3.0      2.7      2.5      2.3      2.1       1.9      1.7
Other Construction 11                    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.4       1.0      2.8      4.3      3.9      3.4       3.3
Otr Costructiom  III                    0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      2.9      9.5     15.2      18.4
Total                              4.4      15.4     28.7     44.2     43.4     87.2    119.3   154.5   '52.0    209.0   234.5
zgaataagwwwwwwwwauu       uaswgwwww*nwaww~gznnwawwgzzngnfz_wgn22uggznzz22anug2guzw1l
INTEREST DURIN6 COhSTRUCTIWM            1985     1986     1907     198      198       1990     1991     1992     1993     1994      1"5
Yantan Hydro - PCBC Loan                 1.8      7.0     14.0     22.3     31.9      44.4     60.5     77.1     90.1    94.2
Yantan Hydro - 1BRD Loan                 0.0      0.0      1.5      5.1      8.4      10.3     117     12.8      4.2      S.7
Longtan Hydro - PCK  Loan               0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      1.2       4.8     10.0     15.5     22.5     31.1     42.0
Langtan Hydro - 191R  Loan               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      1.9      4.4     12.8     23.0    35.7
Dahua Hydro                             3.3       5.0      6.0
Heshan Thereal                           1.1      2.6
Tiandonq Therml                         0.1       0.4
Laibin Thermal                          0.0       0.2      1.6      5.0     10.0      14.1     22.8
Other Construction I                    0.0       0.5      1.5      2.6
Other Construction 11                   0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.4       1.0      2.3
Other Construction III                  0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      2.9      9.5     15.2
Total                              6.4      15.4     24.7     34.9     51.8     76.7    109.7    114.4    141.0    171.3      77.7
CHIRSEKALE IOC                          1985     1986     1987     1988     1919      1990     1991     1992     1993     194      1995
Yantan Hydra - PCBC Loan                                                                                         90.1    94.2
Yantan Hydra - 11D Loan                                                                                           6.2      5.7
Lonqtan Hydro - PCIC Loan
Longtan Hydra - I180 Loan
Oahua Hydro
Heshan Thermal
Tiandong Therual
Laibin Thermal                                                               3.3      10.8     22.8      0.0      0.0
Other Construction I
Other Construction 11
Other Construction III
Total                              0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      3.3     10.8     22.8       0.0     96.3    102.0      0.0
ganawnS S       .tgw#awI:-  :S  S   s:uwu=zu:==nz:anwawSSSSSSSSS SSSSS:znwISS:zSS:z2S:sagwaws:*         S:::C3aww:5:a2w:sw#sw2wUst



_ 99 -
Paqe 7
of 12
EPAYIIENTS                         1905    1986   17    1910    199    1990    199         12    1993         4    1995
Yantan  ydro - PCIIC Loan           0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   200.1
Yatan Nydro - IOU Loan              0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4
Logtmn Hydro - PCMC Loan            0.0     0.0    OO.    0.O      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Laqta Iydro - I=  Lou               0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
bIhu Hydro                          O.O     0.0    11.8      .      11.9 II.   11.8     11.8     11.8    11.  11.9    11.9
Ikll    Thn eal                     0.0     0.0     6.5     6.5     6.5     b.5      6.5     6.5     6.5     6.5     6.5
Tilalng Thereal                     0.0     0.0     1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0     1.0     1.0     1.0     .O      1.0
Laibin Thral                        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    4.2    47.2    47.2    47.2
Other toustruction I                0.0     0.0     0.0 ..0         5.6     5.6      5.6     5.6     5.6     5.6     5.6
Oth. Couutruction 11                0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     9.O     9.O     9.0     9.0
-Othrr Coostrction III               0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    35.6
Total                          0.0     0.0    19.3    19.3    24.9    24.9    24.9    9.5    90.5    90.5   326.1
Loan RaLqnt fr"a Depreciation      1"S    1906    1l9      1919    1999    19m0    19       1m      1993    1994 
Fixed hsut dditions                32.0    70.4   314.9    5.0   349.7   266.3   263.3   129.3  1539.1  1451.3   533.3
epreciatian 2 3.01                          1.0     2.1     9.4     0.2    10.5     9.0      7.9     3.9    46.2    43.5
Loan bpayaot from Depreciaion               0.0     1.1     1.6     0.1     6.4    6.4       6.3     3.1    36.9    34.8
311S_~ ~~ mz               mz*z"zmr                                                                           uazua:2=



- 100 -
FIXED 4S  FMTIS                                                                                                              Pap
maE .a,u namm                                                                                                                   of 12
FIE0 ASSEt AOUITIINIS                    1M5      196      1W7       1M       1         1 19199            192      IM       194       195
LOuS
tista  liEr. - PCKC Loan                                                                                        173   1371.3
Vatam Hlyra - 1M  Loan                                                                                           78.0     78.0
Lulst Hydre - PCKC Loau
Langtn lHydro - 191 Loun
Dgau   lydro                                            16¶3
Nashn Thuaral                                   48.&     48.6
iand     Theul                                  14.
Laibin Thwal                                                               240.3    248.3    248.3
olthr Construction I                                                        84.5
hhur Cnstruction It                                                                                    119.3
Other Construction tlt                                                                                                              533.3
,RNTS
Yastan                                                                                                            71.1
Dahua                                                    91.0
"UsiRn                                32.0       7.0      6.0       5.0      5.0      18.0     15.0     10.0      18.0      2.0       0.0
Other Construction 1                                                        12.0
Total Ccpleted Construction        32.0      70.4    314.9      5.0    349.7    266.3    263.3    129.3   1539.1   1451.3    533.3
Plus: Coapleted Renovations         29.3      26.5     30.4     34.4      34.3     45.4      47.1     56.2     62.2      9.2       6.8
Total New Fixed Assets              61.3      9.9    345.3      39.4    364.1    311.6    310.4    105.4   1601.2   1537.5    630.1
usulative                           61.3    160.2    505.5    544.9    928.9   1240.6   1550.9   1736.3  m37.6   4675.0   5505.1
=ts #raaa cac-2         -a     a muaEaz u azn a #maEm                               azuasasusa8 aE22SaEaaEa __ =L---asWa=a=_ Sr:ts
CO55TRUCTION NIP                         1995     1996      1987     1989      989      1990     1991    I         1993     194       1995
CuIP - Dhqinning of Year             270.0    453.4    703.7    768.3   1225.4   1448.2   I999.6   2746.4   3471.3   2867.2   2277.6
Construction during Year             215.4    320.1    379.4    462.2    572.5    807.7   1020.0    854.2    935.0    861.7    553.6
Year's Coapleted Construction         32.0      70.4    314.9      5.0    349.7    266.3    263.3    129.3   1539.1   1451.3    533.3
aaaz~r.zaaaassaa ua a z aa   *asaE a3aEsu        S         a    aaaaaaauusasa Eauaaaaaa #aaaaga    Dga3ga-uag5assas           uzz8s



- 101 -
of 1
REVALUTION OF ASSOT:
1985     19U      1987      1988     1919      1        1991      IM       19       1994      1995
6OSS Fttl ASSETS
Historical Costs
opening  alance                        1157     1216     1317      1662     1702      2086     2398     2708      2893     449       6032
Iditions                                61                345        3       34       312       310      185      1601     1537       630
Closing  al. - Historical Cost           121C     1317     1"2       1702     2086      2399     2708     2893      4495     6032      6662
Revaluation:
opening hlance                        1704      1921     2158      267      2908     3530      4122     4625      5023     6986     8768
Aiiti ons                                61               345        39      384       312      310       185     1601     1537   U 3
Revaluation Factor                    1.0    1.070    1.070    1.075    1.077    1.076    1.045    1.045    1.045    1.045    1.045
Revalued Gross Fixed Assets              1921     2158     2667      2908     3530      4122     4625     5023      MM6      8769      9807
8R0SS FliE  ASSEIS                      1218      1317     1662      1702     2096      2398     2708      893      4495     6032      6662
==zZzMM      uz mu=a zz   *-               gai-a zsa s zg=
Cuulative Depreciation:
Opening Blance                         256       292      330       374      425      492       549      625       709      620      978
Annual Depreciation                     36        39       45        50       57        67       77       84       111      15        190
ACCUMLATED DEPRECIATION                  292       330      374       425      482       549      625      709       820      978      1169
ET FlIXED ASSETS                          927      98      1288      1277     1604      1849     2082     2184      3474     5054      5494
REVALUATION RESERVE                         0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
ZZ=3Z uZZZMZZMZ     sZZZ uZ:Suu-        :=            : =c                    :MIZZ:                                                  :



- 102 -
FEl. tAN U    TIS COSTS                                                                                                   Pa4e 10
_ _ _                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of 12
FLUl COST CL     TII                   15       199      1917      19       199      199      19I      19       13       14        19"
All Thwrels Fcept Laibin
ElectriCity benerated  (SUh)         1500     1654     2400      2800     3000     30Q0     3000     30m0     3000     3000      1000
Plant  W  (Averp Annual K)           12.8    12.00    12.00    t2.00    11.50    11.50    11.S0    11.50    11.50    11.50    11.50
BEttricity Supplied  (6)             1307     1430     2112      24U4    2547      2547     2124     2390     2124     2124     2124
Cmnuptiml./b Supplid  IT)             557      551      545       540      s4o      540      535      535      535      530      530
1964 Plmed Use IK tao)   060          840      80       800      80        6        60       U60      860      840      860        0
fncreUl UIk  tK ton)                 -132       38      291      471      526       526      276      419      276      244      24
Annual Consuption AK tono             726      8       1151      1331     1386     13       1136     1219     1136     1124      1126
Cost of Coal
Cal Prics       (Yuan)             28.9     28.9     28.9    28.9       28.9     28.9     28.9    20.9    28.9    28.9        28.9
Transprtation  (Yuan)               7.5      8.3      8.3      8.3       9.4      9.4      9.4      9.4      9.4      9.4      9.4
Transportation Loss  (2)            2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4       2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4
Neat Contnt   (Kcal)               3000     3000     3000     3000      3800     3000     3000     3000     3000    3          000
Std. Cal Price (Current Y)         87.0     91.9     98.4   105.5    117.2    126.2   133.7    139.7    144.0   152.6    159.5
Std. Coal Price (Constat Y)        87.0    68.6      66.9    98.6       91.7     91.7     91.7     91.7     91.7     91.7    91.7
Coal Cost (iln Yual                63.3    82.6    113.2   140.4   162.5    174.9    152.0   178.7    165.9    171.8    179.5
Cost of Coal for Laibin
Seneration (glm')                                                        500     1000     2000     2400     2400     2400     2400
Consumptionl6lh on.  (ton)                                               350      350      350      350      350      350      350
Std. Coal Price (Curfent Y)                                              124      133      141      14       154      161      169
Std. Coal Price (Constant Y)                                              97       97       97       97       97       97       97
Coal Cost MWIn Yuan)                                                    21.7    46.7      99.0    124.2    129.8    135.6    141.7
TOTAL FUEL COST                        63.3     82.4    113.2    140.4    184.2    221.4    251.0    302.9   295.7    307.4    321.2
Operation Expense:                     1995     1986      1987    I198      1909     1990     t991     1992     193      1994     1995
Nuaber of Employees 1000)            10.8     11.2     11.8      12.3     13.2     13.7     14.1     14.4     15.3     16.0     16.3
Average Wage (Yuan/Year)              760      900      940     1020      1020     1020     1044     1044     1044     1080     1090
Oaqes                                 8.2     10.1     11.3      12.5     13.5     14.0     14.7     15.2     16.0     17.3     17.6
Waterials                             7.0      7.0      8.0      8.0       8.0      9.0      9.0      9.0     10.0     10.0     11.0
Total Operation (Constant VI       15.2     17.1     19.3     20.5      21.5     23.0     23.7     24.2     26.0     27.3     28.4
Total Operation (Current Y)        15.2     17.7     21.4     24.4     27.4      31.6     34.6     36.9     41.4     45.4     49.7
zzS Rfl:22SZZZUU                  gzzugaazzzn:25#S--g::R:u:5,               :-#SSRSR::ZEZ         Y5uZSR --#U *SRszza1Zz2



_ 103 -
hage 11
SMECIAL FMtUS CRLCULAIIONS                                                                                                     .412
19M     1986      1997     199      1999    19        19        M2     13        94      19
Fuds for henovation
nnUal Allocation                     35.6    39.0      43.0    42.9    56.7    58.9    70.2    77.7   107.7   121.0   155.6
Annual Expenditure                   29.5     30.4    34,4    34.3    45.4    47.1        5.2    62.2        6.2     %.8   124.5
Year End Blance          15.0       21.3    30.9    434        51.9      74.3    87.8   110.9   132.5   179.0    212.8   271.6
CIleted Renovtions                   29.3    28.5    30.4    34.4        34.3    45.4    47.1    56.2    62.2        96.2    96.8
Eiploye. Benefits Spec. Funds
Annual AllKation                      9.0      9.4     9.7      10.1     10.5    10.9    11.4       11.9    12.3    12.9    13.3
Antual Expenditure                    7.2      7.5      7.8     8.1      8.4      8.8      9.1      9.5      9.9      14.2    10.7
Year End Bl ance          7.2         9.0     10.9     12.1    14.8      16.9    19.1    21.4    23.9    24.2    28.0         31.5
Waintenance Spec. Funds
Annual Allocation                   .17.1    16.4    23.3    23.8    29.2    33.3    37.9    40.5    62.9    84.4    93.3
Annual Expenditure                   13.6     14.0    18.6    19.1    23.4    26.9    30.3    32.4    50.3    67.6    74.6
Year End Balance         10.6        14.0    17.7    22.4    27.1       33.0    39.7    47.3    55.4    67.9    84.9   103.5
Consumer Connection Spec. Funds
Annual Allocation                     9.0     9.3       9.5     9.8    10.1    10.4    10.7         11.1     11.4    11.7    12.1
Annual Expenditure                    7.2      7.4      7.6      7.9      8.1     8.3       8.6      8.9     9.1      9.4      9.7
Year End Oalance         31.2        33.0    34.9    36.8    38.7    40.8    42.8    45.0    47.2    49.5    51.8    54.3
Total Special Funds
Annual Allocation                   70.7    75.1    95.6    86.7    106.6    113.8   130.2   141.1   194.4   230.0   274.3
Annual Expenditure                  57.3    58.2    64.5    69.4    74.2    89.3    95.1    106.9   131.5   173.4   191.7
Year End Balance         64.0        77.3    94.3    115.4   132.6   165.0   189.5   224.6   258.8   321.7   370.3   460.8
-;==.  5:==:----=2z5==sz    5tX:==:



- 104 -
of 12
Derivation 'f Average Tariff             19tM      193      190       19       19        1990      191      1992     M193      1994      1995
Component% of Oross Rvenu
Operating Costs                         217      245       297       342      412       531      S70       679      78        6t1       923
Interests                                 0        0         4         9       15        21       33        40      137       140      157
Awtiation aet by lbt lncs                 0         0       18        12       25        17       l9        84       87        54       291
Incom  Ta                                11        11       12        12       17        27       42        14      133       140        16
Employee  enefits Special Fund            9        ?        10        10       l1        11       i1        12        12       13        13
et Vlrking Capital lcras.e              -17         5        7         5        8         7        6         I         I       15        13
Gross Operating Reguireeents            220       270      348       39       487       613      682       G32      t110     1222      1414
Sales Voluse (61h)                     4930     520Q    5810        6420     7080      9142     8900      9700    10590    11570    12550
NINIMNM AVERAGE TARIFF                  4.5      5.1       6.0       6.1      6.9       7.5      7.7       8.6      1O.9     10.6      11.3
SELf FIKANCINR RATIO                     1985      1986     1987    IM8       1M        1990     1991      1992      1993     1994      1995
Average Capital Expenditure               28B       333      415       498      639       920      923       951      895       823       885
Internally Generated Cash                 122       124      137       138      145       160      184       236      400       469      610
(less) Operational Requirements            71       84        95       90        92        87       94       153      231       24       471
Cash Available for Investment              S1        40       42        48       53        74       90        83       169      221       140
Remittances tc Government                  51        49       32        32       11        11        6         4        19       47        10
Earned Cash                               102       89        75        so       64        84       97        87       189      268       150
SELF FINANCIN6 RATIO  12)                  35        27       18        16       tO        tO       1O         9       21        33        17
CS-SS_2SS8SS                         #S2S-S##S__2S2_S:2#SSSSSS#-2-_S=-#S=S#SSSSSS



- 105 -                         ANNEX 23
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
General
1.        The economic analyis is made on the basis of GEPB's expansion
program up to 1997. Projects included in the analysis comprise primarily the
Yantan hydroelectric project and the Tienshengqiao Phase II (high dam
scheme). Tianshengqiao Phase II, located upstream of the Yantan project, is
one of the two master reservoirs of the Hongshui river development and is
scheduled to start construction in 1988/89. Power benefits to downstream
plants due to regulation of the Tianshengqiao reservior have been taken into
account as follows:
Incemental average annual output
Downstream                  due to Tiangshengqiao reservoir
plants                           regulation (GWh)
Tiangshengqiao Phase I plant             2,470
Yantan                                     580
Dahua                                    1,060
Etan                                       170
Total                               4,280
Costs
Capital Costs
2.        Costs were based on end-1985 price level on constant price basis.
Shadow pricing was applied as follows: (i) taxes and duties were excluded;
(ii) official exchange rates were used to convert foreign currencies to
Renminbi; (iii) border prices were used for traded goods such as cement, steel
and timber; and (iv) all labor costs were first adjusted to reflect the eco-
nomic cost to the country; a conversion factoe of 0.5 was then applied to
unskilled labor. No conversion is necessary for skilled labor.
Annual disbursements of project cost after shadow-pricing were
summarized below:



- 106 -                           ANNEX 23
Page 2 of 3
Year            Yantan Project        Tianshengqiao Phase II
-----------…- Yuan million -------
(including transmission)
1985                  100.0
1986                  176.9                       -
1987                  205.4                       -
1988                  236.7                    227.0
1989                  215.0                    302.0
1990                  279.2                    331.0
1991                  298.6                    474.0
1992                  241.0                    595.0
1993                  182.7                    505.0
1994                  157.8                    359.0
1995                     -                     227.0
1996                                           220.5
1997                     -                     205.0
Total         2,073.3                   3,445.5
0 & M Costs
3.        The 0 & M costs were based on a fixed percentage of the capital cost
at 1X for hydro power plant and its associated transmission system.
Benefits
4.        Quantifying the benefits of power projects is difficult in all
countries and particularly so in China, where tariffs and most other prices
are not subject to eonomic pressures and where most power is administratively
allocated. It is generally accepted, however, that shortages of electricity
are currently constraining China's industrial production (causing under capa-
city operation) and will continue to do so in the near future. This suggests
that the economic benefits of increased power supply will be substantial --
MWREP estimates the net value of industrial output per kWh of electricity
consumed to be about Y 1.0 for every kWh of electricity not served.
5.        A very conservative estimate of the value of electricity is provided
by using the projected tariffs by 1993 for CEPB's system as a whole but adjus-
ted to end-1985 price level. This estimate is used for the base case of the
estimated economic rate of return.
Economic Rate of Return
6.        The economic rate of return (IERR) of a project is the discount rate
which equalizes the present value of economic costs and benefits. On this
basis, the IERR is llZ when calculated on a project basis and 12% when



- 107 -                             ANNEX 23
Page 3 of 3
calculated on a program basis by integrating with the Tianshengqiao reservoir
(see Table 1 for details).
Sefsitivity
7.        The IERR taking into consideration variations_in capital cost of the
proposed project is as follows:
IERR (X)
(a)  Base case                                         12.0
(b)  Project cost increased by 10%                     11.6
(c)  Project cost increased by 20%                     11.3



-  108 A-NEX 23
Table I
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Energy generation
Capital costs                                         Tianshengqiao
Tianshengqiao  O&M   Distribu-  Total             h other down-            Energy       Power
Year     Yantan    high dam       cost  tion cost  toats  Yantan  stream plants   Total  sales /a  benefits lb
(Y m£illon)                 -                     (GWh)                    (Y million)
1985     100.0           -          -        -      100.0      -
1986     176.9           -          -        -      176.9      -            -            -         -          -
1987     205.4           -          -        -      205.4      -            -            -        -           -
1988     236.7        227.0         -        -      463.7      -            -            -         -          -
1989     215.0        302.0         -        -      517.0      -            -            -        -           -
1990     279.2        331.0         -        -      610.2      -            -            -         -          -
1991     298.6        474.0         -        -      772.6      -            -            -         -          -
1992     241.0        595.0       20.0      2.0    858.0    738             -            -      690         50.0
1993     182.7        505.0       24.9      7.7    720.3  2,760             -            -    2,580        187.0
1994     157.8        359.0       26.7     15.8    297.5  5,645             -            -    5,280        382.8
1995        -         227.0      52.5      18.0    297.5  6,420             -            -    6,000        435.0
1996        -         220.5       58.8     28.0    307.3  6,600         3,200        9,800    9,160        664.1
1997        -         205.0      61.1      38.n    304.1  6,800         6,440       13,240   12,380        897.5
1998        -            -       61.5      48.0    109.5  7,000         9,600       16,600   15,521      1,125.3
1999        -            -       61.5      48.0    109.5  7.000         9,600       16,600   15,521      1,125.3
2000        -            -       61.5      48.0    109.5  7,000         9,600       16,600   15,521      1,125.3
2001-21     -            -        61.5     48.0    109.5  7,000         9,600       16,600   15,521      1,125.3
2022      89.2           -       61.5      48.0    198.7  7,000         9,600       16,600   15,521      1,125.3
2023     135.2           -        61.5     48.0    244.7  7,000         9,60n       16,600   15,521      1,125.3
2024      89.2           -        61.5     48.0    198.7  7,000         9,600       16,600   15,521      1,125.3
2025        -          98.0       61.5     48.n    207.5  7,000         9,600       16,600   15,521      1,125.3
2026        -         149.0       61.5     48.0    258.5  7,000         9,600       16,600   15,521      1,125.3
2027        -          9R.n       61.5     48.0    207.5  7,000         9,0nn       16,600   15,521      1,125.3
2028-47     -            -        61.5     48.0    109.5  7,000         9,600       16,600   15,521      1,125.3
Economic rate of return:  12.02
/a Energy sales were calculated at a system loss of 6.5%, including station use, transmission and distribu-
tion.
/b  Using a projected tariff in 1993 of 11.3 fen/kMh, adjusted to end-1985 price level (7.25 fen/kWh).



LNNEX 24
- 109 -
-- - CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1   China:  Long-term lssues and options, World Bank Report No. 5206-
CHA, May 1985 (not attached).
A.2   Electric Power in Guangxi.
B.  Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1   Charter for the Electric Power Bureau of the Guangxi Autonomous
Region
B.2   General Situation of Electric power in the Guangxi Autonomous Region
B.3   Briefing on the Guangdong Electric Power System and its Load
Forecast
i.4   Preliminary Design Report of the Yantan Rydroelectric Project
B.5   Economic Analysis of Yantan Hydroelectric Project Based on the
Optional Expansion of the Guangxi Power System
B.6   Unified Resource Development of Reservoir Region of the Yantan
Hydroelectric Project
B.7   Sedimentation Calculation of the Yantan Reservoir
B.8   A Brief of the Investigation and Design Institute of GEPB
B.9   Resettlement Plan of Yantan Hydroelectric Project
B.10 Resettlement Plan for Bama Area, Yantan Hydroelectric Project
C. Selected Work Sheets
C.1   Working sheets for l'inancial Forecasts
C.2   Working sheet on Economic Analysis



oil                                             i
T  0X w 1 ~                              - O     -



- 111 -                                   Chart 2
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
OrganIzatIon Chart ot the ConstrucHlon Management OMCe
GEPB
(The Owner & Beneficry)  J
Constucflon
ManagrentOffice
(Rewinirg the Owner)
Manager
Assistont                                                                u    t
ManagerMao
ElectrIcat &       General           Matenaols          FiaceAminisao                               ontuto
Mechoniceil          Affairs           supply                                            _ Dne                 
DMsAon            Division           Division                                                      DtvIonDitvin
Wold Bank-3023642



-112 -                    Chart 3
CHINA
YANTAN HYDROECRIC PROJECT
Ptwer besoprrient Program - Guangx Power Sytem
(1961995)
2MW
3200 - -----    I-.  E-
2.800~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
3 t _ _ ~_ I B
21000
I~ ~~                            R in
Wosrvd for-026
_    t-          i    got ..... "~~~~~Moitennc
§. 4 XtXFW~~~~~~~~~~
12200    _ W ,   * 0l                _
1985 198  1987 1988 '1989 199  1991 1992 1993 1994  1995
Year
Note: Thls charto  not toke Into account purchosed powe for  lbrb=oo
Woiid Bank-30236:.3



-113-                                  Chart 4
CHINA
YANTAN HYNROELECTRIC PROJECT
Organiztodbn Chart d the Ectric Power Indusy Within
the Mini    of Water Resources and Efect  Powr
Ol-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
dafircw                                                            Resourcesees  . 
Teclnmokog                           OfceloDofw                                      niern
Dapartrnentat                                                                         Technical~~~~~~~~ompfakmweut
DForeigontAa  of   cEloOItmetYccsin 
FoWon Affostrucionf Waesov                                      wntmPwweln                        Rsac
Adureau                        Adofky             uem               nR
DePartment         emn              Dpmt
W   1~~~~~~Cahco                    &wge              Inu
of~~~~OPMO DRurrarl
Eiecfrffioflan  NDieaoi N                      &s
"OdRuo  &ASOU Of ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     PaM  ~
I~~~~~~ef Ph%  T 1r1111s  1n
Wod Bonk-302365



CHINA
YANTAN WYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
I        1                  uSche
ACTMflES                      Tt   I6                   IM                    4908                  I"Q                    "O                   9                     4                     49"                   49A
I uPcezOtory Works
2 Resettlemnent
o. RtvAw DN.emo
b ExccivelIon
D) am
Woild 8aiJ- ~4)2
(      e ShoL



IBRD 19478
CHINA
GUIZHOU
"NTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT                                                             GUIZHOU
GUANGXI PROVINCE
HUNAN
0
ok
'AITAI
+:
YUNNAN                                                        IA
J' QN
OP-
GUANGDONG
VIET NAM
pt
'w     M
JANURY 1986



