Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2061 GH
                       (Fifth Power Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 26, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2061 GH
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 26,  1989, between the REPUBLIC OF
GHANA (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Overseas Development  Administration  of the Govern-
ment of the United Kingdom (ODA)  intends to make a grant (the ODA
ATP Grant) to the Borrower  in an amount equivalent to $13,000,000
to assist in the financing of  the Project on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in an  agreement  (the ODA ATP Grant Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and ODA;
Page  2
     (C)  the Commonwealth  Development  Corporation (CDC) intends
to make a loan (the  CDC  Loan)  to the Electricity Corporation of
Ghana (ECG)  with  the  guarantee  of  the  Borrower  in an amount
equivalent to  $15,000,000  to  assist  in  the  financing  of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
CDC Loan Agreement) between ECG and CDC;
     (D)  the Borrower intends to  contract from the Government of
the Republic of  Austria  and  the  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique  loans  in  an  aggregate  amount  equivalent  to about
$28,000,000 to assist in financing the Project;
     (E)  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by  ECG  with  the
Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  the
Borrower will make available to ECG  the proceeds of the Credit as
provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and ECG;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "ECG" means  Electricity  Corporation  of  Ghana, a cor-
porate entity  established  and  operating  pursuant  to the Elec-
tricity Corporation  of  Ghana  Decree,  1967  (N.L.C.D.  125), as
amended;
     (b)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and ECG of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (c)  "Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to
be entered into  between  the  Borrower  and  ECG pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,  as  the same may be amended from
time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (d)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (e)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated  July 26, 1988 and August 12, 1988
between the Borrower and the Association; and
     (f)  "Performance  Agreement"  means   the  agreement  to  be
entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and  ECG  pursuant  to Sec-
tion 3.04 (a) of this Agreement,  as  the same may be amended from
time to time.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
Page  3
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to  thirty  million  three  hundred  thousand  Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 30,300,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  3 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of  the  Project  Preparation  Advance  withdrawn  and out-
standing as of such date  and  to  pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be  set  from time to time thereafter pur-
suant to paragraph (a) above. The  rate  set as of June 30 in each
year shall be applied as  of  the  next  payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  June 15 and December 15
commencing December  15,  1999  and  ending  June  15,  2029. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on June 15,
2009 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
Page  4
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the  United States of America
is hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 2.09.  ECG  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  taking  any  action  required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause ECG to  perform in accordance with the pro-
visions of  the  Project  Agreement  all  the  obligations  of ECG
therein set forth, shall take  and  cause  to be taken all action,
including the provision of  funds,  facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to  enable ECG to perform such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend the  proceeds of the Credit to
ECG under a subsidiary loan  agreement  to be entered into between
the Borrower and ECG under  terms  and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise  its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except  as  the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by  the provisions of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
Page  5
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by ECG pursuant to  Section 2.03 of the Project Agree-
ment.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  enter into a  performance  agreement with ECG acceptable
to the Association which  shall include annual performance targets
and indicators to be used as  the basis of monitoring ECG's insti-
tutional progress;
     (b)  duly perform all  its  obligations under the Performance
Agreement; and
     (c)  exchange views annually with the Association with regard
to the performance of its  obligations and ECG's obligations under
the Performance Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  exchange views with the  Association  on the findings of
the study to prepare  the  plans  referred  to  in Part F.1 of the
Project; and
     (b)  based on the findings of  this study, adopt economic and
financial criteria acceptable to  the Association for future elec-
trification programs.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  ECG shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make  it improbable that ECG will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  Decree No. N.L.C.D. 125 of  the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of  ECG to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ECG or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
              (A)  The  right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                   proceeds of  any  grant  or  loan  made  to the
                   Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
                   have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                   whole or in part, pursuant  to the terms of the
                   agreement providing therefor, or
              (B)  any such loan shall have become due and payable
                   prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the  Association  that  (A)  such  suspension, can-
               cellation, termination or prematuring is not caused
               by the failure of  the  Borrower  to perform any of
Page  6
               its  obligations  under  such  agreement,  and  (B)
               adequate funds for the Project are available to the
               Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
               consistent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
     Section 4.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower;
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the event specified  in  paragraph  (e)  (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ECG;
     (b)  the Performance Agreement referred to in Section 3.04 of
this Agreement has been signed on  behalf of the Borrower and ECG;
and
     (c)  all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ODA
ATP Grant Agreement and the CDC Loan Agreement, respectively, have
been fulfilled, except for the effectiveness of this Agreement.
     Section  5.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by ECG, and  is  legally  binding  upon ECG in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the  Borrower  and ECG and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and ECG in accordance with its terms.
     Section 5.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.09 of this
Agreement, the PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning of
the Borrower is designated  as  representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
Page  7
          PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic
            Planning
          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
          P.O. Box M40
          Accra, Ghana
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ECONOMICON                        2205 MIFAEP GH
               Accra
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                    By /s/ Kwesi Botchwey
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Subtransmission           5,300,000         100% of foreign
     and distribution                            expenditures
     system equip-
     ment and materials
     (including instal-
     lation) under
     Parts A and B
     of the Project
Page  8
(2)  Equipment, tools          8,400,000         100% of foreign
     and spare parts                             expenditures
     under Part D of
     the Project
(3)  Vehicles                  2,500,000         100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
(4)  Civil works               1,670,000         40%
     under Part D of
     the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)  Consultants'              6,360,000         80% for services
     services                                    of consultants
                                                 domiciled within
                                                 the territory of
                                                 the Borrower and
                                                 100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
                                                 for services of
                                                 other consultants
(6)  Training and              1,670,000         100% of foreign
     related equip-                              expenditures
     ment
(7)  Refunding of                760,000         Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(8)  Unallocated               3,640,000
                               ___________
          TOTAL
                                30,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures  in  the  currency  of any country other
than that of the Borrower for  goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve ECG's power
distribution system; (ii)  to  strengthen ECG's management capabi-
lities; and (iii)  to  improve  the  Borrower's long-term planning
efforts for the power sector.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Subtransmission Systems
     Rehabilitation, reinforcement and  extension of the subtrans-
mission systems in Accra, Kumasi, Secondi/Takoradi Koforidua, Tema
and Cape Coast.
Part B:   Distribution Systems
Page  9
     Rehabilitation, reinforcement and  extension of the distribu-
tion systems in:
1.   Accra, Kumasi, Secondi/Takoradi, Koforidua, Tema, Cape Coast,
and Ho; and
2.   selected districts.
Part C:   Supervisory Control Center
     Acquisition and installation of equipment for the supervisory
control system for Accra/Tema.
Part D:   Infrastructure
     Acquisition of equipment, tools, spare parts and vehicles and
construction of staff houses and office buildings.
Part E:   Institutional Development
1.   Continuation of the program  of management reorganization and
improvement.
2.   Preparation and implementation of:
     (a)  a staff development and training program;
     (b)  a staff redundancy program; and
     (c)  computer-based management information systems.
3.   Preparation of technical  manuals  for, inter alia, planning,
design and procurement.
4.   Computerization of stocks and stores accounting.
Part F:   Sector Development and Strategy
     Preparation of:
1.   a national electrification plan;
2.   a long-range  distribution  and  subtransmission master plan;
and
3.   the next five-year investment program.
                       *     *     *      *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $2,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
Page  10
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit  Account  and  deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to  the  eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
Page  11
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Asso-
ciation may request; or (B)  deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall other-
wise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account  shall  be  made  until  the  Borrower  has  provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent  withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accor-
dance with the  relevant  provisions  of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
