Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2061 GH
                       (Fifth Power Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                 ELECTRICITY CORPORATION OF GHANA
                     Dated September 26, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2061 GH
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  26,  1989, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION   (the   Association)   and  ELECTRICITY
CORPORATION OF GHANA (ECG).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the  Republic  of  Ghana  (the  Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has  agreed  to make available to the
Borrower an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to thirty
million   three   hundred    thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 30,300,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ECG agree
to undertake such obligations  toward  the  Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and ECG,  the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit  Agreement will be made available
to ECG on the terms  and  conditions  set forth in said Subsidiary
Page  2
Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS ECG, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. ECG declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to  this  end,  shall  carry out the Project
with due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial,  engineering  and public utility
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by  the provisions of the Schedule to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. ECG shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04.  ECG  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, ECG shall not  take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) ECG shall,  at  the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the  Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the  Project,  the  performance  of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  ECG shall promptly inform  the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment  of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by ECG  of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. ECG shall:
     (a)  take all  measures  required  on  its  part  to meet its
obligations under the Performance Agreement; and
     (b)  exchange views annually with the Association with regard
to the performance of its obligations under the Performance Agree-
ment.
     Section  2.07.  ECG   shall   prepare   and  furnish  to  the
Association, before commencing the  implementation  of Part B.2 of
the Project, a program of  priority  schemes under Part B.2 of the
Page  3
Project in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Association.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of ECG
     Section 3.01. ECG shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
public utility practices  under  the  supervision of qualified and
experienced management  assisted  by  competent  staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. ECG shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
     Section 3.03. ECG shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other  provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such  risks  and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  ECG  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  ECG shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts (including those for the
               Special Account) and  financial statements (balance
               sheets,  statements  of  income  and  expenses  and
               related statements) for  each  fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such  year  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, ECG shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
Page  4
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, ECG shall earn an annual return  of not less than 6% of the
average current net value of  ECG's  fixed assets in operation for
its fiscal year beginning January  1,  1989,  not less than 7% for
its fiscal year beginning January 1, 1990 and not less than 8% for
each of its following fiscal years.
     (b)  Before December 1 in each fiscal year, ECG shall, on the
basis  of  forecasts  prepared  by  ECG  and  satisfactory  to the
Association, review whether  it  would  meet  the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a)  in  respect  of  the next following fiscal
year and shall inform  the  Association  about the results of such
review and the actions undertaken or  to be undertaken in order to
meet such requirements.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return  shall  be calculated by dividing
               ECG's net operating income  for  the fiscal year in
               question by one half of  the sum of the current net
               value of ECG's  fixed  assets  in  operation at the
               beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
         (ii)  The  term  "net   operating   income"  means  total
               operating revenues less total operating expenses.
        (iii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related  to  operations, including admini-
               stration, adequate maintenance,  taxes and payments
               in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on
               a straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 4%
               per annum of  the  average  current  gross value of
               ECG's fixed  assets  in  operation,  or other basis
               acceptable  to   the   Association,  but  excluding
               interest and other charges on debt.
          (v)  The average  current  gross  value  of  ECG's fixed
               assets in operation shall be calculated as one-half
               of the sum of the gross value of ECG's fixed assets
               in operation at  the  beginning  and  at the end of
               the fiscal year,  as  valued  from  time to time in
               accordance with  sound  and consistently maintained
               methods of valuation  satisfactory  to the Associa-
               tion.
         (vi)  The term "current net  value  of ECG's fixed assets
               in operation" means the  gross value of ECG's fixed
               assets in operation less  the amount of accumulated
               depreciation, as valued from time to time in accor-
               dance  with   sound   and  consistently  maintained
               methods of valuation  satisfactory  to the Associa-
               tion.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, ECG shall not incur any debt, unless ECG's net revenues for
the fiscal year immediately preceding  the date of such incurrence
or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such
incurrence, whichever is the greater,  shall be at least 1.5 times
Page  5
the estimated maximum  debt  service  requirements  of ECG for any
succeeding fiscal year on all  debt  of ECG, including the debt to
be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of ECG
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
               (A)  under a loan  contract  or  agreement or other
                    instrument providing for such  debt or for the
                    modification of its  terms  of  payment on the
                    date   of   such    contract,   agreement   or
                    instrument; and
               (B)  under a guarantee  agreement,  on the date the
                    agreement  providing  for  such  guarantee has
                    been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to  operations  adjusted  to  take  account of
                    ECG's rates  in  effect  at  the  time  of the
                    incurrence of debt event  though they were not
                    in effect  during  the  twelve-month period to
                    which  such  revenues   relate  and  net  non-
                    operating income; and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including   administration,   adequate   main-
                    tenance, taxes and payments  in lieu of taxes,
                    but  excluding   provision  for  depreciation,
                    other non-cash operating  charges and interest
                    and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The term "net non-operating  income" means the dif-
               ference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section 4.04. With  the  exception  of the on-going self-help
rural   electrification   program   and   the   district  capitals
electrification  schemes,  ECG  shall  not  undertake,  until  the
completion  of  the  Project,  any  investments  exceeding  in the
aggregate the equivalent of  $2,000,000  per year, not included in
the Project, without prior consultation with the Association.
Page  6
     Section 4.05. ECG shall submit  to the Association, not later
than September 30, 1989,  a  program acceptable to the Association
designed to improve the management of its revenues.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of ECG  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
             (i)    the  date  on  which  the  Development  Credit
                    Agreement shall  terminate  in accordance with
                    its terms; or
            (ii)    the date  20  years  after  the  date  of this
                    Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms  before  the  date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the  Association  shall promptly notify  ECG
of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For ECG:
          Managing Director
          Electricity Corporation of Ghana
          P.O. Box 521
          Accra, Ghana
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                HEADTRIC                       2107 GH
                Accra
Page  7
Section 6.02. Any action  required  or  permitted to be taken, and
any document required  or  permitted  to  be  executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ECG,  or  by  ECG on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by the Managing Director or  such  other  person or persons as ECG
shall designate in writing, and  ECG shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence  of  the  authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    ELECTRICITY CORPORATION OF GHANA
                    By /s/ Kwesi Botchwey
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$100,000 or more each.
Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A 1  hereof,  goods manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works for the construction  of houses and buildings may
be procured under contracts  awarded  on  the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in  accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
Page  8
2.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the  equivalent  of  $4,000,000,  may  be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least  three suppliers from at least
three  different  countries  eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 20% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to  assist  ECG  in  carrying  out  the Project, ECG
shall  employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,  experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory  to  the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
