Documint of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8262
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
GUAYAQUIL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1776-EC)
DECEMBER 29, 1989
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Glossary of Abbreviations
BEDE          -    Banco de Desarrollo del Ecuador
(Ecuadorian Development Bank)
BEV           -    Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda
(Ecuadorian Housing Bank)
BP            -    Banco del Pacifico
(a Guayaquil commercial bank)
CENAPIA       -    Centro Nacional de Pequena Industria y Artesania
(National Small-Scale Enterprise and Artisan Center
FONAPAR       -    Fondo Nacional de Participaciones
(a national fund used to finance local government
programs)
IESS          -    Instituto Ecuatoriano de Seguro Social
(Ecuadorian Social Security Institute)
JUNAPLA       -    Junto Yxcional de Planificacion
(National Planning Board)
JNV           -    Junta Nacional de la Vivienda
(National Housing Board)



FOR OMCIAL u  ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washigton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Olece CA Dwettv.Cfls
Opiatmo Evuatfon
December 29, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Ecuador - Guayaquil
Urban Development Project (Loan 1776-EC)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled Project
Completion Report on Ecuador - Guayaquil Urban Development Project (Loan
1776-EC)l prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This dcument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Dnlk authofition.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
7UAYAQUIL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1776-EC)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ............................................                                                      i
Evaluation Summary ............................................                                           ii
PART I: Main Findings and Lessons Learned by the Bank
A.  Project Identity ......................................1 -
B. Background ......................................                                              1
C.   Project  Objectives  and  Description ........................... 2
D.   Project  Design  and  Organization .............................. 3
E.   Project  Implementation ....................................... 6
F.  Project Results ......................................                                        8
G.   Project  Sustainability ...................................... 10
H.   Bank  Performance ............................................ 10
I.   Borrower  Performance ........................................ 11
J.   Project  Relationship ........................................ 12
K.   Consulting  Services ......................................... 12
L.   Project  Documentation  and Data .............................. 13
PART II:  Main Findings and Lessons Learned by the Borrower ......... 14
PART III: Basic Data
1.   Related  Bank  Loans .......................................... 15
2.   Project  Timetable ........................................... 16
3.   Loan  Disbursements .......................................... 16
4.   Project  Implementation ...................................... 18
5.   Project  Cost  and  Financing .................................. 19
6.   Project  Results ............................................. 20
7.   Status  of  Loan  Covenants .................................... 22
8.   Use  of  Bank  Resources ....................................... 23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not ctherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



DCVADOR
GVAYAQUIL URBAN D3VELOPVDNT PROJECT (LOMN 1776-XC)
PROJECT COMPLCTION REPORT
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) pertains to the Guayaquil
Urban Development Project in Ecuador, for which a loan in the amount of
US$31.0 million equivalent was approved on December 11, 1979. Loan 1776-SC
closed two years behind schedule on June 30, 1987. The last disbursement
was in February 1988. Total disbursements were US$25.8 million and US$5.2
million were cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Operation
Division of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region, Country Department
IV (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). The Borrower prepared a
draft in August 1988 following previous preparation guidelines for Project
Completion Reports that incorporated inputs from all agencies involved in
the project except CENAPIA.
Preparation of this PCR began during the Bank's final project
supervision mission in January 1989 and is based, inter-alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report; the Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreements; supervision
reports; correspondence between  the  Bank  and  the Borrower; and internal
Bank memoranda and comments from participating agencies, such as Banco
Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda (BEV) and the General Comptroller's office.



- ii -
UhDOR
GIJATQUDL MO3AN DNVELOPMWNT PROJECT (LOAN 1770-DC)
PROJECT CCHPLETIOI REPORT
EVALUATION SW3U&lY
Introduction
Tc meet its stated objectives of addressing shelter provision for
the poor, in 1979 the then new Government launched an inadequately planned
but massive, domestically-funded housing project  in Guayaquil. At the same
time, BEV/JNV (Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda/Junta Nacional de la
Vivienda) began aa overall reorientation of their programs toward lower-
income clients. The Bank's loan (1776-EC) became effective on October 31,
1980. Under its terms the Central Bank, the Municipality of Guayaquil,
CENAPIA, BEV, Jh3 and the Ministries and other agencies of the Borrower
were responsible for implementation.
Objectives
The main objectives of the project were to initiate large-scale
programs for employment generation and residential development for tow-
income families while at the same time improving the Municipality's
financial management. In addition BEV/JNV's institutional, technical, and
financial capabilities were to be strengthened (para. 6).
Iftlementation Experience
As a consequence of the combined effects of (a) low interest
offered on loans to microenterprises by private banks, (b) protracted
bureaucratic procedures, (c) weak administrative capability, and (d)
serious financial crisis ir. the Municipality, the implementation process
was extremely deficient, particularly ir. the Municipality (para. 14-23).
Results
Project results were mixed in that: (a) it had a positive impact
in promoting BEV/JNV as the lead institutions for the Housing Im.provement
L:ans component--the most successfully implemented element; and (b) its aim
to promote financial and managerial capabilit4es at the municipal level was
a complete failure. (para 27-30).
However, the project did generate a positive spinoff effect in
that the BEV/JNV experience was built on in Loan 2135-EC: new housing
operations were efficiently implemented by these institutions with only
minor implementation delays.    In  addition,  expectations were that BEV's
investment operations would complement prospective systemwide housing
finance measures.
Sustainability
The project generally failed to have a strong institutional
development effect on the Municipality of Guayaquil. Municipal performance
was extremely weak, and revealing serious deficiencies as an implementing
institution, did little to establish sustainable policies--especially for
cost recovery--through its  components  (para.  35). BEV loans demunstrated
the unsustainability of fixed interest rates in a highly unstable economy;



- lii -
loans were made to housing beneficiaries at a fixed and insufficient
interest rate, which due to high inflation made cost recovery virtually
impossible (para. 35).
FindiPe and Lessons Learned
The project is a typical example of the early generation of urban
projects:    Too many  components  with weak  implementing  agencies  and
coordination arrangements. Interest rate controls exacerbated Ecuador's
subsequent debt; inflation hindered project sustainability. An increased
focus on realistic standards, cost recovery, and community participation is
clearly vital for institutions concerned with urban development (para. 36).
The  generally  mixed  results   of   the  project  indicates  the
overriding importance of ensuring that: (a) more attention be paid at
appraisal to diagnosing institutional deficiencies and capabilities, and in
devising a realistic program for corrective action once these type of
problems   emerge;   (b)   supervision   missions   have   a  comprehensive
understanding of the project development process, to ensure
close follow-up  c.  proposed  changes,  improvements,  and initiatives and
subsequently appropriate evaluation and supervision of the project.



ECUADOR
GUYAQUIL URBN DEVLLOPMCNT PROJCT (LOAN 1776-30)
PROJECT COCLZTION LEPORT
PART I: MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
(Prepared by Bank)
A.  Project Identity
Project Name: Guayaquil Urban Development Project
Loan No. 1776-EC
RVP Unit:  LA4 - Infrastructure and Energy Division (LA4IE)
Country: Ecuador
Sector: Urban
Subsectors: Housing, Small-Scale Enterprises, Municipal Services.
B. Background
Sector Development Objectives
1.       Although these were not identified explicitly, the twin objectives
of poverty alleviation and institutional and procedural development were
guiding principles of the Bank's approach to the sector.
Policy Context
2.       A city characterized  by  widespread  poverty and rapid population
growth, largely resulting from immigration, Guayaqvtil is the center of
Ecuador's commerce and industry, contributing approximately 502 of the GDP
attributable to commerce, manufacturing and finance at the time of
appraisal (1979). Its 1987 population was estimated at 1.6 million, with a
growth rate of 42 - one of the more rapid in Latin America.
3.       To incorporate  the  influx  of  population,  the  city   expanded
westwards  through   informal   means   into   municipally-owned  swampland
(Suburbio), and privately-owned and municipal areas In the northern and
southern  (Guasmo)  parts  of  Guayaquil.    At  appraisal,  a  substantial
proportion of Guayaquil's households lacked adequate urban services and
secure tenure. Inhospitable geography and a tropical climate, linked to
inadequate infrastructure provision meant that the leading causes of death
were enteritis and other diarrheic diseases.
4.       Preliminary discussions  on  a  possible  poverty-oriented housing
project in Guayaquil began with the Ecuadorian Housing Bank (BEV) in 1973.
The dialogue expanded to  the  municipality  in  1976.   The planning for a
possible project was then advanced under a feasibility study financed by
the Bank in  a  Technical  Assistance  Project.    The planning process was
lengthy, due to poor capacity of the municipality, coupled with its
unrealistic expectations (the original proposal was for a very large number
of sites and services units and there were initial disagreements over
design  standards  and  cost   recovery)   and   a  series  of  changes  in
administration.   In  1979,  a  new  Government    gave  great  priority to
addressing the shelter situation of the poor, and immediately launched a
poorly  planned  but   massive   domestically-funded   housing  project  in
Guayaquil. The shift in government policy also coincided with a change in
orientation of BEV-JNV (Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda/Junta Nacional de
la Vivienda) towards the shelter needs of low-income groups in particular.



-2-
Links to Macro-economy and Sector
5.       Links were  not  explicitly  described  in  project documentation,
however the project concept fit well into the Bank's strategy of creating a
better   physical   and    social    infrastructure   base,   strengthening
implementation agencies and improving living conditions for the poor.
C. Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
6.       The project  was  designed  to  initiate  large-scale  programs of
employment generation and residential development for low-income families
in Guayaquil, directly benefitting some 102 of Guayaquil's population. Its
prime institutional and policy 'evelopment objectives were to: (a) expand
the support given to very small scale enterprises by banks and the
government's   technical   assistance   agency;   (b)         strengthen   the
Municipality's efforts to serve low-income areas through the development of
its technical capacity; improving its financial management and cost
recovery practices; instituting more realistic development norms; and
regularizing land  tenure;  and  (c)    give  BEV  increased  experience in
financing appropriate and affordable low income housing.
Components
7.       An integrated  urban  development  effort,  the  project contained
three sub-projects, i.e., support to small scale enterprises (212 of cost),
services to low-income areas (47Z of cost) and housing loans (322 of cost).
Specifically, the project included: (a) support to small-scale enterprises
through the provision of some 6,400 loans to assist 5,200 artisans by
expanding an existing line of credit for artisans from the commercial Banco
del Pacifico; (b) squatter upgrading, through the provision of secure
tenure, landfill and basic infrastructure, in the identified neighborhoods
of Lotizacion Mapasingue and Guasmo  North.   The community was supposed to
participate in the planning and implementation of upgrading. Improvements
were to be affordable to more than 902 of the 3,600 families living in the
two areas at  that  time.    It  also  included  basic service provision to
existing industries; (c) serviced plots: provision of 3,700 new serviced
plots (3,200 in Alegria and 500 in Floresta Pilot). The former were to be
minimally serviced without superstructure, affordable to 86? of Guayaquil's
population. Nine ha. of industrial land adjacent to the site was also to
be serviced. On the second site, Floresta Pilot, BEV was to offer low-cost
levels of service, affordable to 70-80? of the city's population; (d) a
minimal amount of offsite infrastructure to service upgrading areas and new
sites;  (e)   administration:   funds   for   operational   costs   of  the
Municipality's project unit were included, part of which was to initiate
the computerization of the Registry of Property Office; (f) technical
assistance,   including   consultants'   services   for   detailed  design,
engineering tendering and supervision of construction; a study to improve
the financial management of the Municipality, including debt collection,
accounting and planning; monitoring and evaluation; and future project
preparation; (g) community facilities were to be provided for upgrading



areas and serviced sites (5 primary schools, 3 health centers; 5 communal
markets). In addition, land was to be reserved for nurseries, secondary
schools, open spaces, end additional medical facilities over time; (h)
community development: social promoters were to work with residents in
project sites to initiate innovative programs similar to those used by the
Fondo de Desarrollo del Sector Rural Marginal (FODERUMA) among the rural
poor; grants and credits were to be provided for programs for training in
the production of goods and services locally in demand, employment centers
and other programs; (i) housing loans: some 9,700 small loans for
improvement of old or construction of new housitng by BEV in the 4 areas
serviced by the project, and to families with legal tenure in Suburbio and
other low income areas of Guayaquil, with an average loan size of US$
1,414; some technical assistance to BEV for long-term financial planning
and titling assistance.
The loan amount was US$ 31 million.
D. Project Design and Organization
At Appraisal
8.       The  project  was   conceived   as   a  institutional  development
initiative with a three part approach: a) to orient concerned institutions
to the options available to assist the poor; b) to improve institutional
performance within the life of the project; and c) to pave the way for
subsequent loans to continue this process. Implementing institutions were
ab follows:
8.1 BEV/JNV: The provision of infrastructure for 500 sites and
housing improvement loans in Floresta Pilot was the responsibility of BEV-
JNV (sister organizations under one president, with BEV being responsible
for banking and financial aspects, and JNV for national housing policy,
construction and other technical aspects). A project unit with BEV and JNV
staff was established, with its director reporting to the president of
BEVIJNV.
8.2 Municipality: On the basis of its previous experience, the
Municipality was thought at appraisal to be the most suitable institution
for regularizing tenure, modifying official development norms, instituting
cost recovery in upgrading areas and providing infrastructure. The primary
responsibility of its Project Unit, established in December 1978, was to
provide services to low income  areas.   At appraisal, the municipality was
the implementing institution with the largest direct responsibility,
accounting for direct implementation of 47Z of the investment cost of the
project.
8.3 Central Bank: At the time of appraisal in 1978/79, Central
Bank (CB) had recently assumed the role of innovator and promoter of
poverty-oriented investment in Ecuador. Its Fondo de Desarrollo del Sector
Rural Marginal (FODERUMA), established in early 1978, made community
participation in planning and implementation an essential element in its
methodology of project implementation.   Also,  about 75? of investments in



-4-
community projects were to be recovered from thp ultimate beneficiaries.
In response to government's su;gestion, CB was to enter urban marginal
communities with a  similar  methodology,  following initiatives undertaken
jointly with UNICEF.      During  loan  negotiations,  it was agreed that CB
would appoint a project coordinator acceptable to the Bank to facilitate a
central reporting process, in addition to being responsible for community
participation under the project, and for inter-institutienal coordination.
8.4   Banco  del  Pacifico  (BDP!:    Selected  originally for its
priority towards and good reputation among artisans and in view of its
rapid grcwth (50X increase per annum over the 4 years preceding appraisal),
BDP was chosen under the project to provide credit for small scale
enterprises (artisans and micro-commerce and services) At appraisal, BDP
stood second among Ecuador's 21 commercial banks, with the lowest arrears
rate (3.6Z) of any, &nd 22Z of its lending directed to borrowers in
government-designated  priority  sectors.        The   Guayaquil  office  was
responsible for over 70? of its artisan lending nation wide.
8.5 CENAPIA: The Centro Nacional de la Promocion de la Pequefla
'ndustria y Artesania was created in 1975 to provide technical assistance
to small industry and artisans.   Though  at appraisal CENAPIA was weak and
understaffed in relation to its responsibilities, it was expected to be
restructured anid expand its program shortly thereafter. In addition, it
had close relationships with the Federacion Provincial de Artesanos del
Guayas, which arranges for entrepreneurs in need of assistance to contact
CENAP IA.
8.6 Ministries of Education & Health were to construct, operate
and maintain primary schools and clinics in project sites, based on
national planning standards, i.e., 2 schools in Alegria, 2 in Guasmo North
and 1 in Mapasingue.   Floresta  Pilot  was  to  be served by schools to be
constructed in the larger Floresta development. Three health centers were
aimilarly to be constructed and operated in each of the main project areas
by the Ministry of Health, in coordination with community primary health
care programs where these existed.
At Loan Restructuring
9.       In  March   1984   the   loan   was   restructured  to  facilitate
disbursements (given the lack of institutional capacity of the Municipality
to carry out project objectives) simultaneous with actions to extend the
closing date, and to reassign funds to other components. The restructuring
was oriented toward: a) scaling down the Municipality's works and increase
those of  BEV/JNV;    b)  eliminating  most  of  the small-scale enterprise
component, which was not functioning at all; c) increasing technical
assistance to the Municipality to improve its financial and administrative
capacities and procedures; and d) using a small amount of loan funds for
infrastructure  reconstruction  following   flooding   in  Guayaquil.    In
addition, at project restructuring, the Ministry of Public Works and the
Ministry  of  Education  retained   roles  commensurate  with  their  usual
responsibilities.



- 5 -
10.      The overall loan  amount  of  US$  31  million remained unchanged.
Completion was extended from December  31,  1984  to December 31, 1986, and
closure of the loan from June 30 1985 to June 30, 1987, to accommodate the
revised project implementation schedule.
11.      The restructured roles of project institutions were as follows:
11.1 Municipality: Under the restructuring, upgrading works were
eliminated; technical assistance to the institution strengthened; and the
markets component reduced from  5  to  3  in  line  with the elimination of
upgrading. In the Alegria site (the largest sites and services area in the
project),   the   Municipality   retained   responsibility   for   building
infrastructure, and BEV/JNV  agreed  to  construct  core houses.  Community
facilities were reduced (see Section  F  below):   Schools were scaled down
from 5 schools to 4; 3 health centers to 2, with redesign in the physical
works to be completed by the Municipality.
11.2  BEV/JNV:    This  component  was  expanded  to include 2,000
additional lots and core houses in Sauces VI and VIII; the credit program
for low income housing was scaled down to more realistic objectives; and
technical assistance to BEV for project preparation and capacity building
was increased.
11.3 CENAPIA: Technical assistance from CENAPIA for small-scale
enterprises was maintained, however, the funds initially intended for
provision for credit to SSE were reassigned to other components.
11.4   Central  Bank:    The  community  development component was
dropped in view of Central Bank's non-performance; however, the (,B retained
the pro-forma role as project coordinator.
11.5  Ministry of Public Works:   Its project unit was responsible
for the construction of 2 pluvial drainage canals in Guasmo; upgrading 12
km of road; and the preparation of a master plan for drainage and
sanitation  in  Guasmo.      These   works   were   identified  as  a  flood
reconstruction component, following serious floods affecting Guayaquil in
1983.
11.6 Ministries of Education and Health were still listed as
executing agents for a reduced number of schools and health posts. The
files show no serious discussions with them however, and there is little
mention of their implementation capacity, the schedule of works etc.
Evaluation of Project Design
12.      As a multiple-component project  with weak executing agencies, the
project established project units in each of the agencies to carry out
project works.   These  project  units  suffered  from the problems usually
associated with them -- a failure to properly orient the institution to its
role and tasks, and a subsequent lack of understanding by the institutions
of the  project's  aims.    Moreover,  the  project  units  were negatively



-6-
affected by the political and other problems affecting the implementing
institutions; they suffered from    insufficient autonomy, weak supervisory
control from parent institutions, and a lack of counterpart funding. At
appraisal,  it  was  recognized   that  the  municipality  was  chaotically
administered,  the  staff  poorly   paid   and  disciplined.         Political
instability at the municipal level also led to a rapid succession of mayors
and a lack of consistent  policies.   These weaknesses continued during the
implementation of the project, and were a major reason for very deficient
project implementation at the municipal level.
13.      On the other hand, the  design  of the project was oriented toward
"learning by doing." A mix of components and implementation agencies were
used to obtain the project's poverty-oriented objectives. Some of these
components  failed   (i.e.,   upgrading),   while   others  succeeded  (BEV
implemented sites and services) and were able to increase their efforts
through future projects. The project therefore provided different agencies
with the opportunity to try out promising approaches which could be built
upon in the future.
E. Proiect Implementation
14.      Project implementation was subject  to  a number of delays, taking
eight years to implement (May 1979 - December 1987) instead of the expected
five. Disbursements were slow from the beginning: for example, by the
first quarter of 1983 only 9? of the loan had been disbursed, compared with
an appraisal estimate of 68?, and no physical works at all had been
initiated by the Municipality.
15.      Support to small-scale  enterprises:  Due  to  lack of interest in
offering loans to microenterprises (resulting from inadequate spreads) on
the part of private banks, only Banco del Pacifico participated in this
component, though it made only 97 loans during the period January-April
1982. It declined to continue its participation in 1982 because of rising
costs and onerous bureaucratic dealings with the Central Bank. Even though
the component was cut to US$120 thousand (from US$9.8 million) in the
restructuring, only 51.6Z was used due to lack of counterpart funds.
16.      The problem was compounded by a rapid fall in the exchange rate of
the sucre to the US$; lack of information in CENAPIA on how to utilize the
Central  Bank's  revolving  fund;   lengthy  technical  and  administrative
procedures in obtaining approvals from the Direccion Nacional del Personal
and the Direccion Nacional de Presupuesto in the Ministry of Finance; and
the poor quality and impact of CENAPIA which preferred classroom training
to on-site technical  assistance.    From  start  to finish, this component
realized 2000 technical assistance services to small-scale enterprises; 500
consultancy services to artisans; 50 training courses for a total of 2000
participants and a number of studies on possibilities for extension to new
market investments.
17.      Housing Improvement  Loans:  The  most  successful  element in the
project in terms of implementation and potential for cost recovery, the
component offered BEV the opportunity to gain experience. This experience



was enlarged upon in two subsequent Bank loans to BEV for low-income
housing (Loans 2135-EC and 2898-EC).    However,the  use of a fixed and low
rate of interest was inappropriate given the high rate of inflation
experienced during the project period (456? during the period from November
1979 - May 1988), leading to very high subsidies in real terms.1
18.      Alegria Sites and Services:      Works  started in June 1985 with a
programmed execution period of '6 months. Considerable 0' lays occurred in
the implementation, and the site had not been comple -d at the closing
date. The delays resulted from the Municipality's dispute with the
contractor (the contractor eventually abandoned the work reportedly because
he had not been paid and he lacked sufficient liquidity to effectively
implement); design problems due to Alegria soil conditions; weak municipal
finances and administration; lack of executive capacity of the project unit
through lack of autonomy; restrictive municipal laws; a succession of weak
mayors;  weak  administrators,   and   serious   financial  crises  in  the
Municipality. At the time of the PCR mission, the municipality lacked the
funds to finish the site. Although the housing units were constructed (by
BEV), the infrastructure had hardly started, and about 200 families had
already moved onto the  site.    The  tenure  of completed housing units in
Alegria had still not been legalized by the Municipality at the time of the
PCR mission, and sales prices of housing units cannot be fixed until tenure
is granted (since BEV cannot complete its administrative procedures). Six
months after the PCR mission, the site was almost completely occupied by
squatters, who had completed  rudimentary   (and illegal) infrastructure on
their own. Cost recovery is going to be difficult, if not impossible,
given these circumstances.
19.      Other Sites and Services:  BEV/JNV completed sites and services at
Floresta Pilot, as originally planned at appraisal, and Sauces VI and VII,
as provided during the restructuring.
20.      Community Facilities:   Only  two, Guasmo North and Mapasingue, of
the five planned markets were constructed under the project However, those
markets which were not built with project funds were locally financed by
BEDE under its program of construction of 8 popular markets in Guayaquil's
urban areas. Guasmo North was finished in April 1985, but it was not until
mid/late 1988 that it was occupied, because beneficiaries would not pay
rent for market posts.   The  construction  of Mapasingue market started in
January 1967, and finished in November the same year. It was occupied
immediately and is functioning as planned (albeit with very low rents for
posts: though the Municipality is aware of the need to increase rents for
purposes of effective cost recovery, it is likely that the political will
to implement future imposition of proposed increases will be low).
21.      The  planned  five  schools  and  three  health  centers  were not
implemented, due to lack of funds and a virtually total lack of interest
and participation by the Ministries of Education and Health.
1 BEV is not longer using a fixed interest rate but dividends and
adjustable rates with a view to eliminating subsidies.



-8-
22.      Community Development: At appraisal, the Central Bank appeared the
logical choice as implementing institution for community development,
because of its work  with  FODERUMA.    However its proposed national-level
involvement in urban marginal areas never got off the ground, and CB was
not prepared to take it on under the project alone.
23.      Urban Improvements:  The  upgrading component planned at appraisal
was never implemented, due to opposition from the selected communities and
a lack of communication between the Municipality and the beneficiaries. In
its original evaluation, the Bank over-estimated the possibilities for
implementing improvements in Guasmo North, an area of urban conflicts with
a population of some 300,000 including many immigrants. It was originally
intended to carry out a pilot activity in a small area predisposed to repay
investments, but the novelty of the project's concepts and the politicized
character of the settlement precluded its implementation. (Listen to the
People, a book reporting on a study financed by the World Bank, documents
the way in which community leaders in the target neighborhood thwarted the
implementation  of  the   upgrading   component  for  political  purposes.)
Moreover, procurement regulations were extremely weak and political will to
follow through was at best lacking and questionable.
24.      After  the  1983  floods,       emergency  works  and  infill  were
implemented in 1983 in Guasmo North and South, Cisne II and Duran, at a
cost of US$ 2.3 million.   The Municipali y started implementation in 1985,
concluding in early 1987.    The  participation  of  the Ministry of Public
Works in the emergency works within its US$ 3.2 million loan allocation was
timely, though not originally foreseen as part of this component.
25.      Land Titles:   Funds  assigned  for  improving  the  system of the
office of the Property Registrar of Guayaquil (Corte Superior de Justicia)
were not used.   However,  10,000  titles  were legalized.  Notwithstanding
significant problems confronted in the  execution of this component such as
antiquated and inadequate regulations which did not provide the necessary
guarantees of tenure or of fair pricing policies; and highly centralized
and politicized decision-making processes, by October 1985 98X of the land
was legalized.
26.      Inter-Institutional Coordination  was  the  responsibility  of the
Central Bank, but in reality it became little more than a financial conduit
for the processing of project funds through the special account. The CB
made little attempt to address its broader responsibility vis-a-vis the
project, and had little access to decision-making levels of government,
which resulted in sporadic  operation.    Some  ad-hoc  use was made of the
Ecuadorian Development Bank (BEDE), which coordinated the input of various
agencies in evaluating the project after completion. For the future, BEDE
appears to be better placed to carry out a coordinator role.
F. Project Results
27.      The project has succeeded  in  establishing some needed principles
of urban development for the poor, though some additional depth is still
required. Despite being effectively converted into a housing operation



-9-
when  BEV  assumed   its   larger   role   within   the  project  following
restructuring, an increased focus on realistic standards, cost recovery and
community  participation  has   become   important   in   the  thinking  of
institutions concerned with urban  development,  and they have been alerted
to the alternatives to slum clearance.
28.      The aim of  institutional  development  was much less successfully
achieved.    The  project  was  intended  to  have  a  strong institutional
development  effect  on  the  Municipality  of  Guayaquil.         This proved
impossible. Guayaquil has a large population concentration and a strong
desire for political and economic  supremacy within Ecuador.  Conflict with
the national-level  Government  has  been  traditional.    Thus, successive
Central Governments have found it hard to implement its planned development
in Guayaquil. Rapid and unplanned political changes of administration have
meant sweeping personnel changes, with a resulting lack of institutional
memory, and continuous periods of adjustment which are not fully overcome,
resulting in decision-taking for the needs of the moment, rather than for
sustained future development.
29.      The small-scale enterprise component would  have  to be rated as a
failure. It resulted in less than 100 loans and was abandoned early in the
implementation process.   However,  the  Bank  has  been  able to finance a
series of successful small-scale enterprise loans as a part of its work in
the trade, finance and  industrial  sectors.    Though  these loans are for
somewhat larger enterprises (Ecuadorian law defines small-scale enterprises
as those with assets of US$50,000 equivalent and micro-enterprises as those
with assets of US$6,000 equivalent), they provide increased incomes and
employment for many of the people who are in the target group for this
project.
30.      The institution which benefitted most under the project and indeed
the one responsible for its most successful element was BEV, whose housing
loans have proved to be an efficient way of funding housing improvement in
marginal  sectors.      BEV/JNV   had   strong   leadership  during  project
implementation.    A  successful   and  appropriate  system  of  piso/techo
(roof/floor) construction was tried out in Floresta Pilot, which allowed
BEV to better finance Sauces VI and VIII housing units (slightly larger in
size). IBRD and BEDE interventions in the form of financing and technical
support allowed BEV to obtain two further Lank loans (Loans 2135 EC and
2898 EC).2    As  a  result  of  the  project,  BEV  gained experience; its
procedures were broadened beyond the purely physical; and a substantial
number of loans were made to peripheral barrios lacking basic urban
services.
31.      The project has had a positive  spin-off effect in that a locally-
based foundation, 'Plan Internacional" is financing upgrading through
housing loans, working with the Mutualista of Guayaquil in Guasmo.
32.      The estimated economic rate of  return  for the completed parts of
the sites and services component of the project (about 602 of total revised
project cost), not including Aiegria site, is 222 (see page 20).
2 BEDE's participation in project financing represented 3.8 percent of
total investment (para. 43).



- 10 -
33.      Some 7,902 housing loans  were  given  by  BEV  (812 of the number
programmed at appraisal). The average monthly income of loan beneficiaries
was e/ 38,647.   Some  802  of  households  living  in "popular" housint in
elsewhere in Guayaquil have incomes below this level however, indicating a
rather higher beneficiary income than originally targeted at appraisal.
3607 housing units were built by BEV/JNV in Floresta, Sauces VI and VIII.
In Alegria. the Municipality estimates that 1,800 families have benefitted
directly under the project, together with a further 3,200 households
indirectly benefitting from emergency works in marginal areas (the costs of
which are  not  recoverable  from  project  beneficiaries).   10,000 tenure
titles have been legalized by the Municipality. Direct employment created
through the sites and services component amounts to some 800-900 jobs in
construction, and further indirect employment in housing construction
through improvement loans.
34.      The present administration is now  giving greater attention to the
process of producing mass housing, absorbing unskilled labor and addressing
the major problem  of  unemployment  in  the  country.    The project had a
positive impact on alleviating poverty both directly and indirectly,
through the works carried out in Guasmo sector (estimated population
300,000) particularly through the construction of a penetrator road; for
the households living on project sites; and for families benefitting from
loans for the purchase of new housing and improvements to existing housing
in Guasmo, Mapasingte, Duran and the Suburbio.
G. Project Sustainability
35.      The project had mixed results  with regard to sustainability.  The
Municipality was not an effective implementor, and has done little to
initiate sustainable policies, especially with regard to cost recovery in
either the sites and services, upgrading, or markets components. The MOP
implemented its component (identified at project restructuring) efficiently
and correctly; however, it is not equipped to propose or implement cost
recovery of any kind. The lack of cost recovery limits the sustainability
of its involvement. BEV loans under the project to housing beneficiaries
were made at a fixed and rather low (1O0 nominal) interest rate. Though
this is not sustainable, this project was the first in a series of projects
under which BEV became more aware of the need for cost recovery in real
terms.   Cost  recovery  improvements  have  been  implemented  under these
follow-on efforts.
H. Bank Performance
36.      The project is a typical example  of the early generation of urban
pr3jects.    It  had   many   components  and  implementing  agencies,  and
coordination arrangements were weak.    In  addition, the project's targets
(number of units etc.) were    over-ambitious, given the installed capacity
of project institutions; final designs were not available in advance of
implementation; and insufficient attention was given at appraisal to the
sequence of provision of services: for example, BEV low-income housing was
left  unoccupied  on  completion  -   a  contributing  factor  to  squatter
invasions.  Although,   in   general,   the   1985  restructuring  improved
implementation, the Bank made two    major  errors  in agreeing to have the



- 11 -
Municipality retain its responsibility for infrastructure provision for the
Alegria site.   First,  as  should  have  been  foreseen  at  the time, the
Municipality proved itself incapable of completing the site. And second,
the  Bank  agreed  to  split   responsibilities  between  BEVIJNV  and  the
Municipality on the same  site.    As  a  result, the benefits of BEV/JNV's
investments in core housing on the Alegria site are diminished by the
infrastructure deficiencies and the impossibility of cost recovery caused
by the Municipality of Guayaquil's non-performance.
37.        Insufficient attention was given  at appraisal to diagnosing the
Municipality's deficiencies as an institution and in devising a realistic
program for corrective action. At appraisal, the Municipality and the Bank
misunderstood military maps that showed the elevation of Guasmo. As a
consequence, the amount of landfill it would take to eliminate flooding was
substantially underestimated. In fact, it turned out to be impossible to
provide landfill and minimal services in Guasmo on a cost-recovery basis.
The Municipality's shortcomings were easily apparent. It was underfinanced
and limited by national law in its efforts to improve tax assessments and
collections, it was overstaffed with poorly qualified personnel, and its
political leaders had a short time horizon and consequent frequent staff
turnover. Though a long-established, powerful institution, the Municipality
of Guayaquil has historically been limited in its effectiveness. The Bank
should  have   been   more   aware   of   its   potential  shortcomings  in
implementation, and to the extent possible, devised more effective ways of
coming to grips with the institutional weaknesses which became apparent as
*          the project unfolded.
38.      The Bank  also  did  not  supervise  the  project  closely enough.
Supervision missions recognized the need for institutional development, and
a detailed institutional development program (concentrating on municipal
finance and  administration)  was  only  devised  during  the restructuring
mission.   Subsequent  missions  failed  to  follow  up  on this initiative
however, and their lack of attention was not helped by lack of interest on
the part of the  Municipality.    To  a  certain  extent,  in part due to a
succession of project officers being involved with the project, there was a
lack of proper evaluation and supervision of the project on the part of the
Bank.
39.      The lack of interest in  providing community facilities to project
areas on the part of the Ministries of Health and Education is something
which should have been foreseen at appraisal, given the general financial
constraints of the country and the fact that no budget was provided under
the project for implementation of this component. During supervision, the
ministries should have been pressed harder to provide basic facilities on
project sites.
I. Borrower Performance
40.      Overall, all the project units lacked administrative capacity, and
most suffered from  a  lack  of  autonomy.    BEV/JNV  was  however able to
overcome this under a strong leadership from the top management of the



- 12. -
institution, as well as the head of its project unit, during the latter
part of the project period, when 702 of the implementation of its component
was achieved.
41.      An additional problem was the effective division between Quito and
Guayaquil which exists between central and local government, and main and
subsidiary  branches  of  institutions.       This  negatively  affected  the
performance oc the Central Bank, BEV, CENAPIA, and the Municipality.
42.      CENAPIA did not appreciate  the  potential  benefits to it from an
IBRD loan. Regarding the credit component to small enterprises, the high
administrative costs on small loans and the distance of project sites from
Banco del Pacifico's offices made administration difficult, as did the
nature of Guayaquil's mobile and  shifting  population, which does not lend
itself to continuity.
43.      The Central Bank  was  really  not  equipped  to  be the project's
coordinator, and it is questionable whether the Bank should have selected
it for this role: having chosen it, and seen its rather inadequate
performance, the coordinating role should have subsequently been changed to
an institution with more of a stake in the success of the project, and
better equipped to carry it out, such as BEDE (which of course did not
exist at the time of appraisal).    Created  in 1981, BEDE financed part of
the project as one of its first loans and was designated secretary of the
regulating organization for external credits in 1984, undertaking some of
the physical and financial supervision of the project.
44.      The Municipality's performance  in  this  regard  has already been
discussed. Its project unit suffered from a lack of autonomy, and whereas
the structure of BEV allowed it to function when the flow of counterpart
funds was interrupted, the Municipality was unable to withstand financial
strain, and implementation suffered as a result.
45.      The Ministry of Public Works' unit  performed well, in part due to
its direct structure as  part  of  the  main  Ministry.   It had financial,
administrative and operational independence, with a consequent positive
influence on implementation of the works under its charge, which were
executed with greater agility than by other project units.
J. Project Relationship
46.      During the PCR mission a  number of project institutions indicated
a desire to have seen the Bank take a more active supervisory role as
overseer and motivator of project  implementation.   Though the Bank should
have bs,en more assiduous in its supervisory role, it could not have
compensated for the lack of development of an institutional memory among
project institutions.
K. Consulting Services
47.      The financial management study of  the Municipality carried out by
CORPEC was only partially  completed.    A  diagnosis of the Municipality's



- 13 -
financial situation was carried out, and the consultants suggested the
implementation  of  5  financial   administration  projects,  including  an
analysis of all municipal ordinances; modernization of its administration;
computerization; and the creation of global municipal administration
manuals. Terms of reference for a financial diagnosis were produced by the
Instituto Brasileiro de Administracion Municipal, but these were not acted
upon.
48.      An  evaluation  of  the  squatter  upgrading  at  Guasmo utilizing
participant-observation methodology was impaemented by a consultant from
the Bank, and has since been published as a book. An examination of how to
improve development standards was carried out in 1983; engineering and
urban development consultancies were carried out in Alegria in 1982; as
were studies on the level of feasibility of sites and services and a pre-
feasibility  study  of  employment   generation   in  1983.    Consultants'
performance was satisfactory.
49.      The HOP supervised  a  technical  study  for  further sanitary and
infrastructure improvements  in  Guasmo.    Once  the  study was completed,
however, there is no evidence that it was read or acted upon by any of the
relevant authorities.
50.      BEV received  technical  and  administrative  consultancy services
which functioned satisfactorily, particularly in the area of launching a
publicity program.
L. Project Documentation and Data
51.      The legal agreements and SAR were clear and well-written; however
their usefulness war limited given the extended length of time it took to
complete the project and the changing conditions in Ecuador during that
period.
52.      The data  relevant  to  the  production  of  the  PCR were readily
available, both in Bank project files and from the Borrower who made good
use of available data in its own project completion report.



- 14 -
PAR? TI - MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
(Prepared by Borrower)
1.       Followizg the old guidelines for preparation of Project Completion
Reports (PCI), BIDE (Ecuadorian Development Bank) prepared a draft PCR in
Augpst 1988, which incorporated the inputs of the agencies involved in the
project, escept CEUPIA. This draft PCR was used as part of the basis for
the preparation of this PCR.
2:--     Given the time elapsed since  closing  of the loan. it is proposed
that Part SS should not be prepared.



- 15 -
PAW Ill. - BASIC DATA
1. R.A7D UAW LOAM
Loan                                                      Your of
TItte              Purpevv                                Approvel            Status         CG_mnte
6-006-8           Pre-lnv.eteent etudle;t                 08/1977             Co"leted       117S5 a ] iton Lon effective In
Institutional devolop- nt                                                 March  97ti. Cloelne delayed by
meslstence to FI3AM  and the                                              a years. De plt  Initial
Sederian coneulttng industry.                                             difficulties all coepenente *ers
IgIeewntd.  oaod progree  In
Inmtitutioenl devolopmnt of
FiNARE.
2185-EC           To m*u It In financing the              06/04/82            Cloed          dJt.?7 Million tAon effective In
construction of low-Income                                                 1y 198i; cleoing date 08/80/87.
housing and comnity faciltle .                                           Scope expanded an Dec. 84 to
provlelon of credits and baslc                                            Include sub-loans for flood
Infrestruture In urbcn settlo_unt.                                        affected area. Further expenleon
end strengthen BEV and the J*N.                                           In July 67 to 06/80/US for
oerthqualt reconstructIon earks.
28W9FEC            Incrmlng production of lo-            01/12/88            Ongoln        ttiO mliI Ion Lan *ffcti vs
incas. hlauing; Iprove reaurce                                           09/80/88; expected closing date
mabillastimn and *llocatIon In thc                                        12/81/98;
housing sector; strengthening of                                          expected coepl-tlon date 06/80/90.
fInencs,l admi* nsltrative end                                            Project lIplemntatlon undor y
productive efficiency of EV/MV;                                           after disruption due to pre- end
and fostering private contricter/                                         poet-eletlon ectivitles.
developers' participation.



- 16 -
2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__
Item                    Date
Planned                 Revised                  Actual
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__
Identification         08/77                                            Oe/78-12/78
Preparation            10/77-11177                                      11/77
Appraisal Mission                                                        11/26/78-12/14/78
Loan Negotiations                                                       10/15/79-10/23/79
Board Approval                                                          12/11/79
Loan Signature                                                           05/09/80
Loan Effectiveness                                                       10/31/80
Loan Closing           06/30/1985               06/30/86 &
12131/86                06/30/87
Loan Completion        12/31/84                 06/30/86                 12/31/86
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__
3. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
3.1 Snmmary of Disbursements
--------------_---------------------------------------------__---------------__
Sum Assigned            US$ million        2 used
disbursed
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__
Municipality
Executing Unit                       7,930.0                 4,693.5            59
BIRF-BEV                           18,910.0                 18,777.7            99
J,IRF-MOP                            3,370.0                 2,243.5            67
CENAPIA                                120.0                     69.3           58
EDUCATION MINISTRY                     170.0                      _
UNALLOCATED                            500.0
TOTAL                              31,000.0                 25,783.9            83



- 17 _
Date of Final Disbursements February 19881/
Time Line:
1979 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__
Municipality                               -----------------
BIRFIBEV                                 _________
CENAPIA                                        ----------------
MOP                                                          -----
1/ Account remained opened beyond closing date because initial deposit to the
Special Account was not fully recovered until that date.
8.2 Cumulative Estimated and Actual Wlsbursemnte
(US$ ml lI l on)
Bank FY          1980      1961     1982     1983     1964      1986     1988     1967      1998
Appraisal        0.4       6.9      14.8     28.8     29.3      81.0     -        -        -
Actual           -         0.8      2.2      8.0      8.8       6.0      16.3     22.1     26.8



- 18 -
4. PROJECT ZHPLEMENTATION
Indicators                  Appraisal                     Actual
Estimate                     Estimate
(# of Beneficiaries)         (# of Beneficiaries)
-----------------------------------------------------------__----------------__
a) Sites and Services       3,700 Households              5,407 Households
b) Upgrading areas          6,400 Households              3,200 Households
c) Small-scale Enterprise    5,000 New Jobs               4,500 New Jobs
d) Housing Loans            9,700 Loans                   7,902 Loans
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__
TOTAL BENEFICIARIES         24,800                        21,009
c) Community Facilities
- Schools                  5 Units
- Health Centers           3 Units
- Markets                  5 Units                       2
d) Urban Development
- Housing Loans            9,700                         7,902
- Titles                                                 10,000



- 19 -
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Estimated and Actual Project Costs
---------------------------------------------------------------__---------
Appraisal                        Actual
(US$ million)  (2)               (US$m)          (X)
------------------------------------------------------------------__------
Support to Small
Scale Enterprises         10.8             21               0.17            1.6
Services to Low
Income Areas              24.2             47              22.7             93.8
Housing Loans             16.6             32              14.1             84.9
TOTAL                     51.6             100             37.0             71.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------__--
The exchange rate used at appraisal was s/ 25=US$ 1, whereas the average
actual value between April 1981 and March 1988 was e/ 114-US$l. Inflation
ran at 4562 during the period November 1979 and March 1988.
W. Sources of Funding
Appraisal                              Actual
(US$ million)                          (No Data
Available)
Support   Services         Housing   TOTAL
to SSE's  to LIG's         Loans
-----------------------------------------------------------------__-------
IBRD             4.3        15.5             11.2       31.0
Govt.            0.3          0.9              -         1.2
Banco del        2.7           -               -         2.7
Pacifico
SSE Revolv.      2.2           -                         2.2
Fund
SSE's            1.3           -               -         1.3
BEV                 -         0.4              5.4       5.8
Municip.            -         7.4              -         7.4
TOT---------------10.8-----------24-------2-----16.6-----------51------_6-
TOTAL            10.8       24.2             16.6        51.6



- 20 -
6. PROJECT RESULTS
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators             Appraisal           Actual
Estimate           Estimate
-----------------------------------------------------------__---_-________
a) Beneficiaries       24,800              21,009
b) Job Generation      16,000 (1)          5,400
c) Revenue Effect      17-192              22.42
d) Poverty Impact      162 (2)             8.02 (2)
----------------------------------------------------------_----------_-__-
11 Estimated as a total  of  owners  and workers  to be  involved  in
participating enterprises and employment generation expected from
construction works.
2/ New housing among the lowest 502 of income distribution.
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal          Actual
Estimate           (At Final Devt.)
----------------------------------------------------------------__--------
Economic Rate of Return
Sites & services          17-192              222
Underlying Assumptions:
The rate of return used in the PCR has been calculated from BEV sites only.
No ERR was calculated for the Municipality's component since it was not
completed and part of its allocation was utilized in works not originally
included. The final sale price of some Alegria units had still not been
finalized at the time of the PCR mission as agreement had not been reached
on it between BEV and the Municipality; the changing rate of inflation
prevailing at that time meant that final costs could not accurately be
determined; and the greater part of Block B had been invaded by squatters.
The rate of return calculations assume that:
i) the investments made during the period 1981-87 have been converted
into December 1987 prices;
ii)  the number of units is equal to the number of housing loans given,
and that no distinction has been made between loans for the
purchase of new housing and housing improvements;
iii) the gains per unit for the year 1981 have been modified in
conformity with the annual variation in the consumer price index;
iv)  an allowance  of  32  of  the  capital  value  has  been made for
depreciation and maintenance of the houses;
v) the income per unit has been calculated by subtracting the loan
repayment from the imputed annual rent OR on the basis of
increases in rental values.
Comments: BEV's outgoings on interest and amortization of the loans from
IBRD and BEDE have not been included in the rate of return calculations,
which would further reduce its percentage.



- 21 -
C. Financial Impact
Not Relevant.
D. Studies
Purpose as
Defined at                     Impact
Appraisal            Status    of Study
Studies
1. Finance &                  To improve its                 Implemented
management of                 financial                       1982.
Municipality                  management.
2. Monitoring &                                              Contracted; not
evaluation (municipal.)                                      implemented.
3. Future project                                            Not implemented.
preparation (municipal.)
4. Review of                  To facilitate                  Implemented
Municipality's                upgrading &                     1983.
urban devt. regs.             sites & services
4. Master Plan for                                           Implemented.
drainage, Guasmo
S. Anthropological                                           Implemented.
study of Guasmo
6. Feasibility studies                                       Implemented.
for sites & services;
prefeasibility study
for employment generation.
Comments: 1. The Municipality did little to mobilize consultants for
production of a work program, through a coordinator for the study was
designated. The study was dropped at the Municipality's request because of
the length of time required to complete it. The Bank was asked to consider
its inclusion under a future project.
4. The Master Plan for drainage in Guasmo experienced difficulties in
execution,  principally  because  of   coordination  problems  between  the
Ministry of Public Works and the Municipality (Empresa de Alcantarillado de
Guayaquil).
I



- 22 -
7. LOAN COVENANTS
Status of Special Covenants In the Loon Agreements
Loan Agreement Section                   Comments
8.01 (a) The Borrower to carry out the project   Continuing coupterpart funding
with th- participation of project        probl"e  affected components
entitles and provide funds, etc. on *   of Municipality of Oumyaquil.
timly basis.
3.02 (a) Borrower to cause Municipality to        Managemnt problems slowed
maintain adequately staffed project      lmplemntation progrSe.
unit.
8.02 (d) Carry out a Financial Management         Study continuously delyed
Study in Municipality,                   until insufficlent time
remained prior to loan closing.
8.02 (g) Municipality to provide land-titling    Upgrading eliminated on project
assistance to benefticiaries,            restructuring.
8.03 (a) BEV to establish satisfactory project   Staffing changes in BEV/JNV
Office.                                  project office resulted in
delayed implementation.
8.04 (a) Agreement between Municipality and       There was an almost total
BEV/JNV to coordinate participation      abtence of coordination between
under project.                           thes" *gneTes.
8.04 (b) Definition of (i) functional             No progress.
responsibilities under above
coordinated participation; and (ii)
beneficiary selection criteria for
affected project housing sites.
8.06     Ministries of Neslth and Education       Not completed.
to staff, operate and maintain
comunity facilities.
3.09 (b) Borrower to maintain adequate records   Audits for Municipality were
on costs and benefits.                   consistently qualified regarding
project records. As per BEV/JNV the
first audit of project accounts gave
rise to some reservotions, which
were cleared in subsequent years.
4.03 (a) Each participating entity to establish  Auditors reports for Municipality
and maintain separate project accounts  A"D BEv/JNV for FY 1984 identified
on a satisfactory bass,                  deficiencies in project control
procedures.
4.08 (b) Each participsting entity to furnish    Audit reports normally late and
the Bank with audited accounts on a      qualified.
timly basis.



- 23 -
S. USE OF SAW hOCES
A. Staff I"put, (Staff-06.h.)
Stage of
Project Cycl-        1978      1979      1980      1981      1982       198       1984      1985    l88       1987      1988      1989      TOTAL
Through App..a*i    66.0       7O.8                                                                                                          141.8
Appr..ael through                                                                                                                            0.0
Bo'rd Preseotation             26.0                                                                                                          26.0
Board Appro.al                                                                                                                               0.0
Through Effect.                          3.0                                                                                                 3.0
Supor,laimo                              27.8      17.8       11.4      16.8     8.9        6.6      7.4       6.2       8.2       1.8       112.9
Co" lotion                                                                                                               0.5       3.0       3.5
TOTAL                66.0      101.8    30.8       17.8       11.4      16.8      8.9       6.6      7.4       6.2       8.7       4.8       287.2



- 24
eU. Fi _I en
Stage of           Month    "usber of Day. In  Soelsllzation        Performanco         Type of         Comento
Project Cyclo      year      Peroon.  Field      Repreaented 1/      Ratina/Statu- 2/   Peoblea 3/
Through AppraialI  08/77     1         6
11/71     1        7         C
12/77     1         1i       EC
04/7      a         14 U      Ec,C                                                    Project Identfication
08/7t     1         2         EC                                                      Prpar.tloion Miaiou
08/78     7         12        F, C, ES                                               Pre-Apprsal Miamion
Appraisel through  12/78     7         22        EC, C                                                   Appralal  iasimn
Brd Preeantetloun   02/79    3         4         Ec, Arq, Lo
04/79    S          7         Ee, F, La
0O/79     1         9         Ec.
08/79     3         12        Ec, La
09/79    2          30        Ec, F Le, Arq                                           Project Negotiations
Ord App. (12/79)   01/80     3         12        EC, Le, En         2                   Fi. P
through Effect.                                                      1                   0
(10/80)
05/s.    4          13        EC, sE   f, S      2                   H. P
I                  a
Super-lalon        12/60     3         5         Ee, En, F           2                   1M, P
1             ~~~~0
03/81     2         3         EC, C
05/81     1         4         Ec                 2                    P,H,
i                  0
01/82     2         5         EC, En             2                    P, F
i                  a
04/82     2         S         EC, En              2                   P
1                  F, 0
07/82    2          7        F, IS, En           S                   P, 0
2                   F
08/82     2         5         Ec. En             2                    F, P,
1                  0
12/82    2         S         F, IS, En           3                   P, M. T
02/83     1         5         F                                                       Operational Mission
03/83     1         4         F                                                       Limited Sup. Miaion
05/63     1         7         Ec                                                     Retructuring ProposAl
07/83     1         1         F
11/63     1        28        F
11/85     I         10       F                   2                   F, M
08/86     3         15        Ec. C
12/87    3         11        Ec, C, F
03/68     1         6        Ec                   3                   S
08/88     1         1         .c                 3                   S
10/88     1        4         F
11/as    2          17       Ec, C
12/88     1        3         Ec
01/89     1         11        C                                                       Project C. Report
03/89     1         J4        Ec                                     F
i/ FA. Financial Analyst; Cm  Consultant;  Sec  Economist  En- Engineer; Sm  Sociologist;  IS. Institutional Specialist; Arc.
Architect; La- Legal; Los Leon Officer
2/ 1- Minor Probl%es; 2m Moderate Problems; 3m Msjor Problem.
3/ F. Flnsncll;    H Managerial; T. Technical; P. Pollticl; Sm Overall Status; O- Other



iso
I~".



