Document of               FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2648-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
GUAYAQUIL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 20, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              Sucre (SI.)
Calendar 1978    November 1, 1979
US$1                =      SI. 25               S/. 25
SI. 1              5       US$0.04             US$0.04
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BEV           -   Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda
(Ecuadorian Housing Bank)
BP            -   Banco del Pacifico
(a Guayaquil commercial bank)
CENAPIA       -   Centro Nacional de Peque'nia Industria y Artesania
(National Small-scale Enterprise and Artisan Center)
FONAPAR       -   Fondo Nacional de Participaciones
(a national fund used to finance local government programs)
IESS          -   Instituto Ecuatoriano de Seguro Social
(Ecuadorian Social Security Institute)
JUNAPLA       -   Junta Nacional de Planificacion
(National Planning Board)
JNV           -   Junta Nacional de la Vivienda
(National Housing Board)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUA)C~
GUAYAQUIL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Ecuador
Beneficiaries:      Municipality of Guayaquil, Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vlivienda
(BEV), Banco del Pacifico and other participating private
banks
Amount:             US$31.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Payable in 17 years, including four years of grace,
at 7.95 percent interest per annum
Relending Terms:   The Central Bank, acting as agent for the Borrower, would
onlend the loan's proceeds to all beneficiaries at the
same interest as the proposed Bank loan. It would also
absorb the foreign exchange risk on the loan. Commercial
banks participating in the small enterprise credit program
would rediscount up to 70 percent of their subloans with
the Central Bank. The maturities on Central Bank on-
lending to commercial banks would vary depending on the
terms of each bank's subloans. Eighty percent of these
are expected to be repaid in 2-3 years although some
subloans for construction will have 12 year amortization
periods. BEV and the Municipality would repay funds onlent
to them by the Central Bank for housing loans and services
to low-income areas over 17 years, including 4 years of
grace.  The Borrower would assume the commitment charge
and interest on the Bank loan for the Municipality during
the grace period.
Project
Description:      The project's dual objectives are (i) to provide improved
shelter to 12,700 households and employment to about 5,000
persons, thus benefitting some 100,000 people or 10 percent
of Guayaquil's population and (ii) to develop institutional
capacity to address urban needs on a larger scale both in
Guayaquil and nationwide. Nearly 90 percent of project
investment is targeted to help families whose incornes are
below Guayaquil's absolute poverty threshold. The project
includes three major components: loans and technical
assistance to small-scale enterprises, slum upgrading plus
sites-and-services development, and loans for housing
construction and improvement.  Since a multi-sector urban
project of this nature has not been implemented beEore in
Ecuador, there is a risk that management problems might
occur due to inexperience. However, technical assistance
and close supervision have been built into project design
to reduce this risk.
This document hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
Estimated Costs:
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Local     Foreign      Total
A. Support to small-scale
enterprise                     5.9         3.3         9.2
B. Services to low-income areas:
Upgrading                      6.2         0.2         6.4
Sites and Services             6.3         0.1         6.4
Community infrastructure       2.9         0.8         3.7
Assistance to Municipality   0.9           0.5         1.4
C.  Housing Loans                    13.2        0.5        13.7
D.  Physical contingencies            1.8        0.2         2.0
Price contingencies              7.6         1.2         8.8
Total               44.8         6.8        51.6
Financing Plan:    Bank                              24.2         6.8       31.0
Government                       1.2           -         1.2
Housing Bank                     5.8           -         5.8
Municipality                     7.4           -         7.4
Commercial banks                 2.7           -         2.7
SSE Revolving Fund               2.2           -         2.2
Small-scale enterprises          1.3           -         1.3
Total               44.8         6.8        51.6
Estimated                        ----------- US$ thousands by Bank FY -----------
Disbursements:                 1980      1981      1982     1983      1984    1985
Annual        380    6,600    7,780    8,530    5,970   1,740
Cumulative   380    6,980   14,760   23,290   29,260  31,000
Rate of Return:    18 percent for all components which have quantifiable
benefits, which represent 70 percent of project investment.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           Report No. 2415-EC, dated November 9, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR FOR A
GUAYAQUIL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of US$31.0 million to
help finance a Guayaquil Urban Development Project.  The loan would have a
term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.95 percent
per annum. The proceeds of the Loan would be relent to the Banco Ecuatoriano
de la Vivienda (BEV) and the Municipality of Guayaquil for 17 years, including
four years of grace, at the same interest rate as the proposed loan. In
addition, Banco del Pacifico and other qualifying banks would rediscount up
to 70 percent of their subloans for small-scale enterprises with the Central
Bank at 7.95 percent interest. The maturities on Central Bank onlending to
eligible commercial banks would vary depending on the terms of each bank's
subloans.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 2373-EC
entitled "Development Problems and Prospects of Ecuador: Special Report" was
distributed to the Executive Directors on June 18, 1979.  This President's
Report incorporates the main conclusions of the economic report. Annex I
summarizes the main social and economic indicators.
Growth
3.        During the past six years, the Ecuadorian economy has experienced
rapid economic growth spurred mainly by exports. Between 1972 and 1978, GDP
grew at an 8.9 percent annual rate in real terms and by 1978 the country's per
capita income stood at US$910.
4.        Petroleum was the main engine of growth through 1976, despite a
decline in the volume uf its exports since 1974. This decline in volume not-
withstanding, petroleum (crude and derivatives) still accounted for 42 percent
of the value of goods exports in 1978.
5.        While economic growth continued to be high in both 1977 and 1978--
with increases of the GDP equal to 7.7 percent and 5.3 percent respectively--
it has been nonetheless lower than the average growth of 10.2 percent during
the 1972-76 period. The sources of most recent growth were different. Agri-
cultural export prices increased rapidly in 1977, and preserved the growth
momentum; increased volume of exports of agricultural products in 1978 lent
buoyancy to the economy. Increased exports were the combined result of good
banana and cacao crops and of the sale of coffee stocks.



6.        Economic activity in 1978 was also partly affected by factors other
than the impact of international markets. Uncertainty as to the outcome of
elections and to some extent scarce credit availability contributed to a
sLowdown in the rate of new private investment, which, while it increased by
over 19 percent in 1977, remained practically unchanged during 1978.
Social Development and Change
7.        Despite the rapid economic growth which led to the present relatively
high average per capita income level, much of the Ecuadorian population
continues to live in poverty. In 1975, the average annual per capita income
of the poorest 25 percent of urban dwellers represented less than one-fifth of
the country average per capita income and the corresponding figure in the
countryside was much lower. While open unemployment is only about three
percent of the country's labor force, underemployment is estimated to be as
high as 30 percent. Highly concentrated ownership of land and other produc-
tive resources, low rates of retention in primary schools and poor health
conditions have limited the access of the poor to income-producing assets.
The high rate of population growth -- 3.4 percent per annum -- remains another
impediment to the solution of underemployment and poverty.
8.        During the past decade -- and in particular during the years follow-
ing the beginnings of oil exploitation (1972) and the increase of petroleum
export prices (1973) -- an important urban middle class has emerged. It is
composed mainly of entrepreneurs, civil servants -- who account for over
10 percent of urban employment -- and of employees of the modern sectors.
This urban middle class has been growing both in size and in relative income
and has been the major beneficiary of recent economic growth.
9.        Despite the considerable movement of the rural population to the
cities -- the share of city dwellers in total population changed from 28.5
percent in 1950 to 41.6 percent in 1975 -- the economy and society of Ecuador
still suffer from a pronounced dualistic structure. The indigenous population
of Ecuador accounts for over one-third of total population, and it is in this
group, settled predominantly in rural areas, as well as within the marginal
urban population, that the poverty roots are deeply anchored. This population
has a lower average level of productivity and benefits considerably less from
basic infrastructure -- education, public utilities, roads -- than other
segments of the population.
10.       The Ecuadorian administration is increasingly aware of the need to
integrate social policy with general development policy. In the rural areas,
the strategy of rapid agricultural growth is now pursued in a context of regional
development. In the urban areas, increasing attention is given to small and
medium-scale enterprises and to exportable labor-intensive manufactured goods.
These are, however, only the first steps in a long and intricate process of
increased attention to social needs.
Basic External and Internal Financial Equilibria
11.       Rapid increases in world prices for Ecuadorian agricultural exports
largely contributed to the maintenance of the overall buoyancy of the economy
during 1977-1978.  It also led to substantial gains in income.  These



-3 -
factors, coupled with slow growth of the domestic supply of food, resulted
in inflationary pressures. A strong and decisively implemented monetary and
credit policy and heavy food imports helped to curb these pressuires.  As a
consequence, the annual rise in consumer prices did not surpass an annual
average of 12 percent in the period 1976-1978 and is expected to remain near
11 percent in l179.
12.       Durirn, 1970-78, Ecuadorian imports increased at an average rate of
9.8 percent in real ter--. The main rorces behind this increase were:
(i) the high invest-ent rates achieved during the period and the related demand
for imported capita-l goods, mainly for the industrial and transport sectors;
(ii) the steep demaa.d for inputs by the industrial sector; and (iii) the
growing demand for some imported agricultural products.
13.       Real exports of goods were increasing by 9.7 percent during 1970-78.
Petroleum was responsible for most of this growth, since non-oil exports
remained practically constant in real terms between 1970 and 1977. The
resource gap has been low, even in the past few years, when petroleum exports
declined from 59 million barrels in 1973 to 42 million barrels in 1978. It
was only 0.7 percent of GDP in 1977, and was insignificant in 1978.  The
current account balance of payments deficit was equivalent to 2.2 percent of
GDP, but may increase substantially in 1979 despite price rises for crude
oil exports, due to an expected 81 percent increase in factor payments.
14.       Fiscal policies in the 1976-78 period were clearly expansiornary and
monetary growth accompanying them was strong throughout the first half of 1977.
While revenues remained constant, budgetary expenditures grew by 12.7 percent
in 1977 in spite of a fall by 20 percent in capital expenditures compared
to 1976. The General Government sector deficit increased from 2.4 percent of GDP
in 1976 to 4.1 percent in 1977 and 7.3 percent in 1978. In order to stem this
trend and minimize the inflationary impact of fiscal policies, fiscal autho-
rities turned strongly to foreign borrowing and launched sales of foreign-
currency denominated bonds in the domestic capital market. Starting in mid-
1977, the monetary authorities introduced restrictive credit policies which
resulted in a decline in the rate of growth of money and quasi-money f.rom 35
percent in 1976 to 20 percent by the end of 1977, and to 12 percent in 1978.
These credit restrictions resulted in a considerable reduction in private
sector investment during 1978.
15.       As financing of the fiscal deficit was increasingly sought :in external
financial markets, public external debt outstanding at the end of 1977 grew
by 58.9 percent compared with the end of 1976. Terms, maturity and grace
periods of the newly contracted debt hardened as most of this new debt: was
provided by commercial sources. Ecuador's debt-service ratio increased from
4.5 percent in 1975 to 12 percent in 1978. The Government made efforl's during
1978 to soften the accumulated debt by being more careful in the choice of
foreign credits used to finance part of its deficit and, at the beginning of
1979, was able to renegotiate US$510 million -- or about one quarter of its
foreign debt -- contracted on the least advantageous terms, in order to
improve the debt profile and lighten the future debt-service burden. Pre-
payment of these hard-term loans during 1979 will raise the debt-service
ratio for this year to 33.1 percent, although the ratio without the prepayment
would only be 9.8 percent.



-4-
Sectoral Developments
16.       Domestic consumption of petroleum and of its products has been
growing at 16 percent per annum in the last several years.  By 1977, -re-tAfrd
of the country's petroleum output was consuned internally. Although the
growth rate of domestic consumption is expected to slow in the coming years
as a result of the lower GDP growth rate, the amount of petroleum available
for export may still continue to decline, limiting the country's import
capacity. Under these circumstances, and unless new petroleum resources are
discovered and exploited, the country's import capacity would become a serious
constraint to the zrowth of the economy.
17.       The decline in the volume of petroleum exports may slow down if
Ecuador resumes oil exploration, which has slackened in the past few years.
Investment in rehabilitation of known oil fields will also be needed. To
accomplish improved oil exports, two main economic decisions will have to
be implemented -- first, the decision to invest substantially in oil explor-
ation -- whether with own resources or through risk-taking foreign enterprise,
and, second, the decision to increase domestic prices of petroleum. Petro-
leum prices in Ecuador are among the lowest in the world -- less than 20O
per gallon of gasoline -- and this has largely stimulated the excessive
domestic consumption.
18.       The agricultural potential of Ecuador is at present largely under-
utilized and could be used both as an engine for medium-term growth and
as a means to alleviate social inequities. Ecuador has enough fertile land
to expand agricultural and livestock output at a reasonable cost. Its forestry
and fisheries potential is also considerable.  While increases in produc.ion
of crops and livestock should mainly satisfy the domestic demand, forestry and
fisheries products could be directed to' the foreign markets. In particular,
the agricultural potential of one important region of the country -- the
Costa -- is very substantial. New regional institutions have been created in
order to manage the development of these zones. The use of new lands, better
access to land ownership or rental in traditional agricultural regions, and
improved techniques of cultivation could slow down the rural exodus, relieve
the pressure on urban labor markets, and improve the distribution of income.
19.       The industrial sector of Ecuador, representing 17.8 percent of the
country's GDP, should help in sustaining moderate growth in the next several
years. Ecuadorian industry, predominantly privately owned, has been largely
geared to import-substitution in consumer goods, and has been operating in a
strongly protective environment. This has deflected entrepreneurs' interest
from transformation of the couintry's natural resources. Moreover, with the
relative prices of capital and labor distorted by the system of investment
incentives, making the price of capital relatively cheaper than it would have
otherwise been, compared with the cost of labor, production techniques have
become increasingly capital-intensive. These investment policies in the
past have been largely responsible for discouraging the industrial sector
from involvement in activities in which it could have a strong comparative
advantage. Measures to change such policies have been discussed within the



previous Ecuadorian Government. Their final design and implementattion, to
be decided by the newly elected Government, could have an important effect
on restructuring the industrial sector, and should then result in a stronger,
more efficient growth pattern. This will require, in particular, changes in
tariff, price and interest policies in order to strengthen sectors with more
favorable export prospects and to reduce the possibility that inefficient
industries be established.
Outlook
20.       In the recent past, the overall economic management in Ecuador
could be considered relatively adequate, although there were serious weaknesses
in public administration. The Government has resisted the temptation to sink
oil revenues into wasteful and grandiose schemes and has, instead, used the
proceeds of petroleum exports for more modest investment projects, generally
corresponding to real needs of the economy. It has also fostered a climate
conducive to increased private investment which resulted in an acceleration
of the industrialization process.
21.       Ecuador's GDP growth rate is estimated to have declined to around
5 pe-cent in 1979 -- in spite of favorable oil prices -- as a combined result
of a very low rate of growth of agriculture, stagnation in petroleum production
and lagging investment. In the medium term, the Ecuadorian econoniy has only
fair growth prospects. The external sector may not exert in the luture as
strong a growth-propelling role on the economy as in the past, mainly because
oil exports are expected to continue their decline and agricultural exports
may be constrained by price trends and prospects of the international markets.
While the prospects of the Ecuadorian economy could be strengthened through
timely implementation of improved policies in the petroleum, agriculture and
manufacturing sectors, it is now clear that a growth pattern of about 5 percent
yearly will require recourse to increased external borrowings.
22.       Ecuador has considerable natural and human resource potential.  To
develop it fully and efficiently, far reaching changes in its economic policies
are needed. Some were initiated by the previous Government but more remains
to be done by the new Administration. The size of the country's foreign debt
is not excessive and its recent and successful efforts to improve the debt
structure should make its debt service payments manageable. Therefore, Ecuador
remains creditworthy for borrowing on conventional terms. It wilL need to use
this borrowing capacity.  Its net external borrowing needs (and the debt service
ratio) could more than double in real terms between 1979 and the mid-1980's in
spite of policy improvements, since the medium-term prospects for non-oil exports
are not buoyant and the volume of oil exports will fall in the medium-term even
if significant domestic petroleum price rises are undertaken. Real domestic
price rises would decrease private savings and the higher public revenues should
be rapidly spent, given the many pressures for expanded social outlays. To
help meet the need for additional external resources, we, therefore, recommend
a significant share of local cost financing by official lenders.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
23.       Bank group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954 when a loan
was made for a first highway project. In all, the Bank and IDA have extended
23 loans and six credits to Ecuador, totalling US$334.7 million net of
cancellations. As of October 31, 1979, US$178.6 million of this amount had
been disbursed. The IFC has made eight loans and investment commitments in
Ecuador. Two were for a large textile company, four in a development finance
company and one each in a sugar mill and a cement company. These operations
have amounted to US$22.4 million in commitments of which IFC now holds
US$18.5 million.
24.       Execution of Bank Group financed projects has often been hampered
by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity. This, in turn, reflects
the insufficiency of the country's public sector managerial and technical
resources--a constraint that is still a serious obstacle to Ecuador's eco-
nomic and social development. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC operations as of October 31, 1979, as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
25.       Bank and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transport and power, where there were--and still are--substantial bottlenecks
to be overcome. To date, approximately 34 percent of Bank Group lending has
been for transport. Six of the eight loans and credits extended for trans-
port were to improve the country's road network and two to help finance the
expansion of the port of Guayaquil. Lending for power has aimed at improving
generation and distribution facilities in Quito. The first livestock develop-
ment loan, approved in FY67, marked the beginning of a diversification in the
Bank Group's lending program away from straight infrastructure. Since then,
the Bank Group has made eight loans and credits for agriculture and fisheries,
four DFC loans to support industrial development, a credit and a loan for
education, one loan for water supply and two technical assistance loans. Bank
Group involvement in the directly productive and social sectors has grown to
the point where it now accounts for about 56 percent of total Bank Group lending.
26.       Turning to the future, Bank lending will continue to assist in
(i) the creation of a physical and social infrastructure base capable of
fostering development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors; (iii) the strengthening of agencies to implement projects effec-
tively; and (iv) the improvement of living conditions for the urban and
rural poor.  In addition to the urban development project which this report
recommends, the Bank is preparing a feeder road-cum-maintenance project,
a second rural development operation, a small scale industrial credit project
and a petroleum project. Most of these operations would have important
institution building aspects and include sizable technical assistance components.
27.       Substantial development financing has also been provided to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and USAID and, to a lesser
extent, by other bilateral sources. IDB has been, by far, the single largest



-7-
lender to Ecuador. Its commitments to the country as of September 30, 1979
totalled US$594.6 million equivalent. Past IDB lending has been concentrated
in the agriculture, power, health/sanitation and transport fields. Most of
IDB's loans to the country have come from the Fund for Special Operations and
normally carry two percent interest, a 10 year grace period and repaymient
terms of up to 40 years. It is likely that IDB will remain Ecuador's major
development lender in the immediate future with agriculture and irrigation
accounting for an increasingly large share of its lending program. USAID,
which has lent Ecuador US$103.6 million equivalent, has not made any new
commitments to the country since 1973. Recently, however, this agency has
expressed an interest in renewing its operations in the country beginning in
1980, primarily in the rural development sector.
28.       As of December 31, 1978, Ecuador's outstanding public external
debt, including undisbursed, amounted to about US$2.3 billion. Bank Group
lending constituted about 12 percent of this amount and absorbed about 3.6
percent of the Government's external debt service. IDB lending was equivalent
to about 21 percent of Ecuador's debt and USAID accounted for about 5 percent.
Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral debt, by
1985 the Bank's share of Ecuador's outstanding public foreign debt could reach
17 percent and its share in debt service would climb to around 12 percent.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
General Characteristics
29.       Urbanization in Ecuador has been rapid in recent decades, sp,urred on
by migration from rural areas. Forty-two percent of the total population, or
3.3 million persons, currently live in urban areas. The two largest cities
are Guayaquil and Quito, with about 1,000,000 and 750,000 inhabitants, respec-
tively. Urban job opportunities, however, have not kept up with the growth of
the cities. The urban population increases by 4.4 percent each year, but
urban employment has been growing by only 3.6 percent annually.  The result is
increasing unemployment and underemployment. The distribution of incomes in
cities is also highly skewed. The poorest 20 percent of the urban population
receive only 3 percent of total urban income and an estimated 40 percent of
the urban population, over 1,000,000 people, survive on incomes so low they
cannot afford a calorie-adequate diet.
30.       A portion of job seekers are absorbed by the labor-intensive small
firm subsector. An estimated 75 percent of all industrial employment is
generated by these small enterprises. To survive and expand, small entrepre-
neurs must overcome several constraints. They lack access to reasonably
priced credit and must often rely on suppliers' credits at interest rates
of 25-40 percent per year or borrow from money-lenders at 10-20 percent per
month. In addition, to grow beyond the artisan level, many entrepreneurs
would require additional management skills.
31.       Social infrastructure provided by the public sector during lthe
1970's has largely benefited the cities rather than the rural areas. Yet
about a third of urban residents are still without access to piped waiter, even



- 8 -
from public standpipes. These people rely mainly on tanker trucks for water,
although this system is inconvenient, unsanitary and costs 25 times as much
per liter as piped water. Nearly half of urban households are without adequate
sewerage and drainage services, adding to sanitation problems.
32.       The housing deficit in Ecuador was estimated by the National Planning
Board (JUNAPLA) at 485,000 units in 1977. Despite the construction of 98,000
units by major public sector housing agencies and the private sector as part
of a national program during the 1974-77 period, the deficit continues to
grow.  As elsewhere, most of new public housing in Ecuador is only accessible
to middle income groups. Generally, houses built by the Ecuadorian Housing
Bank (BEV) cost between US$4,000 and US$18,000 which, without subsidies, is
unaffordable to nearly half of Ecuador's urban population. To date, houses
contracted through the Ecuadorian Social Security Institute (IESS) have cost
over US$10,000 and the savings and loan associations finance even more expen-
sive homes.
Urban Development Institutions
33.       At the national level, the National Housing Board (JNV) is charged
by Government with overall responsibility for housing sector policy, especially
for low-income housing. BEV, which has the same president as JNV, serves as
both the financing and construction agency for public housing efforts. Both
institutions are technically and financially competent, have grown rapidly in
the 1970's, and have developed some low-cost housing on an experimental
scale in rural areas. However, they have provided little financing for home
improvement or self-help housing, and have not yet been able to respond to the
demand for very low-cost urban housing on any significant scale. BEV's reliance
on cement-block, fully serviced units has kept shelter costs prohibitively
high for low income families.
34.       At the local level, municipal institutions in Ecuador are generally
inefficient and limited in their technical and revenue-collecting capabilities.
Utilities services in the larger cities are managed by public companies, which
also suffer from financial and management limitations. The Central Government
has become heavily involved in the decisions of city administrations and
also provides approximately 60 percent of the municipalities' funds. The
National Participation Fund (FONAPAR) was established in 1973 when the Central
Government took over collection of beer, coffee, cigarette and some income
taxes previously collected by cities. FONAPAR has annual revenues of over
US$100 million, a major portion of which is redistributed to the municipalities
to meet current expenditures. FONAPAR allocations for investment are made
only after spending plans are approved by JUNAPLA and the Finance Ministry.
Urban Poverty in Guayaquil
35.       Guayaquil shares many problems typical of coastal cities in Latin
America. It became important as a river port and commercial center. In the
1960's with annual increase in population of up to seven percent, it was
one of the continent's fastest growing cities. The growth rate is now 4.6
percent, still high enough to imply a doubling of population by the year 2000.
Its geographic expansion, however, has been constrained by the Guayas River,



- 9 -
estuaries, hills, and seasonal flooding (see the attached Map). The c:Lty
center has, therefore, became densely populated (over 60,000 people per square
kilometer), with nearly 200,000 people crowded into slum apartments. lMany
of these tenement houses are now being torn down and replaced by commercial
buildings, forcing the swampy or hilly areas surrounding the center to absorb
larger numbers of poor families.
36.       Guayaquil's climate is tropical; flooding and stagnant pools of
water after heavy rains are common. However, this has not stopped a growing
number--about half of the city's residents--from seeking housing in the
Suburbio, the city's oldest and largest slum, where migrants began building
cane houses on poles over marshland years ago. Residents of this area now
number half a million. The Municipality has at times deposited its garbage
around blocks in the Suburbio as a form of landfill. Public water and
electricity have been supplied to the more consolidated parts of this zone,
but sewerage installation is only now beginning. Consequently, the death rate
from sanitation-related diseases in Guayaquil is higher than in other urban
areas of Ecuador. At the southwestern edge of the Suburbio, settlers continue
to put up temporary houses on poles over water and live without public, services.
The process is coming to an end, however, as the Suburbio spreads out towards
an estuary which is a natural boundary to its growth.
37.       As a result, squatter invasions have begun to the north and south
of central Guayaquil. The most rapidly growing invasion is in the south,
in a municipally owned area called Guasmo. Guasmo's lowlands are subJect to
seasonal flooding. Despite this fact, during the latter part of 1978 a
succession of invasions has more than doubled the population of squatter
settlements there, to over 3,500 families. In the north, invaders are settling
on the steep hills near older low-income settlements such as Lotizacion
Mapasingue.
38.       Dealing with spontaneous settlement has become an urgent priority
for the public authorities, in part because virtually all municipal land has
been distributed. However, past municipal policy toward squatters hals been
inconsistent. At times, the Municipality has donated land to invaders or to
their cooperatives, but the resulting expectation of free land encouraged more
invasions. At other times, municipal land was offered for sale at a token
price.
39.       The titling system in Guayaquil is confusing and antiquated and has
caused serious delays in titling for current residents. Restrictions on tenure
and title in Guayaquil have developed over the years as a result of municipal
regulations. Many residents of the Suburbio, for instance, hold conditional
title to their plots donated to them by the city but they have been prohibited
by law from mortgaging these properties. In other cases, unrealistically high
urbanization standards imposed by the city have limited private urban develop-
ment (a problem to be reviewed by the study referred to in paragraph 52). One
"below-standard" private urbanization, Lotizacion Mapasingue, has never obtained
municipal approval necessary for transfer of titles to purchasers although it
had already been divided and sold. Most bill-of-sale holders for Mapasingue
lots who could not obtain clear titles did not build on their lots and now
find their land invaded by squatters.



- 10 -
40.       Over the years, there has been protracted official discussion
of the pressing need for public action to raise low incomes, upgrade slums
and provide sites and services to accommodate urban growth in Guayaquil.
A series of major studies were undertaken, and several mayors attempted to
generate interest in massive sites-and-services development, but with little
practical effect. The city's financial and managerial limitations have
permitted execution of only a small portion of investments planned to relieve
poverty.
Bank Group Operations in the Urban Sector
41.       The Bank Group has not previously lent to Ecuador for integrated
urban development. However, Loan 1030-EC (approved June 25, 1974) provided
US$23.2 million to Guayaquil's municipal water company, about half of which
was for the purpose of extending potable water to the low-income sections of
the city and surrounding areas. This effort is complemented by a municipal
sewerage project financed by IDB, which is providing landfill, sewerage, and
drainage to much of the Suburbio and attempting to address some of the titling
problems discussed above.
42.       In April 1978, the Bank agreed with IDB and the Municipality to
finance a consultants' study from its Second Technical Assistance Loan
(S-006-EC) to prepare future urban development projects in Guayaquil for
possible financing by the Bank and/or IDB beginning in 1981. Meanwhile, the
Government and the Bank agreed to initiate a limited-scale project--such as
the one proposed in this report--on the basis of already available studies.
The proposed project would not only benefit the city's poor but also help to
begin developing the institutions and procedures that will be required to
carry out later projects.
IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The project was prepared primarily by the Municipality's Department
of Urban Planning, with substantial assistance from Bank missions. It was
appraised in December, 1978. The appraisal mission's report (2415-EC, dated
November 9, 1979) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Annex III contains supplementary project data. Negotiations of the loan took
place in Washington from October 16 to 23, 1979. The Ecuadorian delegation
was headed by Mr. F. Swett, the Central Bank staff member selected to be the
Project Coordinator. Representatives of the Municipality, BEV and the Banco
del Pacifico also attended negotiations.
Objectives
44.       The proposed project would initiate programs of employment genera-
tion and residential development of benefit to the low-income population
of Guayaquil. The project would directly benefit about 17,700 households or
about 100,000 persons, 10 percent of Guayaquil's population. It would also
promote institutional developments including:



(i)  expansion of the support which commercial banks and the Government
are now providing to very small scale enterprises;
(ii) improvement of the Municipality's project execution and finaacial
management capacity, as well as its urban development norms
and land titling practices; and
(iii) an increase of BEV's involvement in lending to low-income groups,
using more appropriate technology and achieving better cost recovery.
Project Description
45.       The proposed project would include three related components:
(a)  Support to small enterprises:  expansion of an existing line of
artisan credit, through one or more commercial banks in the city;
(b)  Services to low-income areas:  upgrading (landfill and basic
infrastructure) in two substandard settlements, Lotizacion
Mapasingue and Guasmo North, and development of 3,700 sites with
services in two new areas, Alegria and Floresta Pilot; and
(c)  Housing loans:  small loans for house improvement and/or construction
to an estimated 9,700 residents of the project sites, and in other
low-income sections of the city.
The proposed project would be carried out over a five year period beg:Lnning
in 1980 and running into 1985. Its civil works components would be completed
in about three years but the lending for housing and small enterpriseS would
carry on through the final two years.
46.       The small enterprise credit component would account for about
US$9.2 million (or 22 percent) of project costs excluding contingencies. It
would consist mainly of expanding a successful artisan credit program which
Banco del Pacifico (BP) launched in March 1977. BP is Ecuador's fastest
growing and second largest commercial bank with total assets of about US$285
million. To date, BP has loaned US$600,000 to 800 small industrial ventures--
mostly woodworkers, shoemakers, tailors and dressmakers. The average firm
served so far employs only three persons, including the owner, and has fixed
assets of US$1,100.
47.       Under the proposed project, BP--and other commercial banks which
develop satisfactory small enterprise credit programs--would make an estimated
6,400 subloans averaging about US$1,100 in 1979 prices. The subloans would be
for working capital, acquisition of fixed assets and construction. Altogether,
around 5,200 firms employing approximately 16,000 persons would receive sub-
loans. The program would be open to small enterprises city-wide including
the four areas in which this project's other components would be carried out.
Eligible enterprises would be those having no more than six employees and
fixed assets of under US$5,000. In addition to the small industrialists which
BP assisted in the past, small commercial and service enterprises (e.g.,
mechanics, barbers and carpenters) could also receive credit under the project.



- 12 -
48.       CENAPIA, the National Small-Scale Enterprise and Artisan Center,
would furnish technical assistance--primarily in the areas of management,
accounting and financial administration--to approximately 85 percent of the
subloan's recipients. CENAPIA was created in 1975 as an arm of the Ministry
of Industry and Commerce specifically to promote small-scale enterprises.
So far, it has been hampered in this task by institutional weaknesses. To
overcome these, both UNIDO and IDB are providing CENAPIA with technical assis-
tance. Under the proposed project, CENAPIA would be further strengthened.
It would receive 40 man/months of consultants' services, at an average cost
of US$5,000 per man/month, to (i) improve the marketing support CENAPIA would
offer sub-borrowers; (ii) study the feasibility of an artisan market in
Guayaquil; and (iii) evalute the effectiveness of the credit component. The
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of these and
other consultants retained under the project would be satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). The project would also finance up
to US$600,000 of CENAPIA's incremental operating costs, mainly new personnel,
for serving the recipients of subloans.
49.       Services for low-income areas would be the project's single largest
component, accounting for US$17.9 million (44 percent) of project costs
excluding contingencies. The Municipality would upgrade squatter settlements
in two existing neighborhoods, Lotizacion Mapasingue and Guasmo North (see
the attached map). Specifically, it would regularize land tenure, introduce
orderly densification, provide basic infrastructure and engage in land filling
in both neighborhoods. The Municipality and BEV would also develop 3,700
serviced plots for low income families at Alegria and Floresta Pilot (see
attached map). Both areas are presently vacant but are natural sites for
settlement as population pressures in Guayaquil continue to grow.
50.       Under the project, the Municipality and Central Government agencies
would provide some minimal off-site infrastructure--including a 16" water main
to Guasmo North and an access road to Alegria-as well as needed community
facilities. The latter would consist of five primary schools, three health
centers and five markets. Ecuador's Central Bank, which has been operating
an innovative, poverty-oriented development fund in rural areas, would launch
a similar community development program in project areas. The program would
further skills training, provide employment services, and encourage the
introduction of new, appropriate technologies for house construction.
51.       To assist the Municipality in carrying out its pivotal functions
under the "sites and services" component, funds would be provided to the
municipal project unit established for this purpose (para 58). The funds
would help cover the unit's operating expenses and finance the purchase of
vehicles and equipment. Funds would also be provided for 122 man/months
of technical assistance (i) for detailed design, engineering, tendering
and supervision of construction under the project; (ii) to study ways of
improving the Municipality's financial management; and (iii) to monitor and
evaluate the project and prepare follow-up projects. Special monitoring
arrangements include an evaluation advisor who would reside in the project
areas for extended periods to observe actual impact on beneficiaries.



- 13 -
52.       The study to improve the Municipality's finances would be completed
by June 30, 1980. Based on its findings, the Municipality would prepare a
program to improve its financial management. The Bank would be afforded a
reasonable opportunity to comment on the study and proposed program and the
Municipality would then carry out the program according to a timetable satis-
factory to the Bank (Section 3.02(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Municipality would also review its current urban development regulations and
furnish the results of this review to the Bank for comment not later than
March 31, 1981. By this date, the Municipality would also propose amendments
to these regulations so as to facilitate and promote slum upgrading and
further sites and services development in Guayaquil (Section 3.02(e) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
53.       The housing loans component would account for US$13.7 million or
34 percent of project costs excluding contingencies. BEV would make an
estimated 9,700 small loans for house improvement and/or construction of new
houses in the four project areas and in other low-income sections of the city.
The loans are expected to average about US$1,415 in constant 1979 terns.
Most would range from about US$200 to US$2,600. Under the project, BEV would
also receive modest technical assistance for long-term financial planning,
project preparation and the provision of titling assistance.
54.       Furthering the use of appropriate technology and mechanisms for
meeting low-cost housing needs is an important aspect of this component.
BEV's Floresta Pilot would offer several shelter options, all much below
the current prices of BEV housing in Guayaquil. BEV also plans significant
expansion under this project in its financing of home improvement and indi-
vidually constructed houses for low-income families, a variation from its
normal practice of building large tracts of housing units. To assure that
the project reaches the target poverty group, eligibility criteria for sub-
borrowers have been agreed to by BEV and the Bank: family income under
S/. 6,000 (US$240) monthly, which is just above the poverty line, and a
minimum of two years residence in Guayaquil (Schedule 5 of draft Loan Agree-
ment). In addition, the Municipality would sell lots in Alegria directly to
applicants, with payments to be made over 15 years at 12 percent interest, in
those cases where eligible families want to construct homes without borrowing
from BEV (Section 3.02(i) of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       An important institution-building feature of this project is
that it would help regularize land tenure for Guayaquil's poor. Clear and
mortgageable title to land is a prerequisite to borrowing from BEV. However,
the inefficient titling system in Guayaquil has limited access to credit for
many poverty-level families by depriving them of collateral. In recognition
of the need to streamline the tenure and titling system, and as a prelude to
this project, the Municipality has recently made significant efforts to sort
out various land-related problems. It has resolved to remove the prohibition
on mortgaging donated properties in the Suburbio.  The Municipality has also
decided to sell, rather than donate, Municipal land to squatters in Guasmo
North. Moreover, the Municipality has completed initial expropriation



14 -
procedures for the Alegria site. In October 1979, Ecuador's Congress decreed
the establishment of a Commission to assist in the Municipality's sale of Guasmo
land to present residents and transfer of title to Mapasingue residents. Regular-
ization of tenure under each of these differing situations will provide the
Municipality's legal and urban planning staffs with considerable experience for
continued resolution of land tenure problems in the rest of the city. To assure
the legalization of title for beneficiaries of this project, the Borrower would
take, or cause to be taken, all measures required to regularize the land
tenure situation in project areas according to a timetable satisfactory to
the Bank (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). The timetable for the
Alegria site was agreed upon at negotiations, and agreement on those for
Guasmo North and Lotizacion Mapasingue have been made conditions of disburse-
ment for investments in those sites (paragraphs 4(c) and (d) of Schedule 1 of
the draft Loan Agreement). The Floresta pilot site is already BEV property
and therefore does not require any special steps for legalization of title.
Project Execution
56.       The Municipality of Guayaquil, BEV and BP, plus other commercial
banks that might participate in the small enterprises credit program in the
future, would be responsible for project execution in accordance with the
terms of supplementary agreements with the Central Bank. Signature of such
agreements, whose terms would be satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condi-
tion of disbursement for each component. The Central Bank would act as the
Government's financial agent, under a special contract (Section 3.01(b)(i) of
the draft Loan Agreement) and would appoint (in fact already has) a project
coordinator satisfactory to the Bank to orchestrate the various components.
This project coordinator would monitor project execution, facilitate interagency
communications and generally serve as contact point for institutions involved
(Section 3.01(b)(i)(C) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government would
establish and operate in the Central Bank two revolving funds to facilitate
project execution: one, of US$300,000 equivalent for the small-scale enterprise
credit program, and another, of US$1 million equivalent, for the Municipality's
component (Section 3.01(e) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Ministries of
Education and Health would construct the schools and health posts under the
project. They would also staff, operate and maintain these facilities
(Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       The small enterprise credit component would be implemented mainly
by BP, which would extend its ongoing artisan credit program. Other commercial
banks would qualify for participation as they develop appropriate staff and
policies. Eligible banks would enter into subsidiary loan agreements--whose
terms and conditions would be satisfactory to the Bank--with the Central Bank
(Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The technical assistance
provided to small enterprises would be implemented by CENAPIA. Both CENAPIA
and the Federation of Artisans of Guayas Province would refer enterprises in
need of credit to participating banks. A committee of representatives of the
banks, artisans and CENAPIA would meet quarterly to review progress and
coordinate efforts. By April 1, 1981, this group would exchange views with
the Bank regarding results of the small enterprise component (Section 3.07 of
the draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
58.       Given the importance of continued attention to land tenure questions,
design standards and to general coordination, a Project Unit in the Municipality
was established and funded in May 1979. This Project Unit would be primarily
responsible for planning, designing, contracting and supervising the provision
of services to low-income areas. It would coordinate activities of the
national ministries involved in the construction of schools and clinics in the
project. The Project Unit would have a staff of 43 at full size, working in
technical, community development, finance and legal sections. The Unit would
report to the Mayor.
59.       BEV and JNV, which customarily work cogether on housing prcgrams,
would administer the project's housing loan program and the Floresta Pilot
sites and services component through a single project unit with staff from
both institutions. This unit would function independently of the Municipality's
Project Unit but would liaise with the Central Bank's project coordinator.
Furthermore, an administrative agreement between BEV/JNV and the Municipality
would specify respective responsibilities and points of coordination. Signature
of this agreement is a condition for disbursement of BEV and Municipality loan
funds (Section 3.04(a) and Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b)(iii) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Cost and Financing
60.       The total estimated cost of the project is US$51.6 million, of which
the foreign exchange component is 13 percent or US$6.8 million. The proposed
loan of US$31.0 million would cover 60 percent of project costs, incLuding
the entire foreign exchange component, and US$24.2 million in local costs
(see paragraph 22 for justification of local cost reimbursement). The public
sector (Municipality, Housing Bank and Central Government) would contribute
US$14.4 million, equivalent to 28 percent of the project's total costs. BP
would provide US$2.7 million, which--together with reflows of US$2.2 million
from the revolving fund established in Central Bank for the project--would
cover 9 percent of the cost of the project. Small entrepreneurs would contri-
bute the remaining 3 percent. A letter from the Central Government confirming
the availability of public counterpart funds was received prior to negotiations
and an annual confirmation that budgetary allocations for counterpart funds
have been made would be sent to the Bank (Section 3.01(a)(ii) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Onlending Arrangements
61.       The Central Bank, acting as the Borrower's financial agent, would--
under supplementary agreements--channel loan funds to the main implementing
agencies at the same interest rate as the proposed Bank loan. In each case
the Borrower would assume the administrative costs and foreign exchange risk
involved in handling Bank funds.  Banks participating in the small enterprise
credit program would be able to rediscount up to 70 percent of each subloan,
with the same repayment periods as the subloans themselves would bear (see
para 62). The Municipality and BEV would repay the Central Bank on the same
terms as the proposed Bank loan, except that the Government would assume the
commitment charges and cost of interest for the Municipality during the Bank
loan's grace period (Section 3.02(h) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
62.       BP and other banks that qualify would on-lend to small-scale e- er-
prises at the normal commercial interest rate of 12 percent interest for
working capital and other short-term investment, or 11 percent interest plus
commissions of 2-4 percent for long-term lending (STnedule 5 of the 3'-'.ft lDn
Agreement). Eighty percent of the loans would be repayable in two OL Ltniee
years but those where construction was involved would run up to twelve years.
In the case of housing loans, BEV would charge at least 10 percent interest.
BEV's amortization period would be 15 years, rather than its fc3rmal period
of 25 years (Section 3.03(c) and Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).
63.       The Municipality would finance the capital costs of upgrading and
sites and services through monthly charges to the beneficiaries over 15 years
at 12 percent interest (Section 3.02(c)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Since municipal collection performance has historically been poor, the Project
Unit of the Municipality would monitor the collection of project-related
charges (Section 3.02(c)(ii) of the Loan Agreement). Most recurrent costs
would be recovered through normal tariffs and taxes. Technical assistance to
be provided to the Municipality's Finance Departmeat (para 51) is expected to
strengthen its collection capacity.
64.       The maximum legal interest rate in Ecuador today is 12 percent,
although banking commissions of 2-4 percent which are allowed increase the
effective rate for longer term lending to as high as 16 percent.  Inflati.
was 13.0 percent in 1976, 12.3 percent in 1977 and 10.8 percent in 1978.
Projections for 1979 inflation will fluctuate around 11 percent. For 1980-81,
the rate could rise somewhat above 11 percent.  Thus the 12 percent inc:E: Zst
rate charged for two-thirds of the project (small enterprise and services to
low-income areas) is expected to be slightly positive. During the coarse
of this project's preparation, the Borrower agreed to increase the interest
charged for small-scale enterprises lending under this project from 9 to 12
percent per annum. BEV also agreed to raise its interest rates from a nation-
wide scale of 4-12 perceTIt to a new scale of 7-12 percent per annum (Section
3.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The 10 percent interest rate charged
by BEV for housing loans is likely to continue as a slightly negative real
interest rate, but is an improvement over the heavily subsidized rates charged
by BEV in recent years.
Recovery of Costs
65.       An estimated US$49.9 million, or 97 percent of the total costs of
this proposed project, would be recovered. Housing loans would be recovered
at 10 percent, servicing of low-income areas at an average of 12 percent and
small enterprise credit at just above 12 percent. The unrecovered costs of
land and infrastructure for community facilities would be offset by charging
cost plus 25 percent for land or services used by industry. This high rate of
cost recovery should make the project replicable on a larger scale.
Procurement and Disbursement
66.       An estimated US$18 million in goods and services would be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Another US$6 million in contracts under US$250,000 each, would be procured



through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.  Goods
and services financed through the small enterprise credit and housing loan
components would be procured through normal commercial channels, since inter-
national bidding would be impracticable given th'n large number of sub-borrowers
and wide variety of items. Contracts for civil 7orks, which involves about
one third of project costs, are expected to be awarded in many cases tco
Ecuadorian firms, since the nature of the work to be performed is labor-
intensive and the civil works themselves would be relatively small. Landfill
and some other works at BEV's Floresta Pilot: site would be undertaken by force
account, since proven capacity is available to do this relatively small job
quickly. Civil works contracts above US$500,000 and equipment contracL-s above
US$50,000 would be subject to prior approval by the Bank. Disbursement of
the loan is expected to take place over five years, beginning in 1980.
67.       Disbursements would cover:  (i)  70 percent of small-scale enterprise
loans; (ii) 70 percent of expenditures for civil works, administrative expenses,
vehicles and equipment for the Municipality Project Unit and community facili-
ties; (iii) 67 percent of housing loans; (iv) 40 percent of CENAPIA's adminis-
trative expenses for the project; (v) 70 percent of the Central Bank's community
development program expenses in Guayaquil; and (vi) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 60 percent of local expenditures for consultants' services.
Documentation requirements for administrative expenses and small enterprise
and housing loans were agreed upon during negotiations. Up to US$470,000 of
Bank funds would be available for retroactive financing, US$120,000 of this
would be for consultants and administrative expenses for project preparation
by the Municipality after May 1, 1979, in order to maintain the present
momentum in preparation by the Project Unit, and US$350,000 would be for BEV's
preparation of land at the Floresta Pilot site beginning October 9, 1S979, so
that construction of housing units can begin promptly after the loan becomes
effective.
Economic Benefits and Poverty Impact
68.       The overall rate of return for those components of the project
which have quantifiable benefits (equivalent to 70 percent of total project
investments) is 18 percent. The upgrading/sites and services componelnt and
the housing loans are estimated to have rates of return between 17 and 19
percent. If, for sensitivity purposes, benefits were over- or under-estimated
by 15 percent for these two components, their rates of return would vary from
15 to 23 percent. The rate of return for development of industrial sites and
markets is 17 percent.
69.       Although the subprojects to be financed under the small-scale enter-
prise component (about one-fifth of the project) are as yet undetermined,
the rate of return on capital among small-scale enterprises now receiving
credit from the BP is on the order of 35 percent. This type of small-scale
entrepreneurs is expected to be typical of subborrowers under the prcposed
project. Other sub-components for which rates of return have not been cal-
culated--mainly the schools, health centers and the community development
program--are relatively minor. Moreover, while their benefits are difficult
to quantify, they are of critical importance to the well-being of the communi-
ties they serve.



- 18 -
70.       Through its shelter improvement/construction and community develop-
ment components, the project would directly benefit an estimated 12,700 house-
holds and, through its small enterprise credit component, would create as many
as 5,000 new jobs. Living conditions for approximately 100,000 persons--
10 percent of Guayaquil's total population--would, thus, be improved. 1/ The
estimated capital cost per job is about US$1,700, about one-fifth the national
average. Additional employment would also be generated by the construction
and improvement of houses and residential services.
71.       Nearly ninety percent of the proposed project's investments in
residential improvements (about 70 percent of the total project) would be
targeted towards the nearly 40 percent of Guayaquil households whose incomes
per year are below the absolute poverty threshold (US$2,645 in 1979 prices).
All lots in project areas will be affordable to families below the threshold.
The following table presents, by project area, information regarding the
expected number of beneficiaries, unit cost, and percentage of the families
in absolute poverty that could afford the required monthly payments.
Sites and Services             Upgrading
Alegria      Floresta      Mapasingue      Guasmo
A      B
Units Units
Units
Number of households
benefitting              3,200          500            1,800         1,700
Cost to purchaser (US$)
including minimum
housing loan for
sites-and-services
areas                    2,220    3,200  4,000         1,536         1,768
Monthly payment (US$)         26        33      42          18            20
Minimum monthly
household income
required (US$) 2/          130       167    211           92           102
Percentage of families
below absolute poverty
threshold that can
afford minimum monthly
payment                     63        44       8          84            78
Risks
72.       Risks associated with the project would be those related to institu-
tional commitment and technical and managerial capacity. The new Government
has indicated that it will give priority to improved shelter for the rural and
1/   There may be some overlap of beneficiaries between the artisan support
and other categories.
2/   Payments for shelter are estimated to be 20 percent of family incolme.



- 19 -
urban marginal population. The Municipality, for its part, has been enthusias-
tic about beginning to resolve the problems of Guayaquil's poor. Here, the
risk is one of possible delays due to administrative weakness in the city's
management, or at the Registry of Property, where slow processing of titles
has been a problem in the past. By establishing an autonomous Project Unit
in the Municipality, by providing for technical assistance to the Municipali;-y
and to the Registrar of Property, and by agreeing on timetables for settle-
ment of land questions and reforms in financial management and urban development
norms, the project has been designed to minimize the risks involved.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
74.       The draft agreement conforms to the normal pattern for urban develop-
ment projects.  The main features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred
to in the text of this report and are listed in Section III of Annex III. A
special condition of disbursement for each component of the loan would be that
supplementary project agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, would be signed
between the Central Bank and the relevant participating agencies (para 56).
A second condition of disbursement for the components executed by BEN and the
Municipality would be that a supplementary project agreement, satisfactory to
the Bank, be entered into by BEV and the Municipality (para 59). A condition
of disbursement for investments in Guasmo North and Lotizacion Mapasingue
would be establishment by the Borrower of a timetable, satisfactory to the
Bank, for regularization of land tenure in the relevant sites (para. 55).
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
November 20, 1979
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-20-                                           Page 1 of 5
_     NA 4 1   SOC:AL tEYICATORS DATA 19150
CCUAD0t             IgeCRZfRZICN  CROUP5  42J JS7!5 84t3tACZS
LCUA N                          -  408? tCCENS !5:HEI -
W    A L     8      6                                                        SAQ          SAME      9ZXT WIC`ER
ACICULUVRXA        73.0                                   MOST RECENT      CECORAPHEC    INCOC.z       fCC0E
1960  Lb    1970 /b EsTIPATE lb        RCGION 'I C7F ''          cf   '
ONP PE7A CAPITA (355)                      ,,       370.0      910,0           1124.4      1097.7       1942.6
!14ERCY C0NSUiPT1O0 PER CAP ITA
(KIL00O.AMSw  OF COAL EQULVALSYT)    201.0.       297.0      453.0            943.1       730.7       1646.7
POPULAVDON NO VI-AL STATISTICS
P)PLA:ICN, 1tlv-EAR  1uZ:OIvSI        4.4          t.0        7.3
UR2AN POPULATION (PERcENYr OF 70TAL) 34.4          39.5       41 .a            59.3        49.0         51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POFPULATION4 LN YEAR 2000 (M:L!OZNS)                        14.0
sTAT:ONIARY POU`LATION  ( ILD CNS)                          26.0
rEAM STA t0NARY POPULATION IS I.-ACIZED                   2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. E.".                        16.0         21.0       26.0             23.3        44.6         28.2
PER SQ. 0M. ACRICJLTUD.L. LAnD      91.3        100.0      100.0             go.s       140.7        100.5
POPILATTON AGE STRUICrTE (PERCENT)
0o-14 TS.                           45.4         *6.6       46.1             40.9        41.3         35.4
15-64 IRS.                           52.0         30.8       51.2             54.4        55.3         56.3
65 rRS. AND A80VE                     2.6          2.6        2.7              3.9         3.5          5.1
POPULATION CROTKH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.9          3.0 '    3.0                2.4         2.4          1.7
URBAN                                5.0.LS       4.4        4.1              3.7         6.5          3.0
CRUDE 8IRSN RATE (PER TFOUSAND)       47.0         43.0       41.0             32.8        31.1         27.3
CRUDE DEATH XATE (?ER TEOUSAI.T)      17 .0        13.0       10.0              8.E         9.2          9.1
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..          3.3        3.1              2.4         2.2          1.8
FAMIALY PLNNING
ACCE?TORS, ASNOUAL  MCUSANDS)         ..          9.0       32.3
USERS (PERCE2.7 OF hAkRIED WOMEM)    ..            ..        6.3             17.7        34.7
FOCIo 401 N'RJTYI2En
LbCEX v,F tvv./ ilOCCCT7U~N
PER CAPITA (1969-711100)            89.8        101.0       98.0             99.4       104.4        102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCINT CF
EEQUrRESEZYTS)                    81.0         9L.0 9    93.0 2'          107.0      105.0        120.8
P3OTEINS (CRANS PER DAY)            46.0         49.0       47.4             60.4        64.4        80.9
OF WHIC8  ANIMAL A.SD PLLSE      24.0         22.0       21.9             28.3        23.5         31.3
CHILD (ACES 1-6) MORTAL,TT RATE       23.0         16.0       LO.0              6.7         8.6          5.1
HEALTH
LIFE ElPECTA.NCY AT B1RTE2 (TEARS)    51.0         56.0       59.,             63.6        60.2        65.6
INFANT ORTALI7TY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            140.0        118.0         ..             76.1        46.7         45.5
ACCESS TO SAFZ WOATER (PERCENT OF
POPIrLATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         36.0       40.0             83.4        60.8         69.4
UWAN                                             76.0      82.0              79.5        75.7        85.1
AL                                    ..          7.0       13.0             38.6        40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *-         22.4       35.6             38.8        46.0        70.1
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..             77.8        46.0        88.3
UTRAL                                 ..           ..         ..             24.5        22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHESICrAN            260C.0       287D.0    1570.0            1841.9     2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER VGRSIYC ?ERSON       2230.0       L605.0         ..            933.7      1195.-       765.0
POPULATIO4 PER AOSPrIAL aED
TOTAL .2o.0/f                                   430.0         *-            563.4      453.4        1.97.6
URSAN                                 ..        L90.0         ..            279.4       253.1       260.2
RU                                    ..      4740.0          ..           1140.9     2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER  0OSPITAL  0ED           ..         17.0         ..             25.7"       22.1         17.3
bOGS INC
4411ERA6  SIZE o0  HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                                        5.3 5.2          5.0         5.3          4.7
9R16AN                                ..           ..         .               6.8         5.2         4.4
mtntAL                                ..           a.                         5.3         5.4         5.1
AVEXACE HILiER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.5/P         ..         .                .3         1.9          L.1
U1RBAN                               2.1/f         ..         ..              1.2         1.6          L.2
RURAL                                2.87          ..         ..              1.5         2.5         1.2
ACCISS TO CLECT17CIT (PtRC0147
OF DLELLINCS)
TOTAL                               32.0/f                 41.2              54.3       50.J         66.0
URBAS                               78.577                   4.3 61 . 1                  11.7        85.1
RURAL.                               6.07~?                 11.6             14.2       17 .3
1/  Official. sources give 3.5 and 3.4 percent for 1970 and 1978, respectively.
/  JUNAPLA gives figures of 76.0 and 86.3 percent.for 1968 and 1974, respectively.



- 21-                                               nnex I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE IA
ECUADOR - SOCIAL IN4DICATORS DATA SHEET
ECUADOR                  ILEFERLNCE CROUPS (ADJUSTED A,r&AGES
- MOST RECENT 1STI.ATt, -
SAM         SA. f    HEX7 HIGHER
MOST RECENT     CEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        IlNCOME
1960 1/     1970 l/b ESIMATE lb      IRCItO  Ic   CROU  /td   GROUP It
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED NROLLME4T  XATIOS
PRIY;        TOTAL                 63.0        97.0      102.0           107.3       102.5       101.7
M!ALZ                 7.0        9.0      104.0            109.1      108.6       U10.0
VEDALE               79.0         95.0     101.0            107.4       97.1         92.8
SICOKOAZT    TOTAL                 12.0        26.0      42.0             *0.5        33.5        Sl.2
ALE                   13.0        2S.0      43.0             40.4       38.4         56.6
FZJALZ                10.0        24.0      40.1             39.0       30.7         43.7
YOCAOMMNAL  NOL. tS Of SCUN>DATY)  29.0          29.0       23.0            18.3        11.5        18.3
PTL-TEACIE RATIO
PRIMARY*.                          39.0        38.0      38.0             37.1       35.8         27.1
SICONDALT                          11.0        15.0       17.0            17.9       22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY tAT, (PRUCENT)        67.5/7      68.0      73.9             77.4       64.0         86.1
CONSUMP'TION
PASSENGER CAMS PER THOUSAND
POPULATICN                          2.0         5.0       6.4             '9.1       13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER T2OUSANP
POPULATIOH                         61.0       279.0         ..           172.1      122.7        225.9
Tn RCEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POFULATION                          0.5        25.0       37.0            67.9       38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CENMRAL
INTEREIST) CIRCULATION PER.
THOUSAND POPULATION                  36.0        41.0      49.0             76.1       40.0         7S.5
CINEMA ANtNUAL ATTENDANCt PER CAITA   ..          4.0        5.6             4.2        3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL L.ABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1400.0      1700.0    2172.0
FEMALE (PEICENT)                   16.2        19.1      20.1             21.;       25.0         24.3
ACRICULTURt (PERCENT)              57.6        10.9      47.0             30.2       43.5         25.9
NDuSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.4        22.2      24.0             23.8       21.1         30.6
?.PAT!CPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.5        31.7       31.6            30.9       33.-         33.8
MALE                                 56.3        51.0       50.2            47.3       46.0         51.3
FEMALE                               10.5        12.2       12.8            13.3        16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCT tATIO               1.5         1.7        1.6             1.5        1.4          1.3
INCOMF DISTRISITION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED ST
NICKEST 5 PERCENT Of HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..         ..            23.7       20.8
RCHEZST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEtOLDS    ..           ..         ..            56.7       52.1         57.6
LOVEST 2C PERcENT OF ROUSEHOLDS      ..          ..         ..             2.9        3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..         ..             9.9       12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET CROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOUE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     269.0            265.6      270.0
RURAL                                ..          ..      13.0            185.1      183.3
ESTIMATED ULATIVE POV        INCOME
LVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
U"BA                                 ..          ..     307.0            396.3      252.5        550.0
UL                                   ..          ..      77.0            308.1      248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION SELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOtm LEVEL (PERCENT)
URLAN                                ..          ..      40.0             35.2       20.5
URlAL                                ..          ..      65.0             46.6       35.3
Not available
Uot appllcable.
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are poPlation-wveghted geometric means. excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the 3ost populated country in each group.  Coverage of countrite among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and Ls not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betveen 1959 and 1961; for 1S70, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recenc Esttmate, betvwen 1974 and 1977.
/t  Latin America 4 Caribbean;   /d  Intermediace Middle Income (15S1-1135 per capita, 1976.);  /a  Upper
Xtddle Income (S1136-250O0 P- c.pirs. 1976)1   /f  1962;         1950-621  h/for eountry as a whole it ,97'i
Most Recent Estimate of CNP per capita Ls for 1978.
hAuet, 1979



- 22-                                                                            NE 
8913Alt13o.b 10. 430a sys, dvs0  fo.0   00.o" geser.11y judged tb. eme,t het0.rit.ti- .      Yell..101    It .00.l4 .2"..  noted0 t0.1 they .0y hot be Ir-re3-
10.  -h 104i00t07 w0 popeletiou-600td &3.31010  ..sas   x~.d014     tb.  xotrs.. v.1*.. of th. lrdi-wr0 .4 th. -.t pooLste4
= *y..jow         sm m          he1.0k or dot., 00p  r00.   f oid1.1.t0.- 70. C0POtta S..PIoo Oil 0.003t00 .04 of 104d0.-0-  of A0.00S 00 u0.r0 004 103.t
Dj.o...1, 0.0SU.13 J3oo D0.0o1b.tlon .0 000.07 f0r Other comat grmpm -7 PDPOat.l.10-OOlOhtd gsomsntfl see... oItoot *-01.510 or th. estooes V0100. S0
th,. esel pooo13Od 000.. B.1-  lb. e0             of      17. -o   th0 Indicator             0   o.1.b1to 41.41 01olo,   000  301 b0 oo3700d
IWC.rl-  000 ..t ..0  oOtL_   of wgo1.o1ou01 eres, .6.4 ltowo.ri                  p-.tS.nli. or t0.1r respectirs, ppjodtio.. F.-t.0, di.poI ..       7 1401*4.I
07 p.m..tly for  -,.p, p.st.00 , market .64 k10000 garemeor t7 t0 h. eoi,.oti0 0.4 di.po.".  .11h 0.r L1h.0.    .b.t t,kt t  Of h-.0.-t0.
ue follo..                                                                            004 Out -.0- - ter by  .obo    y.t-..  Or t0e -0o of plt pr.100.0.04 m.311-
193.  97.  04198400                      000AO..(17678b.i. I                         1'r    _03        001 .0.b01 01 ooL-..oy 1071.
1960. 1970, end 1970 de".                                      ~~~~~~~~Pml.0ttoo per 000.J03 P-se .  Pop.1tOoo d1.id.d by  -.0.- of prtro.013  S.I..
-  .01ohm.o~t1oe3  "0*1.  0.030d fo.1. g.'040o.0 nO0000, p7.01.1 07-                              0  004 ".01.00t 000_
(0.3  00  11410.    ro.t0103   000073        am0.  07d0-=, 301.0      40l.-P0110  .1,,1 04                               -        Yo0   7.. .0   ooo ru - Popol.tlo  ;.t0.11  urt
.,.L lsstr       0U.e.6p   of001  9..00.  m. 071;    "o,.4  'ro                           i411.   by0.0  opolo  o.30o  7bopio 0.4 t               *a .11.0 `
t                                                               B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o.-bl.1.-tO. p-0.I4ig prt001;oo11, -.t1.4.1   o  I- o. ol..d 00
-   r   .11L-0) - A. of .7ay 1; 1960, 1970. .04                  hooPioolo, 0    ,. l.1014  0.31t0 -a0  -d.4100  0n..017   c  po..otl.yo.rr
IYR  "to.                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by S phy.  L-. (bt1 by .  *.41.I .00.1.0i1e, 0070, ea4007., 007.  00100 off,
Urb- ,f~Otralti"0 (D. 3  0t or tt1) - R4t.010  -7    m t.0  t01.1 pjmpoL-0;             lo-P.o.tiono-000 d4t10   .0d p700140. 11310.t 70 -.8 7 f  -31:0110
difret 0ot 3to.07 0ob. o.-oo ey .77.0   neperb.0 iy or d.1.                Ad(j4(o9  IL 1.  10.1 104 - 70101 ocb.. or  dd.doi... t0 ord., 4t~..M.. 7...
..".;16,1910, .0d 1975 d4...                                          h-opito   dl. t04          0030.., Or b0.4.
;00       - C00.t pop.1.At0 oo Pj.0t003. -. boo.d 00               M)IN
"I"'0 010   07 ' ""03  0300 -    031 t .0710111i7 034 fertility         o7o   SI- I  H-otolold (0.003 S7 YhV1,000.14 -; too.F00.td  ..
im..  74000  pa.7030t.r0 frw .071.1.11   Mt.$0 0co1. of 1thr.e                tooooOold, .0.1.1:t       . o3   fIdolol   0000010, ..7   0
I..3."  ..w-1.  l110 SeWtnsy0 et bLr710 e         La 13 tb0.006 .10   t030.0       131  -.1. s.I.o. A b0.43 d 0104. 00r 0y Or7 00 -t bo.oo 1-1             . lb.
P., 0w11%. 13c.0.6 1.0.1.m f340.1. 11f. .op.t1o.y  t.0 L.01.1. St                 h-.0001   for  t.t1.t1.010    000p.000
77.5 p.....  TM. pm.r00.ro f0  f..101ty rt0.01.0 b-. t.. Io.-I.                  Aoeoo0000 of0700_3 03- 10101.-70    .o4  A0.1 - 010j  .3
-0.0310  40011.0 1. f.71 t11   -.o,dLAg 101.0.  2.0. 11 .4 p.0t                   ofpooop7.o.1.1003  .t4 _0,0  ooPid coooti-oo  4.o11g.o,
70.117 31.3.1i5 P.01fre.... 0.00 0.-ty 1. 00.3 ..og.04  -  of 10h.0                 -000t00ly0.  10.111.1. .o01d. 00.007p.0.t  t100000  04-0-0000I 00
01..;0.3010.110. of .6.1.11ty end fertility t..4f. 7, pooJetool                  A....o 10 L1.otrlity.iS.1o   0.io)- 011   rb3  0   .71-70
P- p000.                                                                             -t.01.01 doOlliog ty 10" .101111  1   100300007   0  .300000
00.t10t     -L.o   003t01031T. 01  is0100 -    o31sdm' ft., fertlity -0t.     EIOOZA .cO         -.   eto
d40011.. t0   . :0Isos0..t 1-01 of -10000  -.p-d4.tioe 0.t., obo
.000 $m-0.0.on or=        rplene. 11t.11 .0.t0y.. Tb. ..130  pol-im.y.001111  .1047.1  - -                                             10.1,3.1  00  13100701
1.Oion A0.. 030-  e1d00  03t th.00b1. of 0h. p.0403td c0.0.017t0110 J000   1.00. .                     S       010.7 1-1e P. p.7 t30.. Of rsp-oioo pri..ry
or 000 pop.1.i00 L. 00. y-  20000, 004 000 r0. of 4.011. 07 1070111                   .0.h1-0g. pp00.1t00.i -003.ly lo-ld.o  d11,0  034  -1  7Y7  00
0010 00 to. p1r.b0- T. y. d.01.                         te-.yP.sto                     -44-s10  707    i. 4.777011egtb Of polrd 0400001p    . 107  0.-07. 0100e
h   0 m 1.11.1   00.     b   07400..l0o   oo1lo                             001000  or0a0011t0 0 ff011.0.301.bl 000410000000.    07ppl
P~.  I       k70ld-Y..o  00..3Per .~.r k11l3t1r (100 b.ot...   of                      ed- ooolo            et0000  10.t r0. 10-0  07  pp70-0  p,1.0. .,.. ollO        
000    e0        --- -                                                               p-oldo. g-r.01  -.0001001, 07 10000-h.1tr108 lnstr.-t104-  -r  Nppli.
00700. 0.. .orl  -l load0.  - C03t0010    3.000  700' S6,o.iadtSr1 1.0d             -.11y or 12 to 17 yt030 Of 0401  -07007040p 000d          0 0-    .- .oo11
in1~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~~... oded.
0o~. 100 040710.017. lo.o.oO Cha7011.0 (0-1k 70.0), 0071100-060                                       P-01001071301~000  07.000 ) - V t.1.10.1    ,-titt.atoO     10-10,
00001300031h 1960. 1910, 03d 1977 4.1..                                                 d,portee0t. of 00.04d007 1001110t100.
P.001.St1oe 070.t0 0000 (p.-t0) - tolo  - A30010.010xot 0t0000 tot.1 314.              1001..103  7110 - 071r.7  0.4  0004.ry - TO1W   tud4.0. ,-Ik-1dl.1
7307  010010100  oo  9~o-o * 100-11, 00  1970.77.                                           ...7   0   00007bo. 41714.4        or03070  00-00-  In II.. 0,o
000031000 7.  95 ,_ 1907,.417-75.                                                    A401t lit-7.q..roto p.o.           i-t110..  d.4010  (ohlo too.. -d. - o1-0} *
C-da Mirth Rat,0.0  11- b1rth. p- to 10.5.04redP-t 07Of j   6 i                                 t6otii I   000010110. .go4 15 Y00,  004 0r.37
cr.do Dwh Ra'Aooo1 4.00.p.o 10000.0  ot .1-.7                              coNsOOp(PPl*
0P0P1.tios;70  170. 1197  .0.                                                        .oogo  -7  (pcr th-oooo  oc.o.tion)    Poono  or  oprloi.0.l -t-               '
G..P... et30 0t.07. of0.4g0.t . ,on0   0111 0307i 001 -4bo  10t.10  70700t   0014,d  -b0.1.00, 007--0. - 101i007
1. he                    03 per-ti I'L7.0..P .007 -.0  present 030.                   -ohio.-
opooft fIa 7011111  Y.lo; 00011  7_10.-y.   -0370(  .04103 1. 1950,                00410 N"0170, (70  00004 0.10.ti) - Atll 0ty000 0!' -001-0  007 -0,1.
1970, ..d 1975.                                                                      bro.~1oot  o30 .11          0 FE  7 10001t00.-   0  p00..1  0;oti ..1,o,-oo.
1.3110 111.m  m - Ac-optorl. A0oo ---     004)-4..1000 0I                               0---7  10 000000100.0  1. y.- .7000oo. -IoretL.  of            L,, i..-'000
PU1 1oo   Z- 0.0   (pooveot. of ..o710  00ng) - P.700-t03. of .0id.         TV 90c-io'  tpr1000.4pb .1-o ~- T,  -07               r.70 Co- b70,-1o0l  t0 0000..1
00.O  ofoOil-0.oIng o.153              hor.   ... b0 1710000t,11 d-.01..         00177710g0 0.010  old..o ooll--oo  TV1  -.01,-7  to 0.00trl-
10 011  orolol   , 10 ooo 03  000.0                           004  i0  u!-a. 000  731P,0.t10o 1h      01.00 I 0700.th  1 WI                 i
30Ooor  Ciiy u.tIO  (ptr _100.42(0                  ,:10    S1.  10.Z  1,d0-70017 01-001i
Tl11~071W o.oooi, p7 7011  1169-1-10)   In..0 of per ..pit.                    d-otol p,[iotly to  o040   .07100.1  10d ooon-I    t        t.14 do t, be -d.11'
n.0111  ,40lo rwtof 5 1 ~Ifoo    olI0   Poo4rt?      o  .00I  0  0.-d .d              17 1100770700St1 1.o..  Coo, 11-.000-
70.4.- 0001000 11.-4o   b007 IS.0 C 0.411  040100010000                               01  4:t,gt.  0         101,100 'oIOOooO 1-, doivo-tlo 0,-I-.  I', t,,tI1
P., 001t1.00.1  of o        ..Iolo(p70000  0foewo.ol.    0.000  770.             1.A011 F00
00700 1000t o  00  7004 00p00 . 11.0bol l.o 1.. 00001.  p7 -.011.          TOto 14.07 F0r7. (thoooo~sd) -7o0l32  000130 00700., 10010114 00
poy. Aooblohl  ..pPlio..07p~.1. 403.0110 0p0d0010, iepootO  1.0                fr-00   -1 -o.oploy.4   t ..1.10  Oo,doog h--1-.  t00.4.t0,  t-0 D0,ln1.it,-
teoI.  0400001 I01000.  Wot .IOPpliOO00043.10 7n004fed  I04.                1   -L7100  010tr710  07  000  -0p0.01-.
q-t01t110  ...d I0 f00d p-.000010, 004 100..  10 41,d.tr10t10. Rep0170              "    I..1.70,1   - 1.;.1-. 1.00r f-   S. p0700t003  or t,001 1.b-7 f-.o
Sent0. -0. 0.1.ti1.4b  FOp      booed o, p?Wby "S.1410  0004. 700000301          h45).5i"(1-         ~t) - Le.,o 7000  10 f.ronig, 707r01t7, 000110  000
0301310y 00401d h     00lth   030-70.-t01 t.We0.t0o, 0007 .01(0t.,                  7100104 01 707-30104  of tlu   1.b0. 70.-
030t004 000d41t071,.~oLI. of pOpol.11t0, .00  0110000  10 p00r00t f0,             -ooly(0,1             Lt-14077  7073   1.101g, onto1 ,00710130.
00040,.0h014 1. 01.                                                          01_0070117  00t 104r         0. pOr-oetog  of   t 0011 _.1r707.-
73.r 7010 !p    7  fp011lto.  erby  - P7 In1 0001.01 ofp P-017Otl.: 0R1. (PoronQ.    oo,ml.0.                                                           -ti-  Iolo.11     or
.0.0. R.qi-t..0   too .11  -t.olr.. ..tb010hd by USIA p-001. f0..                   -t00.4.  of 1t.tl. .1. end4 730013 P000.ti-0 07 .11 u.goo-oob-ti-lyz
mlnl  ilo.oo-  or 60 g-of. t.t10.1 pr0t.10. p.o d.7 Sod20 g7-.  0f                  1960, 1970, .0d 1975 d.t..  Tho... 070 7L1.- 70701011101100100007100110
00100.1 00  00.10  P-0.013, 070010010 07030 00-01  110 03i-0  Protein.              030-00  t17t70r7  of th, popul.tlon. 004 10ng 01.0 tr-o. A 700 -toeti..
..e. ol.0d.od. 07  I.0.00 Olo t00. 0o  75 of..., of 10101 Protein,3d               M.7 f0,0 00100001 S0.70.
23 9-   Of0 -01.6  0r0t.0.03 M0.0 r0.7 0 for t030011d, p73p000d by 10O            1000010110   000       t*11  -  P0110 of 00p01t103.0d   15 Set 65 004 ooeo t
in the Third 00r14 704Food  ...y                                                                     in .lofoc   10  43  op of 15-61 Y-7.
70  .0.0000t   0.370010 "        04 " .1.   P-W0001  0.0$  of food
Chil (030 i'o~  Oootlr O  t.l p., 'h-ood  - A-1oo d..th. per10000 th-end         P% j100   fPrhio.t%p1000. (00th1 0.00h 04 k1041 - R1.0.1.   by r100h31
I"         p t0000   0.7100  0, ld 701.,0   1 t.011   03dop:7700  4.0.0               5IP701   10.1 2t  p_.7.P0        , 000t3 20 0.071  004 00-t0 00 pr-300
071P  700110 4tI .10 4d71004 f. 1i7. tabko..                                          of h-h0.001..
30.01t 000.10 1.0 fe. Oot.o              - doo1 d-oth. 07 Went.0.d04r 000                -trl-l.OOly OdOqotldet4.  plo.S .0....1ti1 00_-700  r.ql_.to,1  I. not
700007ag  P.0 007     = 0100. 4 1     bth..                                           O fford.bl..
10307  7    .01   (111 h000 P0.04771   ih  0.ooL1. 0 Sle a 00                      -1  ol.ti- o -ty771  I000, 1-01 1.000-tPhi  0  0V703  -7 700O.
W.0 0.t.r soppbo             t ( .01 .. trotd OorfooO. ..t     or 00tr..td 000        po n         -10. Of 1th. --trly. 070b. 1.0.1I 1d 010.4d f,3 th.  -001 1-1.
-.too,l.l.t.d oo40,  -h S. 1th1 7003 pr.ot00d bo704ole., Spring.,                     .100  A..t3.t for0 70.'1114..7  O00   07 In 101J1.,0 u 700.
000 00011007011.)    0.0-.000.00  of t031  7000010   00110,0  1.                    PoOO00-4 Poolln Oo.o    "..Jt 10.0    to.  ..1  oooo  - 0.1..
;200 0.00t 773S000   040001474.0b1r.1.,ro00
th.t th. h-if00 O17.0.03W. of the 0.30,0014 40.0   00t   10" t. 0                                                           00,0        d 00 10011 00t. D101I100
d10.oo_ Ollto_.t. Pert of to. doY 10 7.170103 th. 1.0117.4 00t37 needo                                                  000100071  000470401100  03000030
.4011919



A?:!d X I
-23--A'.'-ltX I
COtNThY DATA - _t 1'AlE
AREA                                POPIIATION                                   nD:N'IrTY
.8,n ,) lie2                        7.8 million (1971'r) sonotralin  ner k42
Rate of Growth: 3.13  (1974-79)
POPU!ATION CHIARACTIR?STI.S (1974)                              NFALT1J (1977)
Crude i irti lKte  epor 1I.0I)0)                45.0            Populatl hm  per p1lyslclan                   1,570
Crukde Death Rate (per 1,0)00)                  10.2            Population per hospital bed                     990
Infant Mortality (per 1000 live birttia)    70.0
INCOME  ISTI_111ot11ON  (1975)                                  DISlRHNIHTION uF LAND OVsNEIRSHTP (19741
Hilghest Quazrtile                              70.0            S nf farms:       below 5 ha.:                    T5
Lowest tbree quartiles                          30.0                              Above SO ha.: 
ACClSS TO PTPED UATER (1977)                                    ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY  (1974)
2 of Population Covered                        46.1             2 of Dwcllings                                   41.2
(Urban)                                   84.3
(Rural)                                    11.6
NUTRITION (1974)                                                EDUCATION (1974)
Daily Calorie intake per capita             1,985               Adult literacy rate (2)                           74
Daily Protein intake per capita (grs)           37              Primary School enrollment (2)                   102
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1978:  US$910!'
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS WOMSTIC PRODUC, IN 1978                               ANIUAL RATE OF GPOWTH (S  constent 1970 Sucrerl
usSin. -D                              1970 - 77                  _
GDP at Market Prices               7,482    100.0                          8.6                  5. 1
Gross Domestic Investment          1,970       26.3                       11.1                - 7.7
Gross National Saving              1,809       24.2                        7.0                27.2
Resource Balance                      - 6       0.0                       22.2
Exports of Goods, NFS              1,734       23.2                        8.1               - 3.1
Imports of Goods, NIFS             1,738       23.2                       12.4                13.5
OUTUrU, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 197T
Value Added.!/          Labor Force3/             V. A. Per Worker
US__142n                   R.ln      5~               us
Aprictulture                       1,248       20.3           .943   43.1              1,323        47.1
Industry IL/                       2,188      35.6            .449   20.5             4.873        173.5
Services                           2,716      44.1 '.788   36.4                        3.403       121.1
Total/Average                    6,152    100.0            2.190  100.0             2,809        100.0
GOVERNMEUT FINANCE
(as percentage of GDP)
General Government
Average
1970-76        19T7       1978
Current Receipts                                     20.2           17.8      23.1
Capital Receipts                                      1.4            1.0       0.2
Current Expenditures                                 13.0           14.1      20.1
Capital Expenditures                                  9.8            8.8      10.5
Deficit                                            -  1.2         -  1.1   -  7.3
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                   19fl         1974        1975         1976                     1978
(Million sucres outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                     12.515      17,430       19,816       26,814      32,2~18      36,215
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)          - 53      -1,427      -2,134        -2,132      -4,9172      -6,531
Bank Credit to Private Sector             11,444      16,1441     21,340        29,018      36,3'1,4     43,649
(Percentages or Index Nlumbers)
Money and Quasi Money as S of GDP           19.6       18.6          18.3        20.6        20.0         15.7
General Price Index (1970 - 100)           132.0      162.0         185.2       204.1       230.5        260.7
General Price index (Growth rate
yearly average)        12.0       22.7          14.3        10.2        12.!)        13.1
not available
_ not applicable
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchsrnge rate prevailing during the
period covered.
J/ Social Indicators Data Cheet.
2/ Industry includes miniing, manufactrire, electricity and water asd construct ion.
3/  Total ldibor foree; unemployed are ailocated to sector of their norannl orcupntton.  "Unallocated"
consists mninly of nnenployed workers w-king tlh.ir first jnh.  laI.r f-rce for 1977 are eatim.ited
based on avernp.- avinuil RrowI1, ra,tes by sfctor during tine pverlnd 1972-71,.
4/ ln-ludee I.etrolqun,.



AT;FX I
-24-                                               rage 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-78)
1975   1976   1977    1978                                        US $ Mln.   X
(Millions US S)
Exports of Goods, NFS       1110   1419   1603    1734          Petroleum                           648   45.9
Imports of Goods, NFS    -1295  -1340  -1811  - 1738            Bananas                            163   11.5
Resource Gap (deficit                                           Coffee                             220   15.6
-  -)      - 185      79  - 208       - 4        Cacao                               48    3.4
Fishery                             37    2.6
Net Factor Payments       -  67  - 117  - 170   - 206           All other commodities               297   21.0
Net Transfers                 32     31      36       40               Total                     1,413  100.0
Balance on Current
Account                 - 220  -   7  - 341   - 161
Direct Foreign Investment   95   - 20        35       40        EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements           137    233    637       514                                                  US $ Mln.
Amortization          -  33   - 56  - 105   - 247
Subtotal                104    177    532       267           Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           1.564 i/
Capital Grants                -      -       -        -           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)       -  45      53  - 114   - 109             Total outstanding and disbursed        1.564
Other items n.i.e.            -      -       -        -
Increase in Reserves C-)    65  - 203  - 112         37
2/
Gross Reserves (end                                             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978
year)          312    559    744       765
Net Reserves (end                                                                                           z
year)          257    457    613       646
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           12.0  l/
Fuel and Related Materials                                        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                                                         Total outstanding and Disbursed          12.0
of which:  Petroleum    14        7       9       9
Exports
of which:  Petroleum   617    737    651         558        IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Apr. 1979)   (Million US $):
IBRD    IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE (official Rate)
Since - 1971                      Outstanding and Disbursed            77.2    36.5
US $ 1.00 - 25 Sucres             Undisbursed                        158.2      1.6
S 1.00 - US $0.04              Outstanding incl. Undisbursed   235.4    3.1
not available
_ not applicable
/  Excludes military debt.
Ratio of Debt Service of Goods and Non-Factor Services.



- 25 -                           ANNEX Il.
Page 1 cf 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS* (as of October 31, 1979)
--    US$ million---------
Loan or                                                        (less cancellations)
Credit  Fiscal                                             Amount
Number   Year         Borrower          Purpose            Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
10 loans and 4 credits fully disbursed                     85.5       28.0
124     1968 (IDA)  Ecuador           Education              -        5.2         .5
555     1969         Ecuador          Fisheries            4.3          -         .5
425     1974 (IDA)  Ecuador            Irrigation            -        5.5        1.1
1030     1974         Empresa          Water Supply        23.2          -       11.8
Municipal de
Agua Potable
de Guayaquil
1157     1975         Ecuador          Education            4.0          -        3.6
1229     1976         Ecuador           Seeds               3.0          -        2.4
1230     1976         Ecuador           Technical           4.0          -        3.6
Assistance
1231     1976         Ecuador          Highways            10.5          -        5.9
.1255     1976         Guayaquil        Ports               33.5          -      23.4
Port Authority
1359     1977         Ecuador           DFC                26.0          -        5.5
1429     1977         Ecuador          Highways            17.5          -       13.6
1459     1977         Ecuador          Agriculture         15.5          --      15.4
S006     1978         Ecuador           Technical          11.0          --      10.8
Assistance
1644     1978         Ecuador          Rural Development 18.0            -       18.0
1731**   1979         Ecuador          DFC                 40.0                  40.0
Total                                        296.0       38.7      156.1
of which has been repaid                    60.9        0.16
Total now outstanding                        235.1       38.1
Amount sold                           4.1
of which has been repaid           2.0       2.1          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA               233.0       38.1
Total undisbursed                            154.5        1.6      156.1
*Includes exchange adjustments.
**Approved but not yet signed.



- 26                             ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of October 31, 1979)
Type of    -Amount in US$ Million-
Fiscal Year                                        Business   Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.               Textiles    3.7        0.3       4.0
1969, 1973,   Compania Financiera
1975 & 1977   Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo,
S.A. (COFIzC)                       DFC            -       0.4       0.4
1976           Sociedad Agricola e Industrial    Sugar Mill  5.0            -       5.0
San Carlos, S.A.
1978          La Cemento Nacional CEM              Cement      12.0       1.0      13.0
Total gross commitments                         20.7       1.7      22.4
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                         3.4       0.5      3.9
Total commitments now held by IFC               17.3       1.2      18.5
Total undisbursed                               11.5       0.2      11.7



27 -                           ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit 124-EC -  Education Project:  US$5.1 million Credit of June 27, 1968;
Effective Date: August 30, 1968; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
The project has faced difficulties from the start and is now
about seven years behind schedule. Many of the 28 schools involved still
require some work, consisting primarily in the completion of laboratories
and workshops and in the installation or completion of electricity, water
and sewerage connections. The credit's closing date has, therefore, been
extended a sixth time to end 1981. The new Government has indicatecl its
willingness to complete the project and an inventory of the work remraining to
be done has been prepared. The construction/rectification process 'Ls progress-
ing with the new Government's support.
Loan 555-EC  -  Fisheries Project; US$5.3 million Loan of September 5, 1968;
Effective Date: September 4, 1969; Closing Date: March 31,
1980.
The first component of the project, tuna purse-seiner financing,
was scaled down from 12 to 4 vessels owing to a less than anticipated demand
and is now completed. A second component, the Manta Fishing School, is now
operational although a dispute with the consultant responsible for the
training program has somewhat weakened the school's effectiveness. The
detailed design of facilities proposed for Manta Port has been completed.
A fish marketing study, the final component of the project, recently began
and should be completed by year-end or early in 1981.
Credit 425-EC - Milagro Irrigation Project; US$5.5 million Credit cof August 17,
1973; Effective Date: January 17, 1974; Closing DaLte:
December 31, 1980.
The project aims at increasing agricultural production in an area
covering about 11,300 ha. More than 80 percent of the Credit for :Lrrigation
and road infrastructure, equipment and vehicles has been disbursed. However,
there is an urgent need to plan and implement on-farm development, including
provision of production-supporting services such as applied research, agri-
cultural extension and credit. Land titling is also lagging. Reprogramming
of project activities by the Ecuadorian Water Resources Institute--in consulta-
tion with the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Research Institute and
assisted by outside consultants--is nearing completion.



- 28 -                           ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1030-EC - Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water Supply Project; US$23.2
million Loan of July 23, 1974; Effective Date: January 29,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project execution has been delayed by frequent managerial changes,
lack of counterpart funds and slippages in the hiring of consultants. As a
result, the project is now about three years behind schedule. Recently, project
execution has improved and construction is now underway on 90 percent of the
project components. Because of the delays, however, the project faces severe
cost over-runs and a serious problem of counterpart funds. More specifically,
the Guayaquil water company requires US$21 million equivalent from the Govern-
ment through mid-CY81 to complete the project. US$8 million of this amount
are needed through the end of CY79 to avoid further major delays. The new
Government has agreed to provide the needed counterpart.
Loan 1157-EC - Vocational Training Project; US$4.0 million Loan of September 3,
1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1980.
Project implementation is 2-1/2 years behind appraisal schedule due
to frequent managerial changes, serious financial problems and technical
difficulties with the design and space standards of the Quito and Guayaquil
training centers. A new Vocational Training Law was enacted in October 1978
which is expected to resolve many of the financial and management problems
which have been encountered. Bidding for construction of the training
centers is expected to take place shortly. The closing date was extended
by two years to permit the project's conclusion.
Loan 1229-EC - Seeds Project; US$3 million Loan of May 24, 1976; Effective
Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project execution and loan disbursement have proceeded more slowly
than anticipated. However, the implementing institutions (National Seeds
Council, Improved Seeds Company, Department of Seed Certification and the
Project Unit) have now been established and staffed. Procurement is underway
and two experts have been hired. The Government is reviewing the organization
and status of the Project Unit and the Seeds Certification Department to
provide them with greater autonomy.
Loan 1230-EC - Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The National Rural Development Planning Unit (UNDER) has been
established within the Planning Board but delays in hiring of experts as well
as its own staff's lack of planning experience has hampered its effectiveness.
Preparation of the Guayas and Esmeraldas River Basin studies have experienced
substantial delays. Altogether, disbursements are about 2-1/2 years behind
schedule. On the positive side, contractors for the study of the Ambato
wholesale market are being selected and a rice irrigation feasibility study is



ANNEX :[I
- 29 -                            Page 5 of 6
underway. In addition, the studies for the Tungurahua project financed in
FY79 were financed under this loan. The Bank has proposed the possilbility of
redesigning the project to the new government in order to better tailor it to
the country's needs and to speed up disbursements.
Loan 1231-EC - Fourth Highway Project; US$10.5 million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Effective Date: October 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
After an initial delay of twelve months in the contracting process,
all civil works and technical assistance elements under the project are in
execution and advancing satisfactorily, although civil works are about six
months behind schedule. The technical assistance programs are already showing
their positive effects on highway planning, engineering and maintenance.
However, an extension of the project closing date by about one and a half years
will be required to permit finalization of the preparation studies for a rural
development project in the Puerto Ila-Chone area, as well as civil works.
Loan 1255-EC - Second Guayaquil Port Project; US$33.5 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: March 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Although design and price disputes initially hindered the project's
execution, works are now progressing satisfactorily and project problems
are minor. Dredging and reclamation have been completed, piling and decking of
the wharfs have advanced to about 30 percent, and buildings and other structures
on land are 20 percent complete. By September 30, 1979, 38 percent of the
loan amount (or US$10.1 million) had been disbursed. Civil works are expected
to be completed by August 1980 and the entire project by June 1982. A short
formal extension of the closing date may be necessary.
Loan 1359-EC - Third Development Banking Project: US$26.0 million Loan
of February 18, 1977; Effective Date: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
This project is one of the Bank's success stories in Ecuador.
Project commitments have proceeded faster than anticipated and disbursements
now stand at cost to US$20 million. The new financieras that were 'expected
to receive US$3 million under this loan were, however, unable to melet the
criteria required for participation. At the government's request, therefore,
the project is being modified to permit these financieras to have access to
Bank funds through CFN, Ecuador's largest finance company.
Loan 1429-EC - Fifth Highway Project; US$17.5 million Loan of September 22,
1977; Effective Date: January 10, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Construction of the Duran-Boliche and the Puerto Ila-Doblones roads
is proceeding on schedule. Design changes on the Duran-Boliche road have
generated an increase in costs which is expected to be partly offset by a
reduction in costs on the other road. Engineering design of feeder roads in



-30 -                               ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Puerto Ila-Doblones region has been completed, with construction of these
roads to begin in April 1980. The study of regional secondary and feeder
roads in three southern provinces is proceeding satisfactorily; the final
report for this component is being drafted.
Loan 1459-EC - Agricultural Credit I Project; US$15.5 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: June 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan continues a program of credit for livestock development
financed under three previous loans and credits, but has been broadened
to cover crop farms, small rural industries and local consulting services.
In addition, there are applied research and technical assistance components
as well. The National Development Bank (BNF), the largest lender in the
agriculture sector, delayed participation in the project for over a year but
recently signed a subsidiary agreement with the Central Bank. This brought
to thirteen the number of banks and financieras that will participate.
Arrangements have been made with the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and
CREA, a regional development agency to coordinate the provision of extension
services with development credit to small farmers. Disbursements are beginning.
Loan S-006-EC - Second Technical Assistant Project; US$11.0 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: March 1, 1978;
Closing Date: January 31, 1982.
This project has moved ahead at a disappointingly slow pace and
twenty months after effectiveness, only about US$200,000 has been disbursed
from the loan. A contract has been signed for only one of ten selected studies
(the petrochemical study) and work is progressing on drafting satisfactory
terms of reference and on bidding and contracting for some of the others. The
project list has undergone revision and a final list is being prepared with
the new government. Two of the four experts to be hired under the project
have been recruited and are posted; their services are being paid for by UNDP.
Loan 1644-EC - Tungurahua Rural Development Project; US$18 million Loan
of May 11, 1979; Effective Date: September 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This integrated rural development project was recently declared
effective and execution is expected to begin soon. A Project Unit has been
established and foreign experts are being recruited.
Loan 1731-EC - Fourth Development Finance Project; US$40 million Loan.
This project was approved June 19, 1979 and is expected to be
signed in late 1979.



- 31 -                   ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
FIRST GUAYAQUIL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: Seven months
(b)  Project prepared by:  Municipality of Guayaquil, with contributions
from BEV and BP
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  April, 1978
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: November 1978
(e) Completion of Negotiations: October 23, 1979
(f) Planned date of Effectiveness: March 15, 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment of consultants retained under the project to be satis-
factory to the Bank (para 48).
(b) A study of the Municipality's financial management would be completed
and furnished to the Bank for comment by June 30, 1980. By this
date, the Municipality would also draw up a program for improving
its financial management.  This program would be carried out accord-
ing to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (para 52).  By March 31,
1981, the Municipality would submit the results of a review of its
urban development regulations to the Bank for comment. It would
also propose amendments to these regulations which would promote
slum upgrading and sites and services development (para 52). The
Municipality would finance upgrading investments and the sale of
lots in Alegria over 15 years at 12 percent interest (paras 54 and
63). The Project Unit's financial division would be responsible for
monitoring collection of project related charges (para 63).



ANNEX III
- 32 -                       Page 2 of 2
(c) BEV would establish a nationwide interest rate scale for housing
loans of 7-12 percent and would onlend at an interest rate of at
least 10 percent for home improvement and sites and Pervic'-s sublomns
under this project (paras 64 and 62). Housing loans would have 15
years terms.
(d) Government would take, or cause to be taken, action to regularize
land tenure in project sites in accordance with a timetable satis-
factory to the Bank (para 55). Timetables for land regularization
in Guasmo North and Lotizacion Mapasingue would be presented to the
Bank (Conditions of Disbursement, para 55). The Ministries of
Education and Health would staff, operate and maintain scHools and
clinics built under the project (para 56).
(e) Commercial banks which qualify for participation in the small enter-
prise credit program would enter into subsidiary loan agreements--
whose terms and conditions would be satisfactory to the Bank--with
the Central Bank (para 57). The Bank would review progress of
the small-scale enterprise component with CENAPIA, participating
banks and the Guayas Province Federation of Artisans by April 1,
1981 (para 57). Banks-participating in the small enterprise credit
program would rediscount up to 70 percent of each subloan with the
Central Bank on the same terms as the subloans themselves would
bear. They would relend the funds at 12 percent interest, or 11
percent interest plus 2-4 percent commission for longer term lending
(paras 61 and 62).
(f) Government would provide Bank with annual confirmation of counter-
part fund availability for public agencies involved in the project
(para 60).
(g) Loan funds would be onlent by Central Bank to participating insti-
tutions at the same interest rate as the Bank loan, except that
Government would cover the interest costs and commitment charges for
the Municipality during the grace period (para 61). Revolving funds
would be set up by Government in the Central Bank for the small-
scale enterprise credit and service to low income areas components
(para 56).
(h)  Implementing institutions would sign supplementary agreements with
the Central Bank. In addition, BEV and the Municipality would
sign supplementary agreement with each other (Conditions of
Disbursement, paras 56 and 59).
(i) The Central Bank would name a project coordinator satisfactory
to the Bank whose functions and responsibilities would be
acceptable to the Bank (para 56).



IBRD 14138
ECUADOR                                                     MARCH 1979
\ l      g               =  X                              ~~~ECUADOR1
First Guayaquil Urban Development Pro'ect\
PROJECT SITES / LAND USE
________ \3Upgrading areas
4   $ -   84  Sites  and services
Elmfi    Suburbio
Industrial
Comnmercial
Built-up areas:
Densely populatedc
Less densely populated
_____   Mcin access roads 
t0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
V i >2 t ) t a KiIsseters
MAF  0E ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~--- 
~~=2= 4 0 4! / 8 f R C . (> X 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~This map hats baas preparad bv tha
0  o do~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~taosaiato teraaso
4<f if  t\7   b |  t  /            g             X                         S             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tha raport to which it 'a attashed.
2.5 ken~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tedsmia,s oa  s h
2               4WordBaand toaflaet as!
s  t tor, orp h syc ppdor yetest
sesath and--"f tsh~ osdarias



