Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2415-EC
ECUADOR
GUAYAQUIL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
November 9, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Sucre (S/l)     =        US$0.04
Us$1               =       S/25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)      2    =        39.37 inches
1 square meter    )   =        10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m )    =        35.31 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)       =        0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)         =        2.47 acres
1 liter (1)           =         0.26 US gallon
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEV       -    Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda - Ecuadorian Housing Bank
CEDEGE    -    Comision de Estudios para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca del
Rio Guayas - Commission to Stuey the Development of the
Guayas River Basin
CENAPIA   -    Centro Nacional de Pequena Industria y Artesanía -
National Small-Scale Enterprise and Artisan Center
CENDES    -    Centro de Desarrollo Industrial - Center for Industrial Development
DECE      -    Departamento de Construcciones Escolares - Department of School
Construction
EMAG      -    Empresa Municipal de Alcantarillado de Guayaquil - Sewerage
Company of the Municipality of Guayaquil
EMAP      -    Empresa Municipal de Agua Potable - Water Company of the
Municipality
FODERUMA  -    Fondo de Desarrollo del Sector Rural Marginal - Development
Fund for the Marginal Rural Sector
FONAPRE   -    Fondo Nacional de Preinversion - National Pre-Investment Fu"-
IBRD      -    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB       -    Inter-American Development Bank
IEOS      -    Instituto Ecuatoriano de Obras Sanitarias - Ecuadorian Institute
for Health Works
IESS      -    Instituto Ecuatoriano de Seguro Social - Ecuadorian Institute
for Social Secarity
INECEL    -    Instituto Ecuatoriano de Electrificacion - Ecuadorian Electrical
Company
JUNAPLA   -    Junta Nacional de Planificacion - National Planning Board
JNV       -    Junta Nacional de la Vivienda - National Housing Board
PREDAM    -    Plan de Rehabilitacion de las Areas Marginales de Guayaquil -
Plan for the Rehabilitation of the Marginal Areas of Guayaquil
SECAP     -    Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitacion Profesional - Ecuadorian
Professional Training Service
UNICEF    -    United Nations Children's Fund
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
UNO       -    Uniao Nordestina de Assistencia as Pequenas Organizacoes -
Union of Assistance to Small-Scale Enterprises
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development
WHO       -    World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
GUAYAQUIL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   URBAN POVERTY BACKGROUND .................................*                      1
A.  Urban Growth and Urban Poverty in Guayaquil ....                ......      1
B.  Previous Policy Response .....           ...........................        3
C.  New Policy Directíons ......         .................. .........           5
II.  PROJECT COMPONENTS, COST AND FINANCING .......................                   7
A.  The Project .....................................                           7
B.  Project Costs ............* ................... .. ..... ..                10
C.  Financing .................................................... 0........   10
III. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION ......................*.o .             .......    13
A.  Support to Small-Scale Enterprises ......... ..              ............    13
B.  Services to Low-Income Areas .....             ........................    16
C.  Housing Loans               ............................................    23
IV.  EXECUTING AGENCIES .......           ...................................        26
A. Banco del Pacifico and CENAPIA                         .        .           26
B.  Municipalíty of Guayaquil ................................    28
C.  BEV/JNV ................................................    31
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .......................................    34
A.  Implementation Schedule ...... ............ ............... .              34
B.  Procurement . . ..............  ...................o....                   34
C.  Disbursement .............................................                 36
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation ........... ...................    37
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS          .       .................*.                         38
A.  Cost Recovery ............................................    38
B.  Affordability ........        ....................................    43
C.  Replicability ....... ..................  ......... ..........    45
D.  Cash Flow Analysis .....................................                   45
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Ecuador in December 1978. The mission consisted of P. Patel (Chief of
Ylission), D. Beckmann, G. Gattoni, M. Etcheverry (IBRD), and D. Hellinger,
J. RackL and J. Ladd (Consultants). The report also includes information
from a follow-up visit by C. Jones in April 1979. Mr. Beckmann had primary
responsibility for the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of thcir oflcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without Worid Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                             Page No.
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                   .............                     46
A.  Economic Benefits .  ............ .... . .    ..................    46
B.  Economic Rates of Return *..............                          47
C.  Urban Poverty Impact ..* .................   ........             49
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .....       ..................... ....    50
ANNEX 1: Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
DkAWINGS
PROTOGRAPRS



I. URBAN POVERTY BACKGROUND
A. Urban Growth and Urban Poverty in Guayaquil
1.01      Guayaquil is the center of commerce and industry in Ecuador, yet the
city is also characterized by widespread poverty. Employment possibilities
have swelled Guayaquil's population, but the distribution of income is skewed,
and neither public agencies nor the banks have provided much support to the
bustling informal sector. The poor have generally settled in cane houses on
poles over swampy areas of the city. Sanitary conditions in these neighbor-
hoods are bad, and the death rate from sanitation-related diseases is high.
Public housing agencies have failed to address the shelter requirements of
Guayaquil's low-income population on any significant scale. The Municipality
has frequently given away public property and basic services in response to
pressures from residents in squatter areas, but has seldom recovered the
costs. Partly because of this, its finances are depleted, and even the city
center is poorly maintained.
Guayaquil's Growth and Incomes
1.02      Of Ecuador's 7.8 million people, 3.3 million (42%) live in urban
areas, 750,000 in Quito and about 1 million in Guayaquil. Although
Guayas Province (Guayaquil) represents 13% of the national population, it
contributes over 30% of gross domestic product and over 50% of GDP attribut-
able to commerce, manufacturing, and finance. For over a decade Guayaquil was
one of the fastest growing cities of Latin America, but its industrial boom in
the 1950's and 1960's has given way to the petroleum boom of the 1970's. The
resulting growth in public sector employment has been felt more in Quito. The
population growth rate of Guayaquil has fallen to 4.6%, still higher than in
Ecuador as a whole (3.4%) or all urban areas (4.4%), and high enough to imply
that the population of Guayaquil should double by the year 2000.
1.03      An estimated 75% of all industrial employment is generated by small
enterprises. The city center is characterized by thousands of little shops
and workshops.  Some informal sector businesses are quite profitable, but
they receive inadequate support from public agencies and the banking system.
They must rely on suppliers' credits at interest rates of 25-40% per year or
borrow from money-lenders at 10-20% per month. Government programs designed
to assist them have only begun to achieve the coverage necessary.
1.04      On the other end of the economic spectrum, there has been substan-
tial investment in capital-intensive production processes. The average
cost for new jobs during the early and mid-1970's was on the order of
US$22,000 per job (in 1979 prices). Income tax and custom duty exemptions,
low real interest rates for bank credit, and undervalued foreign exchange all
favor capital-intensive investment and reinforce the dualism of Ecuador's
economy.
1.05      Although Ecuador's incoimes have risen rapidly due to petroleum
exploítation, they are still low compared to most of Latin America; incomes
in Guayaquil, although generally higher than any place else in Ecuador except



-2-
Quito, are low too. About 37% of families earn too little income (below
US$394 per capita per annum) to be able to afford a calorie adequate diet.
Moreover, the income distribution of Guayaquil is highly skewed. The poorest
40% enjoy less than 20% of the city's income, and approximately 26% of house-
holds, those with less than US$324 per capita per annum, are below the rela-
tive urban poverty threshold (defined as a third of the national average
income adjusted for Guayaquil prices), This skewness, too, is characteristic
of the nation as a whole.
Residential Development
1.06      Guayaquil became economically important because it is a port city,
but its physical growth has been constrained by the Guayas River, an estuary,
hills, and seasonal flooding. Thus, the cil:y has expanded westward into
swampland. Low-income settlers have built homes on poles over the swamp,
usually settling in the pattern of city blocks. The western swamps, known
as the Suburbio, were mainly municipal property, and squatters' cooperatives
often obtained permission, if not legal tenure, from sympathetic officíals.
The squatters gradually obtained landfill, through their own efforts or by
pressuring public authorities. Much of the landfill used has been garbage;
the Sanitation Department of the Municipality has deposited the city's
garbage around blocks and as a base for streets in certain areas. Residents
generally approve of this system, because the garbage eventually forms a
semistable landfill. Authorities have followed up by providing limited
public services.
1.07      The Suburbio grew at a rate of 9.1% per annum during the intercensal
period 1962-1974 and now includes at least 450,000 people, nearly half of
Guayaquil's population. The older areas of the Suburbio, those closest to
the city center, are relatively well consolidated. Nevertheless, the tenure
situation is complex, services are limited (no sewerage for example), and some
swampy areas inside blocks have never been filled. At the western edge of the
Suburbio settlers are still putting up temporary houses on poles and living
without public services. This process is coming to an end, however, as the
Suburbio extends out past the swamp and down the banks of the estuary itself.
1.08      Because of the geographical constraints, Guayaquil is exceptionally
compact. Net density in the city center is over 600 people per hectare.
Offices, institutions, commerce, and light industry in the city center gener-
ate about 50% of the employment in Guayaquil. About 200,000 people live in
the city.center, many of them in slum apartments called the central tugurios.
Many of these dilapidated residences are being torn down, largely to make
space for new shops and office buildings.
1.09      As a result, squatter invasions have begun in the northern and
southern parts of Guayaquil. These had been areas of upper- and middle-class
settlement, with some industry in the north.  The land is mostly privately
owned. In the north, invasions are settling on the steep hills near older
low-income settlements such as Lotizacion M1apasingue and Duran. The most
rapidly growing invasion is in the south in an area called Guasmo, mostly on
municipal property. This area is low and subject to seasonal flooding, but



-3-
during the latter part of 1978 a succession of invasions more than doubled the
population of squatter settlements there. The problem of invasions has become
an urgent priority for the public authorities, in part because virtually all
municipal land has been exhausted. Several recent invasions have been on
private land, as are likely to be future invasions.
1.10      Due to rapid growth, widespread poverty, inadequate planning, and
the special geographical problems of Guayaquil, a substantial proportion of
the population lacks adequate urban services. Nearly a third of the house-
holds in Guayaquil depend on tanker trucks for their water, although trucked
water is less sanitary and costs 25 times as much per liter as piped water.
Half or nearly half of the city's population needs landfill, better drainage,
and sewerage service. There is only one health center or sub-center for every
41,000 people in low-income areas. Only about 70% of school-aged children are
enrolled in school, most of them in poor-quality private scbools.
1.11      These levels of service, although inadequate, are comparable to
Quito and better than in the rural areas and secondary cities. Guayaquil's
problem is unique, however, because of its inhospitable geography and tropical
climate. The rates of infant mortalíty and of fatality due to infectious and
parasitic diseases are higher for Guayaquil than for other urban areas in
Ecuador. The leading causes of death in Guayaquil are enteritis and other
diarrhetic diseases. The fatality rate for these diseases is 132 per thousand
in Guayaquil, that is, 1.2 times higher than in Ecuador as a whole and 1.3
times higher than in Quito. It compares to World Health Organization (WHO)
estimates of an average rate of 103 per thousand for thirteen selected coun-
tries in Latin America.
B. Previous Policy Responses
Employment and Incomes
1.12      Spurred by petroleum revenues, Ecuador's economy has been growing
rapidly. Open unemployment is low, with Quito in particul'ar benefiting from
increased job opportunities. Overall management of the economy has been
relatively good, but more attention needs to be given to the nation's serious
income distribution and poverty problems.
1.13      During the past decade, Central Government has become stronger vis-
a-vis the private sector and local authorities. A variety of special funds
and local government revenues were centralized in 1971 in the Fondo Nacional
de Participaciones, which now allocates investments from a national perspec-
tive. Within the Suburbio several small employment generation programs are
underway, including labor exchanges, production companies, training centers,
and workshops. One national Government policy toward the special problems
of Guayaquil has been to encourage regional planning and decentralized growth
as an alternative to further growth in Guayaquil. The Governnent's Comision
de Estudios para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca del Rio Guayas (CEDEGE) was
established to formulate projects to develop the region as a whole, partly
in order to slow further migration to Guayaquil.



-4-
1.14      Compared to the generous incentives which large, capital-intensive
industries receive in Ecuador (para. 1.04), small-scale enterprises get little
support. Yet small-scale enterprises are normally based on more appropriate
technologies and provide relatively more emp:Loyment to the poor. Ecuadorian
law distinguishes between small-scale industries (10 or more workers, more
than US$12,000 in fixed assets) and artisans (even smaller industrial enter-
prises). Both small-scale industries and artisans are exempted from most
taxes. Several agencies under the Ministry of Industries assist small-scale
industries, but few of their services reach artisans.
1.15      The Central Bank offers incentives for commercial bank lending
to both small-scale industries and artisaíl,; cediscounting such loans at 3%
interest through its Fondos Financieros; this low cost rediscount facility is
only intermittently available, however. Comnercial banks are lending readily
to small-scale industries, a healthy development to be supported by an IBRD
small-scale industry project now being prepared. To date, however, only two
banks have substantial programs of lending to artisans. The state-owned Banco
Nacional de Fomento has been lending to artisans for more than a decade, but
this program is hampered by administrative problems and delays. A private
bank, the Banco del Pacifico, operates a new and growing program of lending
to artisans.
Management of Urban Growth
1.16      The management of urban growth and provision of urban services
is primarily the responsibility of the Municipality of Guayaquil. It was
long-standing municipal policy to tolerate the process of settlement and
reclamation of the Suburbio. The Municipality has gradually provided landfill,
some modest roads, piped water, and sometimes other services to low-income
settlements, but on an ad hoc and irregular basis. There has seldom been any
cost recovery, and, as a result, the services provided have been very limited.
1.17      Past policy has resulted in a very confused land tenure situation
in Guayaquil. The Municipality has been following three different policies
toward land in the three parts of the city where invasions are in proceso:
(1) at the end of the Suburbio the Municipality has encouraged cooperatives
and provided free landfill in what is called the Plan Piloto; (2) in Guasmo
the Municipality offered property for sale to squatters at cadastral value,
then at the nominal price of S/10 (US$.40) per square meter, and then fixed
a minimum price of S/100 (US$4.00) per square meter, only to be overruled by a
decree of Congress setting the price at S/10 again; and (3) to the north of
the city, where squatters have settled on privately owned, hilly land, the
Municipality has not reacted at all. Such inconsistency encourages invasions,"
and forces the low-income households involved to submit to the risk and
trouble of threatened eviction.
1.18      During the last decade considerable progress has been made at the
municipal level in the organization and extent of water supply and sewerage/
drainage. In 1970 the Municipality established an autonomous water company,
EMAP (Empresa Municipal de Agua Potable). EMAP is executing IBRD's Guayaquil
Water Supply Project (Loan EC-1030), including the extension of water supply



to the more consolidated part of the Suburbio and to other unserviced neigh-
borhoods in the city. The municipal sewerage/drainage company, EMAG (Empresa
Municipal de Alcantarillado de Guayaquil), was established in 1967, and IDB
financing for a Suburbio sewerage project was obtained. Beginning with the
IDB project, the sewerage company will begin to recover all capital costs from
beneficiaries, but on very soft terms. The project will provide landfill and
secure tenure, as well as sewerage and storm water drainage, to much of the
same area of the Suburbio which is being served by the IBRD water supply
project. Extension of water and sewerage connections to the remainder of the
Suburbio will be expensive and technically difficult; it is a low-lying area,
so sewerage would have to be pumped out, and past use of garbage as landfill
might cause the pipes to be unstable.
1.19      During the 1974-77 period the Government attempted a national
housing program to increase the housing supply and meet the housing demand
of lower-income groups. The major housing institutions (Instituto Ecuatoriano
de Seguro Social, Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda/Junta Nacional de la
Vivienda, and the savings and loan associations) were mobilized, and special
incentives were given to the private construction sector. The 98,000 units
constructed during that period were still not sufficient to keep up with
population growth. The housing deficit increased from 398,000 to 485,000
units, and official estimates of a qualitative deficit in housing are
approximately 60% higher. During the next five years, the demand for housing
is expected to increase by about 54,000 units per annum, of which 9,000 per
annum will be required in Guayaquil.
1.20      The formal sector has not addressed the demand for low-income hous-
ing on a significant scale. The national social security system, Instituto
Ecuatoriano de Seguro Social (IESS), invests nearly US$3 million in Guayaquil
annually to provide houses for sale to its members, but to date has not built
houses for less than US$10,000. A savings and loan association (mutualista)
has been established in each province, and the system has been expanding
dramatically, but the average value of the homes financed through the
mutualistas is more than US$12,000. The Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda
(BEV) and its twin organization, Junta Nacional de la Vivienda (JNV), have
also been expanding their output rapidly to the present average of about
4,000 new houses a year. A few of these have cost as little as US$1,000, but
nearly all have been in the US$4,000-US$18,000 range. The most economical
BEV-JNV houses in Guayaquil as of appraisal had cost US$7,000. The Munici-
pality of Guayaquil, like other municipalities in Ecuador, has established
inappropriate urban development regulations, which virtually preclude the
development of formal sector housing which would be affordable to the poor.
C. New Policy Directions
Origins of the Project
1.21      This project will represent a substantial shift in public policy.
Before its preparation, there had been protracted discussion and a series of



-6-
studies about the problems of low-income people in Guayaquil, but with little
practical effect. Only about 14% of the public investment program in
Guayaquil 1974-79 could be considered poverty-oriented investment. Initial
discussions between IBRD and the previous management of BEV broke down over
questions of standards and cost recovery. Meanwhile, the mayor of Guayaquil
was mobilizing support for a massive, 50,000-lot sites and services project.
A 50,000-lot project would, in fact, be needed to cope with the growth of
the low-income population during the next five years and meet the backlog
of demand in Guayaquil. No other agency in the world, however, has yet
implemented a sites and services project of that size, and the Municipality
had no experience or proven capacity for this sort of development.
1.22      IBRD agreed with the Municipality to finance, from the Second
Technical Assistance Loan (S-006-EC), a consultants' study of the feasibility
of their ambitious urban development plans. At the same time, IBRD missions
began to assist the Municipality in the preparation, based on previous studies,
of this first Guayaquil Urban Development Project. This project was tailored
to existing implementation capacity, excluding, for example, the large and
complex task of upgrading the unconsolidated part of the Suburbio. It was
designed to include manageable components of sites and services development,
slum upgrading, and credit to small-scale enterprises in order to expand
implementation capacity for each of these types of poverty-oriented invest-
ment.
1.23      Some progress in developing institutional capacity has been made
during project preparation. A core of technical staff in the Municipality
has gained experience in project design and been formed into a project unit,
and the Municipality has .for the first time expropriated land for low-income
shelter development. BEV-JNV has committed itself to serve low-income
housing needs on a much larger scale than before. The IBRD appraisal
mission suggested a ceiling of S/100,000 (US$4,000) for units to be included
in the project, and, following appraisal, BEV-JNV built 210 houses at about
that cost with their own funds. Also following appraisal, the national
planning ministry (JUNAPLA), Central Bank, and UNICEF together sponsored
several seminars to foster better coordination among various public agencies
which are or should be involved in marginal areas of Guayaquil.
The New Government
1.24      Negotiation of the project was delayed during the middle part of 1979
as the result of the transition between administrations. The Government which
came to power in August 1979 has treated the shelter situation of the poor in
Guayaquil as one of its first priorities.  The new President promised to address
the problems of Mapasingue and Guasmo in his inauguration speech. During the
first week of his administration, he personally visited these areas. The new
Minister of Finance has assured IBRD in writing that public counterpart funds
will be made available for this project.
1.25      The new management of BEV-JNV has announced a dramatic change in
BEV-JNV's orientation, more toward the needs of the poor. An ambitious
BEV-JNV shelter program for low-income people in Guayaquil has been outlined.
* Uo



-7-
It includes this project, and the new management of BEV-JNV is also promising the
construction of 10,000 houses at about the cost of the 210 which were built
after the IBRD appraisal. They have also indicated their intention to charge
more realistic interest rates on small loans, another issue which had been
under discussion between IBRD and BEV's previous management for several years.
At the time of negotiation of this project, BEV-JNV proposed IBRD consideration
of a national popular housing project, in addition to the future urban development
project in Guyaquil which may result from the study financed from the Second
Technical Assistance Loan (para. 1.22).
II. PROJECT COMPONENTS, COST AND FINANCING
A. The Project
Objectives
2.01      This first Guayaquil Urban Development Project was designed, using
existing data and in advance of the longer-term consultants' study (para.
1.22), to initiate large-scale programs of employment generation and resi-
dential development of benefit to low-income families in Guayaquil.  It should
be of immediate benefit to about 10% of Guayaquil's population. Its prime
objective, however, is institutional and policy development. It should:
(i)  expand the support which banks and the Government's technical
assistance agency are giving to very small-scale enterprises;
(ii)  strengthen the Municipality's efforts to serve low-income
areas by developing its technical capacity, improving its
financial management and cost recovery practices, provoking
more realistic development norms, and assisting in the
regularization of land tenure;
(iii)  allow the national housing bank, much better organized,
larger-scale experience in financing housing which is
appropriate and affordable for low-income families.
Components
2.02      This is an integrated urban development project, consisting of three
related sub-projects as shown in this summary cost table:
Summary of Costs
(including contingencies)
US$ Million
Equivalent         %
Support to Small-Scale Enterprises            10.8             21
Services to Low-Income Areas                  24.2             47
Housing Loans                                  16.6            32
TOTAL                                          51.6           100



- 8-
Support to Small-Scale Enterprises
2.03      An existing líne of credit for arltisans from a commercial bank,
Banco del Pacifico, would be increased in scale and expanded to include
petty commerce and services.  Other commercLal banks which qualify may par-
ticipate. The small-scale entrepreneurs who receive loans would be eligible
for a coordinated, expanded program of technical assistance from CENAPIA
(Centro Nacional de Pequena Industria y Artesania). The whole program would
be city-wide, but would specifically cover the low-income residential areas
in the project. A total of about 6,400 loans would be made during the three-
and-a-half year program. The average loan size will be US$1,113 in 1979,
increasing with inflation during the project period. About 5,200 enterprises
will be assisted, involving about 16,000 individuals (owners and workers),
many of them on poverty wages.  Investing in these labor-intensive enterprises
should improve profits and tend to raise productivity and wages, as well as
allowing for the creation of thousands of additional jobs in the enterprises
involved.
Services for Low-Income Residential Development
2.04 (a) Squatter Upgrading. Thís component would provide secure
tenure, landfill, basic infrastructure, and orderly
densification in two substandard settlements, Lotizacion
Mapasingue and Guasmo North (see Map 14138 showing project
sites).  Community residents and their associations will have
opportunity to participate in planning and implementing these
upgrading measures. Lotizacion Mapasingue is typical of
older, consolidated informal settlements in Guayaquil; Guasmo
North is typical of newer, generally even poorer settlements.
The improvements included under the project would be affordable
to more than 90% of the 3,600 families presently living in
these two areas. Existing industries in the areas would also
be provided with basic services.
(b)  Serviced Plots.  In parallel with upgrading of existing
substandard areas, the project would provide about 3,700
new serviced plots, 3,200 in Alegria and 500 in Floresta
Pilot (again see Map 14138). The 3,200 plots to be developed
by the Municipality in Alegria would be minimally serviced
without any superstructure, and affordable to about 86% of
Guayaquil's population. Industrial land adjacent to the
site (9 ha) would also be serviced. The other site, Floresta
Pilot, would permit the Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda
(BEV) to offer levels of service far below the costs of most
of their previous programs. The options in Floresta Pilot
will be affordable to between 70% and 80% of the city's
population.
(c)  Off-Site Infrastructure.  A mininmal amount of off-site
infrastructure essential in servicing the upgrading areas
and new sites is also included under the project.



(d)  Administration.  Funds for the operational costs of the
Municipality's project unit, vehicles, and equipment are
included in the project. A small part of these funds may
be used to initiate computer services to the Registry
of Property office.
(d) Technical Assistance. The project also includes consultants'
services for detailed design, engineering, tendering and
supervision of construction; a study to improve financial
management of the Municipality, including debt collection,
accounting, and planning; monitoring and evaluation; and
preparation of future projects.
(f) Community Facilities. Community facilities would be
provided for the upgrading areas and serviced sites: five
primary schools, three health centers, and five community
markets. These facilities would bring project sites up to
the same levels of service which prevail in similar areas
of Guayaquil. The planning and building standards used
are modest. In addition to these facilities, land has been
reserved for nurseries, secondary schools, open spaces, and
additional medical facilities which may be provided over time.
(g) Community Development. Social promoters will work with
residents in the project sites to initiate innovative programs
similar to those being used by the Fondo de Desarrollo del
Sector Rural Marginal (FODERUMA) among the rural poor. Grants
and credits will be provided for programs such as training in
the production of goods and services in demand locally, employment
centers, and other programs selected in consultation with community
residents.
Housing Loans
2.05      Small loans for house improvement and/or construction of new houses
would be provided by the Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda. The program would
include the four areas to be serviced by the project and families with legal
tenure in the Suburbio and other low-income areas of Guayaquil. Loan sizes,
based on affordability and cost estimates for minimal structures, would nearly
all range from about US$200 to US$2,600. A few loans in the Floresta Pilot
sites and services area would be somewhat larger, up to US$3,900. The entire
loan program is expected to include on the order of 9,700 loans averaging
US$1,414 in current prices. BEV would also receive modest technical assistance
for long-term financial planning, for project preparation, and in the provision
of titling assistance where necessary.



- 10 -
B. Project Costs
Project Costs
2.06      Total project cost is estimated at S/1,291.0 million (US$51.6 mil-
lion) in mid-1979 prices, of which 13% (about US$6.8 million) is foreign
exchange. Project costs are detailed in Table II.1.
2.07      Cost estimates for site preparation and infrastructure are based
on detailed layouts for representative parts of the project, with the results
extrapolated to the remainder of the project for which preliminary layouts are
done. Estimates for housing loans are based on BEV and mission estimates of
costs and affordability. Costing of the small-scale enterprise component was
derived from the Banco del Pacifico's ongoing program of artisan loans.
C. Financing
2.08      The proposed Bank loan of US$31.0 million will finance 60% of
project costs, all foreign exchange costs and US$24.2 million in local costs.
The loan will not finance taxes, which are estimated at US$500,000. It will
have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at an interest rate of
7.95% per annum. Local entities would provide the remaining 40% of project
costs.
2.09      Spending decisions are highly decentralized in Ecuador, with a
complicated system of earmarking and inter-agency transfers to adjust expend-
iture needs'to resource availability. There has been considerable progress
since the early 1970s to streamline this complicated system. Nevertheless,
the system cannot now accommodate the drastic reallocation of funds that would
be required to finance a substantial share of the serious effort to combat
extreme poverty of which the project under consideration is an important part.
Therefore, a substantial share of local cost financing has been recommended,
while at the same time IBRD is engaged in an active dialogue with the Ecuadorian
authorities to support their efforts at reforming the system of public finances
so as to make it possible in the future to channel a large amount of funds
into poverty-oriented projects and programs.
2.10      The following table shows sources of funds for the project:
Sources of Ftnds
(US$ Mlillions)
Support to Small        Services to         Housing
Scale Enterprises    Low-Income Areas        Loans    Total
IBRD                     4.3                    15.5             11.2       31.0
Government               0.3                     0.9               -         1.2
Banco del Pacifico       2.7                      -                -         2.7
SSE Revolving Fund       2.2                                       -         2.2
Small-scale
Enterprises             1.3                     -                -         1.3
BEV                       -                      0.4              5.4        5.8
Municipality               -                     7.4               -         7.4
TOTAL              10.8                    24.2             16.6      51.6



ECUADOR
FIRST GUAYAQUIL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table II-1: Summary of Project Costs
Mid-1979 Prices
S/Million                      US$ Million
Local      Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign    Total
A.  Support to Small-Scale Enterprises
1.  Projects Financed                                      135.0       77.5      212.5         5.4       3.0         8.5
2.  Technical Assistance to Enterprises                     10.0        2.5       12.5         0.4       0.1         0.5
3.  Consultants' Services                                    0.9        3.8        4.7         0.0       0.2         0.2
Subtotal                                                   145.9       83.8      229.7         5.9       3.3         9.2
B.  Services to Low-Income Areas
1.  Land (Alegria)                                          50.2        0.0       50.2         1.9       0.0         1.9
2.  Land (Floresta Pilot)                                    4.0        0.0        4.0         0.2       0.0         0.2
3.  Upgrading (Lotizacion Mapasingue)                      121.1        3.7      124.8         4.8       0.2         5.0
4.  Upgrading (Guasmo North)                                33.4        1.0       34.4         1.4       0.0         1.4
5.  Sites and Services (Alegria)                            88.3        2.7       91.0         3.5       0.1         3.6
6.  Sites and Services (Floresta Pilot)                     12.6        0.4       13.0         0.5       0.0         0.5
7.  Off-Site Infrastructure                                  5.0        0.1        5.1         0.2       0.0         0.2
8.  Vehicles and Equipment                                   2.9        1.0        3.9         0.1       0.1         0.2
9.  Municipal Project Unit                                  18.0        2.0       20.0         0.7       0.1         0.8
10.  Technical Assistance for Municipality                    2.5       10.0       12.5         0.1       0.4         0,5
11.  Community Facilities                                    58.6       19.5       78.1         2.4       0.8         3.2
12.  Community Development Program (Central Bank)            10.0        0.0       10.0         0.4       0.0         0.4
Subtotal                                                   406.6       40.4      447.0        16.3       1.6        17.9
C.  Housing Loans
1.  Improvement Loans in Upgrading Areas (3,000)            97.0        3.0      100.0         3.9       0.1         4.0
2. Housing Loans in Alegria Sites and
Services (3,200)                                    117.0        3.6      120.6          4.7      0.1          4.8
3. Housing Loans in Floresta Sites and
Services (500)                                        22.3       0.7        23.0         0.9       0.0         0.9
4.  Improvement Loans in Suburbio (3,000)                   93.6        2.9       96.5         3.7       0.1         3.9
5.  Technical Assistance for BEV                             0.4        2.2        2.6         0.0       0.1         0.1
Subtotal                                                   330.3       12.4      342.7        13.2       0.5        13.7
Physical Contingencies _                                        47.4         3.6      51.0          1.8       0.2         2.0
Price Contingencies -/                                          192.3       28.3      220.6         7.6       1.2         8.8
TOTAL                                                        1,122.5       168.5   1,291.0         44.8       6.8        51.6
1/ 15% of Items B3-7, and Bll.
2/ Average of 22% on all items except B1-2. Price escalation derived by applying expected inflation rates on
projected annual expenditures at 12% for 1979, 11% for 1980, 10% for 1981, 9% for 1982 and 8% for 1983-84.



- 12 -
2.11      The Government of Ecuador will be the borrower.  Supplementary
agreements will be signed by Central Bank with each of the implementing
agencies and between BEV and the Municipality (para. 8.01). The Government's
share (US$1.2 million) includes US$0.3 million for CENAPIA's program, US$0.8
million counterpart for the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Education,
and US$0.1 million Central Bank counterpart for its community development
program. The financing of recurrent expenditures for schools and clinics
is also being incorporated into the budgets of the Ministry of Health and
Ministry of Education (para. 8.02). Banco del Pacifico will finance its share
from private funds, providing US$2.7 million in loans over the three-and-a-half
year start-up period. During the same period an estimated US$2.2 million
will be lent from the Central Bank revolving fund established by the project
(para. 3.05). Small-scale enterprises themselves will contribute an estimated
US$1.3 million toward the projects financed. The Municipality and BEV will
finance their shares with loan funds from Government on the same terms as the
IBRD loan. A letter from the Government confirming the availability of public
counterpart funds has been received. Annual confirmations of necessary
budgetary approvals are to be made throughout project implementation (para.
8.02).
2.12      The IBRD loan would be channeled through Central Bank to the three
main implementing agencies (Banco del Pacifico, Banco Ecuatoriano de la
Vivienda, and the Municipality of Guayaquil) and to Government (for CENAPIA,
the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Education). The Government will
absorb the administrative costs and foreign exchange risks. By Ecuadorian
law, foreign exchange risk cannot be passed on to the ultimate borrower, and
the Government is particularly willing to absorb financial costs for this
project because of its high poverty content and otherwise thorough plan for
full cost recovery (para. 6.01). The funds for Banco del Pacifico and other
participating banks will be made available at the interest rate of the IBRD
loan on a rediscounting basis through a special annex of the Central Bank's
Fondos Financieros (para. 3.04). The terms of repayment for BEV and the
Municipality to Central Bank will be the same as the IBRD loan. The Govern-
ment, however, will absorb the IBRD commitment charge and the financial cost
of interest during construction for the Municipality, because the Municipality's
project unit will have a number of unrecoverable expenses (para. 6.26).
2.13      Nearly all costs (97%) will be recovered from the ultimate benefi-
ciaries (para. 6.01). Most allocable costs will be recovered at 12% interest
over 15 years. The three exceptions to this rule (BEV, CENAPIA, and Central
Bank's community development program) are explained in paras. 6.04, 6.16 and
6.17. Inflation was 13.0% in 1976, 12.3% in 1977, and 10.8% in 1978, declin-
ing with the end of the petroleum boom and Government anti-inflation efforts.
Inflation in 1979-81 is expected to fluctuate around 11%, held up by agricul-
tural price increases following upon the drought of this last year. Thus,
an interest rate of 12% would be positive in real terms. The maximum legal
interest rate in Ecuador is 12%.  The public mortgage loan institutions
(Social Security and Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda) presently charge
between 4% and 12% accordíng to size of loan, generally over 25 years. The
normal rate for lending programs targeted to serve priority and low-income



- 13 -
sectors (Fondos Financieros, FODERUMA) is 9%. For the Third Development
Banking Project (1359-EC) Government agreed to allow commissions of 2-4% for
medium- and long-term industrial loans. For a recent, more poverty-oriented
credit program, loans to small farmers in the Tungurahua Rural Development
Project (1644-EC), Government agreed to an interest rate of 11%.
III. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.01      Central Bank has appointed a project coordinator, acceptable
to the Bank, who will oversee the various components of the project for
Government and, in particular, facilitate cooperation between the
Municipality and BEV (para. 8.02).
A. Support to Small-Scale Enterprises
3.02      The sub-project will begin to open the commercial banking system
to very small-scale enterprises. It will build on a successful artisan credit
program developed by a progressive commercial bank, Banco del Pacifico (paras.
4.03-4.06), expanding it and possibly including other banks in the future.
The program will be complemented by an expanded program of technical assis-
tance to small-scale enterprises from CENAPIA (paras. 4.07-4.08).
Loans from Banco del Pacifico
3.03      Beneficiaries and types of loans.  In keeping with the Banco del
Pacifico's past experience, enterprises must have no more than six workers
and fixed assets of less than US$5,000 to qualify for a loan under this
program. To date only industrial enterprises (mostly woodworkers, shoemakers,
dressmakers, and tailors) are eligible, and loans are made only for fixed
assets and working capital. The program will now include very small commercial
enterprises and services as well (mechanics, carpenters, barbershops, beauty
salons, small shops, etc.), and construction loans will be available for
workshop expansion. Cooperatives are eligible, but loans will be made to
their individual member enterprises.
3.04      Terms and conditions to the beneficiaries.  The interest rate will
be raised from the current 9% to the normal commercial lending rate in Ecuador,
12% (paras. 2.13 and 6.02). The maximum terms and sizes of the three types of
loans will be as follows:
Maximum Term      Maximum Size
Working capital                   2 years          S/50,000
Fixed assets                      5 years          S/60,000
Workshop construction            12 years          S/80,000



- 14 -
The 12-year term for workshop construction loans will normally include a
one-year grace period. Borrowers will normally make payments semi-annually.
No collateral will be required for working capital or fixed assets loans,
only good credit references and a co-signer. Workshop construction loans
will be secured by mortgages.
3.05      Terms and conditions to the commercial bank.  Central Bank will
open a new anexo to one of its Fondos Financieros, through which they will
rediscount loans to very small enterprises under this program.  The rate of
interest will be the same as that of the IBRD loan. They will rediscount 70%
of loan volume, which is, based on past experience, approximately equivalent
to 60% of project costs. Documentation required from participating commercial
banks will be kept to a minimum in order to facilitate the rediscount of
small loans in large numbers. Banks need submit only statements of recipients'
names, loan amounts, and intended credit uses. They need not detail the
investment plan for each loan. CENAPIA, acting as Central Bank's agent, will
occasionally check that representations made to the Central Bank are correct.
The anexo in Central Bank is to be opened with a US$300,000 revolving fund
provided by Government and replenished by IBRD funds and reflows. The anexo
is expected to continue for at least the seventeen years of the IBRD loan.
3.06      The anexo will be open to other banks which are financially sound,
have Guayaquil prograns of lending to enterprises with assets of less than
US$5,000,-and are acceptable to IBRD. The Banco Nacional de Fomento has an
artisan lending program, but its procedures are cumbersome and slow. The
Banco de Pichincha and the Banco de Cooperativas have recently initiated
small artisan lending programs and may become interested in and eligible for
the anexo.
3.07      The on-lending interest rates legally allowed for banks using the
anexo will be 11% plus commissions of 2-4% for longer-term lending, or the
normal 12%. The Banco del Pacifico prefers not to use the commissions for
this particular program, but rather to charge the maximum legal interest
(para. 6.02).
3.08      Project size.  An estimated 6,400 loans will be made to about 5,200
artisans during the first three-and-a-half years. The total cost of the
component is expected to be US$10.8 million, of which about US$3.2 million
will be reflows. These estimates are based on the experience of the Banco del
Pacifico to date. During the pilot year of the Banco del Pacifico program,
1977, 180 loans were made in Guayaquil. During 1978 the program expanded to
include about 600 enterprises and US$490,000, growing to nearly 70 loans per
month by the end of the year. During 1979 the program is to be expanded to
1,100 loans totalling US$1 million. Midway through 1980 the bank should reach
its targeted lending plateau of about 180 loans per month. The average loan
size will also increase somewhat as the bank begins to make construction
loans, because they are expected to be about twice the size of equipment and
working capital loans.



- 15 -
3.09      Loan Administration.  Other banks which begin to use the new anexo
may have other procedures, but Banco del Pacifico will, for the most part,
continue to use the procedures which have worked so well for its ongoing
program. To identify potential borrowers for this program, the bank relies
primarily on part-time student interviewers. Each student works 20-25 hours
a week in one area of the city, contacting potential borrowers after first
checking their reputations within their neighborhoods. An increasing number
of borrowers, currently 15-20%, hear about the program and come to the bank's
office on their own initiative. CENAPIA and the Federacion de Artesanos will
also begin to refer potential clients to Banco del Pacifico (para. 4.09>.
3.10      A potential client, once identified, comes to the bank's office
with identification documents, credit references (pay drafts), and a co-signer.
A staff member normally helps the entrepreneur fill out a standard application
and discusses it with him. The program manager (or the assistant who will
join him in 1980) reviews each loan request, calls former creditors, and
arranges for a site visit by a field inspector. From the receipt of applica-
tion until disbursement usually takes about 30 days. To date the bank has
approved 82% of completed applications, but this figure is likely to drop as
the program expands and more enterprises approach the bank on their own.
3.11      Disbursements are made in the form of deposits to a savings account
opened at the Banco del Pacifico in the name of the borrower. For working
capital loans, the entire amount is deposited upon loan approval. For tools
and equipment, and now for construction loans, the borrower may withdraw half
of the loan immediately and the balance upon presentation of invoices.
3.12      More experienced student workers supervise loans through periodic
site visits. The supervisor files brief status reports and may provide minimal
management assistance. CENAPIA will also be contributing to the supervision
of some of the loans through its program of managerial, financial, and tech-
nical assistance.
3.13      Repayment is normally made semi-annually, according to an amortiza-
tion table given each borrower at the time of loan approval. A reminder is
sent to each artisan shortly before every due date. This process has worked
well, with arrears of only about 2%. If a payment is late, two collection
letters are sent (after seven and after fifteen days); personal contact is
then made with both the borrower and co-signer before legal action begins.
Technical Assistance to Enterprises
3.14      CENAPIA will expand its existing program of technical and managerial
assistance in order to reach all of the borrowers under this program who
desire CENAPIA's services. CENAPIA teaches basic accounting, financial plan-
ning, enterprise organization, inventory control, machinery placement and
maintenance, product quality, and marketing. Its method is to offer seminars,
with each artisan in attendance receiving at least one follow-up visit at his
work place (paras. 4.07-4.08).
3.15      The program in Guayaquil will be expanded to provide a seminar and
site visit to an estimated 85% of the 5,200 clients under this program. Based



- 16 -
on CENAPIA's present experience, about 25% cof those will request and require
more than one site visit. CENAPIA will play no role in screening applications
to participating banks. The banks will present to CENAPIA lists of recent
borrowers grouped by líne of work, all of whom will be invited to attend a
CENAPIA seminar.  The content of CENAPIA's seminars will be adjusted in
consultation with participating banks and the Federacion de Artesanos.
Consultants' Services to CENAPIA
3.16      Funds have been included in the project to provide 37 man-months of
consultants' services (at an estimated average cost of US$5,000 per man-month)
to CENAPIA for three purposes:
(1)  a feasibility study for a proposecl artisan market in
which CENAPIA, Banco del Pacifico, and the Federacion de
Artesanos are all interested;
(ii)  a two-year consultant to improve CENAPIA's program of
assistance regarding the technical and collective aspects
of marketing;
(iii) short-term consultancy. services in 1980 and 1981 to evaluate
the small-scale enterprises sub-project (para. 5.08).
B. Services to Low-Income Areas
Land
3.17      Inconsistent policies and archaic procedures have led to an
exceptionally confused tenure situation in :Low-income areas of Guayaquil.
Nearly all well-situated land is privately owned, and there are few
precedents for expropriatíon for low-income residential development.
Addressing the land tenure problems of the poor in Guayaquil is a crucial
part of the project. The sites included in this first project were
chosen partly because the tenure situations they represent are typical
of the different sorts of problems which must be solved as low-income
residential improvement continues.
3.18      Substantial progress has already been made as part of project
preparation. The Municípality has virtually completed expropriation of the
Alegria site, and the legal steps which remain in order to deliver title to
beneficiaries were agreed at negotiations (para. 8.01).  The Government and
Municipality have also taken several actions since appraisal which should
facilitate BEV's housing loan program in the Suburbio (para. 3.20(c)).
3.19      Considerable legal and technical work has also been done for
the two areas to be upgraded, Guasmo North and Lotizacion Mapasingue.
IBRD intended to agree with Government and the Municipality at negotiations
on a plan and timetable for regularizing tenure in these two areas. But
in October 1979, just before negotiations, the national Congress passed a



- 17 -
decree which aimed to resolve the land tenure problems of all marginal
areas in the north and south of Guayaquil, granting residents of more than
one year rights to buy their land at the nominal price of S/10 per square
meter. If this decree goes into effect, it would put project efforts in
Guasmo North and Lotizacion Mapasingue in a new legal context. Thus, it was
agreed to delay preparation of a land tenure plan for these two sites until
the President responds to the new decree. IBRD will not disburse for civil
works in Guasmo North or Lotizacion Mapasingue until a feasible timetable
for regularization of land tenure in the site in question has been received
(para. 8.01).
3.20      The details of the current land tenure situation for each site are
as follows:
(a) Floresta Pilot. The land is BEV property, and title will be
transferred to individual families according to normal BEV
procedures. There is no problem.
(b) Alegria Sites and Services. The Municipal Council declared the site
to be of public utility on April 3, 1979, and notified the owners of
their intention to expropriate, offering the cadastral value of the
land in compensation. The Council has since then augmented its
declaration twice to rectify errors in the technical reports on
which its original declaration was based. Construction of infra-
structure could begin immediately on 92% of the site, but several
appeals must be resolved to begin on the remaining 8%. The expro-
priation and title process, detailed at negotiations, should be
completed before the infrastructure is finished. BEV could then
begin to finance the sites and housing for the families selected.
Mechanisms for transferring title are being defined in the imple-
mentation agreement between BEV and the Municipality (para. 8.01).
(c) Suburbio. Perhaps 6,000 families (there are no adequate
statistics) hold donated titles, but previously these were not
mortgageable. On January 5, 1979, the Municipal Council passed
a resolution allowing donated titles to be mortgaged. This
is already substantial progress. A decree, drafted by the
Municipality and sent to Government for consideration, will
obviate the necessity for each family to return, one by one,
to the Municipality and the Registry of Property to have the
title's mortgageability noted on their document and the public
record. The registration process will be facilitated for
thousands of additional families who do not yet hold donated
title by special efforts being made in conjunction with the
IDB-financed Suburbio sewerage project (para. 1.18). A
decree designed to speed up this process by allowing such
properties to be recorded in a separate book was passed by
the Supreme Council of Government in July 1979.



- 18 -
(d)  Guasmo North.  The area is municipal property, so works could
legally begin immediately, and the transfer of title to residents
should be relatively straightforward. It has also been agreed
that, when BEV makes a house improvement loan, BEV will assume the
first mortgage and responsibility to repay the Municipalty for
upgrading the lot. However, the price and mechanisms by which
the Municipality will initially seLl the land to the people who
occupy it have not yet been settled. The Municipality had
decided to sell the land at S/100 (US$4) per square meter at a
minimum.  In August 1979 the new Congress decreed that the
Municipality should sell the land at S/10 (US$.40) per square
meter instead, but the Municipality replied that Government
should, in that case, reimburse them for the difference.  In its
October decree Congress reiterated the S/10 price for Guasmo
land and authorized a special commission to oversee the land
sales in Guasmo and other marginal areas included in the decree.
It is not yet clear exactly how this decree will be implemented.
Government is to submit a plan and timetable for regularization
of land tenure in Guasmo North before IBRD disburses for the
construction of civil works to upgrade the area (para. 8.01).
(e) Lotizacion Mapasingue. The former owner sold a few lots
(10%) in this urbanization. The Municipality then ruled that
services were inadequate to meet city standards, but the owner
continued to sell lots. The great majority of "owners"
have bills of sale, but not legal title. Many of these lots
were later "invaded" under the organization of several coopera-
tives. The strategies which had been evolved for dealing with
this complex problem at the municipal level would be outdated
if the October decree comes into effect. Lotizacion Mapasingue
would be one of the areas where actual residents would have
rights to buy the land at S/10 per square meter, under the
supervision of the new commission which would be established.
IBRD will not disburse for civil works in Lotizacion Mapasingue
until a feasible plan for legalizing the situation is received
(para. 8.01).
3.21      Providing legal tenure to significant numbers of the poor in
Guayaquil is, without doubt, the most difficult aspect of this project.
Negotiations were delayed several months, mainly to wait for expropriation
of the Alegria site, and additional progress may be expected in response
to the tenure-related conditions of disbursement for Guasmo North and
Lotizacion Mapasingue. In addition, the Muunicipality project unit will
have a legal department, and the project includes funds for both the
Municipality and BEV to hire legal counsel or other necessary consultants'
services. Agreement has been reached between the Municipality and the
Registry of Property to use some project funds to index the city's property
records by computer, thus making the titling process more efficient in
order to cope with the increased titling load this project will create.



- 19 -
3.22      If some delay occurs in preparing the timetable for the residents
of Guasmo North, only a minor portion of the project (3%, the cost of civil
works in Guasmo North) would be affected. Upgrading for Lotizacion Mapasingue
is scheduled toward the end of the project. If titling is seriously delayed
in either upgrading area, BEV could disburse its housing loan funds among
families in other low-income areas of the city.
Upgrading (Lotizacion Mapasingue)
3.23      Site description.  Mapasingue comprises 147.3 ha and has 1,820
households. It is north of the city, 6 km from the city center, located
in a major industrial and residential growth area. It is a 10-15 year old
settlement, selected because it is similar to the more consolidated part
of the Suburbio. The settlement is small enough to be manageable within
a first project and will provide experience relevant to future upgrading
projects. The area is quite mixed: industry of various sorts and sizes,
some fairly well-consolidated homes, some cane shacks.  Some lots have
no services, while others have individual water connections, underground
drainage, or even sewage connections.
3.24      Site layout and land use.  Residential densities are very low
(40 houses per net hectare), because lots are awkwardly deep and large (typi-
cally lOm x 40m). As part of the upgrading, mid-block pedestrian streets
(4-6m) will bi constructed and owners encouraged to subdivide to minimum
lots of 100 m . Subdivision will be optional, but owners who choose to sub-
divide will have the benefit of the rental or sale.  Vacant land will be2
serviced so as to allow subdivision down to a minimum sized lot of 100 m
there, too.  If all potential subdivision were to take place, another 4,200
lots would be created. It is estimated that about 30% of the plot-holders
will opt not to subdivide, so that about 2,900 new lots will actually be
created. Landfill will be provided and streets resurfaced. The water,
sewerage, and storm water drainage systems will be completed, with individual
connections for water and sewerage. Infrastructure standards are modest,
based on minimal functional requirements and affordability to the present
population in Lotizacion Mapasingue. Standards are detailed in the staff
Working Documents, which are available in the Project File.
Upgrading (Guasmo North)
3.25      Site description.  Guasmo North comprises 57.5 ha and has 1,735
households. It is south of the city, 8 km from the city center, located
between the Agriculture Faculty of the University and the port. It is in a
low lying area requiring extensive landfill and has no services. A gravel
road provides access, and potable water is brought in by tanker trucks.
Although presently isolated, it is at the center of one of the industrial and
residential growth areas of the city. It has socio-economic and physical
characteristics similar to the periphery of the Suburbio, but is a smaller,
discrete, and thus more easily upgradable area. Guasmo North, the original
invasion to the south of the city center, has proven to be the bridgehead for
a large and on-going invasion of adjacent land. Unlike Lotizacion Mapasingue,
Guasmo North includes virtually no existing industry.



- 20 -
3.26      Site layout and land use.  When Guasmo North was first invaded, the
residents settled in blocks to facilitate the future introduction of public
services and reserved space for community facilities. An inefficient original
layout and the need for landfill make upgrading expensive. The layout will be
rationalized as far as possible: circulation reduced somewhat, reserves for
community facilities brought down to standards consistent with the rest of the
city, and mid-bloc1 pedestrian culs de sac (4m width) introduced to encourage
subdivision to 81m minimum lot sizes. The number of plots could double from
1,735 to 3,470, but it is estimated that 30% of owners will opt not to sub-
divide, so about 1,200 new lots will be created. Standards will be minimal
to make upgrading affordable without subsidies which would stimulate more
invasions nearby. Roads, pedestrian ways, community facilities, standpipes,
and public lighting will be provided, but landfill within private lots and
the construction of pit latrines must be left to the initiative of individual
families with possible financing available from BEV. Design details will be
finalized in conjunction with a program of public information and consulta-
tion with community residents.
Sites and Services (Alegria)
3.27      Site description.  The Alegria site (68.8 ha) is in a major indus-
trial zone along the highway to Daule to the north of the city center.
City planners recommend extensive low-income residential development in
the northern part of Guayaquil, and the Alegria area is a close-in, logical
first site. Job opportunities in the area and transport to the city center
áre good. Neighboring residential areas include both high-income and low-
income housing. Current invasions nearby indicate that this is a "pressure"
area for low-income settlement. It is near trunk infrastructure for water and
drainage. Trunk infrastructure for sewerage is a problem: no sewer trunks
serve the site, and the hills on the site slope away from present and proposed
sewage treatment plants along the Guayas River. The problem, however, is
typical of all the vacant land now being developed to the north of the city.
3.28      Site layout and land use.  Alegria has been designed so as to
maximize efficiency of land use and minimize infrastructure costs. Of the
total site area utilized for residential purposes, over 60% has been allo-
cated for residential plots, 16.7% for circulation and the remainder for
support facilities and amenities. Access to the majority of plots in Alegria
is from 4m wide pedestrian loop roads and some culs de sac. Access is also
taken off 6m and lOm local distributor roads. These connect to primary
roads proposed in the city's metropolitan master plan, which connect to the
highway to Daule.  There will be 3,166 residential plots in A egria.  Of
these 125, located on the primary road network, will be 125 m  pl9ts for
mixed commercial/residential use. The remaining lots will be 90m each.
The net density will be 103.0 houses per hectare.  A narrow strip of the site
which falls next to a proposed main road will be serviced and sold at a profit
(para. 6.06) for industrial usage. Infrastructure standards are detailed in
the staff Working Documents. The layout is shown in Map 14139.



- 21 -
Sites and Services (Floresta Pilot)
3.29      Site description.  Floresta Pilot is a small area within a large
piece of BEV property to the south of the city center. The site is near a
major road. Water pressure is low in the south of the city, but the stand-
pipes planned are within EMAP's allocation to BEV developments in the south.
Sewage treatment facilities for this area are also overloaded, necessitating
construction of an oxidation pond. The Floresta property was being-held for
future development, but it is adjacent to the Guasmo invasions and was itself
invaded in November 1978. BEV ejected the squatters, but invasions have
continued nearby, and BEV decided to develop their Floresta property quickly
for lower-income housing. Using their own funds, BEV/JNV has already constructed
210 houses in Floresta, all of lower standards than the units BEV/JNV had
been building in Guayaquil before. BEV-JNV will construct another 500 low-cost
units in Floresta with IBRD-financing.
3.30      Site lay-out and land use.  Of the entire Floresta development, 61%
has been allocated to residential plots, 24% to circulation, and 15% to open
space and community facilities.  Access to the plots is mainly from 4.5m
pedestrian paths, with some 6.0m paths.  Vehicular 5oads have 12m rights of
way. The 500 sites and services plots average 90 m in size, giving a net
density of over 100 units per hectare. Infrastructure standards are shown
in the Working Documents.
Off-site Infrastructure
3.31      Only the little off-site infrastructure essential for servicing two
of the project areas has been included: a 16" water main (1,520 m) to Guasmo
North (to be tendered and supervised by EMAP) and a trunk access road to Alegria.
Municipal Administration
3.32      Three components have been included to strengthen the municipal
project unit: vehicles and equipment, a budget for the unit's operating
expenses, and technical assistance. The technical assistance will include
about 122 man-months of consultants' services (at an average of US$5,000 per
man-month) for detailed design, engineering, tendering, and supervision of
construction; a study to improve financial management of the Municipality
(para. 4.16); monitoring and evaluation (para. 5.07); and limited funds for
the preparation of future projects.
Community Facilities
3.33      Primary schools.  The number of primary schools to be constructed
in the three project areas is based on national planning standards as stated
by DECE (?epartamento de 9onstruccciones Escolares) and JNV.  DECE normally
allots 6m of land and 3m of building per pupil, with an average of 50 pupils
per classroom. The pupil population to be served by the schools is based on



- 22 -
the age distribution in Guasmo and Mapasingue adjusted to a realistic enroll-
ment ratio of 70%. For the purpose of estimating demand for community facilí-
ties, it is assumed the populations of the upgraded areas will increase 50%
due to subdivision; the population is expected to increase 70%, but a conser-
vative estimate was used to avoid overbuilding of community facilities. The
project will include two schools in Alegría, two in Guasmo North, and one in
Lotizacion Mapasingue. All schools will be double-session. Additional use
may be made of school buildings for non-formal, community-organized education
programs. Floresta Pilot will be served by schools to be constructed within
the larger Floresta development.
3.34      The costs of the construction and equipment of schools are estimated
by DECE and the Subdireccion de Educacion, two branches of the Ministry of
Education. The capital cost per pupil is S13,917 (US$157) and the annual
operating cost is S/1,696 (US$68) per pupil per annum. DECE will be respon-
sible for designing economical schools, tendering, supervision, and equipment.
The Subdireccion de Educacion will operate, maintain, and staff the schools
(para 8.02) with the cooperation of community residents.
3.35      Health centers.  A health center will be constructed in each of the
three main project areas to serve a total population of 54,000.  The centers2
in Guasmo and Mapasingue2will have a construction area of approximately 500m
the one in Alegria, 600m . Each of the three will be built on a plot of
2,500-3,00Om to allow for future upgrading of the centers into health center
hospitals. Capital costs are S/371 (US$15) per capita; recurrent costs are
S/91 (US$3.60) per capita per annum. National standards for the design of
health centers are avaílable in the Instituto Ecuatoriano de Obras Sanitarias,
a branch of the Ministry of Health. The centers will be operated by the
Ministry of Health (para. 8.02) and coordinated with community primary-
care programs where they exist. Floresta Pilot will be served by health
facilities within the larger Floresta development.
3.36      Markets.  Five public markets (each 2,000-2,500m) in the three
large project areas will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained
by the Mercado Central, a department of the Municipality. Each stall will be
approximately 2m x 3.5m, to be rented at a cost recovery price (para. 6.15).
Community Development Program (Central Bank)
3.37      At appraisal Government proposed that an innovative community develop-
ment program be included in the project. It would be administered by Central
Bank, repeating in marginal areas of Guayaquil the approaches which Central
Bank's Fondo de Desarrollo del Sector Rural Marginal (FODERUMA) has been using
in rural areas (para. 4.19). Like FODERUMA, this program will be targeted at
basic needs. It will involve a high degree of community participation, with
priorities and appropriate technologies to be identified in consultation with
community groups. About 75% of the costs of the program of grants and loans
will be recovered from the ultimate beneficiaries, so that successful efforts
should be replicable. Central Bank will seek written agreements with the
relevant ministries and public agencies, securing their participation in these
pilot efforts with a view to replication within the normal programs of Government.



- 23 -
3.38      The component was positively evaluated by a post-appraisal mission.
The process actually got underway in Guayaquil in March 1979, with assistance
from UNICEF. A seminar of organizations involved in marginal areas of Guayaquil
reviewed ongoing and planned projects in Guayaquil, as well as approaches
FODERUMA was implementing in rural communities. Projects -i. such areas as
skills training, employment services, and appropriate building technologies
were identified.
3.39      The new Government has given some consideration to moving FODERUMA
from Central Bank to some other agency, but at negotiations Government confirmed
its preference that Central Bank be the institution to initiate similar programs
in marginal urban areas.
C. Housing Loans
3.40      The Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda/Junta Nacional de la Vivienda
(BEV/JNV) will make small loans available in all project areas and in the
Suburbio for modest houses and the upgrading of existing houses.
Terms and Conditions
3.41      Central Bank will on-lend IBRD funds to BEV at the terms of the IBRD
loan. Until appraisal BEV had a graduated scale of interest rates, between 4%
for very small loans up to the legal maximum of 12% for large loans. Because
this project will, for the first time, involve BEV in making a substantial
investment in small loans to low-income people, BEV has agreed to IBRD's
suggestion that interest rates be raised to realistic levels. The new scale
is 7-12% nationwide (para. 8.02). In accordance with the intentions of BEV's
management, all loans under the project will be made at an interest rate of
10%, and the maximum term of these loans will be 15 years rather than BEV's
normal term of 25 years. All loans in the project will be secured by mortgages
against the existing property (serviced land in sites and services areas, land
and existing dwelling in upgrading areas) as well as new construction.
Loan Sizes and Sub-project Size
3.42      The estimates shown in the summary of project costs (Table II-1) are
based on calculations for each project area of the proportion of households
likely to take loans and a plausible distribution of loan sizes (according to
affordability and the cost of various types of construction). These calcula-
tions are indicative only. BEV/JNV will respond to effective demand within
the eligible income group in project areas.
3.43      BEV loans for house construction in Alegria will range from S/12,500
(US$500) to S/57,000 (US$2,280). The lower figure would be adequate for a
well-built, one-room cane structure. In Floresta Pilot the loans for the
houses (in addition to land and infrastructure) will range from S/26,000
(US$1,040) to S/66,000 (US$2,640), allowing a range of modest permanent
structures. In upgrading areas loans will range from S/5,700 (US$230) to



- 24 -
S/57,000 (US$2,300). The low figure might allow for a service connection or
internal sanitary fixtures.
Selection Procedures
3.44      Administrative arrangements for this project have been modelled
after present BEV/JNV procedures, but modified to allow for a much greater
number of small loans to low-income people than BEV/JNV has handled in the
past. Procedures will be somewhat different for Floresta Pilot, Alegria,
and the upgrading areas.
3.45      Floresta Pilot.  Procedures here will most closely follow the normal
BEV/JNV pattern. The BEV/JNV project unit will develop the area, including
core units, and announce availability to the public. The BEV/JNV project unit
will receive applications (S/200 fee for each applicant). Applicants must
meet the following criteria:
(i) monthly family income between S13,000 and S/6,000;
(ii) at least two years of residence in Guayaquil;
(iii) a savings account in BEV;
(iv)  no other property in Guayaquil (certified by the applicant
himself, not by title search).
The BEV/JNV project unit will conduct a computerized lottery from among applic-
ants who meet these criteria. Those pre-selected by lottery (slightly more
families than there are plots) will be invited to an interview to document
their eligibility, choose among three standard plans according to preference
and affordability, sign a contract, pay S/1,100 for property registration and
notary, and obtain access to their unit. If some documentation is not in
order, they may have to return for a second interview. Some of those pre-
selected will prove ineligible or will, for some reason, not complete their
applications.  Should there be too many eligible applicants, priority will be
given, following BEV's established policies, according to how long they have
had savings accounts at BEV.
3.46      Alegria.  Administrative arrangements will be finalized in the
agreement between the Municipality and BEV (para. 8.01). As envisioned in
the draft agreement, the Municipality project: unit would develop this site,
advertise the availability of serviced sites, and receive applications.
It would follow the same criteria as does BEV for Floresta Pilot, except that
applicants need not have a savings account with BEV until after approval for a
loan.  The Municipality project unit would receive applications, collect the
S/200 fee, and conduct the computerized lottery (with BEV as observer). For.
beneficiaries who want BEV loans, the Municipality would issue letters of
documentation allowing BEV to transfer title to the beneficiaries so the
applicants would thereafter need to deal with only one agency, BEV. BEV's
loan disbursement would normally be made in two tranches.  If some families
prefer to build very modest homes with their own resources and not borrow from
BEV for house construction, the Municipality would issue title, but BEV could,
for a small fee, assume collection responsibLlity.



- 25 -
3.47      Upgrading areas.  There are already thousands of families in the
Suburbio with legal tenure. In Guasmo North and Lotizacion Mapasingue the
Municipality project unit will coordinate the legalization of tenure. Plot-
holders in all three areas will apply at BEV/JNV project unit site offices
for upgrading loans. To be eligible, they must meet only two criteria:
(i)  monthly family income between S/2,500 and S/6,000;
(>i) at least two years of residence in Guayaquil;
They must also present plans and cost estimates for the intended upgrading
of their shelter. Low-level technical staff from the project unit will be
available to visit plots and prepare the necessary plans and estimates. BEV
is not willing to lend to landlords to expand rental space, but otherwise any
upgrading project is allowable.
3.48      Assistance and supervision during construction.  The BEV/JNV project
unit will maintain depots on all sites (including the two upgrading sites and
the Suburbio) for the storage of selected building materials. Security risks
will be minimized by keeping long-term storage at JNV's central Guayaquil
warehouse, with only enough supply at the site depots to do business. Bor-
rowers will be free to acquire their materials elsewhere, individually or in
cooperatives. The depots will mainly stock key materials like cement which
BEV/JNV could normally provide more cheaply and conveniently than families
could procure them individually. On the Alegria site, the depot will make
available the materials necessary to construct the first room according to
standard plans, so that a family can complete a habitable, lockable unit
before having to assume responsibility for storing materials. BEV/JNV tech-
nical officers will visit houses and house improvements under construction
before each disbursement, and most loans will be broken down into two or three
disbursements. These technical officers will also be available on-site for
advice and assistance upon request.
3.49      In Alegria no one will be required to build according to a standard
plan, but a variety of standard plans (see sample drawings) will be available,
and an approved plan will be required to obtain a BEV loan for house construc-
tion. On the Floresta Pilot site, JNV will complete the infrastructure and
core units (modifications of their V-13 house type), leaving families to their
own resources to complete the lower-cost options. In the Floresta development,
JNV is experimenting with different approaches to low-income housing, including
direct administration and self-help construction as well as competitive
bidding.



- 26 -
IV. EXECUTING AGENCIES
4.01      This integrated urban development project will involve a number of
agencies, reorienting each to better meet the needs of Guayaquil's low-incone
population. The capacity of each agency and the relationships among them are
detailed below.
A. Banco del Pacifico and CENAPIA
4.02      Initially, the primary agency in this subproject will be the Banco
del Pacifico. CENAPIA will receive periodic lists of Banco del Pacifico's
program clients and offer them technical assistance. The Federacion Provincial
de Artesanos del Guayas will help promote the program and offer suggestions
and reactions from the artisans' point of view. A committee of participating
banks, CENAPIA, and the Federacion will meet quarterly to review progress
and coordinate efforts. This subproject will serve the residential areas
involved in the other two subprojects as well as other low-income areas of
Guayaquil, but no explicit coordination with the project units in the Munici-
pality and BEV will be necessary.
Banco del Pacifico
4.03      Of all the financial institutions in Guayaquil, Banco del Pacifico
has the best reputation among artisans. It is also the fastest growing bank
in the country. Selected financial data are shown in Table IV-1.
4.04      The bank began in 1972 with a net worth of S/39 million (US$1.6
million), growing to S/352 million (US$14.1 million) as of June 30, 1978
(up 803%). The number of its shareholders has more than doubled (from 447
to 1,054), with no shareholder holding more than 10% of shares. Demand
deposits, which represent about 80% of all deposits, increased over 50% per
year 1972-1977 before leveling out in 1978 owing to Government credit re-
straints. Further growth is expected with the opening of new offices in two
cities in 1978 and another two in 1979. Banco del Pacifico currently stands
second among Ecuador's 21 commercial banks with total assets of US$286 mil-
lion and deposits of all types of US$110 million. Its arrears rate (only
3.6%) is the lowest of any Ecuadorian bank, even though its lending has in-
creased more than 50% per year over the past four years. Of this lending,
22% has been directed to borrowers in Government-designated priority sectors.
Net profits reached US$3 million in the first half of 1978, 45% generated
in Guayaquil. The bank's operating margin increased from 28% in 1976 to 30%
in 1977 to 32% during the first half of 1978. Although highly leveraged,
Banco del Pacifico is operating within the norms of the Superintendency of
Banks and is well-regarded by the authorities. Its accounts are subject to
annual external audit.



- 27 -
Table IV-1: Selected Data
Banco del Pacifico (December)
(millions of sucres)
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1976/1978
Capital & Reserves    37        44       73      113     131      215         300
Profit                   2      13       20       24       42      73          52
TOTAL              39       57       93     137      173      288         352
Deposits
Sight               156      244      405     852   1,453   2,054         2,066
Time                 72      114      224     258      473      623         690
TOTAL            228      358      629   1,110   1,926   2,677        2,756
Disposable Funds      101      205      370      746   1,426   1,761        1,656
Loans
Outsanding          161      191      304      710   1,121   1,742        1,856
Arrears               2       14       18       35      50       47          69
TOTAL            163      205      322     745   1,171   1,789         1,925
% Arrears             1.3      6.6      5.5      4.7     4.3      2.6         3.6
Guarantees,
Acceptances         131      291      531     714   1,080   1,465         2,161
4.05      Banco del Pacifico has established a successful program of artisan
lending, one of its original priorities.  The program began in March 1977,
after a visit by two of the bank's senlor staff to the UNO micro-enterprise
program in Recife, Brazil. Since that time, loans totalling almost US$600,000
have been granted to about 800 artisan enterprises in Guayaquil. Arrearage
is low and administrative costs are falling (para. 6.03). The Guayaquil
office is responsible for over 70% of the bank's artisan lending nationwide.
Although the bank has not utilized the rediscount facility of the Fondos
Financieros for its artisan lending, it has abided by the Fondos' 9% interest
ceiling, so the program has been less profitable than the bank's normal 12%
commercial lending. Their deepening involvement has been partly due to the
management's sense of responsibility to this sector and an understanding of
the long-term returns from cultivating new clients, new savers, and a respon-
sible and innovative public image.
4.06      Since a bankwide reorganization in October 1978, the artisan lend-
ing program is one of five activities within the bank's credit department.
Its manager, presently working two-thirds of his time on the program, will
continue, either full-time or with additional assistance from his field
inspector. The current support of clerical staff and field workers will more
than double (para. 8.02) by the time the program reaches its expected plateau
of 2,000 loans per year in 1981. The artisan credit team will probably move
to a new office in the Suburbio at about the time IBRD participation begins.



- 28 -
CENAPIA
4.07      The Centro Nacional de Promocion de la Pequena Industria y Artesania
(CENP"IA), created in December 1975, provides technical assistance to small
industry and artisans. Appropriations to CENAPIA's nationwide program
totalled only S/14 million (US$560,000) in 1978, so the Guayaquil office,
which receives less than 15% of CENAPIA's total funds, is quite small. Its
tecnicos visit and assist enterpreneurs, more than two-thirds of whom are
artisans. Most of their extension work is in the areas of management,
accounting, and financial administration.
4.08      CENAPIA is presently weak and poorly staffed relative to its respon-
sibilities. It is undergoing restructuring and a major expansion of its program.
CENAPIA will be participating in four internationally financed projects, UNIDO
is providing technical assistance to upgrade the quality of its services, and
the IBRD small-scale industry project (para. 1.15) is likely to include further
measures to strengthen CENAPIA. By January 1979, the agency expects to have a
budget of some S/25 million (US$1 million) and expanded staffing. In order to
execute its role in this project CENAPIA will establish a small project unit
in its Guayaquil office, beginning with a project manager and three profes-
sionals, and building to a staff of seven professionals in 1981 (para. 8.02).
4.09      CENAPIA has close relations with the Federacion Provincial de
Artesanos del Guayas. The Federacion's local artisan associations help
arrange for entrepreneurs in need of assistance to meet with CENAPIA. The
Federacion will help to promote the proposed sub-project and provide some
feedback to Banco del Pacifico and CENAPIA during implementation. Artisans
are exceptionally well-organized in Ecuador. Twenty-seven local artisan
groups, with a total membership of approximately 15,000 (about 90% of whom are
in Guayaquil), elect delegates to the provincial federation. Each province,
in turn, sends delegates to a national confederation.
B.  Municipality of Guayaquil
4.10      The Municipality project unit will be primarily responsible for
the provision of services to low-income areas. Schools and clinics will be
constructed and maintained, according to nearly routine procedures, by the
responsible national ministries (paras. 3.34 and 3.35). The Municipality's
project director will liaise with Central Bank's community development staff
in Guayaquil. The provision of infrastructure, as well as housing loans, in
Floresta Pilot will be entirely BEV/JNV responsibility.
Municipality of Guayaquil
4.11      The Municipality is a long-established and powerful institution.
Its effectiveness has been limited, however, by political instability. During
the past five years Guayaquil has suffered a rapid succession of mayors, four
of them just during the preparation for thLs project. Almost each mayor
made significant staff changes, and the Muunicipality did not have any clear
and steady policy direction. In October 1978, an elected mayor finally took
office for an expected five-year term.



- 29 -
4.12      The Municipality is also notoriously inefficient.  Many of its
systems of operation are outdated. For example, people must come to the
Municipality in person and queue at street-level windows to pay their taxes
and water bills. Staff is poorly paid; morale and discipline are low. The
water and sewerage utilities are now better managed than before, simply
because they were almost completely separated from Municipality administra-
tion and finances by the formation of EMAG and EMAP in 1967 and 1970.
4.13      Municipal finances.  Summary financial statements for the period
1976-1978 are shown in Table IV-2. Changes in the current position reflect
the debilitating effects of frequently changing leadership. Cash is down from
US$3.2 million to US$300,000; receivables, mostly taxes due the Municipality,
are up from US$16.4 million to US$25.9 million; and current liabilities have
grown from US$400,000 to US$6.3 million from December 1976 to July 1978.
4.14      Long term debt at year end 1977 (US$26.8 million) is not high in
relation to total resources (US$98.2 million) and net worth (US$60.0 million).
The major constraint on municipal finances is the low level of income. Cur-
rent revenues from taxes and all other sources were only US$12.5 million in
1976 and US$14.6 million in 1977. Total revenues, including Government loans
and transfers, were only US$33.3 million and US$39.1 million for these same
years. With a city population of about one million, annual municipal revenues
are less than US$42 per capita. This low level of revenues explains in part
the poor quality of services in Guayaquil.
Table IV-2: Comparative Balance Sheets
Municipality of Guayaquil
(in millions)
As at December 1976       December 1977            July 1978
Sucres    Dollars      Sucres    Dollars    Sucres    Dollars
Assets
Cash Banks           80        3.2           25      1.0            9        0.3
Receivables         412       16.4          470     18.7          647       25.9
Fixed Assets      1,471       58.9        1,515     60.6        1,541       61.7
Other               469       18.7          447     17.9          996       39.8
2,432      97.2        2,457      98.2        3,193     127.7
Liabilities
Current              11        0.4          172      6.9          158        6.3
Long Term Debt      713       28.5          671     26.8          507       20.3
Other               164        6.5          114      4.6        1,217       48.7
Net Worth         1,544       61.8        1,500     60.0        1,311       52.4
2,432      97.2        2,457      98.3        3,193     127.7
4.15      Another aspect of municipal finances worthy of note is the high
degree of dependence on the Central Government. Nearly 60% of total funds
1976-1978 were Government loans or transfers. Most Government funds are
earmarked for public works (81% of the 1978 budget of US$12.8 million, for
example), but under existing budgetary procedures every service of the
Municipality is to some extent dependent on Government financing.



- 30 -
4.16      Recognizing the inadequate state of municipal finances, the Municipal
Director of Finance recommended to the Mayor a major component of technical
assistance as part of this project. The objectives are to improve collections,
implement more efficient systems, and review revenue policies. The program
will be carried out by national and international consultants in two stages.
First, consultants will be invited to do a three-month diagnostic study. They
will recommend:
(i) an achievable timetable of targets for improved collections;
(ii) especially problematic policies and procedures for immediate
review;
(iíi) a program of possible reforms, including draft terms of
reference for the second, implementation stage of tech-
nical assistance.
The study is to be completed by June 30, 1980. The Municipality will, as part
of the project agreement (para. 8.02), review its recommendations in consult-
ation with IBRD and agree with IBRD on a timetable of targets for improved
collections and a program of financial reform.
4.17      Urban development norms.  The Department of Urban Planning recognized,
in the course of preparing this project, that present development regulations
are unrealistic and effectively exclude the poor from legal housing solutions.
They are thus preparing revised norms for consideration by the Municipal
Council by early 1981 (para. 8.02). The revised norms would probably allow
public agencies (BEV and IESS, as well as the Municipality itself) to develop
sites and services/upgrading projects without special permission each time.
4.18      Organization for project implementation.  A special project unit was
established by resolution of the Municipal Council in December 1978. In May
1979 the Mayor appointed its director and heads of divisions, and authorized
the use of funds advanced by Central Bank for the unit's administrative
expenses until the IBRD loan becomes effective. The unit is to have an
initial staff of 14 (including the team from the Department of Urban Planning
which prepared the project), growing to 43. Staff can opt for special employ-
ment status, allowing higher salaries. The unit will be divided into four
divisions: technical, community development, finance and legal. Its staff
and structure are detailed in the Working Documents (Project File). A Municipal
Project Advisory Committee, consisting of several city counsellors and repre-
sentatives from JUNAPLA and Central Bank, vill assist the Mayor in supervising
the project unit. Continued staffing and facilities for the unit will be
confirmed in the project agreement (para. 8.02).  The unit may be the nucleus
for a future municipal company for low-income housing similar to existing
water and sewerage companies.
Central Bank's Poverty Investment Program
4.19      Central Bank has recently assumed the role of innovator and promoter
for poverty-oriented investment in Ecuador.  Its Fondo de Desarrollo del Sector
Rural Marginal (FODERUMA) was established by the Junta Monetaria in March 1978,



- 31 -
with approval by the Supreme Council of Goverrment in May 1978. FODERUMA has
assets of over US$12 million (mostly contributed by the Ministry of Finance).
Its programs are supervised by the Director General of Central Bank together
with the President of JUNAPLA. During its first nine months of operation
FODERUMA disbursed nearly US$1.6 million to projects in over 60 rural communi-
ties. Projects are targeted at basic needs and planned in consultation with
community groups. Community participation in both planning and implementation
is an essential element in the FODERUMA methodology. Projects are carefully
and consistently evaluated. To date FODERUMA has developed significant
training programs for primary-level health workers, credit to production
cooperatives, and a wide variety of smaller projects (basic public services,
agriculture, small-scale industry, pre-school education, appropriate technology
research). About 75% of FODERUMA's investments in community projects t date
is to be recovered from the ultimate beneficiaries (para. 6.16). Central
Bank's pivotal position in Ecuador's economy allows it considerable leverage
in eliciting the participation and cooperation of Government ministries and
public agencies, allowing for an integrated approach to poverty problems and
replication of successful innovations. Based on FODERUMA's success, Gr ernment
suggested that, as a component of this project, Central Bank should now _nter
urban marginal communities with a similar methodology. The first initiatives
along these lines in Guayaquil have already been taken in close cooperation
with UNICEF.
C. BEV/JNV
4.20      The Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda (BEV) and the Junta Nacional
de la Vivienda (JNV) are sister organizations under one president. BEV is
responsible for banking and other financial aspects, JNV for national housing
policy, construction, and other technical aspects. Whenever JNV develops a
housing project, BEV provides the financing, and a team with staff from both
sides of the organization is responsible for implementatic    The president
of BEV/JNV is a cabinet-level official, responsible for the -using sector.
4.21      Within this project, BEV/JNV is primarily responsible for housing
loans. The Municipality is uniquely suited to modify official development
norms, regularize tenure, levy a cost-recovery monthly tax in upgrading
areas, and also has good experience in the provision of infrastructure. The
Municipality would not be able, however, to make and collect loans nearly as
effectively as BEV. A legal agreement between the two agencies will specify
their respective responsibilities (para. 8.01).
4.22      BEV/JNV is sound financially, administratively, and technically,
but has provided little housing for low-income people. Its strong interest
and willingness to modify past policies was confirmed at appraisal. In fact,
they proposed to develop a large sites and services project on their land in
the south of Guayaquil within this project. That was judged infeasible at the
appraisal stage, but the mission agreed to recommend a 500-plot pilot in the
area. In Floresta Pilot BEV/JNV will develop core units at about half the



- 32 -
cost of the most economical house in their previous Guayaquil program, facil-
itating a continuing dialogue between IBRD and BEV/JNV on standards. In view
of BEV's authority in the housing sector, national scope, and proven imple-
mentation capacity, this project's contribution to a stronger poverty focus
within BEV may have important ramifications throughout Ecuador in coming years.
4.23      BEV finances.  Since reorganization and the establishment of JNV in
1973, BEV has grown dramatically. Summary Financial Statements in Table IV-3
attest to this growth. Total resources are over six times what they were in
1972; the annual investment in housing is up 18 times; the number of housing
completions is up from 664 in 1972 to 4,925 in 1977, an increase of 640%; and
profits, S/109 million (US$4.4 million) in 1977, are 14 times higher than in
1972.
4.24      The position at October 31, 1978, shows a strong institution with
total resources of S/6,667 million (US$266 million) and a debt equity ratio
of only 2:1, low for financial institutions. Cash and short-term assets total
S/561 million (US$22 million) vs. short term liabilities of only S/210 mil-
lion (US$8.4 million). The current ratio is 2.5:1, showing adequate working
capital and liquidity at present volumes. Assets are invested primarily in
housing loans, S/3,028 million (US$121 million), and work in progress, S/2,237
million (US$89 million). Loan payments in arrears are less than 3% of the
secured loan portfolio. Investments are S/303 million (US$12.1 million), of
which half is in support of BEV's own ten-year bonds, and half in various
industrial companies, mostly a new (Selva Alegre) cement project. BEV accounts
are externally audited.
4.25      BEV owes its financial strength largely to Government capital
contributions, averaging about S/300 million (US$12 million) annually over
the past five years. In addition, various Government regulations have made
purchase of BEV obligations compulsory by both the public and private sector.
Compulsory deposits and loans from Government agencies total about S/1,200
million (US$48 million), 18% of resources; BEV's ten-year bonds (compulsory
purchases for private banks and insurance companies), S/713 million (US$29
million), 10% of resources; and savings deposits from the public (which are
required to be eligible for BEV loans and access to JNV-developed housing) a
further S/1,146 million (US$46 million), 17% of resources. In addition, BEV
was financed in the late 1960's by USAID and IDB at heavily subsidized rates
(2.5% and 2%) in order to create the national savings and loan system. In
1978 S/410 million (US$16 million), or 6% of BEV's resources, were from inter-
national agencies.
4.26      These resources have gone mostly to middle income housing.  For
example, the average house financed by BEV in 1977 cost S/232,000 (US$9,280),
affordable at cross-subsidized interest rates to families with monthly incomes
of S/9,750 (US$390), nearly twice what families at the urban poverty thres-
hold (S/5,515 (US$220)) can afford. In 1976 and 1977, 4,833 of 10,564 (45%)
of house completions were below S/150,000, affordable by the poor at subsidized
interest rates; however, only 24% of BEV's investment program was directed to
this segment of the market.
4.27      BEV interest rates were established by Cabinet decree in 1974 at
4-12%, depending on the size of the loans. The smaller the loan, the lower
the interest rate. The average loan in 1977 was at 9%, which rate allowed BEV



- 33 -
to recover costs and show a modest profit, given its low cost of funds (para.
6.17). However, BEV was effectively restrained from increasing the volume of
low-cost housing solutions under those interest rate policies. The problem
was two-fold. BEV could not increase lending at the lower rates without
eroding profitability; and, on the borrowing side, BEV had nearly exhausted
the Government's capacity to provide it with subsidies above the plateau
already achieved.
Table IV-3: Summary Balance Sheets
BANCO ECUATORIANO DE LA VIVIENDA (BEV)
(millions of sucres)
1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   Oct 1978
ASSETS
Current Assets                 137    263    662    643    664    534    561
Loans Receivable               429    479    632    984  1,362  2,130  3,028
Work in Progress               187    357    789  1,246  2,164  2,334  2,237
Investment, Fixed Assets       140    120      64    141    313    223    366
Other                          149    155    173       66     62    130    475
TOTAL               1,042  1,374  2,320  3,080  4,565  5,351  6,667
TLIABILITIES
Current Liabilities             61      48     76    112    209    224    210
Sight Deposits                   7    118    311    682  1,275  1,639  1,992
Bonds                          248    332    314    391    563    529    713
Long Term Debt                 410    427    450    609    564    720    770
Other Liabilities               64      87    342    134    349    194    744
Capital & Reserves             252    362    827  1,152  1,605  2,045  2,238
TOTAL               1,042  1,374  2,320  3,080  4,565  5,351  6,667
KEY INDICATORS
Current Ratio                  2.2    5.5    8.7    5.7    3.2    2.4    2.5
Debt:  Equity                  3.1    2.8    1.8    1.7    1.8    1.6    2.0
Arrearage (% of Loans)         4.2    3.3    4.0    2.4    2.0    3.1    2.6
Profit (S/millions)            7.8   22.2   66.9   79.7  121.7  109.5    NA
Profit (% of Equity)           3.2    6.5    8.8    7.4    8.2    5.6    NA
Housing Investment (Slmil)  55.0   87.5  511.9  617.4 1166.9  832.3  1,000.OE
Housing Completion (Units)   664    969  3,323  4,427  5,639  4,925    NA
4.28      In recognition of these problems BEV agreed to take a fresh look
at its interest rate policies.  As a first step, BEV eliminated the lowest
range of interest rates nationwide.  Their scale is now 7-12%.  The ceiling,
12%, is the legal limit in Ecuador.  As an exception to this national scale,
all loans financed by this project are to have an interest rate of 10%. In
addition, BEV may, as part of the project, undertake during 1980 a study of
possible sources of long-term financing. This study will include the mortgage
interest rate structure in Ecuador, the social security system in Ecuador,
and housing finance systems in selected other Latín American countries.



- 34 -
4.29      Organization for project implementation.  The project will also
require administrative changes. A project unit, with staff from both BEV
and JNV, has been established (para. 8.02). Its director, already appointed,
is expected to report directly to the president of BEV and JNV.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Sc'hedule
5.01      Overall project implementation will take about five years, from
the beginning of 1980 to the end of 1984, as shown in the chart on the follow-
ing page.  All infrastructure will be completed in about three years, but
housing consolidation and loans should continue another two years. Detailed
design and engineering can proceed in the last quarter of 1979. Phasing of
community facilities will be coordinated with infrastructure construction to
ensure completion of the facilities in time for the settlement phase. The
artisan support component will begin implementation at the beginning of 1980
and expand for about three-and-one-half years.
5.02      Government has requested approval of US$470,000 in retroactive
financing, including:  (a) US$120,000 in IBRD financing for an estimated
US$200,000 in Municipality project unit administrative expenses and
consultants' services after May 1, 1979, and (b) US$350,000 in IBRD financing
for an estimated US$500,000 in site preparation and infrastructure costs in
BEV/JNV's Floresta Pilot. The start-up expenses for the Municipality
project unit are essential to continue design and other project preparation
work, and beginning Floresta Pilot work makes sense because of its urgency
and the time it will take for landfill to settle.
B. Procurement
5.03      Procurement in this project will follow international competitive
bidding procedures and local procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Chapter VI, Article 45, of the national guidelines for public procurement,
"Ley de Licitaciones y Concurso de Ofertas," April 1978, states that for work
financed by international sources, procurement practices will be amended to
take into account conditions established in the loan agreement. The local
construction industry in Ecuador, and especially in Guayaquil, is well devel-
oped and active. Most of the contracts under this project are expected to be
awarded to Ecuadorian firms due to the nature of the work to be performed--
labor intensive and in relatively small tendering packages. Civil works
contracts will be grouped so that awards can be made in large or small pack-
ages, whichever is more economic. Contracts of less than US$250,000 for civil
works or building materials may be procured on the basis of local competitive
bidding up to an aggregate of US$6 million. Vehicles and equipment for
project administration which cost less than US$7,500 may be procured in
accordance with local procedures up to an aggregate of US$100,000. All civil
works contracts above US$500,000 and equipment contracts above US$50,000 will
be subject to prior approval by the Bank.



ECUADOR
FIRST GUAYAQUIL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementing Schedule
1979          1980               1981              1982               1983              1984
3  4 1   2434   1  2  3  4  1  2  3 41   2 3   4  1 2  3  4
A. SUPPORT TO SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE                                               jj
BdP Loans                                                                                                                               a *a y _       _ _   _ _               
CENAPIA Technical Assistance                             _             _ _ _ _ _                   _ _ _       I_*            *"*   
B. SERVICES TO LOW-INCOME AREAS
Upgrading: Guasmo                                          aU     Y AJE WW IP  %ffW
Upgrading: Lotizacion Mapasingue                                    * m    9iiiE
Serviced Plots: Floresta Pilot                       1P Iw: YI 
Serviced Plots: Alegria [                      _                      E *Y
Alegria 1i                                               mal mi l
C. HOUSING LOANS
Upgrading loans: Suburbio-                                    --                              - - - - - - - - - - -
Upgrading Loans: Guasmo                                  _        _                  _                  =   _        - =       =         = =
and Mapasingue
Housing Loans:  Floresta
Alegria---------
STUDIES
Study of Municipal Finance                                     - m
Monitoring and Evaluation                                                                                                                   - P -  I     m I    í   _*
M M _Selection of Consultant/Design and Engineering
¡smmm mllTendering
vz-  zA  Construction
gLo Loan Program
a m  a Ongoing Smalí-Scale Enterprise Loans Based on Reflows.                                                                 Worid Bank - 20035



- 36 -
5.04      Contracts for the preparation and servicing of plots totalling
US$16.3 million will be tendered and supervised by the Municipality. The
contract for the water main to Guasmo North would be tendered and supervised
by EMAP, the rest of the works by the Municipality's project unit. IBRD has
agreed that US$1.6 million worth of infrastructure and basic housing units may
be constructed by JNV itself, since they have proven and unutilized capacity
to do this relatively small job quickly; the new management is likely, however,
to opt for international competitive bidding for its Floresta development.
Contracts for the construction of community facilities totalling US$2.9
million would be tendered and supervised by DECE and the Ministry of Health.
Materials and labor for about US$10.5 million of housing construction will be
procured by beneficiary families. Building materials worth about US$5.0
million will be procured by BEV for sale at on-site depots. Small-scale
enterprises will procure equipment, materials, and labor on their own with
the US$10.0 million loaned to them by the Banco del Pacifico.
C. Disbursement
5.05      Disbursement of funds for the loan will be made on the following
basis:
(a) 70% of amounts disbursed for small-scale enterprise loans,
equivalent to about 60% of the cost of small-scale enter-
prise projects financed;
(b) 70% of expenditures for civil worlcs; administrative
expenses, vehicles, and equipment for the Municipality
project unit; and community facilities;
(c) 67% of amounts disbursed for housing loans;
(d) 40% of CENAPIA's administrative expenses for this program;
(e)  70% of grants and loans made as part of Central Bank's
community development program in Guayaquil;
(f) 100% of foreign expenditures and 60% of local expenditures
for consultants' services.
Disbursements for housing loans, small-scale enterprise loans, and operating
costs financed by the project will be made against certificates of expenditures
for which documentation would be retained for independent audit and for
inspection by the Bank during supervision. All other expenditures will be
fully documented.  An estimated schedule of disbursements of the Bank loan is
given in Table V-1.



- 37 -
Table V-1:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$'000)
Cumulative      Cumulative
Quarter          Ending                 Amount        Disbursement   Disbursement
1        March 31, 1980                   90              90             -
2        June 30, 1980                   290             380             1
3        September 30, 1980              980           1,360             4
4        December 31, 1980             1,470           2,830             9
5        March 31, 1981                1,860           4,690            15
6        June 30, 1981                 2,290           6,980            23
7        September 30, 1981            1,850           8,830            28
8        December 31, 1981             1,850          10,680            34
9        March 31, 1982                1,990          12,670            41
10        June 30, 1982                2,090           14,760            48
11        September 30, 1982            2,080          16,840            54
12        December 31, 1982            2,100           18,940            61
13        March 31, 1983                2,200          21,140            68
14        June 30, 1983                2,150           23,290            75
15        September 30, 1983           2,150           25,440            82
16        December 31, 1983            2,150           27,590            89
17        March 31, 1984                  810          28,400            92
18        June 30, 1984                   860          29,260            94
19        September 30, 1984              860          30,120            97
20        December D1, 1984               880          31,000           100
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.06      Each implementing institution will be responsible for routine
monitoring and evaluation of its own activities. Each will provide IBRD
with a quarterly report, the format of which will be designed in consultation
with IBRD staff. The Municipality and BEV will report on design, tendering,
costs, construction, allocation, size and number of loans, housing consolida-
tion, and cost recovery. Banco del Pacifico will report to CENAPIA on the
number, sizes, and uses of loans and on the characteristics of recipients, and
CENAPIA will in turn report to IBRD on the entire small enterprise component.
Central Bank will describe and detall the evolution of its pilot community
development programs, channelling its reports through the Municipality.
Progress reports from the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Education will
also be forwarded to IBRD through the Municipality. The Central Bank's project
coordinator may further centralize the reporting process.
5.07      In addition, there will be a number of special evaluation arrange-
ments. The Municipality will have two evaluation consultants. The first will
assist its official evaluation efforts: quarterly reports, occasional studies
on important or problematic issues, and liaison with the consultants' team



- 38 -
preparing future projects (para. 1.22). He will advise the director of the
project unit. The second evaluation consultant will be much less involved in
the actual implementation of the project. He will líve in project areas as
a participant-observer for extended periods of time over the next five years.
He should have previous experience both as an anthropologist and as an adminis-
trator. This consultant will be able to evaluate the project from the view-
point of particular individuals and small groups, a perspective which will
complement statistical monitoring.
5.08      Studies of important or problematic aspects of BEV's work will be
undertaken by the BEV project unit with the assistance of BEV's Department of
Social Research and occasional consultants. CENAPIA's technical assistance
funds allow for short-term consultancies to review the small-scale enterprise
component, focusing on a sample of enterprises to determine the program's
effect on them and its poverty impact. By March 31, 1981, Government will
formally review progress on this innovative component, together with Banco
del Pacifico and CENAPIA and in consultation with IBRD (para. 8.02).
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Cost Recovery
6.01      The overall cost recovery frameworlk for the project investment is
as follows (in US$ million):
Total Cost
Including                   Percent
Contingencies    Recovery   Recovered
Support to Small-Scale Enterprises
Loans from Banco del Pacifico            10.0           10.0         100%
CENAPIA Assistance to Enterprises         0.6            0.2          26% /1
Consultants' Services to CENAPIA          0.2             -            -
10.8          10.2          94%
Services to Low-Income Areas
Land                                      2.2            2.6         119% /2
Site Infrastructure (all upgrading
and sites and services areas)          15.0           17.5         116% /2
Off-Site Infrastructure                   0.3             -           -
Vehicles and Equipment/Municipal
Project Unit                            1.2            1.2         100%
Technical Assistance                      0.6             -           -
Community Facilities                      4.4            1.3          30% /3
Community Development                     0.5            0.4          75% 7T
24.2          23.0          97%
Housing Loans                                  16.6          16.6         100%
TOTAL                                    51.6           49.8          97%
/1   See para. 6.04.
72   For community facilities the cost of land and infrastructure not recovered,
but for industrial lots cost plus 25% recovered (paras. 6.06 and 6.15).
/3   Cost of markets, but not of schools and clinics, recovered (para. 6.15).
7Z-  Estimate.



- 39 -
Support to Small-Scale Enterprises
6.02      Banco del Pacifico.  The interest rate will be raised from 9% to
12%. This is the maximum legal interest rate in Ecuador, the normal rate
for commercial lending, and positive in real terms (para. 2.13). During
preparation of this project, IBRD pressed for an increase from the present
9% rate. Central Bank was willing to agree to either (i) using 12%, the
normal commercial lending rate, for all loans in this program or (ii) using
11% plus commissions to encourage longer-term lending (para. 3.07). Banco del
Pacifico opted for the 12% rate. Their experience in lending to this type of
enterprise for 2-3 years at a time has been good, partly because a series of
short-term loans allows for closer supervision than one long-term loan. An
estimated 80% of the loans under this project, all except the loans for
workshop construction, will be short-term.
6.03      The costs of this type of lending are higher than the costs of
large-scale commercial lending. The risk has proven remarkably small: only
2% of payments are in arrears, so even in an expanded program defaults should
not exceed 1%. Administrative costs of Banco del Pacifico's program are
currently about 7% of lending, but should fall as the program grows. Most of
Banco del Pacifico's funds come from demand deposits (for which they pay no
interest) backed by shareholders' equity. Thus, they have been able to show
a profit on their artisan lending program, but could have used the funds more
profitably for other operations. IBRD money, more dependable than other
Fondos Financieros (para. 1.15), will supplement commercial banks' normal
sources of funds. It should encourage them to expand lending to very small-
scale enterprises, including new types of loans (services and commerce,
workshop construction) which local banking regulations do not otherwise
encourage.
6.04      CENAPIA.  The main source of CENAPIA's funds for this program will
be direct subsidy within the Government budget, about S/17 million (US$.7 mil-
lion) over three-and-one-half years (of which S/10 million, that is US$.4
million will be IBRD loan). Following nearly normal procedures, Government
will also pay CENAPIA 1.5% of the value of each new loan. In addition, when
an entrepreneur receives more than one site visit, he will be charged for part
(US$52 for a typical package of services costing US$172) of this individualized
assistance. This will be the first time CENAPIA has charged for its services.
Services to Low-Income Areas
6.05      Existing municipal systems of cost recovery, especially in low-income
areas, are inadequate. The tariffs which the water, sewerage, and electricity
companies charge are relatively adequate in recovering off-site capital costs
and recurrent costs for those services. In formal-sector housing developments,
the developer recovers on-site capital costs by including them in the costs of
the houses. When the Municipality provides residential services, however,
there is normally no direct cost recovery.
6.06      In this project the Municipality will recover all allocable capital
costs (including administration, design, physical contingencies, and interest
during construction) from beneficiaries over 15 years at 12%. In upgrading



- 40 -
areas the monthly charge will be a betterment tax on all households. Where
BEV makes improvement loans, the Municipality tax will be incorporated into
the monthly repayment. In the Alegria sites and services area, too, BEV will
assume the financial liability to the Municipality when it makes a house
construction loan, so that beneficiaries will remit payments for land and
infrastructure, as well as house construction, to BEV. Even for Alegria
allotees who do not take BEV loans, BEV is willing to act as collection agent
for the Municipality on a cost-recovery fee basis. The Municipality will
recover the costs of developing industrial lots plus 25%: existing industrial
lots will be charged cost plus 25% amortized over 15 years at 12%, while the
new lots to be developed on the Alegria site will be sold outright by the
Municipality at cost plus 25% (paras. 3.23 and 3.28).
6.07      The Municipality's history of not recovering the costs of services
will make collection difficult, so the Finance Division of the project unit,
somewhat insulated from normal practices and pressures, will be responsible
for monitoring the collection of project-related charges (para. 8.02).
6.08      Cost recovery methods for this sub-project are summarized in
Table VI-1 and detailed in the paragraphs below.
Table VI-1: Direct Cost Recovery for Land, Services, and Community Facilities
Off-site                              On-site
Capital Costs      Recurrent Costs   Capital Costs
1.  Land                   Not significant   Not applicable    Project charges /1
2.  Water                  Tariffs            Tariffs            Project charges
3.  Sewerage               Tariffs            Tariffs            Project charges
4. Electricity
a.  Connections        Tariffs            Tariffs            Project charges
b.  Street-lighting   Tariffs             Municipal Tax      Project charges
5. Site clearance,
landfill, and
roads                  Not significant   Municipal tax       Project charges
6. Street-cleaning
and garbage
collection             Not applicable    Municipal tax       Not applicable
7.  Schools and clinics   Not applicable    None                 None
8.  Markets                Not applicable    Stall rents         Stall rents
9.  Community development Not applicable    Not applicable    Project charges
/1    See para. 6.09.
6.09      Land.  The Municipality and BEV are both empowered to buy land at
cadastral value, and this financial cost of sites and services development
is to be included in the project-specific monthly charges. In the case of
Floresta, BEV acquired the property years ago at an abnormally low price, but
a normal cadastral value will be charged to the beneficiaries, so that the
project is replicable. The land in Guasmo North was seized and settled some



- 41 -
time ago; the price at which the authorities finally sell it is a political
issue, and IBRD has mainly pressed that a firm decision be made, so that
tenure regularization can proceed. In Lotizacion Mapasingue the great majority
of "owners" paíd privately for the land, and invaders have occupied their lots
for years; no additional cost recovery is planned (para. 3.20).
6.10      Water.  Existing water tariffs are high enough to yield EMAP (Empresa
de Agua Potable) a positive financial return on recurrent costs and off-site
capital costs. Tariffs will also be charged to standpipe users in Guasmo
North and Floresta Pilot, with the project units of the Municipality and
BEV/JNV assisting EMAP in the organization of the collection and waste control
system. Beneficiaries will, in addition, pay for on-site infrastructure
through the project-specific monthly charge. Connection charges will be paid
by the individual families, with financing available from BEV.
6.11      Sewerage.  Households with individual connections are required to
pay initial connection costs, plus a 30% surcharge added to their monthly
water bills. This surcharge is adequate to cover EMAG's recurrent costs.
Project beneficiaries will pay for on-site infrastructure through the project-
specific monthly charge.
6.12      Electricity.  Virtually all households in Guayaquil enjoy electricity
connections, and the electricity company (in which the Government corporation,
INECEL, now has a majority interest) is profitable. The electricity company
bills the Municipality for the recurrent costs of street-lighting, which the
Municipality partially recovers through a street-lighting tax (paras. 6.13-
6.14). In a new urbanization the distribution network (including street
lights and connecting line) is normally financed and built by the developer,
the electricity company assuming responsibility for maintenance and operation.
Since the company is allowed only 9.5% profit and must forfeit any earnings
above that to the Government, it is willing to finance the costs for the
design of the whole network and of the connecting line in low-income areas.
6.13      The Municipality does not directly recover allocable costs for
landfill, roads, street-lighting, street-cleaning, or garbage collection.
The only municipal revenue associated with these services comes from property
taxes and associated charges. Property values are reassesed every five years,
and public works in an area are eventually reflected in higher property taxes.
In addition, two proportional surcharges are added to property taxes: a
street-lighting/street-cleaning charge added to the tax of all property owners,
and a pavement/maintenance charge added only in areas served by paved roads.
There are several serious problems with this system. First, much of the city
is not included in the cadastre, and as many as 70% of registered property
owners do not pay the property tax and associated charges for which they are
billed. Nearly two years worth of property taxes are in arrears. Municipal
authorities may follow up on larger tax bills eventually, but the accumulation
of small debts is virtually ignored. Second, street-lighting/street-cleaning
and pavement/maintenance charges are not high enough to cover expenses, even
if collections were improved. Finally, it is inequitable and inefficient to
have so little correspondence between services rendered to a particular
household and charges.



- 42 -
6.14      The project-specific monthly charge will recover all allocable
capital costs, including site clearance, landfill, and roads. These costs
are also charged in formal-sector, higher-income developments. The project
areas will not be burdened with project-specific charges for the relatively
minor recurrent costs of road maintenance, street-lighting, street-cleaning,
and garbage collection. The Municipality will provide these services in
project areas as elsewhere (para. 8.02), and residents of the project areas
will pay the same taxes as the rest of the city. The project-financed review
of municipal finances (para. 4.16) will include scrutiny of municipal tax
structure and collections.
6.15      Schools, clinics, and markets.  There will be no direct cost re-
covery for schools and clinics, nor for the land and infrastructure allocable
to community facilities. The capital costs of markets, however, will be re-
covered by raising the normal monthly rent for a market stall from S/60 to
S/300.
6.16      Community development.  Central Bank will follow the cost recovery
policy used for FODERUMA in rural areas. Some investments, especially in
health care and education, are not being recovered, but about 75% of investment
in community projects is being recovered at 9% interest. This is the normal
interest rate for socially oriented projects in Ecuador. It is acceptable for
this small program development component, because substantial costs of innova-
tion and learning will be charged to the participants, even though the benefits
will be widely shared.
Housing Loans
6.17      Government regulations and assistance have kept BEV' s cost of capital
to a little over 5%, thus allowing them to lend at an average rate of 9%. In
conjunction with this project, BEV agreed to revise its interest rates upwards
in order to greatly expand its low-income clientele. Rather than insist on
full cost recovery for this component only, without any change in BEV's cost
recovery practices elsewhere, during preparation IBRD pressed for substantial
nationwide change in BEV's interest rates. BEV agreed to revise interest
rates for all its progrars from 4-12% to 7-12%. In addition, the previous
management of BEV agreed with the appraisal mission that the interest rates
to be used by BEV in this project would be somewhat higher than normal (8%
for sites and services and 10% for upgrading). IBRD tentatively agreed to
the 8% rate for some loans, because a significant change had been conceded in
BEV's nationwide interest rate structure, and because the 8% and 10% rates
would have been sustainable over the medium term. The new management of BEV,
however, has instead agreed to charge 10% for very small loans, including all
loans in this project. This represents a significant improvement in the
replicability of the project.



- 43 -
B. Affordability
Support to Small-Scale Enterprises
6.1'8     The following data, averages for Banco del Pacifico's present
clientele, demonstrate that the loans are affordable to very small businesses
whose employees earn incomes below the poverty line:
Average number of workers (including owner)         3
Value of machinery and equipment                    S/27,830 (US$1,113)
Monthly production                                  S/37,430 (US$1,498)
Monthly net income                                  S/ 7,259 (US$291)
Average monthly wage of regular employee            S/ 2,272 (US$91)
The increase in interest rate to 12% will raise the average semi-annual repay-
ment only about US$12, not appreciably affecting affordability.
Services and Housing Loans
6.19      Table VI-3 shows the estimated income distributions for Guayaquil
and the settlements to be upgraded. The target for design was that the
Alegria sites and services area should be affordable to about 90% of the
households in Guayaquil (those with incomes above S/2,770 (US$111) per month),
and that improvements in Lotizacion Mapasingue and Guasmo North should be
affordable to about 90% of the households presently living there (those with
incomes above S/2,250 (US$90) per month).
Table VI-3: Household Income Distributions for
Guayaquil and the Neighborhoods to
be Upgraded (1979 sucres)
Guayaquil 1/   Guasmo North 2/  Lotizacion Mapasingue 2/
0-2,250                      6.1             10.1                  12.1
2,250-4,500                16.9             34.9                   30.0
4,500-6,750                30.4              32.9                  27.4
6,750-9,000                16.8              12.1                  12.8
9,000 +                    29.8              10.1                  17.6
1/   Fajardo and German de Valiz, Distribucion del Ingreso en el Area
Urbana de la Ciudad de Guayaquil (University of Guayaquil, 1977).
2/   1978 Survey, Departamento de Planificacion Urbana.
6.20      Table VI-4 shows the actual outcome of design work.  The per plot
cost estimates shown include allocable land costs to be recovered: for
Alegria and Floresta Pilot over 15 years at 12%, for Guasmo North at S/100 per



- 44 -
square meter over 25 years at 12%. They also include physical contingencies,
administration, and interest during construction. They do not include the
cost of infrastructure allocable to industrial lots or community facilities.
The mlnimum housing loan is the cost of one well-built cane room. Also shown
are the resultant monthly charges and the income groups able to afford them.
It has been assumed that families can afford up to 20% of income, the propor-
tion which renters normally pay in rent. As Table VI-4 shows, the afford-
ability targets were met or nearly met in all cases. Charges will be accord-
ing to plot size, thus encouraging (but not forcing) subdivision and more
efficient use of the services provided.
6.21      In the sites and services areas, the payment for serviced land and
the loan for the house itself will all be part of one mortgage repayment. In
the upgrading areas, the monthly payment for the capital costs of services is
a betterment tax, which all households must pay. Households in upgrading
areas will also be eligible for BEV loans, but families which cannot afford
loan repayments in addition to their monthly payment for services need not
apply. They already have their present shelter, however inadequate.
Table VI-4: Affordability of Services and Minimum Housing Loans
(mid-1979 sucres)
Alegria       Floresta Pilot    Mapasingue  Guasmo
A       B
Per plot allocable capital
costs
Serviced lot                  41,400       33,952    33,952      38,400      44,206
Minimum housing loan          14,100       46,048    66,048         -          -
TOTAL                     55,500       80,000   100,000       38,400      44,206
Minimum monthly charge
Serviced lot                     497          330        330        460         509
Loan repayment                   155          506        725         -           -
TOTAL                         662          836     1,055         460         509
Income level at which
affordable                     3,260        4,180     5,275       2,300       2,545
Percentile of Guayaquil
income distribution             14th         21st      34th         6th        8th
Percentile of neighborhood
income distribution
without subdivision              N.A.         N.A.     N.A.    -lth           15th
Percentile of neighborhood
income distribution after
subdivision                      N.A.         N.A.     N.A.         5th        6th
Percentage of Eamilies below
absolute poverty threshold
that can afford monthly
payment                           63           44         8          84          78



- 45 -
6.22      Monthly bills for electricity, water, and sewerage are likely to
be the same as, or lower than, what people are paying now for a lower level
of service. Monthly electricity bills are expected to average S/61 per
month, but the great majority of low-income households already have electri-
city connections. Water bills are expected to average the minimum, S/30 per
month, plus an additional S/9 (30%) for households in Alegria and Lotizacion
Mapasingue with sewerage connections.  The sewerage charge w.ll be extra for
families which already have individual water connections, but most of the
families in these areas now rely on tanker trucks for water and pay about S/94
per month for minimal amounts of water. An individual connection will mean
that they can consume eight times as much water, acquire sewerage service,
and still save S/55 per month.
C. Replicability
6.23      The binding constraints on the replicability of this project are
political will, lack of successful experience, and limitations of administra-
tive capacity. Institutional development--Banco del Pacifico and BEV poverty-
oriented lending on a more significant scale, and the evolution of an agile,
reliable project unit in the Municipality--should make the replication of this
type of project possible in Guayaquil and in other urban areas of Ecuador, too.
6.24      The 12% interest rate on loans to small-scale enterprises may
attract other banks to this type of lending, but further increases in the
interest rate will be necessary to fully open the banking system to small-
scale borrowers. Similarly, the 10% which BEV will charge for sites and
services and upgrading loans is a considerable improvement over present
policies, but even higher rates might be necessary if BEV continues to expand
lending for low-income housing.
6.25      Since the Municipality project unit will recover all costs at 12%
over 15 years, its intended policies would be adequate even on a much larger
scale. The project unit will be operating entirely with loan funds from IBRD
and Government, however, and it should be capitalized if it were to become a
municipal company.
D. Cash Flow Analysis
6.26      Cash flow analysis for the Municipality's project unit is shown in
the Working Documents. Several aspects of the cash flow are worthy of note.
The unit is not required to pay the IBRD service charge or interest during
construction (para. 2.12) and will earn some profit due to its interest rate
spread and the mark-up on industrial land (para. 6.06). The sale of the new
industrial land on the Alegria site will give the unit a cash surplus in
1982, which could be invested in easily convertible assets at an assumed 10%
rate of return. These arrangements allow the unit to break even despite
collection losses and its unrecoverable expenses for technical assistance,
offsite infrastructure, and the land and services for community facilities.
During the implementation of this project the unit will depend for its
liquidity on a US$1 million revolving fund in Banco Central, established for
it by Government.



- 46 -
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
7.01      The benefits to be derived from the proposed project are two-
fold: those flowing directly to the participating households as a result
of the actual operation of this project, and those to be gained in the
long run from the planned institutional improvements already underway. The
latter will result from the introduction of more realistic development norms
and cost recovery policies, appropriate technologies for low-income residential
development, and the establishment of credit systems for the urban poor. The
expansion of the small enterprise credit program will continue to create
employment long after the three-and-a-half year start-up period. Similarly,
the increased involvement of BEV/JNV and the Municipality of Guayaquil in the
design and implementation of shelter programs for low-income groups is crucial
to the development of future projects of this type and will result in benefits
beyond the direct impact of this project.
A. Economic Benefits
7.02      The project has been designed to fulfill the objectives of the
Government in improving the living conditions of the urban poor by extending
essential services, increasing the availability of credit, increasing pro-
ductivity, and providing basic employment.  The project will benefit on the
order of 17,700 households, which represents approximately 10% of the popula-
tion of Guayaquil. The impact of each of the components will be as follows:
Estimated Beneficiaries
Component                                    Households
Urban services, community facilities
and security of tenure:
Sites and Services                                     3,700
Upgrading areas                                        6,000 /1
Small-scale enterprise support                              5,000 /2
Housing loans in the Suburbio                               3,000
Total                                                      17,700 /3
/1   This figure includes a 70% subdivision of lots.
7-  This figure is a rough approximation of the number of new jobs
created in the enterprises receiving loans. A total of about
16,000 individuals (owners and workers) will be involved in
participating enterprises. Employment will also be generated
by the construction of residential services and housing.
/3   There may be some double-counting between the artisan support
and other components.



- 47 -
B. Economic Rates of Return
General
7.03      The overall rate of return for all components of the project which
have quantiflable benefits (70% of project investment) is 18%.
Services for Low-Income Residential Development and Housing Loans
7.04      Benefits for the proposed infrastructure components are based on
imputed rental values, according to market values for housing and environ-
mental improvements. The expected average annual increase in rent for housing
units in upgrading areas is S/2,400 (US$96), which represents a 20% increase
over the existing rental value. Imputed rental values for the new houses in
the upgraded areas where plots subdivide and for those in the serviced site
areas are based on comparable rental values for the entire city. The types
and sizes of houses likely to be built were estimated on the basis of the
loans that will be available and the income distributions in each area.
7.05      The estimated rates of return for the various project areas (Guasmo,
Mapasingue, Alegria, Floresta Pilot, and the Suburbio) vary from 17-19%. Sen-
sitivity analysís (15% over- or underestimation of benefits) results in a
possible range from 15-23% for the various sites.
Industrial Plots and Markets
7.06      Twenty-two percent of the land in Alegria, Mapasingue and Guasmo
will be used for industrial purposes: 4.5% new industrial lots to be sold
at cost plus 25%, the remaining 95.5% existing industries in the areas which
will be charged cost plus 25% for public services amortized over 15 years at
12% (paras. 2.04 and 6.06). The financial rate of return for the industrial
land is 18%.
7.07      The Mercado Central of the Municipality will recover the costs for
markets through the rental of stalls at S/300 (US$12) per month per stall.
The financial rate of return for the markets is 15Z.
Credit to Small-Scale Enterprises
7.08      A rate of return estimate has not been made for the small-scale
enterprises component, but the enterprises now receiving loans from Banco del
Pacifico are getting a return on capital of about 35%. This figure was
derived in two ways.  First, loan applications in Banco del Pacifico's files
indicate the assets, wages, and expenses of all the enterprises which have
received loans to date. It was possible to estimate the rates of return on
total assets in a random sample of fifty of these enterprises. Second, the
enterprises which will get loans from this program routinely pay 25-40% for
supplier's credits or, if they must borrow from money lenders, 10-20% a month.



- 48 -
Community Facilities and Community Development
7.09      Costs and benefits of schools, health centers, and Central Bank's
community development program have been excluded from the calculation of
overall project rates of return. These represent a minor part of the project
cost and, though the benefits are important to the well-being of the communi-
ties involved, they are unquantifiable. The primary schools and the health
facilities will be designed and constructed on a least-cost basis according to
existing national standards. Central Bank's program should, in fact, develop
lower-cost technologies for meeting basic needs than are presently available
in Guayaquil.
Technical Assistance
7.10      Though unquantifiable, the benefits to be derived from technical
assistance to CENAPIA, the Municipality and BEV, will have a direct impact on
the implementation of this project and on the feasibility of further projects
of this type. The possibility of repeating such a project rests in a major
way on the development of the institutions involved. Technical assistance to
CENAPIA will determine the feasibility of the proposed artisan market, improve
the quality of CENAPIA's marketing advice, and allow for outside evaluation of
the small-scale enterprise component. Technical assistance will be especially
helpful to the Municipality in improving financial management, helping the
project unit grow into its important task, and evaluating the project overall.
Technical assistance to BEV will help them in addressing the need for low-
income housing on a larger scale and in evaluating long-term sources of
finance other than Government budgetary allocations.
Risk
7.11      The major risks associated with the implementation of the project
are, at the same time, the major opportunities--institutional development
and resolution of land tenure problems. There is some risk that BEV might
have difficulty implementing innovative aspects of the project, but this
risk has been minimized by adapting project design to BEV's present experience
and procedures. The Municipality's technical and administrative weaknesses
present a more serious risk, but there is no way to resolve the problems of
inadequate urban services for the city's poor without strengthening the
Municipality. The risk to the project has been minimized by: establishing
a relatively independent project unit (para. 8.02); providing adequate funds
for technical assistance; and agreeing on schedules of reform in the areas of
land tenure, finance, and development regulations (para. 8.02).
7.12      Inordinate delays in regularizing tenure in project sites could
postpone civil works in Guasmo and Mapasingue and part of BEV's loan
program. This risk has been minimized (paras. 3.17-3.22) by: insisting
on expropriation of Alegria before negotiations; agreeing at negotiations
on a plan and timetable for the remainder of the necessary legal process
in Alegria; making the presentation of feasible land tenure plans for



- 49 -
Guasmo North and Lotizacion Mapasingue conditions for disbursement in those
two areas; technical assistance to both the Municipality and BEV to
participate in the resolution of land tenure problems; and agreement with
the Registry of Property to use some of these funds to prepare a computerized
index of property-owners and improve the Registry's overall efficiency.
Should civil works in Guasmo North be delayed, only US$1.4 million in civil
works would be at stake, and BEV could disburse housing loan funds in other
low-income areas of Guayaquil. Lotizacion Mapasingue is the last site
scheduled for upgrading, giving authorities extra time to resolve land
tenure problems there.
C. Urban Poverty Impact
7.13      Approximately 37% of the households in Guayaquil have incomes so
low (below US$2,645 per household per year in 1979 prices for an average
low-income family of 6.7 members) that they cannot afford calorie adequate
diets. The project is targeted to serve primarily this population below the
absolute urban poverty threshold.
7.14      About 88% (US$35.9 million) of the investment for services in
low-income areas and housing loans will benefit the poor. All the serviced
sites, improvements in existing areas, and housing loans will be affordable to
households below the poverty line. The Alegria sites and services area will
be affordable to 63% of the poverty group, and the upgrading will be afford-
able to about 81% (Table VI-4). The project will upgrade only about 8% of the
backlog of poorly serviced lots in Guayaquil, and new sites and services (not
including subdivision in the upgraded neighborhoods) will meet 16% of the
demand for new housing among the lower half of the income distribution during
the implementation period. To provide similar sites and services development
adequate for all the new growth in the lower half of Guayaquil's income
distribution over the next five years (including loans for a variety of
low-cost housing standards, community facilities, and all overheads) might
require on the order of US$80 million in additional investment. The cost of
upgrading the backlog of inadequately serviced neighborhoods is more difficult
to estimate. Nearly all costs from this project will be recovered (para.
6.01), so that the approach would be replicable on the necessary scale as
implementation capacity expands.
7.15      In addition, the entire investment in small-scale enterprises
(US$10.8 million) will create jobs at a very low capital cost per job.
The capital cost per job will be about US$1,700, compared to a national
average cost per job of about US$8,700 and an average cost for new jobs
created in the early to mid-70's of US$22,000.



- 50 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      As a condition for disbursement for the relevant components,
supplementary agreements are to be signed between Central Bank and Banco del
Pacifico, the Municipality, and BEV/JNV, and between the Municipality and
BEV/JNV (paras. 2.11 and 4.21). As a condition of disbursement for
civil works in Guasmo North and Lotizacion Mapasingue, Government will
present a feasible plan and timetable for regularizing land tenure on
the site in question (paras. 3.19-3.20).
8.02      At negotiations, the following assurances and agreements were made:
(a) From Government:
(i)  that IBRD will receive annual confirmation that counter-
part funds for the year are at the disposal of each
public agency involved (para. 2.11);
(ii) that funds will be on-lent by the Central Bank to BEV
and the Municipality on the same terms as the IBRD
loan, except that the commitment fee and interest during
construction will be paid for the Municipality by Govern-
ment (para 2.12);
(iii) that funds will be rediscounted to banks participating in
the small-scale enterprise program at the same rate of
interest as the IBRD loan (para. 2.12);
(iv) that land tenure will be regularized in the project sites
according to an agreed plan and timetable (paras. 3.17-3.22);
(y)  that Central Bank will appoint a project coordinator
acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.01);
(vi) that schools and clinics built under the project will
be operated and maintained by the appropriate ministries
(paras. 3.34-3.35);
(vii) that progress on the innovative small-scale enterprise
sub-project will be formally reviewed by March 31, 1981,
together with CENAPIA and Banco del Pacifico and in
consultation with IBRD (para. 5.08);
(b)  Prom each of the participating agencies:
(i)  that necessary organizational arrangements will be made,
with adequate staff and facilities for project imple-
mentation (paras. 4.06, 4.08, 4.18, 4.29);



- 51 -
(ii)  that separate project accounts will be kept and promptly
audited;
(c)  From the Municipality of Guayaquil:
(1)  that financial management policies will be reviewed and
a timetable of reforms to be implemented furnished to the
Bank by June 30, 1980 (para. 4.16);
(ii)  that the finance division of the project unit will monitor
the recovery of allocable capital costs through project
charges, following plans and timetables submitted
to IBRD for each site with their first application for
disbursement against construction on that site (paras.
6.06-6.07);
(iii) that criteria and procedures for selection of families
for the Alegria Sites and Services area will be acceptable
to IBRD (paras. 3.46-3.47);
(iv)  that urban development norms will be reviewed by March 31,
1981, considering amendments that would promote slum upgrading
and sites and services development (para. 4.17);
(v)  that public services provided under the project (markets,
water and sewerage infrastructure, street-lights, and
roads) will be operated and maintained by the appropriate
authorities (paras. 3.36 and 6.10-6.15);
(vi)  that families selected for Alegria will not be required
to borrow from BEV for the construction of their houses,
but will be allowed to construct their homes with other
resources (para. 3.46);
(d)  From BEV/JNV:
(i)  that BEV interest rates nationwide will be maintained at
least at the 7-12% scale, with lending under this project
at no less than 10% (para. 6.17);
(ii)  that criteria to determine eligibility for loans will be
acceptable to IBRD (paras. 3.45-3.47).
8.03      With the assurances and conditions indicated above, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$31.0 imillion equivalent.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
ECUADOR
GUAYAQUIL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.    Selected Reports Prepared by Participating Ecuadorian Institutions.
Al.   Primer Proyecto de Desarrollo Urbano.  Department of Urban Planning,
Municipality of Guayaquil, Guayaquil, 1978.
A2.   Floresta:  Proyecto BIRF, Volumes 1-3 and Documentos Complimentarios.
BEV/JNV, Guayaquil, 1979.
A3.   FODERUMA.  Banco Central, Quito, 1979.
A4.   Programa de Credito Artesanal del Banco del Pacifico.  Banco del
Pacifico, Guayaquil, 1978.
A5.   Legal Documentation.  Department of Urban Planning, Municipality of
Guayaquil, Guayaquil, 1979.
B.    Working Documents.  Bank Staff and Consultants, July 1979.
C.    General Documents.
Cl.   El Otro Guayaquil:  Servicios Sociales del Suburbio.  Accion
Internacional Tecnica, Guayaquil, 1976.
C2.   Estudio de Mercadeo de Productos Alimenticios para Guayaquil,
Volumes 1-3. Accion Internacional Tecnica, Guayaquil, 1974.



IBRD 14137
81 E0C                                                                   79- '                    MARCH 1979
E  COLOMBIA
First Guayaquíl Urban Development Project                                                    Via   son Lorenzo
}. *   Project area                                         a   S \   \      -  -
Paved roads
Gravl roads
----- Earth roads                                                                                                      o
Railroods
4.    Ports
4.    AírportS                                              Roso Zárate                                       Atuntoqu
----------Rivers                                                  -ova                                                         Ora
* -*-*  International boundary
0'
0         <              <-  {                  \                ~~~~~~~~QUIT0O    /
Pi a c i ¡ t c                                                          C,armen             anto Domi         ngo
:        0(              \,/                y      /                           2  / S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~angolqui
Bahia de Car&quei, t                            2\      /                            XMachachi
O c e a n                                                  one
v  ) \   /    >c~~allceta                 /, 
M~~~~~c uerte                                                                      atacunga 
M  ntc sttivi>                                                       1     E Corazón   1
Pee M aP hs@ een peprearad by M#                 Santa Ana                                                Ambt
World Renk's stuff ex<duaivey far
thelvene,eof threedrs of                  I      Sucre       Dalza
et por to wfrch lt ¡s an.fbed.     )                                                                                   p -  A
Tre» deinarlons usad anf theh              Jipijapa               ,/
bouees shown on                   |/ o3@p
eb not ~npv en (hepert o( r/,
Worid neor ndtset offitetes, e                                           Vinces  Peblove jo          Gur anda
judgent onf hei f  status of                                                                           uar n
-eY taeLtnry oraw endorsernent                                                                                   Ri
or   p     of such bowndaies\
0 20    40  0  0  00ab                      o                    Miguel      abamba
.1'       ,80'Daule    \ TumbesGuamote
-2'          1 \                        \,         f  /            Chi;l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~anes 
29               YaguaXc~~~hi Nueg  Milagr
_ ¡_  Saia ~n/to Elena                               rau,bo 
I  \\XW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s) ~~~~~~Su< a
O -20    40    60    80   IQ0 ,0aona                                                                            Méndeza^
KILQMETERS       .                         znS / (\zgt Paute                                                  2%X
-3* 55} f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                  ua §     Gualaceo /t
¡Sto ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~8 __ _w    O        ;   çbsa{  Ov                                    Ga.aza   38°






IBRD 14138
MARCH 1979
ECUADOR
First Guayaquil Urban Development Project
PROJECT SITES ¡ LAND USE
\j :j9Upgrading areas
ç 2 ; A~~LEGRIA                                                       k                            Sites and services
Ç |    l  | | ii       )   )    9    <       0  t                   3   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Industrial
4r,Wf-e,',-:  ;li  -             e          0        4    9             jjlillR jllj;~~~~~~ Commercial
.   /                  i  ~~~~~~~~~~t\  «>    59                          E;~~~~~~~~~~~~uilt-up areas:
/          \               VL    X       0            -  v-:, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Densely populated
Less densely populated
Main access roads
- -                           Railroad
LOTIZACI                                         Ai,po         /          -            >         ,1= =    X *- Rívers andstreams
Ee~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N
A   f  u Wi   X t  PE   ,'/  V/          X                      S           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tPo  °novn enience of tShe reotdfeCrs odf
ad    -S   e X a  *  ,i"   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7The denem,natiens úsed rnd the
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d  no imp /y,rRT &  bondresio ntOe ponr of the
siSS  @°zÑ   i97 /,- Ni>£9f   llb          \                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WorldBErnk enhd ¡te sizlietrlt. oJ
gi\__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e> >; -))   |mteriteVry ranyendersement
L__,___,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n ecetec of enes Sean de,s






¡BR) ¡4139
MAC. 1979
E C U A DOR
First Guayaquil Urban Development Project
SITES AND SERVICES
,£\egría                                                                                             '                                 _
YTpco lot do,t; buton-
iiIillCoroorc ¡al resodent.ol loto. 
|   | Proposed  ¡od o   Irl  al a  reos                                                             -: '     ¡       \
OXIDAT ON
Access-rods .d'                                                                                                  1      PONDS
Podes-ruo   --ys                                                                                  -
.31399  flOsingfl rood -if l- 
ízm  Eoost.ng edusíriol oreos                                                        <;                   . ...  
0     S0      00    50    200                                                           ,
METERO 
IL -   OF7~~~~~~~~~~0-
oC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                        ¡                                      ( D         i   
...0    o. ,,             "ig                             =  .,  .       il::ii  
<;-~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ --é   - -                                                 - - -j5- y ,-          -  - - -
<.. SM'                    ii;                                           lt
Do                  _-S'''¡''''ilL  1                                          2.                            ILLI,'
igm           J            =                  n,).=,,j                   "          D~~n  jEj'-  j   i
1            ,                                               .    iT           1       ---                  oo3oo
%       _T--;10    :2g-                   S: -=  ' Er                                                        -   ~l l






ECUADOR
FIRST GUAYAQUIL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Standard House Plans for Alegria:  First Sample
2m   lml   3m                             2m          4m
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LO         EE
E     1 ~~~~~~~~~EE
E O¡ 
2m       m    3m                           3m           3m                            3m           3m
6m                                                                         Phase V
Phase I             2I                     Enclosed Area: 6Im2
Phase 1:   Alt. B                         Enciosed Area: 39m2                        Covered Area:  l2m2
Enciosed Area:  4m2                       Covered Area:   9m2
Covered Area:  14m2                                                                                 3m
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E-                                                                   E~~~~~~~~~
LO~~~~~~~~~~L 
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .l
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2m   1m|    3m                                          3m     ,                       3m          3m
Phase ll:                                 Phase IV
Phase 1:   Alt. A                        Enciosed Area: 30m2                       Enciosed Area: 48m2
Enclosed Area: 4m2                       Covered Area:   6m2                       Covered Area:  12m2
Covered Area:  5m2



ECUADOR
FIRST GUAYAQUIL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Standard House Plans for Alegria: Second Sample
2m  1mrn   3mn                  3m       3m
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
¡ _g  g     XE                                E
E
E                              E
E
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N~~~~~~~~
El
lm| 2m  |  3m                    3m       3mn                 Phase IV:   Alt. B
_   .   Phase lil              Enciosed Area: 64m2
P Am                    Enciosed Area: 46m2            Covered Area: 1lm2
lhase 1:  Alt. B               Covered Area: 14m2
Enciosed Area: 3m22m                                                    4
Covered Area: 22m2                                             2m       4m
p    _    1                                                    u   --r             E 
Irn~~ Phs 1                                  Pas I:  lt
7- 'rw  r-  Ecs                              7                         E E
ÇPhsIIPhase                                                    IV: Alt. A CvrdAe:1l2CvrdAe:1m
Enciosed Area: 3m2
Covered Area: .1 m2
Worid Bank-20114



-~~~~~~M
SUBURBIO:   Aerial view of the periphery indicates varying levels of
consolidation and new growth along the banks of the river.
MAPASINGUE EAST: Aerial view shows mixed land use and industrial zones.
28% of the land -in Mapasingue is used for industrial purposes.






~~~~S                               _
___~~~ ~ ,                                   -#                     -   E ' a 
_# F RmE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' *1
MAPASINGUE:  New invasions are appearing on the hi13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s forming the northern~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
boundary.~~ ~ ~ Elcrciyi  teolyaalal   erie
-M                     +      9      ,                                   X
MAPAINGE:iew finvaseions re aperigo the Sbbia thill  foritygcthenrthr






L~~~                                    - ,...
are       ,= une cLntrct.n
1,0-ePriit ha enpovddt hs oeya i nai






Gradual consolidation takes place prior to street fill.
"          1 F o " _                                                                 _,S,~~~~~~~~ 1
RNI i                  _                                                                             S 
Residents without running water must depend on water trucks to fill
tanks for 25 times the cost of running water.






--  l  l s l- - -~~~~~~~~u-
UPPER LEFT: Garbage, which is provided to residents of the Suburbio as land-
fill, is typically sorted for recyclable materíals. UPPER RIGHT: Many invasions
are formed by groups organized in cooperatives.
Fishíng is the principal income-generator for the residents of this newly-formed
invasion ín the Suburbio.






It is estimated that 25% of the homes in lower-income areas are used as
places of employment.  LEFT:  An artisan uses his home as a workshop.
RIGHT:  It is also typical for people to sell soft drinks or food from
their home.






The overcrowded school (aboye) and the small health dispensary (below) are
typical of those built by cooperatives in new invasions.
9~~~~~~~~~ 



