LOAN NUMBER 1776 EC
Loan Agreement
(Guayaquil Urban Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated         6                    , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1776 EC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     /                        , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (hereinaft    called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meani.ngs therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the follnwing meanings:
(a) "Central Bank" means Banco Central del Ecuador;
(b) "Municipality" means Municipalidad de Guayaquil;
(c) "BEV" means Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda, the
Ecuadorean Housing Bank;
(d) "JNV" means Junta Nacional de la Vivienda, the National
Housing Board;
(e) "CENAPIA" means Centro Nacional de Peque?1a Industria y
Artesania, the National Small-Scale Enterprise and Artisan Center;
(f) "Small-Scale Enterprise" means an industrial, commercial
or service enterprise with no more than six workers, and fixed
assets of less than one hundred and twenty-five thousand Sucres
(S/125,000);
(g) "Participating Bank" means any bank legally established
in Ecuador, acceptable to the Bank and Central Bank, which has a
credit program for Small-Scale Enterprises in Guayaquil and has
entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement;


﻿-2-
(h) "Participating Entity" means Central Bank, Municipality,
CENAPIA, BEV, JNV and the Ministries and other agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project;
(i) "Project Entities" means the Participating Entities and
Participating Banks referred to collectively;
(j) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements
to be entered into between Central Bank and each of the Partici-
pating Banks, in accordance with Section 3.01 (b) (i) (B) of this
Agreement, and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided for in
each such Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(k) "Supplementary Agreement" means the agreement or agree-
ments to be entered into between Central Bank and each of the
other Participating Entities in accordance with Section 3.01 (c)
of this Agreement;
(1) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by a Participating Bank under Part A.1 of the Project, subject
to the lending terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement;
(m) "Housing Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by BEV under Part C.1 of the Project subject to the lending terms
and conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(n) "Sucres" and "S/" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(o) "Project Unit" means the Project Unit established in the
Municipality by a Municipal Resolution on December 5, 1978 for
purposes of the Project;
(p) "Lotizaci6n Mapasingue" means an existing settlement
partially serviced, of about 150 hectares along the Daule Highway,
about 6 kilometers from the center of Guayaquil;
(q) "Guasmo North" means an existing settlement of 60
hectares, about 8 kilometers to the south of the center of
Guayaquil;
(r) "Alegria" means a new area of about 70 hectares desig-
nated for sites and services development by Municipality, along
the Daule Highway north of Guayaquil;


﻿-3-
(s) "Floresta Pilot" means an area of about 500 new units to
be developed within BEV's Floresta property, to the south of the
center of Guayaquil;
(t) "Suburbio" means the existing settlement of about
450,000 persons, located towards the southwest of Guayaquil and
limited by the Estero Salado;
(u) "Project Areas" means Lotizaci6n Mapasingue, Alegria,
Guasmo North, Floresta Pilot and Suburbio referred to collec-
tively; and
(v) "Beneficiaries" means the owners or occupants of the
residential or industrial sites benefitting from the improvements
made or to be made to the Project Areas under the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-one million dollars ('31,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Central Bank is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.
(a) (i) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with the
participation of the Project Entities, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate urban, health, educational, adminis-
trative, engineering and financial practices, and
shall provide, or cause the Participating Entities
to provide, prnmptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the
purpose (the funds to be provided by the Borrower
and the Participating Entities, in addition to the
proceeds of the Loan, being on the date hereof
estimated to aggregate the equivalent of not less
than fourteen million four hundred thousand dollars
($14,400,000)). The Project Entities shall partici-
pate in the carrying out of the Project as provided
in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as
such Annex may be amended by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank.
(ii) Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, and as part
of the foregoing, the Borrower shall:


﻿-5-
(A) each year until the year in which the Project
will be completed, allocate in its Annual
Budget sufficient funds to enable the Borrower
and Participating Entities to carry out the
Project; and
(B) notify the approval of such budgetary alloca-
tions to the Bank not later than 30 days after
the date of approval of such budget.
(iii) In addition to the foregoing, the Borrower shall,
for each Sub-loan made by a Participating Bank,
contribute to CENAPIA an amount equivalent to 1.5%
of the amount of such Sub-loan.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) make with Central Bank all necessary contractual
arrangements, under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank, providing for:
(A) the withdrawal by Central Bank of the proceeds
of the Loan from the Loan Account in accor-
dance with Section 2.02 of this Agreement, and
for the disbursement of the amounts so with-
drawn for purposes of the Project in accor-
dance with the provisions of such contractual
arrangement;
(B) the relending to Participating Banks of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to Category (1) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, such proceeds to be provided to
Participating Banks for the carrying out of
Part A.1 of the Project under Subsidiary
Loan Agreements on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including those
established in Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank;
(C) the establishment of a position of Project
Coordinator with functions and responsibili-
ties satisfactory to the Bank, such Project


﻿- 6 -
Coordinator to be in charge of the overall
coordination of the carrying out of the
Project and to have experience and qualifica-
tions satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) exercise its rights pursuant to such contractual
arrangements in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank; and
(iii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not
change such contractual arrangements or fail
to enforce any provision thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall, through Central Bank, make available
to each Participating Entity the proceeds of the Loan required by
each such Participating Entity for the carrying out of the Pro-
ject, under a Supplementary Agreement to be entered into by
Central Bank acting on behalf of the Borrower and each of the
other Participating Entity under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, each such Supplementary Agreement to provide, inter
alia, for:
(i)  the procedures for disbursement and repayment of
that part of the proceeds of the Loan loaned to it
thereunder and other funds required for carrying
out the respective Part of the Project;
(ii)  the definition of responsibilities of each such
Participating Entity in respect of the carrying out
of the Project;
(iii) the organizational arrangements and provision of
adequate staff, resources and facilities to be made
by the Participating Entity for carrying out the
respective Part of the Project to be carried out by
it; and
(iv) the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the
Borrower at all times, such risk not to be passed
on to the ultimate Beneficiary for any reason
whatsoever.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise and shall cause Central Bank
to exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and
the Supplementary Agreements in such a manner so as to protect the


﻿-7-
interests of the Borrower, the Bank and Central Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abro-
gate or waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any Supplementary
Agreement or any provision thereof nor permit Central Bank to
assign nor amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any Supplementary Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e) In order to ensure the timely execution of the Project,
the Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1980: (i) establish
in Central Bank and maintain until the completion of the Project:
(A) a revolving fund of not less than $300,000 equivalent for
carrying out Part A.1 of the Project; and (B) a revolving fund of
not less than the equivalent of $1,000,000 for carrying out Parts
B.1, B.2 (i), B.2 (iii), B.3, B.4 (iii), B.6 and B.7 of the
Project; and (ii) replenish from time to time, and operate such
revolving funds in accordance with rules and procedures satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. The Borrower, under the respective Supple-
mentary Agreement, shall, in-er alia, cause Municipality:
(a) to maintain and operate the Project Unit with an ade-
quate number of qualified staff, and functions, responsibilities
and organization satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) to provide the Project Unit with all such resources
and facilities as shall be necessary for the efficient and timely
participation of such Unit in the execution of the Project;
(c)  (i) to apply and collect such charges as shall be
necessary to recover, at an annual interest rate of
12% and over a period of 15 years, all allocable
capital costs (including administration, design,
physical contingencies, and interest during con-
struction) of the improvements made by Municipality
in the Project Areas under the Project; and
(ii) to cause the Project Unit to monitor the collection
of such charges;
(d) to carry out by June 30, 1980, under terms satisfactory
to the Bank, a study on the ways of improving Municipality's
financial management and, based on the recommendations of such
study:
(i) prepare a program for improving its financial
management;


﻿-8-
(ii) afford the Bank a reasonable.opportunity to comment
on such study and program; and
(iii) taking into consideration the Bank's comments
thereon, carry out such program according to a
timetable satisfactory to the Bank;
(e) to undertake a review of the Municipality's current
urban development regulations, to furnish to the Bank for its
comment, not later than March 31, 1981, the results of such review
together with proposed amendments in order to facilitate and
promote slum upgrading and further sites and services development
in Guayaquil, and to amend such regulations, taking into account
Bank comments, thereon;
(f) to operate and maintain, through competent autho-
rities, the public services (markets, water and sewerage infra-
structure, streetlights and roads) provided to the Project Areas
under the Project;
(g) to provide, through the Project Unit, land titling
assistance where required by the Beneficiaries in the Project
Areas;
(h) to repay to the Borrower the proceeds of the Loan made
available to Municipality for carrying out the Project, on the
same terms of the Loan, provided, however, that the Borrower shall
not charge to or collect from Municipality the commitment charges
and interests accrued during the Loan's grace period; and
(i) to sell serviced lots in AlegrIa directly to individual
applicants when such applicants do not intend to apply for Housing
Loans, such sales to be made under the terms established in
paragraph (c) (i) above.
Section 3.03. The Borrower, under the respective Supple-
mentary Agreement, shall, inter alia, cause BEV:
(a) to establish and operate a project unit with an adequate
number of qualified staff, and functions, responsibilities and
organization satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) to maintain its current national interest rate structure
at a range of from at least seven per cent (7%) to at least twelve
per cent (12%) per annum;
(c) to recover Housing Loans and its costs for land, infra-
structure and housing units over a period of 15 years at an annual


﻿-9-
rate of interest of at least ten per cent (10%), and to apply the
lending terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement to Housing Loans; and
(d) to repay to the Borrower the proceeds of the Loan made
available to BEV for carrying out Parts B.2 (ii) and C of the
Project under terms satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause Municipality
and BEV and JNV to enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, to coordinate the participation of Municipality and that of
BEV and JNV in the carrying out of Parts B and C of the Project;
(b) Such agreement shall, inter alia:
(i) define in detail the responsibilities (including
financial   responsibilities),    functions,   and
administrative procedures of Municipality, BEV and
JNV in carrying out such Parts of the Project;
and
(ii) establish  criteria and procedures, satisfacto:y
to the Bank, for selection of Beneficiaries for
Alegria.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower and the Parti-
cipating Entities in carrying out their obligations under th:.
Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause the Participating
Entities to employ, consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, through its Ministries of
Health and Education, respectively, adequately staff, operate
and maintain the health centers and primary schools constructed
under Part B.4 of the Project.
Section 3.07. By April 1, 1981, the Borrower, through
Central Bank and CENAPIA, the Participating Banks and the
Federaci6n Artesanal de la Provincia del Guayas, shall review
with the Bank the progress and results of the execution of Part A
of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken,
according to timetables satisfactory to the Bank, all such


﻿- 10 -
measures as shall be required to regulate the land tenure situa-
tion in the Project Areas in order to provide secure tenure to
residents in the Project Are'as.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain and cause each Project
Entity to maintain records and procedures adequate to record and
monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and ser-
vices financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable and cause each Project
Entity to enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish and
cause each Project Entity to furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the


﻿- 11 -
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower, the Project Entities and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal ciri.amstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of


﻿- 12 -
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall include in the Supplementary
and Subsidiary Loan Agreements such provisions as shall be neces-
sary to ensure that each Project Entity shall:
(a) establish and maintain separate accounts on its records
to be used exclusively for the Project and to register in such
accounts all its receipts and payments for or in connection with
the Project, in accordance with sound accounting principles and
procedures consistently applied; and
(b) (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
above and related statements for each fiscal year
of the Project Entity audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Borrower and the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of such accounts and related statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said aud7.tors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and


﻿- 13 -
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
cerning such accounts and related statements of
such Project Entity and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause each of the Project
Entities to take out and maintain with responsible insurers
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) any of the Project Entities shall have failed to perform
any of its obligations under the respective Supplementary Agree-
ment or Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that any of the Project Entities will be
able to perform any of its obligations under the respective
Supplementary Agreement or Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Project Unit
or any of the Project Entities or for the suspension of its
operations related to the execution of the Project; and
(d) unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower or
any other authority having jurisdiction shall divest the Project
Unit or any of the Project Entities of any of the functions or
powers vested in aay of them as of the date of this Agreement,
which are necessary for the efficient carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, any of the events specified in
paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date a      -        /                , is
hereby specified for purposes ofoSection 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro de Finanzas of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
Avenida 10 de Agosto No 1655
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFINANZAS                         2358
Quito, Ecuador
and for the purposes of any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under Section 10.04 (1) of the General
Conditions, copies shall also be sent to:
Procurador General del Estado
Avenida Colombia 248
Oficina 904
Quito, Ecuador
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 15 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans under Part         3,300,000         70% of amounts
A.1 of the Project                            disbursed by
Participating
Banks for pur-
poses of the
Project
(2) Civil Works:
(a) under Parts B.2         4,410,000         70%
(i), B.2 (iii),
B.3 and B.4 of
of the Project
(b) under Parts B.2           980,000         70%
(ii) and C.2 of
the Project
(c) under Part B.1          3,500,000         70%
(i) of the Proj-
ect
(d) under Part B.1            980,000         70%
(ii) of the Proj-
ect


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Categgry                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(3) Vehicles and equipment:
(a) under Part B.4 of         520,000     )   70% of local
the Project                          )   expenditures
)   if domestic-
(b) under Part B.6 of         140,000     )   ally procured
the Project                          )   or 100% of
)   foreign expen-
)   ditures if
)   directly im-
)   ported
(4) Services, office
materials and other
administrative expenses:
(a) under Part A.2 (i)        240,000         40% of local
of the Project                           expenditures
(b) under Part B.6 of         560,000         70% of local
the Project                              expenditures
(5) Credits and grants             280,000         70% of amounts
made under Part B.5                           disbursed by
of the Project                                Central Bank
for purposes
of the Project
(6) Housing Loans under           8,510,000        67% of amounts
Part C.1 of the Project                       disbursed for
purposes of
the Project


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(7) Technical assistance:
(a) under Part A.2 (ii)       200,000  )     100% of foreign
of the Project                     )    expenditures
)     for foreign
(b) under Part B.7 of         500,000  )     consultants
the Project                        )    and 60% of lo-
)     cal expendi-
(c) under Part C.3 of          100,000  )    tures for local
the Project                        )    consultants
(8) Unallocated                   6,780,000
TOTAL             312000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.


﻿- 19 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals: (i) in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $120,000 may be made in respect of Categories
(3) (b), (4) (b) and (7) (b) on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1979; and (ii) in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $350,000 in
respect of Category (2) (b) on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date bttt after October 9, 1979;
(b) expenditures of any Project Entity until:
(i) evidence satisfactory to the Bank has been fur-
nished to the Bank that the Supplementary Agreement
or Subsidiary Loan Agreement, as the case may be,
between Central Bank on behalf of the Borrower and
such Project Entity has been duly executed and
delivered;
(ii) as part of such evidence, there has been furnished
to the Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to
the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank that
such Supplementary Agreement or Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, as the case may be, has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and deli-
vered on behalf of the Borrower and the respective
Project Entity and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and such Project Entity; and
(iii) with the respect to Municipality and BEV, in
addition to the foregoing, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank has been furnished to the Bank that
Muncipality, BEV and JNV have entered into the
agreement referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this
Agreement;
(c) expenditures under Category (2) (d) until the Borrower
has furnished to the Bank the timetable referred to in Section
3.08 of this Agreement with respect to Guasmo North; and
(d) expenditures under Category (2) (c) until the Borrower
has furnished to the Bank the timetable referred to in Section
3.08 of this Agreement with respect to Lotizaci6n Mapasingue.


﻿- 20 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shali have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Assistance to Small-Scale Enterprises in Guayaquil
1.   A credit program consisting of Sub-loans to Small-Scale
Enterprises in Guayaquil, to finance fixed assets, working capital
requirements and workshop construction.
2.   Technical Assistance, including:
(i) expansion of CENAPIA's existing program of tech-
nical and managerial assistance to Small-Scale
Enterprises in Guaylquil; and
(ii) consultants' services to CENAPIA for:
(a) improving its technical assistance programs;
(b) carrying out a feasibility study for a pro-
posed artisan market in Guayaquil; and
(c) evaluating Part A of the Project.
Part B:   Development of Low-Income Residential Areas
1.   Upgrading of existing settlements, including pro-
vision of landfill, basic infrastructure, legal titling and an
orderly densification in (i) Lotizaci6n Mapasingue and (ii)
Guasmo North.
2.   Development of new plots, including:
(i) about 3,200 new serviced plots in Alegrfa;
(ii) about 500 new serviced plots in Floresta Pilot;
and
(iii) about 9 hectares of serviced industrial land in
Alegria.


﻿- 22 -
3.   Construction of off-site infrastructure for the Project
Areas.
4.   Construction and equipment of community facilities in
the Project Areas, including:
(1) 5 primary schools;
(ii) 3 health centers; and
(iii) 5 community markets.
5.   A community development program aimed at encouraging
community participation in development and use of appropriate
technologies for housing, neighborhood improvement, skills
training and other related activities in low income areas of
Guayaquil, including credits and grants to be made by Central
Bank for such purposes.
6.   Project administration, including the acquisition and
utilization of vehicles and equipment for the Project Unit and of
services and equipment for the provision of land titling assis-
tance.
7.   Technical assistance to Municipality, including consul-
tants' services, inter alia, for:
(i) a study to improve the Municipality's financial
management;
(ii) Project monitoring and evaluation; and
(iii) preparation of future projects.
Part C:   Credit Program for Low-Cost Housing
1.   A credit program consisting of mortgage loans to finance
the construction or improvement of low-cost houses in the Project
Areas, excluding Floresta Pilot, and in other low-income areas of
Guayaquil.
2.   Construction of basic housing units in Floresta Pilot
Area.


﻿- 23 -
3.   Technical assistance to BEV and JNV for long-term
financial planning, project preparation and land titling assis-
tance.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿- 24 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Participation in
Entity                                    the Project
Ministry of Education                      Part B.4 (i)
Ministry of Health                         Part B.4 (ii)
Central Bank                               Part B.5 and overall
coordination of the
carrying out of the
Project
Municipality                               Parts B.1, B.2 (i)
and (iii), B.3, B.4
(iii), B.6 and B.7
BEV                                        Parts B.2 (ii) and C
CENAPIA                                    Part A.2
Participating Banks                        Part A.1


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1984
through   August 15, 1996                  1,190,000
On February 15, 1997                            1,250,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 26 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             2.80%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.15%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.00%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.95%


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   (i) For bidding purposes, goods to be procured in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 above shall be
grouped, to the extent practicable, in such a manner as
to permit bulk procurement; and
(ii) bidders for the works included in Part B of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of
Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on goods evaluated on


﻿- 28 -
a c.i.f. basis, and sales and similar taxes (applicable to
finished domestic products) on goods evaluated on an ex-factory
basis, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Ecuador may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility o, a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(i) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Ecuador if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Ecuador equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(ii) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(iii) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 29 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods, works or services under Part A.1 of the
Project shall be procured by the borrowers of Sub-loans through
regular commercial channels from responsible suppliers.
2.   Subject to the Bank's prior approval, works under Part B.2
(ii) and C.2 of the Project may be carried out by the Borrower
through force accourr...
3.   Contracts for goods not procured directly by BEV and services
under Part C.1 of the Project shall be procured by the borrowers
of Housing Loans through regular commercial channels from respon-
sible suppliers.
4.   Contracts for civil works for Part B of the Project or goods
for Part C.1 of the Project which are estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $250,000 may be procured on the basis of com-
petitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank, provided, however, that the
contracts so awarded do not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of $6,000,000.
5.   Purchases of vehicles and equipment estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $7,500 for Part B.6 of the Project,
may be procured in accordance with local procurement procedures,
satisfactory to the Bank, provided, however, that the contracts so
awarded do not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $100,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the


﻿- 30 -
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more or for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract qnd shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 31 -
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 5
Lending Terms and Conditions
Regarding the Credit Programs
Under Part A and Part C of the Project
I.   Sub-loans under Part A of the Project
Types of Sub-loans, terms and sizes:
Maximum term   Maximum size
Working capital                  2 years        S/50,000
Fixed assets                     5 years        S/60,000
Workshop construction           12 years        S/80,000
Eligibility: Restricted to Small Scale Enterprises.
Terms for Participating Banks: rediscounting of individual
Sub-loans at about seven and
ninety-five hundredths per cent
(7.95%) per annum.
On-lending interest rates to be charged by Participating
Banks: 12%, or 11% plus commissions of 2-4%
for longer-term lending
II. Credit Program under Part C of the Project
Maximum term   Range of sizes
(a) Housing Loans for           15 years    S/6,000 to 57,000
residents of Loti-
zaci6n Mapasingue,
Guasmo North, Suburbio
and other low-income
areas of Guayaquil
(excluding project
improvements pro-iided
by the Municipality)


﻿- 33 -
Maximum term    Range of sizes
(b) Housing Loans for          15 years   S/14,000 to 57,000
residents of Alegrfa
(excluding land and
infrastructure)
(c) Housing Loans for         15 years   S/60,000 to 100,000
residents of Floresta
Pilot (including land
and infrastructure)
Eligibility: For Loans described in (a), (b) and (c) above:
(i) monthly family income below S/6,000; and
(ii) at least two years of residence in Guayaquil;
In Addition: For Loans under (a) above:
monthly family income above S/2,500.
For Loans under (b) and (c) above:
monthly family income above S/3,000.
All amounts expressed in Sucres in this Schedule shall be
amended from time to time by the Bank in consultation with the
Borrower.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    JLday of      WA    19T.
FOR SECRETARY


