Report No. PIC3687
Project Name              China-Shandong Environment Project
Region                    East Asia and Pacific
Sector                    Environment
Project ID                CNPA40185
Borrower                  People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency       Shandong World Bank Environmental Protection
Project Management Office
Mr. Zhang Minghua, Director
46 Jingwu Xiaoweisi Road
Jinan, China    0001
Fax: 86-531-793-9754
Date PID Updated          December 20, 1996
Projected Appraisal       January 1997
Projected Board Date      May 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.   Shandong Province has a land area of approximately 150,000 sq. km
and a total population of 86 million people; it boasts the largest
agricultural output amongst China's provinces. In terms of GNP and
gross industrial output it holds second rank; in terms of total exports,
Shandong ranks fourth.
2.   The province has been one of the engines driving China's impressive
economic growth over the last decade. This was primarily the result of
substantial increases in agricultural productivity and industrial
output. The latter took place to a large extent in Shandong's urban
areas, particularly in Jinan, the capital city and in the coastal cities
of Qingdao, Yantai and Weihai. As a consequence, Jinan City, for
example, suffers from coal emission pollution and acid rain from its
abundance of industrial and residential boilers which is exacerbated by
the city's adverse topographic location with over 200 inversion days per
year. Thus, in terms of air quality Jinan ranks fourth among the 37
most "environmentally stressed cities in China, constricting economic
development," according to the National Environmental Protection Agency.
Most other cities in the province are also failing to meet the national
standards on air pollution. The situation is especially alarming during
the heating season (four months of the year).
3.   Shandong Province has a rain-sparse climate with a large amount of
the water supply derived from underground sources. Some of these
aquifers are being increasingly polluted and reduced below replenishment
amounts and domestic and industrial water has to be extracted from often
polluted rivers, rain-fed reservoirs or piped from distant water
sources. Some cities, e.g., Jinan, Qingdao and Zibo, have to rely on
costly water transmission from the Yellow River. At the same time, most
rivers and lakes, especially the Xiaoqing River and the Nansihu Lake are
heavily polluted, aggravating water shortages and restricting long-term



economic development.
4.   Environmental Policy in Shandong.   The provincial government
readily acknowledges that the environmental situation in Shandong is
"serious" due to its extremely fast industrial growth as result of its
transition to the market economy. But it also blames historic mistakes,
"backward technology" and shortage of funds. To combat further
environmental deterioration, the province and the three cities who would
be included in this project, have mapped out environmental policies and
programs which are aimed at substantially reducing the main pollution
problems by the end of this century. These efforts should on one hand
permit economic growth, but on the other hand markedly reduce industrial
pollution and improve municipal environmental treatment measures and
provide ecological protection. Particular mention is made in these
plans to regional water-shed protection as well as environmental
management. Main emphasis will be given to three areas that are most
environmentally stressed: the area around Lake Weishan in the South, the
industrial heartland area of the Xiaoqing River Basin in the central
part of the province and the northeastern peninsula area on the coast.
The latter two areas are the geographical focus of this project.
5.   Industrial Pollution Control.   Industry is the primary source of
both water and air pollution, as well as hazardous and toxic wastes, and
although the amount of pollution generated per unit of industrial output
has decreased over the past ten years in China generally and in Shandong
specifically as a result of industrial efficiency gains, cleaner
technology, and environmental regulation, the absolute level of
industrial growth has swamped this relative improvement. Therefore, the
national government, as well as Shandong Province and the three
principal cities have made improved industrial pollution control their
primary environmental target for the next five-year plan period (1996-
2000).
6.   With the industrial capital stock in Shandong doubling on average
every 4 or 5 years, the province has placed primary emphasis on cleaner
production and technology for new industry. One of the participating
cities in this project, Yantai, is the national pilot city for a cleaner
production program. The Xiaoqing River Basin which includes the
provincial capital city of Jinan, has also been selected by the national
government as the pilot provincial river basin for a concerted clean-up
program.
7.   Urban Air Pollution Control and District Heating.    Because of
China's vast coal deposits and the paucity of natural oil and gas, aost
all thermal power generation, industrial process heat, and residential
heating utilize coal as their major energy source. Coal, therefore, is
the major source of air pollution in China.     While Chinese coal is a
technically and environmentally difficult fuel, it could be burned in an
economically and environmentally acceptable way, if it is done in large
boilers where combustion efficiency reaches acceptable levels (>85%) and
which can be equipped with pollution control equipment. Burning coal in
individual stoves (efficiency <c) or small boilers (efficiency approx.
50%) leads to severe air pollution and is uneconomical due to low
combustion efficiency and high labor input (See China Efficiency and
Environmental Impact of Coal Use, Report No. 8915-CHA and China Energy
-2 -



Conservation Study, Report No. 10813-CHA).
8.   Concentrating coal burning into large units, however, requires the
construction of a heat carrier system to individual consumers, i.e.,
district heating networks. If the consumer requires steam (industry),
steam pipelines must be installed. The residential housing sector
normally uses a closed loop (supply and return pipe) hot water system.
A further advantage of heat production in large units can be achieved by
combining heat and electricity generation (combined heat and power (CHP)
co-generation).
9.   In Shandong Province, where the heating season is short (only about
four months), industrial heat is required in addition to residential
heating to make CHP generation economically feasible (as in Weihai in
this project). Alternative options would be to generate condensing
power with the help of extraction-condensing turbines for the non-
heating season (as in Yantai in this project) or to produce residential
heat in heat only boiler (HOB) plants (as in Jinan in this project).
10. China has decided that in order to reduce atmospheric pollution and
to increase efficiencies of industrial and residential stoves and
boilers, it ought to accelerate and improve district heating systems.
To this end, the national government and some provinces, amongst them
Shandong Province, are seeking to obtain technical assistance for more
advanced approaches and technologies in this area from the leading
Chinese universities, and from the international community.
Technically, financially and economically sound district heating systems
are operated in China, in many European countries (especially in
Scandinavia) and in some locations in North America.
Project Objectives
11. The project is part of a phased development program of Shandong
Province (SP) to improve environmental conditions and sustain urban
services management. The principal objective of the project is to
provide a sustainable environmental framework for the long-term economic
and social development of the Province, while providing a conducive
foundation for industrial growth. Specific objectives of the project
are to: (a) strengthen policies, regulations and institutional
arrangements for municipal water, wastewater, and district heating
management, and environmental pollution control; (b) support the
improvement of the waters of the Xiaoqing River Basin in order to allow
the waters to be used for potable supply, industry or agriculture, as
appropriate; (c) expand surface water supply to Jinan to prevent further
depletion of ground water aquifers; (d) facilitate complementary
sustainable investments in pollution control and municipally-provided
urban environmental services; (e) reduce air pollution in Weihai and
Yantai; and (f) introduce a comprehensive approach to planning,
prioritization, management, and financing of urban environmental
infrastructure investments.
Project Description
12. The project would comprise a blend of policy and investment
initiatives. The policy initiatives would support a stronger market
- 3 -



orientation for municipal service financial management, and
environmental management of polluting industrial enterprises.
Investments would support municipal strategies for environmental
recovery and sustained use of natural water resources, and would
comprise the following: (a) Jinan Municipality: Water Supply
Management. Investments in Jinan for surface water storage, pumping,
transmission and distribution facilities to augment and improve the
long-term reliability of the water supply system of the city and protect
groundwater resources. Wastewater Management. Investments in
wastewater collection and pumping systems in Jinan for the protection of
Xiaoqing River water quality and full utilization of existing treatment
facilities; (b) Weihai Municipality: Investments in municipal district
heating systems in Weihai, comprising combined heat and power generation
plant and facilities, distribution systems, and support services for
improved air quality in the city; (c) Yantai Municipality:
Investments in municipal district heating systems in Yantai, comprising
peak boiler and heat generation plant and facilities, distribution
systems, and support services for improved air quality in the city; (d)
Environmental Pollution Control: A revolving credit subloans facility
to assist selected heavily polluting small and medium-sized enterprises
in the Xiaoqing River Basin, to carry out high environmental benefit and
cost-effective investments for pollution abatement including waste
minimization in order to comply with environmental regulations; (e)
Management and Agency Strengthening and Training: Investments to
support and strengthen provincial, municipal, project and financial
management; construction supervision services; training in sector and
utility operations; updating of city, river basin environmental
management plans and feasibility studies; and future project
preparation.
13. The financial, urban environment service delivery and utility
management policy initiatives would concentrate on (a) operational
efficiency improvements; (b) resource mobilization and cost recovery
measures; (c) underpinning the long-term financial and economic
sustainability of urban services; and (d) environmental pollution
reduction through focused time-bound Action Plans with respect to
pollution from paper and chemical industries. The management and agency
strengthening and training component would enhance policies and
operational experience in environmental protection and water,
wastewater, and district heating management. Support for these
initiatives has been grouped into a number of main composite packages
for the various executing agencies, covering management and agency
strengthening, financial management improvement, construction
supervision and training. The component would also support provincial
and sector city agencies, master planning, future project preparation,
and other programs of assistance to be defined.
14. SP has prepared and updated a strategy for implementing the
Management and Agency Strengthening and Training component according to
an agreed schedule.. The signing of contracts with consulting firms for
management and agency strengthening, financial management improvement,
and construction supervision would be a condition of effectiveness.
Project Cost
-4-



15. The total project cost is estimated at about $215.1 million
equivalent, including foreign exchange of $63.6 million. Interest
during construction would require an additional $6.0 million. The
proposed loan of $110.0 million, would cover about 50 percent of the
project's total financing requirement. The balance would be provided as
follows: 49 percent by the participating municipalities and their
district heating, water and wastewater entities and 1 percent by
enterprises participating in the Industrial Pollution Control component.
16. The Government of China and Shandong Province have selected LIBOR-
based US dollar single currency loan terms for the project in order to
facilitate management of the foreign exchange risk of their borrowings,
by more closely matching the currency of their liabilities with that of
their net trade flows, about 50 percent of which are US dollar
denominated. The Government selected the LIBOR-based product in order
to preserve the full maturity of the loan, compared to the fixed-rate
option that would have resulted in a 15-year term, and judges that it
can manage the interest rate risk..
Project Implementation
17. The Shandong Provincial Environment Project Office (SPPMO) was
established in June 1995. The office is headed by the Deputy Director
of the Shandong Urban and Rural Construction Commission who is
supported, on a part-time basis, by five divisions and four deputy
directors from the provincial EPB, the Finance and Planning Bureau and
the Urban and Rural Construction Commission. Similar organizational
structures were established also at the municipal level of the three
project cities.
18. The provincial and municipal EPBs play an important role in the
short- and long-term policy studies and the set-up of the two proposed
environmental funds.
Project Sustainability
19. According to Shandong's project proposal, the air pollution
components would generate (i) save 535,000 tons of coal per year; (ii)
reduce S02 discharge by 120,000 t/y; and (iii) reduce smoke and dust by
35,000 t/y. These figures will have to be recalculated after the
preliminary feasibility studies are finished and placed into the context
of the overall ambient air quality in the three cities. As a result of
the district heating component, hundreds of individual boilers will be
eliminated and thousands of residential stoves discarded. While a
significant improvement in the immediate project areas is expected, the
immediate and direct overall pollution impact of the project on the
province will be small. However, the project aims at demonstrating to
the cities of Shandong and eventually to the country that viable options
of district heating using advanced designs, computerized technologies,
and improved management techniques can be found and successfully
implemented.
20. Shandong expects further that with the expansion and connection of
the sewerage collection system to the existing wastewater treatment
facility would remove 80t to 90t of COD and treat 350,000 t/d of sewage
- 5-



improving the Xiaofuhe and Xiaoqing Rivers, underground reservoirs, and
coastal areas of the Bohai Sea and Laizhou Bay. A river water
abstraction component in Jinan would further contribute to the recovery
of the aquifers in Jinan.
21. Industrial pollution control strategies would be addressed through
the two revolving funds under the project which are targeted to support
the province's pilot undertakings in cleaner production, as well as to
support the Xiaoqing River Basin Environmental Action Plan (1994) which
identifies and targets specific industrial subsectors and individual
industrial plants.
22. Financial sustainability will be assured by the inclusion of
appropriate tariff covenants and by institutional plans aimed at
enhancing corporate governance of those organizations which will operate
the district heating, water and waste water components under the
project. The industrial pollution control programs in Yantai and
Xiaoqing River Basin have already begun, before Bank involvement, and
reflect considerable willingness or support on the part of the
participating stakeholders in the project localities, necessary for
environmental initiatives to "take hold". The Xiaoqing River Basin
Commission was established 3 years ago and its Environmental Action Plan
has been approved by the provincial government, and 3 new initiatives
(comprehensive environmental plans for a river basin, pollution load
quotas and fines on municipalities, and a river basin secretariat
primarily staffed by EPB, rather than MWR) have received approval from
the national State Council for pilot implementation.
23. Project risks fall into two basic categories: implementation risk
and policy risk. On the implementation side, the record of Chinese
municipalities in physical implementation under similar Bank-financed
projects has been satisfactory overall. However, pollution control fund
components have faced delays and, as a result, considerable efforts have
been undertaken during project preparation by the two implementing
agencies to evaluate the existing funds under other projects in order to
design better operating procedures, and administrative and financial
mechanisms into the ones proposed for this project.
24. Policy risks include: (a) possible city resistance to timely
implementation of new tariff structures. Failure to implement agreed
tariffs would seriously impair the performance incentives of the
utilities. To mitigate this risk, tariff increases at an early date
would be required; (b) institutional reform may lag the pace of
investment. To mitigate this risk, cities have been encouraged to make
an early transfer of assets to the new operating entities; and (c) a
sustained investment program, stretching well beyond the end date of the
proposed project, will be needed to completely solve the water, solid
waste and air pollution problems in the project cities and Xiaoqing
River Basin. Long-term, sustained efforts will be required by the
Province to expand and strengthen the river basin management authority
of the Xiaoqing River Basin Commission to ensure the success of the 20-
year program of pollution clean-up. To encourage continued
implementation of the broader program, the proposed project includes
funds for further environmental planning and monitoring and sets tariff
targets to help sustain future investment.
- 6-



Lessons Learned from Past Operations
25. The discussion of lessons learned focuses on three areas of central
concern to the present project: provision and management of urban
environmental services; pollution control; and project preparation and
implementation.
26. Provision and management of urban environmental services. Bank
municipal management sector work (Urban Service Delivery; Finding the
Right Incentives) emphasizes the need to properly assign functional
responsibilities and line revenue to expenditures. In China's case,
environmental services are appropriately provided at the municipal
level, where a high percentage of government revenue is also captured.
Recent sector work (China: Urban Environmental Service Management,
Report 13073-CHA) concludes that the major failing in environmental
services has been dependence on municipal budget transfer to fund
services, while greater reliance on user charges would be affordable,
induce resource conservation, and create a more dependable income
stream. For that reason, increasing tariffs has been a major focal
point of the policy dialogue in this project. This responds, too, to a
major finding in the OED review of Bank water and sanitation projects
(Water Supply and Sanitation Projects; The Bank Experience 1967-1989),
wherein physical performance was generally good, but sustaining
financial viability and overall sectoral development was less
successful.
27. Pollution control. The Bank experience in pollution control
includes recent projects in China, as well as in Mexico, Brazil, India,
Indonesia and the Russian Federation. A review of Bank experience
(Industry and Environment: Patterns in World Bank Lending) emphasizes
the need for political commitment, clear standards and regulations,
incentives to comply, and institutional capability to monitor and
enforce standards. When industrial pollution abatement subloans are
involved, the following conditions increase likelihood of success: a
profitable and growing industrial sector, flexibility in choice of
technology, availability of funds at close-to-market terms, and
targeting on sources that can yield significant improvement in the
ambient environment. The pollution abatement components draw on these
lessons and those in two recent sector studies, as well as the recently
completed four short-term environmental priority studies undertaken
during the preparation of this project. The latter stress issues of
political commitment, appropriate standards and incentives, and
institutional monitoring and enforcement capabilities. This project
addresses those issues through action plans to strengthen the provincial
and municipal EPBs to maximize project impact beyond the direct benefits
of the investments.
Poverty, Environmental Aspects and Resettlement
28. No specific poverty aspects are being addressed as part of this
project. Improvements in residential heating through advanced district
heating systems, drinking water supply and waste water management would
benefit all segments of the population in the proposed project cities.
Work on the preparation of appropriate Environmental Assessment Reports
(EAs) and resettlement action plans (RAPs) started in June 1995.
-7 -



Because of the need to handle waste residues properly from the district
heating and industrial pollution control investments, the project is
rated category A for the purpose of environmental impact assessment.
The Project-wide EA has been completed, approved by China's National
Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA), and found to be satisfactory by
the Bank. The respective RAPs were also found by the Bank to be
satisfactory.
Contact Point:       Geoffrey Read, Task Manager EA2EM
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4078
Fax: (202) 522-1787
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending January 10, 1997.
- 8 -



