                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                             Report No: 35842-CHA




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (SCL-42370 TF-29395)

                                          ON A

                                         LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$95 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                              PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                        FOR THE

                            SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT PROJECT




                                      June 29, 2006




Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective December, 2005)

                        Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB) or Yuan (Y)
                                Y1.00 = US$ 0.12
                             US$ 1.00 = Y8.00

                              FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1     December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CHP      Combined Heat and Power
EA       Environmental Assessment
EPB      Environmental Protection Bureau
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
JMDC     Jinan Municipal Drainage Company
JMG      Jinan Municipal Government
JWSC     Jinan water Supply Company
LIBOR    London Interbank Borrowing Rate
Mpa      Mega Pascals (pressure)
MW       Megawatt
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NDRC     National Development Reform Commission
NO2      Nitrous Oxide
PHRD     Population and Human Resources Development (Japanese Grant)
QCBS     Quality and Cost Based Selection
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
SEPA     State Environmental Protection Agency
SEPB     Shandong Environmental Protection Bureau
SMO      Sub-loan Management Office
SO2      Sulphur Dioxide
SP       Shandong Province
SFB      Shandong Finance Bureau
SPG      Shandong Provincial Government
SPPMO    Shandong Provincial Project Management Office
STW      Sewage Treatment Works
TSP      Total Suspended Particulates
UNEP     United Nations Environment Program
WBHPC    Weihai Botong Heat and Power Company Ltd.
WWTP     Wastewater Treatment Plant
XR(B)    Xiaoqing River (Basin)
XRBSL    Xiaoqing River Basin Sub Loans
YHSC     Yantai Heat Supply Company Ltd.



                       Vice President:    Mr. Jeffrey Gutman, Acting EAPVP
                    Country Director:     Mr. David Dollar, EACCF
                      Sector Director:    Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
                  Task Team Leader:       Ms. Shenhua Wang, EASUR

                                                CHINA
                             SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
    6. Sustainability                                                                12
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
    9. Partner Comments                                                              16
    10. Additional Information                                                       16
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             34
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             36
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             38
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                39
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            40
    Annex 8. Land Acquisition and Resettlement                                       41
    Annex 9. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                             42
Map:  IBRD 28428

Project ID: P040185                                                  Project Name: SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Shenhua Wang                                            TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                             L/C/TF Number: SCL-42370; TF-29395
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: District heating and energy efficiency services (43%); Water supply (30%); General water,
                            sanitation and flood protection sector (18%); General industry and trade sector (5%);
                            Sub-national government administration (4%)
                  Theme: Municipal governance and institution building (P); Pollution management and environmental
                            health (P); Water resource management (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/19/1996                                     Effective:                           07/30/1998
     Appraisal: 01/18/1997                                         MTR:                             04/17/2002
      Approval: 10/28/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA/SHANDONG URB. & RURAL CONST.
                                           COM/ENV. PROT. BUREAU-SURC/SEPB
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey S. Gutman                              Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               David Dollar                                   Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                 Keshav Varma                                   Richard G. Scurfield
Team Leader at ICR:             Shenhua Wang                                   Geoffrey Read
ICR Primary Author:             Chandra Godavitarne


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
QAG did not review the project for quality at entry.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background. Rapid growth in the industrial and service sectors in Shandong Province (SP) over the past
two decades resulted in serious environmental degradation in urban areas, particularly in the capital city of
Jinan, in the coastal cities of Qingdao, Weihai and Yantai, and in Zibo in the Xiaoqing River Basin (XRB).
With Shandong's vast coal deposits, thermal power generation, industrial process heating and residential
heating, all use coal as their primary energy source. This level of coal use resulted in Shandong having the
largest mass emissions of SO2 among China's provinces. Pollution in the Xiaoqing River (XR), posed
serious threats to human health, and to economic development. By the mid-90s, Shandong Province (SP)
had invested heavily in industrial pollution control, principally in wastewater treatment and air pollution
control. At the same time, concerns were growing over the reliability of Jinan's water supply due to
over-abstraction of groundwater and its deteriorating water quality. Groundwater was supplemented with
supplies from impounding reservoirs and direct abstractions from the Yellow River. The long-term water
resources management strategy of the Province was to construct reliable surface water sources, conserve
groundwater, and adopt water reuse in industry. Against this background, SP requested Bank assistance
for the Shandong Environment Project.

The project had the following objectives: (a) strengthen policies, regulations and institutional arrangements
for municipal water, wastewater, and district heating, and environmental pollution prevention and control;
(b) expand surface water supply to Jinan to prevent further depletion of groundwater aquifers; (c) facilitate
sustainable management of investments in pollution control and municipally-provided urban environmental
services; and (d) arrange for updating the information data base with respect to water quality and
management of the XRB.

Assessment of Objectives. The project's objectives were in line with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) which was discussed by the Board in June 1995, and which highlighted environmental
protection and reducing infrastructure bottlenecks as two of the five areas of strategic focus. The
objectives were consistent with China's Environmental Action Plan (EAP), which provided the basis for
joint Government-Bank programs in the environmental sector, and the provincial government's strategy to
address serious pollution issues associated with its rapid industrial growth.

Specifically, the project objectives were fully consistent with the Provincial Government's XRB
Environmental Action Plan (EAP), which addressed the serious pollution issues of the Basin and in the
Xiaoqing River, which flows to the environmentally sensitive Bohai Sea. Objectives also focused on the
looming water scarcity, development of a reliable surface water source for Jinan to arrest the depletion of
groundwater resources, and serious air pollution in two key coastal cities. Lastly, the project focused on
policy, regulatory and institutional reforms in the implementing utility companies.

Project objectives correctly focused on SP's priority environmental problems and were clear and realistic.
The objectives reflect recognition of the priority need for regulatory and institutional reform, relieving
Jinan's water scarcity, and preventing, reducing and controlling of air and wastewater pollution. At the
same time, the project was challenging due to its spatial distribution, the fact that it covered three sectors in
three cities, and it also dealt with reforms in district heating, an area where China had limited experience.

3.2 Revised Objective:
n.a.

3.3 Original Components:



                                                        - 2 -

The project had five components, for a total project cost of US$202 million.

(a)      Jinan Water Supply Management ($62.6 million). Development of a reliable new surface water
source, adequate for about 20 years, from the Yellow River for Jinan, to supply raw water to a newly
constructed water treatment plant of 400,000 m3/day capacity, including pumping stations, water
transmission and distribution pipelines, and associated engineering works.

(b)      Jinan Wastewater Management ($36.5 million). Construction of a wastewater collection network
comprising about 18 km of trunk sewers, about 17 km of secondary and link sewers, a pumping station,
and property connections, to convey wastewater to a newly constructed wastewater treatment plant of
220,000 m3/day capacity.

(c)      Weihai Municipal District Heating ($42.9 million). Construction of a combined heat and power
generation plant of about 24 MWe electricity and 120 MWt heat capacity, 13.7 km heat and 14.2 km hot
water distribution networks and facilities, and heat exchange stations, to reduce inefficiencies in coal-fired
small boilers and stoves.

(d)      Yantai Municipal District Heating ($46.1 million). Construction of a heat exchange plant, about
30 km of distribution networks and heat exchange stations for about 500 MWt heating capacity and a peak
boiler of about 112 MWt capacity, to reduce inefficiencies in coal-fired small boilers and stoves.

(e)      Environmental Pollution Prevention and Control ($10.0 million). Creation of a revolving sub-loan
facility for environmental improvements in small- and medium-size enterprises located in the XRB, to assist
them to comply with environmental regulations of the Basin.

(f)      Institutional Strengthening and Training ($3.9 million). Technical assistance to support and
strengthen provincial, municipal, project and financial management; construction supervision; training in
sector and utility operations; and updating of the XRB water quality and management database.

Assessment of Project Design. Project design is assessed as satisfactory, as it was closely linked to
project objectives, and was highly appropriate to the pressing environmental problems of the Province at
the time. It incorporated lessons learned from past urban environmental projects in China and relevant
sectors. Lessons included: strong ownership by the Borrower; the use of a river basin approach to
environmental management; support for institutional reforms; and the application of cost recovery and
demand management through pricing.

Project design correctly recognized the need to strengthen the trunk network to distribute the additional
water produced under the new scheme, to fully utilize the capacity of the existing wastewater treatment
plant, and to minimize the adverse economic and environmental impacts from the continued use of
inefficient small boilers and stoves for district heating.

Even though SP had participated in 27 Bank-financed investment operations with a good track record, the
design recognized the need for institutional strengthening, project management inputs and training for the
four sector agencies, three of which were new companies, with no prior experience in implementing
Bank-financed projects.

3.4 Revised Components:
The Loan Agreement was amended on December 16, 2004 to add the following investments to the water
supply and district heating components, to utilize Loan savings of about $17 million:


                                                       - 3 -

(a) Jinan Water Supply. About 25 km of new trunk water distribution network to extend services to the
eastern part of Jinan;

(b) Weihai Municipal District Heating. A 130 t/h steam boiler to increase heat/steam production capacity,
and a 25 MWe turbine and generator for the project power plant to increase its electricity production
capacity to 49 MWe; and

(c) Yantai Municipal District Heating. About 20 km of heat supply pipeline in the southern part of the
city to increase the consumer connection load to about 680MWt.

Assessment of Design. The additional components were consistent with project objectives, represented
least-cost solutions, and enhanced the benefits of the three components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry was not reviewed by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group.

Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory based on the following: (a) component designs addressed SP's most
serious environmental issues, and were high priority for SP; (b) consistency with country, Province and
Bank strategies; (c) adoption of a river basin approach to environmental management; (d) incorporation of
institutional reforms to strengthen policies/regulations, and support for institutional development and
corporate financial management; (e) attention given during project preparation to the results of sector
studies, lessons learned and the performance of implementing agencies in other projects; (f) implementation
of Government and Bank policies on environment and resettlement; and (g) preparation of feasibility
studies and related documents to a satisfactory standard.

The Xiaoqing River Basin Sub-Loan Facility (XRBSL) was well designed with clear loan criteria and
procedures for appraisal, disbursements and cost recovery, including a procedure to certify completion of
investments. However, the component did not require SPG to replenish the funds to assure its continuation.


The assumptions about demand for project outputs were largely reasonable even though it was possible to
sell only about half of all available water due to continued use of groundwater by some industries in the
eastern areas of Jinan.

Following assurances given at negotiations, expansion of the Jinan water distribution network was to be
completed by JWSC by December 2000. However these works were not executed due to scarcity of funds.
In hindsight, it could be concluded that this important distribution network should have been included in the
project at least as reserve procurement, rather than relying on a dated covenant.

The quality of feasibility studies and preliminary designs, prepared by domestic design institutes, was
enhanced by the design review advisory services provided by international consultants. By negotiations,
detailed designs and draft bidding documents were prepared for about 20% of the total project works.

The project triggered the Bank's safeguard policies on environmental assessment and involuntary
resettlement, and the project was classified as Category "A". Component-specific EAs and a
comprehensive project-wide EA were prepared, including mitigation measures to address negative impacts,
and an implementation plan to ensure satisfactory implementation. RAPs were prepared for each
component in accordance with Bank requirements. The RAPs included a framework for land acquisition



                                                      - 4 -

and resettlement, compensation schemes, preferential policies to reduce taxes and levies for the project
affected people, and implementation and monitoring arrangements. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from SPG and local municipal governments that the resettlement and rehabilitation of affected
persons would be conducted according to Bank guidelines (see 4.1 below).

Key performance indicators to monitor achievement of the project's objectives were developed along with
baseline conditions, and were available at start-up. The indicators were comprehensive and comprised
useful baseline environmental conditions (details in Annexes 1, 1A, 1B, 1C and 1D). The data was
regularly updated by the Shandong Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB), as part of the XRB water
quality and management database.

Risk Assessment

Risks identified at appraisal were: wastewater treatment not achieving targets, water supply not reaching
targets; quality of implementation inadequate; inefficient cost recovery over project period; counterpart
funding insufficient or late; environmental pollution control measures not effectively enforced; and lack of
enforcement and development control. Long-term strategic risks identified included: continued decline in
water quality of XRB and groundwater quantity and quality; deterioration in the ambient air quality in
urban areas, limited capacity of utility companies to expand environmental services because they are not
financially viable.

The assumptions made in the SAR were reasonable and the risk assessment was largely accurate.
Mitigation measures included in the project were: technical assistance and training to strengthen capacity
of authorities and utility operators; commitment to water supply network expansion; provision of
competent local and international supervision consultants during construction; commitment to tariff
increases and financial planning; integration of monitoring and pollution control functions by EPB, etc.
These measures proved adequate.

One risk that was not anticipated was industry's continued use of self-supply groundwater due to the
inability of the provincial and Jinan Municipal Governments to enforce regulations banning self-supply
when a piped supply was available. This affected JWSC's finances and its ability to recover costs for the
new water supply during the initial years of operation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory as shown in Table 4.1.

                               Table 4.1: Outcome/Achievement of Objective
                                        Project Objective                                      Rating
(a)   Strengthen policies, regulations and institutional arrangements for municipal water, Moderately
      wastewater, and district heating, and environmental pollution prevention and control satisfactory
(b)   Expand surface water supply to Jinan to prevent further depletion of groundwater     Satisfactory
      aquifers
(c)   Facilitate sustainable management of investments in pollution control and            Satisfactory
      municipally-provided urban environmental services
(d)   Arrange for updating the information database with respect to water quality and      Satisfactory
      management of XRB.




                                                       - 5 -

Objective (a) Achievement of this objective is rated as moderately satisfactory, for the reasons described
below.

(a) The Jinan Water Supply Company (JWSC). JWSC has operated in accordance with the provisions of
its charter as an autonomous utility company, including retaining its tariff revenue to manage its operations
and maintenance and debt servicing. In November 2002, JWSC entered into a public private partnership
with a private operator, for operation of its Yellow River Water Treatment Plant under a
`transfer-operate-transfer' contract. Lack of enforcement by SPG and the Municipality of existing
municipal regulations and State Council directives of 2000 and 2004, which ban self supply where a
service is available, has encouraged some industries to continue the use of self-supply groundwater. The
water resource fee levied by the Water Resources Bureau is marginally lower than JWSC's industrial
tariff, so industries do not have an incentive to switch to piped supply. The objective of arresting the
depletion of the groundwater aquifer has thus been only partially achieved.

(b) The Jinan Municipal Drainage Company (JMDC). Regulations of the newly formed JMDC require
all buildings in its service area to connect to the sewer system, and industry to treat its wastewater to
specified standards before discharge to the sewer system. SPG has adopted the policy to increase cost
recovery in the wastewater sector.

The newly formed JMDC owns and operates the wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) in Jinan and the
project-financed collection networks; the secondary and tertiary network continue to be owned and
maintained by the district sanitation units, with an annual budget from JFB ­ a practice common in Chinese
cities.

The component contributed to reduce wastewater pollution entering the XR: (i) pollution contribution to the
Daming Lake (and the XR) from current wastewater generated in Jinan (370,000 m3/day) has been halved,
utilizing the full capacity of the existing treatment plant of 220,000 m3/day; (ii) water quality in the
Daming Lake has improved, and the BOD and COD levels in the Lake have declined by about 30 percent
and 50 percent respectively (see Annex 1B: Table 1 and Chart); (iii) the COD and BOD loads in the
influent wastewater have declined (see Table and Chart in Annex 1B); and (iv) environmental conditions
have improved in the serviced areas, as most of the wastewater generated is now conveyed to the treatment
plant. However, about 150,000 m3/day of wastewater is still being discharged untreated to XR, due to
treatment capacity limitations. JMDC plans to increase wastewater treatment capacity by 550,000 m3/day
by 2008, but a firm implementation plan is not yet in place (see Table 3 Annex 1B).

(c) The Weihai Botong Heat and Power Company (WBHPC) and the Yantai Heat Supply Company
(YHSC). Both Weihai and Yantai established regulations that require discontinuance of stoves and boilers
up to 10 ton/hour capacity, where heating networks are available. No individual heating facilities are
permitted in newly constructed buildings within the companies' service areas. All buildings in the serviced
areas are required to connect to the heating networks.

Early in implementation, the existing municipal district heating departments were converted to state-owned
companies with a business license; both companies operate in accordance with the provisions of their
charters as autonomous enterprises. With the project's technical assistance, both companies improved their
financial management and can now provide an up-to-date picture of their finances. In 2001, WBHPC was
converted from a 100% state-owned company to a joint-stock company with 52% owned by the
municipality, and the balance by private investors and employees.

According to Shandong Environmental Protection Bureau monitoring data (a) air quality improved in both


                                                      - 6 -

cities through significant reductions in SO2, NO2 and TSP levels (see Tables 2 and 3 and Chart in Annex
1C); (b) in Weihai, about 100 industrial boilers and about 18,000 household stoves have been demolished
or discontinued; (c) in Yantai, about 247 industrial boilers and about 64,000 household stoves have been
demolished or discontinued in the downtown area; (d) visibility has improved significantly in the heating
season (see Table and Chart in Annex 1C); and (e) Yantai officials attribute the return of the seagull
population to the improved air quality.

(d) Environmental Pollution Prevention and Control. SPG has a comprehensive policy for pollution
prevention and control in the XRB. Regulations promulgated by the Xiaoqing River Basin Commission
require: phased closure of paper mills of capacities up to 20,000 tons/year; bans on the use of certain raw
materials for paper-making; reduction of direct discharge to XR by paper mills; relocation of specified
polluting industries; and adoption of wastewater recycling by all enterprises to specified targets. (Details
are provided in Annex 1D). SP has increased municipal wastewater treatment and introduced measures for
pollution load reduction from the worst polluting industries, and mass-based pollution load targets for the
Xiaoqing River are to be achieved in 2005 and 2010. Under the project, SPG assisted small and medium
industries to comply with the environmental regulations of the XRB. Untreated municipal wastewater
discharged to the Xiaoqing River from all five municipalities in the Basin has declined by about 910,000
m3/day following commissioning of new municipal wastewater treatment plants in the towns of Jinan,
Zibo, Dongying, Weifang and Bingzhou. Water quality data for the Daming Lake and the Xiaoqing River
illustrating the reduction in BOD, COD and SS following the operation of the Jinan wastewater treatment
plant and other activities in the XRB, are provided in Annex 1D.

Objective (b) Achievement of this objective is rated satisfactory. A reliable and secure surface water
source for Jinan, adequate to meet demand through at least 2020, is now available. The current supply is
able to provide raw water to operate the 400,000 m3/day treatment plant. The supply has been expanded
to eastern areas of the city. The static level of groundwater has risen about 2.5 meters since 1997;
conditions are likely to improve further when use of self-supply water by industries is stopped. Natural
springs, a tourist attraction of Jinan, have reappeared. The table and chart in Annex 1A illustrate the
recovery of groundwater levels since 1997.

Objective (c) Substantial progress has been made in water supply, wastewater and district heating utilities
towards achieving this objective. Sustainable management of investments in the sectors is assessed as
likely. Supported by SPG, municipalities have plans and policies in place for all utilities to recover costs
through regular tariff revisions; these plans have been implemented towards achieving this goal. Overall,
progress made is considered satisfactory. JWSC was profitable for many years prior to the completion of
the new water supply scheme, and continued to meet financial covenants in 2004 and 2005, although it did
require municipal subsidies. These subsidies were required as SP and JMC did not enforce regulations to
stop self-supply once the JWSC supply became available. SPG has taken action to assure sustainable
wastewater management in all municipal cities. A Government directive requires all cities in Shandong to
implement a specified minimum tariff starting January 1, 2005. JMDC has adopted the following tariffs:
Y0.70/ m3 for domestic, Y0.80/ m3 for industry and Y0.90 /m3, representing an average increase of about
100 percent. This increase was adequate to meet about 86 percent of total revenue requirements prior to
full operation of the treatment plant. Further tariff increases are necessary to meet the objective; Shandong
Province is committed to implementing the tariff increases in the near term.

Finances of the district heating companies in Weihai and Yantai have been generally satisfactory since their
formation in 1996. Periodic tariff increases have assured their sustainability; thus sustainability of the
district heating operations in both cities is likely. Prospects for Weihai are even brighter, since about 40
percent of revenue is derived from the sale of excess power generated by the power plant financed under the


                                                       - 7 -

project.

Objective (d) The Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau has continued to update the information
database on water quality and management of the XRB. This information has been used to monitor the
implementation progress of the XRB EAP, and to make necessary modifications. Achievement of this
objective is rated satisfactory. Most of the data in Annex 1 is derived from this database.

Environmental and Social Objectives (Safeguards).

Overall, the project met its safeguard objectives satisfactorily. The EMP was fully implemented during the
project period. Land acquisition and resettlement were implemented in accordance with the resettlement
action plans (RAP) except in one instance, where the JMG departed from the agreed RAP in the
wastewater component. Resolution of this matter took over two years, during which period the project was
rated `unsatisfactory'. Annex 8: Experiences in Land Acquisition and Resettlement provides more details
of the non-compliance. EAs and RAPs meeting Bank requirements were prepared for the additional
components included in the project, and were implemented satisfactorily.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Overall, achievement of project outputs is rated satisfactory. Construction supervision and quality control
for the physical investments were carried out by supervision companies and the Government's Quality
Control Office respectively. Assistance was also provided by international consultants. Construction
quality was satisfactory. Output ratings are provided in Table 4.2 below.

                                           Table 4.2: Output Ratings

      Component                                                                  Rating
(a)    Jinan Water Supply                                                       Satisfactory
(b)    Jinan Wastewater                                                         Satisfactory
(c)   Weihai District Heating                                                   Satisfactory
(d)   Yantai District Heating                                                   Highly satisfactory
(e)   Xiaoqing River Basin Environmental Pollution Control                      Satisfactory
(f)   Institutional Strengthening    and   Training,  including   Updating  the Satisfactory
      Environmental Database

(a) Jinan Water Supply. The appraisal target was to provide a continuous supply of 440,000 m3/day of
desilted raw water to fully utilize the existing capacity at the Huanghe No. 2 WTP to enable supply of
400,000 m3/day of treated water to existing and new development areas of the city. The component
outputs exceeded targets set at appraisal, as the project also financed 25 km distribution network, through
the use loan savings. An estimated 300,000 people benefited from the new water supply. In addition, there
were general service improvements to about 2 million people in JWSC's service area.

(b) Jinan Wastewater. Facilities constructed under the project include trunk sewers, force mains,
secondary sewers, missing links, connections, and associated pumping stations, with capacity to collect and
convey about 580,000 m3/day of wastewater generated in all six drainage catchments through 2020.
About 370,000 m3/day of wastewater flows to the treatment plant. A total of 1.05 million people benefited
from the improved wastewater collection.

(c) Weihai District Heating. The system now comprises a combined heat and power plant of 49 MWe
electric and 180 MWt heat capacity (from the original 120 MWt capacity); 13.7 km of steam network of



                                                      - 8 -

about 75 tons/hour, about 14.2 km of hot water network of about 68 MWt capacity, and 10 heat exchanger
stations of varying capacities averaging about 6 MWt. The pre-project capacity of the two thermal power
plants in Weihai was inadequate to meet the heat and electricity demand in the south of the city center in a
developing industrial zone. As a result of the project, the demand for heat and steam has been met.
WBHPC derives additional revenue from the sale of excess power.

The combined heat and power plant (CHP plant) was originally planned for an electric power production
capacity of 24 MWe. With loan savings, the total electric power production capacity was increased to 49
MWe. All the originally planned 243 substations and 30 new additional substations have been added to the
network for the expanded heating area. Services were improved to the 108,000 people in WBHPC's service
area, and an additional 30,000 people benefited from improved heating services.

(d) Yantai District Heating. All elements of the component were installed as planned within the project
time schedule and budget. The number of installed heating substations has reached the planned 87,
enabling expansion of coverage of the heated area to the planned 8 million m2. About 450,000 people in
YHPC's service area benefited from improved heating services. Since Yantai's bulk heat suppliers have
increased their production capacities, it enabled YHSC to expand its original heat supply capacity and
eliminated the need for the planned peak boiler plant. This saving enabled the financing of the extended
heating pipelines to the southern parts of the city, thus increasing benefits within the original project cost.
YHSC now has almost 600 MWt heat production capacity against the current heat demand of 500 MWt.
In addition to the increased heat production capacity, overall efficiency of the whole system has improved
with reduced emissions and increased coverage.

(e) Xiaoqing River Basin Environmental Pollution Control. The revolving sub-loan facility was a pilot
initiative, managed by the Shandong EPB, to support small and medium-size industries to meet
environmental regulations in the Xiaoqing River Basin. The component supported environmental
improvements, primarily in wastewater treatment and process modifications. The sub-loan facility has
been fully disbursed to 32 industries. All industries participating in the sub-loan facility were required to
carry out clean production audits. According to SEP, this pilot initiative has helped to promote the
Province's clean production program. Loan repayments have averaged about 50 percent; in the remaining
cases, SFB recovered the funds from local governments through adjustments to annual budget transfers.
The sub-loan facility continues to operate as a revolving fund facility. The overall impact of the sub-loans
on reducing pollution was positive.

(f) Institutional Strengthening and Training. Technical assistance and training were imparted to the four
agencies (JWSC, JMDC, WBHPC and YHSC) under the institutional strengthening technical assistance
consultancy. The consultants developed job descriptions, definition of responsibilities, enterprise
accounting, financial projections, tariff recommendations, reporting systems, hands-on training and study
tours. The utility companies indicated that the support was useful and welcome, and that the
recommendations were generally embraced and implemented. Training is summarized below.

Type                            JWSC                JMDC               YHPC               WBHPC
Overseas Training                 14                  16                 7                   16
Local Training                    220                 120               347                 256
Total                            234                  136               354                 272


Project technical assistance also included construction supervision support to SPPMO and implementing
agencies, which employ domestic supervision companies for these services. There have been no concerns



                                                      - 9 -

about construction quality. However, there have been issues with contract administration, especially with
regard to contract variations. During the first two years of implementation, contract variations were either
not well prepared, or were submitted for late Bank approval. International expertise could have been better
focused to improve contract management and construction supervision through closer integration with the
implementing agencies and supervision companies.

In principle, the initiatives taken by JWSC and WBHPC in public-private participation are positive and are
consistent with Bank policies.

The information database on water quality and environmental management of the XRB has been regularly
updated by SP EPB and the information has been used by government for monitoring the environment.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An overall economic rate of return of the entire project was not calculated at appraisal. ERRs were
calculated using least-cost analysis only for those components for which appropriate data was available to
monetize and quantify economic benefit streams. For the wastewater component, which included only
networks, data was not readily available and economic benefits were not quantified. At project completion,
using the same method, the immediate net benefit to the serviced population was recalculated, and is
summarized in Table 4.3; see Annex 3 for details.

                     Table 4.3. Costs and Benefit at Appraisal and Completion
                                      ERR (%) and NPV (@12%, Y Million)


                                                                                 Appraisal          ICR
         Components                   Method                Options
                                                                                 NPV      ERR    NPV     ERR

  Jinan Water Supply               Least-Costs                                  146.80 18%       57.76 14%

  Jinan Wastewater                 Cost Effective                                 na       na     na       na

  Weihai District Heating                           Excluding envir benefits    415.27 31%       425.42 31%
                                   Least-Costs
                                                    Full costs analysis         548.97 37%       566.40 37%

  Yantai District Heating          Least-Costs      Excluding envir benefits    535.35 66%       559.08 65%
                                                    Full costs analysis         657.26 71%       685.01 70%




4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial rates of return were not estimated at appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the project's institutional development impact is rated modest. Good use was made of the training
offered by the project and key staff involved in implementation has been retained. Improved financial
procedures and management systems were introduced in all four companies through the project technical
assistance, which were well received and internalized. The financial projections helped the companies to
formulate recommendations for necessary annual tariff revisions. Procurement, using World Bank
procedures, was carried out satisfactorily by all implementing agencies, except for one case of
mis-procurement in Yantai. In line with current trends in China, two companies (JWSC and WBHPC)
undertook PPP initiatives. While the developments thus far have been satisfactory, the utility companies
should continue progress towards greater autonomy in financial and operational management.



                                                    - 10 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Due to a slowdown in the development of the urban areas of Weihai during 1999-2002, the demand for
consumer connections to Weihai's district heating supply system did not materialize as projected at
appraisal. However, property development accelerated dramatically after 2003, resulting in much higher
heat demand. Weihai was able to nearly double the coverage of its heating system during the project period
using Loan savings to meet the increased demand.
Price escalations of 30% to 50% that occurred in 2003 and 2004 in key construction materials, especially
steel, delayed some civil works contracts and affected contractor performance in contracts which had no
provision for price escalation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors Affecting Implementation:

(a) Jinan Wastewater. Delay in completion of works occurred because of a failure to implement the agreed
terms of the RAP for a section of the Jinan wastewater trunk sewers that overlapped a development by
another agency. The subsequent delay in land acquisition delayed the project by about two years.

(b) Tariff Revisions. The extent and timing of tariff increases were largely controlled by JMC through the
Price Bureau, and these decisions were influenced more by a combination of social and economic factors.
Consequently, although utility revenue enhancements took place about every three to four years, their
revenues requirements were not met in a timely manner.

Factors Affecting Outcome:

(a) Arresting the Depletion of Groundwater Aquifer. Despite the municipal regulations, and State Council
directives of 2000 and 2004 that ban self-supply where a service is available*, some industries in Jinan
have continued to use groundwater from self-supply wells. SPG did not intervene to support JWSC despite
numerous requests; instead, JMC has provided JWSC an operating subsidy since 1998.

*State Council Directive No.36 (2000) states that `within the city supply area, no new self water supply wells will
be allowed. For existing self water supply wells, measures must be implemented to reduce the abstraction rates
gradually, towards the total elimination of the abstractions. State Council Directive No.36 (2004) prescribes that `
in addition to SD No. 36 (2000), all self supply wells must install approved water meters. If meters are not
installed, water use charges will be calculated based on maximum abstraction capacity'.

(b) Direct Remittance of Wastewater Revenues. Wastewater revenues collected by JWSC are remitted to
the Jinan Finance Bureau (JFB), which in turn, provides JMDC an annual budget for its operations and
debt service obligations. The continuation of this arrangement is contrary to intentions at appraisal, but is
expected to be rectified in the near term.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
(a) Contract and Procurement Management. Lack of due diligence in preparing contract variations in the
water supply component and failure to follow Bank procedures resulted in expenditures of $2.5 million
being ineligible for disbursement. Similarly, lack of due diligence and oversight in procurement
management by YHPC resulted in a misprocurement and cancellation of $1.4 million from the Loan.

(b) Construction Planning. Weak planning and coordination of construction with municipal authorities
and traffic police resulted in delays in completion of the water supply and wastewater components.


                                                       - 11 -

(c) Counterpart Funds. JWSC was unable to carry out agreed additions to the distribution network under
its ongoing annual program for network renewal and extensions, despite commitments made at negotiations.
During implementation, the situation was remedied using Loan savings for the work.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Costs. Project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$202 million (including contingencies of US$25.3
million). The total cost of the project as implemented is estimated at US$224.3 million (111% of the
appraisal cost). The increase was due to higher resettlement costs and the addition of new components to
utilize Loan savings of about $17 million. The cost of the original works, equipment and services was
estimated at US$149.8 million, whereas the actual cost was US$134.5 million ­ savings of US$40.6
million.

Financing. The original Bank loan was US$95 million; US$1.4 million was canceled due to
mis-procurement, leaving a net Loan amount of US$93.6 million. As of April 28, 2006, US$91.31 million
had been disbursed, leaving another US$2.29 million to be canceled. The disbursement percentages
for civil works, goods and services, remained unchanged during the implementation period. The borrower
contributed the remaining financing.

Extension of Loan Closing Date. The closing date was extended a total of two years. The first extension
from December 2003 to December 2004 allowed completion of investments under the original project; the
second extension to December 2005 allowed completion of the investments financed with savings.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated likely for all components. All investments were successfully completed
and are fully operational. SPG is committed to sustainable management of environmental investments
through full cost recovery, and has approved periodic tariff increases for project utilities. Improved
management systems have been introduced in all four utility companies supported by the project's technical
assistance.

Sustainability of water supply investments has been hampered somewhat because JWSC is not able to sell
about half the water available to industry. SPG has not enforced the ban on self supply water by industry,
but has provided JWSC an operating subsidy since 1998. SPG has confirmed to the Bank that it will
enforce the ban. Once it does so, JWSC will become profitable thus ensuring sustainability.

Sustainability of wastewater investments in Shandong Province has improved significantly with SPG's
2005 policy decision requiring all municipalities to implement minimum wastewater tariffs. The minimum
tariff stipulated is about double the prevailing average tariff, which improves cost recovery and reduces
deficits. In Jinan, SFB has provided annual operating subsidies to meet this deficit in the wastewater
operations. These deficits would decline substantially when industries start using city water supply.

District heating companies in Weihai and Yantai implemented periodic tariff increases. They too have
received operating subsidies. Prospects for Weihai are brighter, because about 40 percent of revenue is
derived from the sale of excess power generated by the power plant financed under the project.

EPB has selected more sub-projects to be financed by the revolving fund. The sub-project list is under
review by SFB.



                                                     - 12 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All utility companies under the project own and operate project-financed assets in a satisfactory manner.
The latest business plans of four utility companies demonstrate a commitment to improve financial and
management performance and service delivery. SPG continues to monitor their performance through
various regulatory agencies using most of the indicators adopted by the project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the lending phase, including identification, preparation and appraisal, is rated
satisfactory. The Bank provided skilled and experienced experts through all stages of the project (see
Annex 4).

Identification and Preparation. Project identification and preparation were built on Shandong Province's
priority plans for control and prevention of pollution in the Xiaoqing River basin, and the aim of addressing
critical infrastructure bottlenecks. Project components focused on: pollution in the XRB; air quality in two
cities; arresting depletion of groundwater in the capital city; and policy and institutional reforms. The Bank
assisted the Borrower in obtaining international consultants funded by a PHRD grant. Particular attention
was given to the appropriateness of technical solutions, and consistency between objectives and selected
components. The Bank confirmed that the safeguards documents and fiduciary arrangements met Bank
requirements.

Appraisal. The appraisal mission produced a comprehensive and high quality SAR. In accordance with
Bank practice in urban environment projects, new companies were created by appraisal for wastewater and
district heating, and the existing water supply company acquired a business license. The existing Jinan
Water Supply Company was well run, and was financially viable at the time of appraisal. As the district
heating and wastewater companies were established just before appraisal, no meaningful assessment was
possible of their institutional and financial capabilities. The project therefore included technical assistance
for institutional and financial strengthening tailored for all companies.

Negotiations. The following significant actions were agreed at negotiations: (a) SPG provided
environmental action plans for the three worst polluting industries in the XRB, as requested by the Bank,
and received assurances that they would be implemented; and (b) SPG assured that the strengthening of the
distribution network for Jinan water supply would be completed by December 2000. (As mentioned in
section 3.5, it might have been better to include this network in the project rather than rely on a dated
covenant.)

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance is rated satisfactory despite the high turnover of task team leaders.
The frequency of missions, team composition and the intensity of support contributed to effective
supervision. Delegation of procurement and safeguards review to the country office resulted in faster
response and was welcomed by the Borrower. Availability of an energy expert in the Beijing Office
facilitated technical supervision of the district heating components.

The task team produced detailed and informative back-to-office reports, highlighting problems and defining
action plans. Safeguards, including EAs and RAPs, were monitored and supervised by experts from the
Beijing office. Special efforts were made (including through intervention by the Country Director) to
ensure that SPG implemented the RAP in an acceptable manner, especially in one section of the wastewater



                                                       - 13 -

trunk sewer. The Bank also showed flexibility in allowing the use of Loan savings to further support
achievement of the PDO.

The Bank supervised procurement matters diligently as demonstrated by (a) declaring misprocurement in
Yantai and canceling the relevant amount of the loan; and (b) not accepting variations that did not conform
to Bank requirements. The task team devoted continuous efforts to help SPG comply with cost recovery
covenants by reviewing the financial projections of the utility companies and designing action plans.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's performance is rated satisfactory overall, despite the task team leader turnover. The Bank
provided experienced and motivated task teams comprising engineers, district heating experts, economists,
financial analysts, environmental and safeguards experts, and procurement experts over the project's life
span.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. The Borrower had strong ownership
of the project, and was closely involved with the preparation of the pollution abatement components, and in
the formulation of the water source augmentation component, which was a critical need for Jinan at the
time. With support from the Project Management Office, participating agencies quickly mobilized
domestic design institutes to prepare feasibility studies for the proposed components. The recruitment of
international consultants, using PHRD funds, was done reasonably expeditiously. The necessary
safeguards documents were also prepared satisfactorily. Shandong welcomed the technical assistance
component.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory. All municipal authorities were
committed to the project throughout the project period, and provided the necessary leadership and financial
support. SPPMO provided strong leadership and project coordination throughout implementation.

The Provincial Government fostered commercial operations in the water supply and district heating
companies. As in many Chinese cities, the transition to commercial operations in the Jinan wastewater
company was slow. The Government diligently pursued implementation of the XRB EAP, achieving
impressive results. SPG could have made stronger efforts to enforce national and provincial regulations to
ban self-supply (by industry) when a water supply was available.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
All implementing agencies performed satisfactorily. Implementation delays were largely due to land
acquisition, which was handled by other government departments. JWSC, the most experienced of all
implementing agencies, completed the component in a record time of less than two years. Implementation
performance of WBHPC and YHSC (two newly formed companies) was satisfactory, except for one case
of mis-procurement. JMDC required a longer time to resolve technical and implementation issues, and to
become comfortable with Bank procurement procedures. The procedures for appraisal, loan disbursement,
monitoring implementation and evaluation arrangements for the sub-loan facility (XRBSL) were prepared
well by SEPB. SPG used its powers to recover the funds through liens on budget transfers to the
concerned local governments, in cases of beneficiary industries defaulting on repayments.

Overall, the performance of implementing agencies was satisfactory because of their own efforts,
consultant support, and the extensive support provided by the experienced SPPMO under good leadership.



                                                     - 14 -

The SPPMO coordinated project implementation. Due to the accelerated pace of construction in the water
intake and associated works early in the project, contract variations that occurred were not reported until
2000. Variations to the value of about US$2.5 million were disallowed by the Bank on the grounds that
Bank procurement procedures were not followed.

Safeguard Policies. SPG and implementing agencies complied with Bank's safeguards policies; problems
encountered with the implementation of resettlement in the water supply and wastewater components were
satisfactorily resolved.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the performance of SPG (the Borrower) is rated satisfactory. SPG demonstrated strong
commitment to the objectives of the project (i.e., improving highly polluted and deteriorating water
resources, and ensuring their protection), through actions to prevent and control pollution in the XRB, and
implemented the project in a satisfactory manner. The Shandong Provincial Government also provided
excellent environmental and other project data, from its updated environmental database, which enabled the
ICR to document the impressive achievements in pollution control.

8. Lessons Learned

(a) Use of Country Office Staff. Transfer of Bank procurement administration to the Country Office
specialists was efficient and cost-effective, as it facilitated project implementation through prompt reviews,
improved communication and follow-up. With the current capacity of the Beijing Office, enhanced
responsibility can be transferred.

(b) Borrower Ownership. Achievement of project objectives was greatly facilitated by the degree of
ownership demonstrated by the client. Appraised project investments were part of SPG's priority
infrastructure needs, and SPG implemented the priority environmental action plan in parallel with the
project. The Province's environmental plan was tightly inter-woven, which was a strong factor in the
project's success. SPG also took ownership of the technical assistance provided under the project.

(c) Phasing of Institutional Reform. Fees charged for wastewater services need to be converted to a
`wastewater tariff' so that the funds collected become legal revenue of the wastewater company. At
present, the wastewater fee is the legal revenue of the municipality, which in turn provides an annual
budget to the wastewater company. Control and use of revenue are important steps to promote autonomy,
pursue the company's business plan, and improve services. Government commitment is a key factor to
ensure the success of regulatory and institutional reform and sustainable financial operation of utility
companies. A high level of engagement from the Bank is needed to secure the government commitment.

(d) Cost Estimation. As in other China urban infrastructure projects of similar vintage, costs are
overestimated through mandatory use of government schedules of rates (which have proved to be 20% to
30% higher than contract awards). This issue has now been addressed in more recent projects.

(e) Public-Private Partnerships. Public-private partnerships in the form of management contracts and
financial participation through sale of stock is becoming increasingly popular in the water supply and
wastewater sectors. However, transactions must be transparent and based on sound regulatory
frameworks. Contracts need to clearly define the responsibilities of the different parties, and the
performance criteria, quality of service, and risk management.

(f) Reliance on Dated Covenants. The experience with the expansion of the Jinan water distribution



                                                       - 15 -

network not being completed per the dated covenant points to the fact that works integral to the project
should be included in the project, at least as reserve procurement.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Overall, the Borrower has concurred with the findings in this Report, and provided some editorial and data
clarifications.

The Borrower, through the Shandong Province Project Management Office, has submitted its own
comprehensive evaluation report, which is attached as Annex 9. The report states "The project has
contributed substantially to protecting water resources, reducing air pollution, and improving sustainable
environmental management practices in Shandong Province". The Borrower observes that (a) project
design was satisfactory, and presented no obstacles during implementation, and (b) heating demand
projections were somewhat optimistic, and did not adequate account of economic and social uncertainties.
The Borrower has rated the Bank's performance highly satisfactory during both project preparation and
implementation. The Borrower alludes, however, to the frequent change of task managers as being a
problem, despite the valuable contributions made by the individuals.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Table 1 below shows key performance indicators and project output data, comparing appraisal to
actuals.




                Table 1. Key Performance Indicators and Project Output/Input
                 (Note: Actual figures through project implementation are listed in bold.)




                                                 - 17 -

                                 Key Performance          Unit        CY97     CY98 CY99 CY00   CY05     CY10
                                      Indicator                                                          Target
CAS Objective
Reduce infrastructure        Infrastructure meets
bottlenecks                  demand

Protect the Environment      Ambient quality
                             improvements in
                             Shandong
Specific Project
Development Objectives       Reduced air pollution in     SO2          100      90   70   30      5        5
(a) Support improvement      Yantai project area from                  100      62   42   54     30        5
of environmental pollution   heating (% of 1995
control, including air       level)                       TSP          100      95   75   40     10       10
quality improvements                                                   100      53   56   66     20       10

                                                          SO2          100      100  85   40     30       30
                             Reduced air pollution in                   92      77   54   75     40       15
                             Weihai (% of 1995            TSP          100      100  80   20     15       15
                             level)                                     81      65   47   48     15       15

(b) Support sustainable                                  COD           100                70               5
water resource                                           % `96                            90     70        5
management in the XRB        Reduced water pollution
                             discharged to XR
(c) Prevent further                                     % of `96       100      100  100  100    90       90
depletion of groundwater     Reduced groundwater                    Estimation  100  100  100    62       90
resources in Jinan           extraction in Jinan
                                                        % av of        100      80   50   10     10       10
(d) Support financially      Reduced level of           '93-`96        Not                       Not
sustainable expansion of     subsidies for investments               available                 available
urban environmental          in urban environmental
services                     infrastructure
Project Outputs
1. Market oriented           Ratio of actual tariff to   Ratio         100      100  100  100    100      100
financial management and     recommended cost            tariffs       100      100  100  100    100      100
efficiency improvements      recovery tariff
have been introduced in
municipal utilities
2. Expanded surface          Share of JWSC's surface       %            5        5   5    30     50       50
water supply by JWSC         water to total supply                      5        5   5     5     70       90

3. Adequate supply of        Ratio of wastewater         Ratio          0        0   50   100    100      100
wastewater for the Jinan     supply to wastewater                       0        0   0     0    >100      100
treatment facility to        capacity
operate at full capacity
4. Small & medium            No. of SMI (fund            No. of         5        5   5
industries apply cleaner     supprtd)                     SMI           5        5   5     5     35       All
production                                                                                               SMI
5. A long-term action and    Plan satisfactory to
investment plan for          Shandong Province          Prepared      Done          Done        Done     Done
optimal use of XR water      prepared
has been prepared
6. Pollutive stoves and      No. of stoves & small       % of           0        5   25   80     100     100
small boilers have been      boilers replaced in         target         0        0   30   60     100     100
replaced by district heating project area
Project Components
1. Management and            Achievement of planned      % of           0       30   60   90     100      100
agency strengthening and     activities                  target         0       15   30   80     100      100
training incl. studies                                  activity

2. Jinan Water Supply        Implementation progress     % of           -        -    -    -      -        -
                             & environt. & social        target                           50     98       100
                             aspects
                             Actual water supply         % of           0        0   0    80     100      100
                             from Yellow River           design         0        0   0   (50%    50       100
                                                        capacity                         yr01)
3. Jinan Wastewater          Implementation progress     % of           -        -    -    -      -        -
                             Interception ratio          target         10      10   10   10     80       90




                                                                - 18 -

Abbreviations: WS is water supply; WWT is wastewater treatment; DH is district heating.
Provincial infrastructure data sources: annual statistic year books for provincial construction.


                                                                                                                            Annex 1A

                                                       Table 1: Groundwater Levels in Jinan City
                                                                  (before and after the project)
                                                          Year                                 Ground water level
                                                                                            (meters above sea level)
                                                          1992                                            26.47
                                                          1993                                            25.50
                                                          1994                                            27.53
                                                          1995                                            27.41
                                                          1996                                            27.64
                                                          1997                                            26.46
                                                          1998                                            26.43
                                                          1999                                            26.08
                                                          2000                                            24.11
                                                          2001                                            25.82
                                                          2002                                            25.50
                                                          2003                                            25.30
                                                          2004                                            29.39
                                                          2005                                            29.01
                                                         Note significant rise in the groundwater level since 2004.




                                                        Ground water level in Jinan


                                                   34

                              level)               32
                                                   30
                                    sea
                                                   28

                                                   26
                                       (above
                                                   24

                                                   22
                                             Meters
                                                   20
                                                    1990         1995                   2000                2005      2010

                                                                                        Year




                                                                                   - 19 -

                                                                     Annex 1 B
                 Table 1: Water Quality in Daming Lake
                       (before and after the project)
    Year              BOD5                   COD            SS
                       mg/l                  mg/l           mg/l
    2001               9.10                  71.7            -
    2002               15.44                 55.6          203.2
    2003               9.17                  64.4           87.8
    2004               5.97                  37.6            -
2005 (Jan-June)        6.32                  37.6            -


                  Water quality for Daming Lake


         80

         70

         60

         50
                                                                 BOD5
         40
     mg/l                                                        COD
         30

         20

         10

          0
          2000 2001  2002     2003       2004     2005  2006

                              Year




                                  - 20 -

     Table 2: COD and BOD Load Reduction after Operation of Jinan WWTP

       Year                Pollution Load Reduction (Ton/yr)
                         BOD                   COD                     SS
       1998              1623                  5,662                  6,752
       1999              1948                  6,795                  8,103
       2000              3247                 11,325                 13,505
       2001              3247                 11,325                 13,505
       2002              4222                 14,724                 17,556
       2003              4871                 16,989                 20,258
       2004             11070                 42,559                 46,574
       2005             12056                 58,926                 53,856
                          Note: 2005 data refers to load reduction from Jan. to Oct.



                  Reduction of COD/BOD loads after operation of
                                               JWWTP


               70000

               60000

               50000

               40000                                                                           BOD

                                                                                               COD
         Ton/yr30000                                                                           SS
               20000

               10000

                  0
                   1996    1998          2000           2002          2004          2006

                                                 Year




                  Table 3. Jinan Wastewater Treatment Capacity Expansion Plan

    Year                                    Plant                                      Capacity

     2006                                 JWWTP                               Expansion of 130,000 t/d

     2007                            Taitou WWTP                            New capacity of 200,000 t/d

     2007                       Yaotou Recycling Plant                        New capacity of 8,000 t/d

     2008                          Xingjihe WWTP                            New capacity of 200,000 t/d

     2008                            Dajing WWTP                             New capacity of 50,000 t/d

Total Expansion                                                                       588,000 t/d



                                                   - 21 -

                                                                                                 Annex 1C
                                      Weihai and Yantai Air Quality Data

            Table 1: Number of Stoves and Small Boilers Discontinued in Weihai and Yantai

    Boiler-Stove Type              Yantai City YHSC             Weihai WBHPC Service
                                        Service Area                       Area

                      Industrial/residential heating Boilers (set)

              SAR                           247                             100
    Actual (Nov. 2005)                      247                             100


                             Residential heating stoves (set)
              SAR                          64,000                          18,000
    Actual (Nov. 2005)                     64,000                          18,000

Note: Yantai and Weihai municipal regulations prohibit installation of individual steam,
district heating and cooling systems in new buildings in areas serviced by YHSC and
WBHPC respectively.



                              Table 2: Yantai Ambient Air Quality (1997-2004)

                          mg/m3         mg/m3          mg/m3                     Reduction %
                           SO2           NO2            TSP             SO2           NO2     TSP
            1997          0.156          0.034         0.289            100           100     100
            1998          0.096          0.035         0.153            62            103     53
            1999          0.066          0.028         0.163            42            82      56
            2000          0.085          0.036         0.191            54            106     66
            2001          0.061          0.028         0.089            39            82      31
            2002          0.051          0.037         0.068            33            109     24
            2003          0.092          0.038         0.069            59            112     24
            2004          0.054          0.032         0.068            35            94      24




                                                       - 22 -

                 Chart: Yantai Ambient Air Quality (1997-2004)

         Yantai City Ambient Air Quality from 1997 to 2004


      0.35

      0.3

      0.25
                                                                  SO2
      0.2
                                                                  NO2
mg/m3 0.15
                                                                  TSP
      0.1

      0.05

        0
         1996    1998     2000      2002       2004       2006

                               Year




                      Table 3: Weihai Ambient Air Quality (1996-2004)

                                   (Percent of 1996 Levels)
                    SO2        NO2           TSP                Reduction %
                               mg/m3        mg/m3
                   mg/m3                                   SO2     NO2       TSP
         1996      0.013       0.01         0.118          100     100       100
         1997      0.012       0.009        0.096           8       10       19
         1998       0.01       0.008        0.077          23       20       35
         1999      0.007       0.008        0.056          46       20       53
         2000       0.01       0.01         0.057          22        0       52
         2001      0.013       0.009        0.028           0       10       76
         2002      0.008       0.008        0.023          38       20       80
         2003      0.007       0.008        0.019          46       20       84
         2004      0.006       0.006        0.018          54       40       85




                                            - 23 -

        Chart: Weihai Ambient Air Quality (1996-2004)

               Weihai CIty Ambient Air Quality


    0.14

    0.12

     0.1
                                                              SO2
    0.08
                                                              NO2
mg/l0.06
                                                              TSP
    0.04

    0.02

       0
       1994  1996   1998    2000   2002   2004   2006

                            Year




           Table 4: Provincial Ambient Air Quality (1996-2004)
           SO2        NO2        TSP       SO2         NO2      TSP
           mg/m3     mg/m3      mg/m3       %           %       %
1996         94        34        321
1997         83        34        297        100        100      100
1998         70        30        295         16         12       1
1999         62        34        276         25        N/A       7
2000         47        29        233         43         15      22
2003         46        31        100         45         9       66
2004         52        32          97        37         6       67




                                 - 24 -

    Chart: Provincial Ambient Air Quality (1996-2004)

       Provincial Annual Average Ambient Air Quality


    350

    300

    250

    200                                               SO2

ug/l                                                  NO2
    150                                               TSP

    100

     50

      0
      1994  1996   1998  2000  2002  2004   2006

                         Year




                                       - 25 -

                                                                                                      Annex 1D

                       Xiaoqing River Environmental Action Plan Implementation

The Shandong Xiaoqing River Basin Water Pollution Prevention Control Regulations were formulated in
1995 to address serious environmental pollution in the Xiaoqing River. The Xiaoqing River Basin
Commission was formed to implement the pollution control program. The plan includes environmental
mitigation investments totaling about Yuan 7.9 billion (about US$1.0 billion) up to 2010.

SPG has a comprehensive policy for pollution prevention and control in the Xiaoqing River Basin (XRB)
that includes increased municipal wastewater treatment, measures for pollution load reduction from its
worst polluting industries, and mass-based pollution load targets for the Xiaoqing River to be achieved in
2005 and 2010. Regulations promulgated by the Xiaoqing River Basin Commission require: phased
closure of paper mills of capacities up to 20,000 tons/year; bans on the use of certain raw materials for
paper making; a reduction of direct discharge to XR by paper mills; relocation of specified polluting
industries; and the adoption of wastewater recycling by all enterprises to specified targets. The maximum
permissible pollution loading targets for the XR are: (a) COD load 150 mg/l in 2005 for main river
(already realized based on monitoring data); (b) COD load of 80 mg/l in 2005 in tributary rivers; and (c)
COD of 40 mg/l in all main and tributary rivers by 2010.

Concurrent with increased municipal wastewater treatment, SPG's strategy included: (a) reducing pollution
discharges from the worst polluters, e.g., paper, chemical and steel plants, through gradual reduction and/or
discontinuing use of straw and waste paper as the source for paper-making; (b) closing small capacity
paper mills and clean production respectively; (c) suspending production when targets are not met; (d)
requiring all industries to carry out clean technology audits; (e) relocating specified industries; and (f)
closing down highly polluting industries that fail to meet specified targets.

Since 1997, 13 municipal wastewater treatment plants, with a total capacity of 1,110,000 m3/day, have
been completed in five municipalities in the XRB. This is in addition to the two plants existing at that time
(with total capacity of 350,000 m3/d). Three more treatment plants, with a total capacity of 80,000 m3/d,
are currently under construction in XRB towns.

Action taken for industrial pollution control included: (a) closure of 37 paper mills of production capacity
less than 5000t/year (since 1997); and (b) closure in 2005, of 41 paper mills of a capacity less than 20,000
t/year using waste paper for paper-making.

Pollution discharges from the three worst polluters named in the Agreed Minutes of Loan Negotiations (i.e.
Jinan Iron and Steel Group, Qingzhou Paper Making Company Limited and Shouguang Yongli Pulp
Making Company) have been addressed. Good progress has been made at the steel plant through adoption
of clean technology, improved environmental management and reduction in energy used. In 2005, the plant
received an environment-friendly enterprise award. Prior to the issuance of the State Council directive, SP
had already introduced the requirement for all enterprises to obtain clean technology audits.

Ongoing plans for industrial pollution control include: (a) reduction of direct discharge to XR by 50 % by
end-2007 by five paper mills using straw as raw material; (b) preparation by end-2005, of comprehensive
pollution reduction plans by all municipalities; (c) relocation by end-2006, of the Yuxin Chemical plant and



                                                     - 26 -

the straw-based paper unit of the Guangrao Paper plant; and (d) adoption of wastewater recycling by all
enterprises ­ 50 percent by end-2007, and 100 percent 2010.

                          Table 1: Water Quality Data for Xiaoqing River Basin (1996-2004)

                                                                   (COD mg/l))
                         Lu-Li-Zhuang                  Jinan City                Bingzhou City             Weifang City
                          (waterhead)                Huan Xiang                       Fuqiao                  Houxing
                                                           Dian
      1996                   16.11                       192.31                       146.96                    114.83
      1997                   19.23                       149.13                       84.78                     122.98
      2001                   16.68                       113.18                       113.00                    107.00
      2002                                               114.63                       169.33                     96.83
      2003                   21.61                        97.28                       151.50                     87.00
      2004                   19.53                        61.97                       103.70                     59.25
Note: In the upstream section of the Xiaoqing River, at Lu-Li-Zhuang Transect, the COD level remains good and steady, indicating stable water
resource protection. The COD levels downstream of the river (from Huan Xiang Dian Transect in Jinan City to Houxing Transect in Weifang City)
have been significantly reduced since 2003 due to the project interventions and Shandong Government's Environmental Pollution Control Programs.



                250.00

                200.00                                                              Lu-Li-Zhuang
                                                                                    (waterhead)
                150.00
       (mg/l)                                                                       Jinnan City
                100.00                                                              HuanXiangDian
             COD 50.00                                                              Bingzhou City
                                                                                    Fuqiao
                  0.00
                                                                                    Weifang City
                     1994 1996    1998 2000 2002           2004 2006
                                                                                    Houxing
                                         Year




                          Table 2: Water Quality Data for Xiaoqing River Basin (1996-2004)

                                                                   (BOD mg/l))
                      Lu-Li-Zhuang             Jinan City                    Bingzhou City            Weifang City
                      (waterhead)              Huan Xiang                    Fuqiao                   Houxing
                                               Dian
                1996                 1.62                        66.63                     10.60                          40.57
                1997                 2.28                        47.02                     29.22                          48.98
                2001                 0.90                        15.50                     39.03                          47.78
                2002                 3.08                        46.27                     64.83                          44.75
                2003                 1.67                        23.70                     28.17                          38.55
                2004                 1.54                        12.71                     30.70                          24.94
Note: In the upstream section of Xiaoqing River, (at Lu-Li-Zhuang Transect), the BOD level remains good and steady. The BOD levels downstream
(from Huan Xiang Dian Transect in Jinan City to Houxing Transect in Weifang City) have been significantly reduced since 2003 due to the same
reasons stated in Table 1.




                                                                        - 27 -

                                 Water Quality Data for Xiaoqing River Basin
                                                     From 1996 to 2004


                       70
                       60                                                                               Lu-Li-Zhuang
                       50                                                                               (waterhead)
                       40                                                                               JinnanCity
             (mg/l)    30                                                                               HuanXiangDian
                   BOD 20                                                                               BingzhouCity
                       10                                                                               Fuqiao
                       0                                                                                Weifang City
                        1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006                                              Houxing

                                                   Year




                          Table 3: Water Quality Data for Xiaoqing River Basin (1996-2004)

                                                               (NH4_N mg/l)

                        Lu-Li-Zhuang              Jinan City                 Bingzhou City                    Weifang City
                         (waterhead)            Huan Xiang                        Fuqiao                         Houxing
                                                      Dian
   1996                     0.66                     14.09                           7.78                            7.47
    1997                    0.33                     19.60                           5.38                          10.05
    2001                    0.95                     21.97                          20.50                          12.82
    2002                    0.11                     27.29                          20.27                          11.51
    2003                    0.16                     24.88                          19.62                            9.22
    2004                    0.36                     13.39                          14.73                            7.85
Note: The NH4 level in the Xiaoqing River remains good and steady. The NH4 levels downstream (from HuanXiangDian Transact in Jinan City to
Houxing Transect in Weifang City) have been significantly reduced since 2003 due to the same reasons stated in Table 1.




                                                                     - 28 -

                                 Water Quality Data for Xiaoqing River Basin
                                                  From 1996 to 2004


                     30

                     25                                                               Lu-Li-Zhuang
                     20                                                               (waterhead)

          (mg/l)     15                                                               JinnanCity
                                                                                      HuanXiangDian
                     10
                NH4_N                                                                 BingzhouCity
                      5                                                               Fuqiao

                      0                                                               WeifangCity
                      1994 1996 1998           2000 2002 2004 2006                    Houxing

                                               Year




                        Table 4: Estimated Impacts of the Xiaoqing River Subloan Investments
                                              (Up to Nov 2004, for 23 subprojects)


Impact                                                      1997 (Base Yr)                 Nov. 2004
Wastewater reduction                                            0 ton/yr              8.85 million ton/yr
COD Load reduction                                              0 ton/yr                 69,000 ton/yr
Economic enhancement (savings through                           0 Yuan               Yuan 103.86 million
water, energy conservation and CDM)
Social Impacts (environmental awareness,                       No base for             Significant for the
CDM promotion and local employment)                            comparison         subprojects, moderate for
                                                                                      total local economy

                                 Table 5: Pollutant Reduction in Three Major Polluters
                       (Jinan Iron and Steel Plant, Qingzhou Paper Mill, and Weifang Yongli Paper Mill)


    Enterprise                COD discharge        COD discharge in       Annual                    Note
                                at Appraisal             2005             COD
                                  (Ton/yr)             (Ton/yr)         Reduction
                                                                         (Ton/yr)
Jinan Iron and               1,376                 1,374               2             The plant capacity has been
Steel Plant                                                                          increased from 2.15 million
                                                                                     ton/yr in 1997 to 6.87 million
                                                                                     ton/yr in 2004. The unit
                                                                                     production discharge of COD has
                                                                                     been reduced from 0.64 to 0.2 kg
                                                                                     per ton of steel.



                                                             - 29 -

Qingzhou Paper    3,000              580              2,420      The plant has demolished the old
Mill                                                             pulp production process, thereby
                                                                 eliminating a major pollution
                                                                 source. Currently, it uses
                                                                 imported pulp for paper
                                                                 production.
Shandong          Data not available Data is not      Data not  The company has modified
Chenming Paper                       available.       available production process and taken
Group Company                        Currently, the             mitigation measures to reduce
Ltd. (formally                       plant pollutant            pollution, which are: installation
Yongli Paper Mill)                   discharge meet             of 300 ton/d incineration plant,
                                     `Shandong                  caustic soda reuse system; and a
                                     Provincial                 wastewater treatment plant
                                     standard for               100,000 m3/day (total) capacity.
                                     paper industry
                                     wastewater
                                     discharges'


Table 6: New Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plants in Xiaoqing River Basin
                                                      Capacity       Investment

 No. Municipality Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP)    m3/day        Yuan million Year of completion
  1                  Jinan WWTP                       220,000            305                    2000
  2         Jinan    Zhanqiou WWTP                    25,000               36                   2005
  3                  Zhangdian WWTP                   200,000            360                    1992
  4                  Lingzhi Wuhe WWTP                20,000               20                   2002
  5                  Lingzhi Qidu WWTP                30,000             25.3                   2003
  6                  Poshan District WWTP             50,000               52                   2004
  7                  Zhichuan District WWTP           30,000             49.6                   2004
  8                  Zhouchun District WWTP           40,000               35                   2005
  9         Zhibo    Gaoqing County WWTP              30,000             61.6                   2005

  10     Dongying    Guangrao County WWTP             25,000               24                   2004
  11                 Qingzhou WWTP                    30,000               16                   1997
  12      Weifang    Shouguang WWTP                   120,000            112                    1998
  13                 Boxing County WWTP               30,000             44.2                   2003
  14                 Zhouping County WWTP             40,000             53.9                   2004
                     Zhouping County WWTP
  15     Bingzhou    Expansion                        20,000             37.3                   2005
                     Total                            910,000          1,231.90




                                               - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                                      Project Cost by Component
                                           (US$ million)

Project Cost by Component                     Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                              Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
                                              US$ million  US$ million
Jinan Water Supply
 Civil Works                                     36.8         45.9        124.7
 Goods                                            3.7         12.5        337.8
Jinan Wastewater
 Civil Works                                     25.0         21.2         84.8
 Goods                                            1.8          1.7         94.4
Weihai District Heating
 Civil Works                                     10.0         16.2        162.0
 Goods                                           25.2         20.8         82.5
Yantai District Heating
 Civil Works                                      5.2         23.6        453.8
 Goods                                           35.8         20.6         57.5
Env. Pollution Prevention & Control /c           10.0         10.0        100.0
Institutional Strengthening & Training            3.9          2.8         76.9
Construction Supervision Services                 2.4          2.2         91.7
Land Acquisition & Resettlement                  29.2         33.9        116.1
Administration & Project Management              13.0         12.7         97.7
Project Total                                   202.0       224.4
Percent of total                                100.0       111           111




                                               - 31 -

                  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Latest Estimate)
                                                (US$ million)

                                                          Procurement Method
 Project Cost by Component                            ICB        NCB       Other /a  NBF /b   Total
 Jinan Water Supply
  Civil Works                                          21.8       20.6         0.0     3.5     45.9
                                                        (8.7)     (7.1)       (0.0)   (0.0)   (15.8)
  Goods                                                11.9        0.6         0.0     0.0     12.5
                                                      (11.9)      (0.4)       (0.0)   (0.0)   (12.3)
 Jinan Wastewater
  Civil Works                                           9.4       11.5         0.0     0.3     21.2
                                                        (3.4)     (4.1)       (0.0)   (0.0)     (7.5)
  Goods                                                 1.5        0.2         0.0     0.0       1.7
                                                        (1.5)     (0.2)       (0.0)   (0.0)     (1.7)
 Weihai District Heating
  Civil Works                                           0.0       12.8         0.0     3.4     16.2
                                                        (0.0)     (4.1)       (0.0)   (0.0)     (4.1)
  Goods                                                19.4        0.03        0.06    1.3     20.8
                                                      (19.7)      (0.14)      (0.06)  (0.0)   (19.9)
 Yantai District Heating
  Civil Works                                           0.0        9.1         0.0    14.5     23.6
                                                        (0.0)     (1.6)       (0.0)   (0.0)     (1.6)
  Goods                                                18.9        0.0         0.2     1.4     20.6
                                                      (18.5)      (0.0)       (0.0)   (0.0)   (18.5)
 Env. Pollution Prevention & Control /c                  -         -          (5.0)    5.0     10
 Institutional Strengthening & Training                            -          (2.8)    0.0       2.8
 Construction Supervision Services                                 -          (2.0)    0.2       2.2
 Land Acquisition & Resettlement                         -         -           -      33.9     33.9
 Administration & Project Management                                                  12.7     12.7
   Total                                               83.0       54.8       10.1     76.4    224.3
                                                      (63.8)     (17.7)       (9.9)   (0.0)   (91.3)



Note:    Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by the Bank
/a  Other procurement methods include those under XRBSL, shopping (national and international), consultant
    services (recruited in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines) and training.
/b  NBF = Non Bank-financed.
/c  The Environmental Pollution Control component was disbursed through sub-loans of Shandong Province's
    XRBSL facility.




                                                      - 32 -

                                  Project Financing by Component
                                            (US$ million)
Project Cost by Component             Appraisal        Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                      Estimate         Estimate         Appraisal

                                      Shandong Bank    Shandong Bank    Shandong Bank
Jinan Water Supply
 Civil Works                             22.9    13.9     30.1      15.8 130.6      113.7
 Goods                                    2.2     1.5      0.2      12.3   9.5      820.3
Jinan Wastewater
 Civil Works                             15.0    10.0     13.7      7.5   91.5       75.0
 Goods                                    0.6     1.2      0.0      1.7    0.5      144.8
Weihai District Heating
 Civil Works                              6.0     4.0     12.1      4.1  186.8      102
 Goods                                    4.6    20.6      1.0      19.9  36.4       96.8
Yantai District Heating
 Civil Works                              3.1     2.1     22.0      1.6  653.3       76.1
 Goods                                    5.4    30.4      2.1      18.5  37.1       61.0
Env. Pollution Prevention & Control /c    5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0  100        100
Institutional Strengthening & Training    0.0     3.9      0.0      2.6              66.9
Construction Supervision Services         0.0     2.4      0.2      2.0              83.3
Land Acquisition & Resettlement          29.2     0.0     33.9      0.0  116.1
Administration & Project Management      13.0     0.0     12.7      0.0   97.4
Project Total                           107.0    95.0   133.0       91.3 124.2       96.0
Percent of total                         53.0    47.0




                                               - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic analysis of the project covers four components: (a) Jinan water supply; (b) Jinan wastewater
supply; (c) Weihai district heating; and (d) Yantai district heating. The economic analysis of these four
components represents 70% of the total project costs. The economic analysis is based on the evaluation of
the costs and benefits of the project components from the summary of updated cost estimates provided by
SPPMO. The assumptions used for the ICR analysis are the same as in the SAR, Annex 15. An overall
economic rate of return for the entire project was not calculated at appraisal. ERRs were calculated only
for those components, which rendered appropriate data to monetize and quantify economic benefit streams.
For the wastewater treatment component data was not readily available and economic benefits were not
quantified.

During implementation, all four components were modified and the economic analysis reflects the final
costs estimates of the project. Table 1 below shows the component costs increase at appraisal and at
completion.


                   Table 1. Component Costs at Appraisal and Completion
                                       SAR                                  ICR
        Componet                             % of all    Actual Costs      Cost        % of all
                              Cost ($M)       costs           ($M)       Overrun         Costs
Jinan Water Supply             $40.5           20%          $47.00         16%           21%
Jinan Wastwater                $26.8           13%          $22.60         -16%          10%
Weihai District Heating        $35.2           17%          $37.00          5%           17%
Yantai District Heating        $41.0           20%          $42.80          4%           19%


Jinan Water Supply

The objective of the Jinan water supply component is to halt groundwater depletion while meeting the
increasing water demand from Jinan's urban expansion. The planned component was implemented between
1998 and 2001. Additional works, using loan savings, were carried out between 2003 and 2005 expanding
the distribution network by 25 km. Economic analysis at appraisal showed a net present value of Y147
million and an economic rate of return of 18 percent. Using the same method, the immediate net benefit to
the serviced population of about 1 million were recalculated after completion as Y58 million with an ERR
of 14 percent (Table 2). The drop in net benefits and economic rate of return is due to the 16% cost
overrun.

Jinan Wastewater

The objective of the Jinan wastewater component is to provide sewerage network to the wastewater
treatment plant (WWTP) and enhance collection to reach full capacity of 220,000 m3/day. The component
was successfully implemented and the system currently employs a ceiling capacity of WWTP with benefits
accruing to 1 million people. Due to the nature of the project, benefits on the downstream environment are
expected and should result in improvements in the living conditions and health of communities living
downstream. However, no quantitative cost benefit analysis was carried out at appraisal.




                                                    - 34 -

           Table 2. Costs and Benefit at Appraisal and ICR: ERR (%) and NPV (@12%, Y Million)

        Components               Method                  Options                  Appraisal              ICR
                                                                               NPV      ERR         NPV       ERR
Jinan Water Supply          Least-Cost                                       146.80      18%       57.76      14%
Jinan Wastewater            Cost Effective                                      na       na          na        na
                                              Excluding envir. Benefits      415.27      31%       425.42     31%
Weihai District Heating     Least-Cost        Full costs analysis            548.97      37%       566.40     37%
                                              Excluding envir. Benefits      535.35      66%       559.08     65%
Yantai District Heating     Least-Cost        Full costs analysis            657.26      71%       685.01     70%


Weihai District Heating

The objective of the Weihai district heating component was to reduce air pollution by replacing inefficient
small boilers and stoves with high efficiency district heating networks. The additional 25 MWe power
generation and 130 t/h heating supply system, using loan savings, were implemented between 2004 and
2005. The component used least-cost alternatives to determine the social costs and benefits and opted for
the complete replacement option (vs. partial replacement "small boilers only"). The ICR recalculation of
the economic benefits and ERR shows rates similar to those calculated at appraisal i.e. 31% and 37% for
the two estimated options.

Yantai District Heating

The objective of the Yantai district heating component was to reduce air pollution by replacing inefficient
small boilers and household stoves with district heating networks. The heating supply system was
implemented between 1998 and 2005, including the additional components, which were carried out using
loan savings. The project has increased Yantai municipality's centralized heating supply coverage from 30
percent in 1999 to over 85 percent in 2005. The component used least-cost alternatives to estimate costs
and benefits. Due to slightly higher than appraised capital costs and assuming all other parameters to be
close to appraisal values, the economic rate of return was re-calculated at 65 % without air pollution
benefits and at 70% including environmental benefits.

The Borrower has also stated that non-quantifiable additional environmental benefits were achieved from
the district heating components. Intangible costs and benefits were credited for industrial pollution control,
institutional strengthening and increased sustainability of the heating operation.




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/21/96                10     Municipal Engineer
                                             Sanitary Engineer
                                             Dist. Heating Spec.
                                             Institutional Spec.
                                             Safeguards Spec. ­ 4
                                             Ind. Pollut. Spec. ­ 2
              07/17/96                  7    Municipal Engineer
                                             Sanitary Engineer -2
                                             Water Engineer
                                             Financial Analyst
                                             Inst. /Fin. Spec.
                                             Economist
              09/16/96                10     Municipal Engineer
                                             Sanitary Engineer
                                             Dist. Heating Spec.
                                             Institutional Spec.
                                             Safeguards Spec. ­ 2
                                             Financial Analysts -2
                                             Economist
                                             Treatment Spec

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/20/97                  9    Municipal Engineer
                                             Sanitary Engineer
                                             Dist. Heating Spec.
                                             Safeguards Spec. ­ 4
                                             Financial Analysts
                                             Economist

 Supervision
              12/07/97                  6    Sanitary Engineer,               S               S
                                             Municipal Engineer,
                                             Financial Analyst,
                                             Training Spec.,
                                             Dist. Heating Spec.,
                                             Sanitary Engineer
              05/25/98                  2    Sanitary Engineer,               S               S
                                             Dist. Heating Spec.
              01/11/99                  7    Financial Analyst,               U               S
                                             Dist. Heating Spec. (2),
                                             Resettlement Spec. (3),
                                             Municipal Engineer
              09/13/99                  6    Municipal Engineer,              U               S
                                             Dist. heating Spec.,
                                             Resettlement Spec. (2),
                                             Municipal Engineer,




                                              - 36 -

                                              Financial Analyst
               09/11/00                   6   Municipal Engineer,                U    S
                                              Resettlement Spec.(2),
                                              Water Engineer,
                                              Financial Analyst
                                              Dist. Heating Spec.
               04/23/01                   3   Water Engineer,                    S    S
                                              Financial Analyst,
                                              Dist. Heating Spec.
               10/29/01                   3   Financial Analyst,                 S    S
                                              Dist. Heating Spec.,
                                              Municipal Engineer
               04/14/02                   5   Financial Analyst,                 U    S
                                              Dist. Heating Spec.,
                                              Resettlement Spec.,
                                              Water Engineer,
                                              Procurement Spec.
               10/14/02                   5   Financial Analyst,                 U    S
                                              Municipal Engineer
                                              Dist. Heating Spec.,
                                              Water Engineer,
                                              Procurement Spec.
               03/03                    n/a   (Mission cancelled due to SARS)
               11/21/03                   5   Financial Analyst,                 S    S
                                              Municipal Engineer,
                                              Energy Specialist,
                                              Environ. Engineer
               06/14/04                   5   Financial Analyst,                 S    S
                                              Municipal Engineer,
                                              Dist. Heating Spec.,
                                              Water Engineer,
                                              Resettlement Spec.
               11/11/04                   3   Municipal Engineer,                S    S
                                              Water Engineer,
                                              Procurement Spec.

 ICR
               11/16/05 -1/12/06         3     Municipal Engineer,               S    S
                                               Financial Analyst,
                                               Dist. Heating Spec.



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               83.0                          350.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    21.2                           63.8
  Supervision                              69.2                          171.5
  ICR                                      7.75                          28.06
  Total                                 181.15                          613.36




                                               - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.      The World Bank: Staff Appraisal Report: Shandong Environment Project dated September 26,
1997, Report No. 16065-CHA.
2.      The World Bank: Shandong Environmental Project - Loan Agreement between China and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Feb. 4, 1998
3.      The World Bank: Shandong Environmental Project - Project Agreement between Shandong
Province and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Feb. 4, 1998
4.      Shandong Province Project Management Office: Shandong Environmental Project - Quarterly
Progress Reports
5.      Detailed financial projections for all utilities, prepared for a period of about 7 years by each
implementing agency.
6.      The World Bank: Preparation and supervision mission Aide Memoires, back-to-office reports and
PSRs from 1996 to December 2005.




                                                      - 40 -

Additional Annex 8. Land Acquisition and Resettlement

  Overall, land acquisition and resettlement were implemented satisfactorily (except in one case) and
  strictly in accordance with the detailed RAPs. RAPs conforming to Bank and Government guidelines
  were also prepared for the additional components included in the project. The table below provides a
  summary of the project affected people and their land lost.

            Impact Category                 Affected People                      Land Loss
  Agricultural Land                              14,050                          15,581 Mu
  Houses                                          1,729                            168 Mu
  Shops, Institutions & Enterprises                274                             14 Mu
  Other                                          Roads                             227 Mu
  Total                                          1,6053                          15990 Mu

  The one resettlement exception related to Jinan Municipality's decision to depart from the agreed RAP
  in respect of one section of a main trunk sewer. This resettlement issue arose because the construction
  of the Xiaoqinghe Beilu and Xiaoqinghe Nanlu trunk sewers were combined with the non-Bank
  financed Provincial Comprehensive Control Scheme of the Xiaoqinghe River. In 1996, Jinan
  Municipal Government issued a specific directive reducing compensation payable to affected
  households and businesses in these areas. Nonpayment of compensation in accordance with the RAP
  in the areas of the above trunk sewers, even though they did overlap with the provincial development
  project, constituted a major breach of the Bank's safeguard policies. The Bank alerted Shandong
  Province (SP) that this practice was not in line with its resettlement safeguard policies and requested
  urgent action to remedy the serious situation.

  Various alternative solutions proposed by the Borrower were discussed by the Bank, Shandong
  Provincial and Jinan Municipal Governments and the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Eventually,
  agreement was reached on: (a) the conversion of land use from wasteland and house plot land to
  commercial use and a waiver of fees applicable to such conversion was accepted as reasonable in-kind
  compensation for land acquired under the JMDC component; (b) compensation payments to the
  state-owned enterprises in accordance with the RAP, the provision of new shop premises, plots for
  construction of shops, shop rental premises, waiving of management fees for four years, and assistance
  in obtaining business licenses for shop owners was accepted as reasonable in-kind compensation to the
  shop owners affected by the project; and (c) evidence presented that the affected villages were satisfied
  with the financial arrangements for the relocation housing.

  The Bank monitored implementation of the agreement until it was satisfied that the final agreement was
  fully and correctly implemented. Follow-up actions were then carried out by Shandong to implement
  the agreed compensation measures. It took much longer than expected to fully resolve the issue (about
  two years) because the conversion of land to commercial use required approval of the State Council.
  Shandong completed the compensation payments and other measures satisfactorily in early 2003. All
  documentary evidence on the implementation of resettlement, satisfactory to the Bank, was provided in
  July 2003.




                                                   - 41 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report


  Assessment of development objectives and design and of quality at entry

  1. Original objectives

  The specific objectives of the Shandong Environment Project (SEP) were to:

  (a)    strengthen policies, regulations and institutional arrangements for municipal water, wastewater,
         and district heating, and environmental pollution prevention and control

  (b)    expand surface water supply to Jinan to prevent further depletion of groundwater aquifers

  (c)    facilitate sustainable management of investments in pollution control and municipally-provided
         urban environmental services

  (d)    arrange updating of the information database about water quality and management in Xiaoqing
         River Basin (XRB).

  Full details of and background to these objectives are set out in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) dated
  26 September 1997 (Report No. 16065-CHA).


  2. Revised objectives

  The original objectives remain valid and no revision has been made during the implementation period.


  3. Original components

  The original components were described in the SAR including

  1)     water supply management and wastewater management in Jinan Municipality

  2)     combined power generation and district heating supply in Weihai

  3)     municipal district heating in Yantai

  4)     environmental pollution prevention and control

  5)     institutional strengthening and training.


  4. Revised components

  The original project components remained unchanged during the implementation. However, there have
  been minor changes in the design aspect for some components, in response to sound technical
  requirements. There were also additions to the detailed scope of works to make use of loan savings.
  These changes were discussed with the World Bank and agreed solutions were documented in writing
  either in the aide memoires or separately.
  (a) Jinan water supply component

  The Yellow River crossing was originally designed as a DN2000 steel pipe as documented in the SAR.
  During the implementation stage, the design was further fine-tuned and the pipe diameter was reduced
  to DN1800; this was considered adequate to meet the required design capacity.

  The transmission pipeline was originally planned as a National Competitive Bidding (NCB) civil works
  contract including the supply and installation of DN1800­2000 prestressed concrete pipes. With


                                                   - 42 -

approval from the World Bank, the contract was split into two contract packages: one International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) goods contract for pipe supply, and one NCB civil works contract for
pipeline installation and associated civil works. In addition, the concrete pipes were changed to steel
pipes in the ICB goods contract, with the approval of the World Bank.
(b) Jinan wastewater component

Approximately 3 km of sewer in Bei-Yuan Road was deleted from the scope of this component. This
was due to it already being constructed in a road project by others, before the SEP construction
commenced in this section.

After approval was gained from the World Bank, construction of pavement on Ji-Luo Road and
Xiao-Qing-He-Bei Road (approximately 6 km in total) was added to the project and completed,
together with the sewer construction on the same section.

Contract JWW/21.1 ­ sewer cleaning equipment (ICB Goods) was cancelled, with approval from the
World Bank, on the grounds that the proposed imported pipe cleaning vehicle was expensive and not
considered cost-effective; existing alternative equipment was considered adequate for the intended
functions.
(c) Weihai District heating supply component

The original plan in the SAR was to build a system with 2x12 MW double-extraction turbo-generator
sets and 3x75 t/h fluidized-bed boilers. During the implementation stage and after approval by the
domestic government and the World Bank, it was decided to expand the system, using loan savings, by
adding one 25 MW generator set and one 130 t/h fluidized-bed boiler. The heating network has also
been expanded accordingly, using the loan savings. The completed system can cover a much larger
heating supply area and thus further increase the environmental benefit. The number of users of district
heating has been increasing substantially over the past few years.

To be more efficient in terms of operation and maintenance, the 10 heat exchanger stations planned in
the SAR were changed to 241 fully automatic heat exchanger units (including the system which was
expanded using loan savings). The detailed design incorporated innovative use of connection boxes for
individual user connections, which will provide great savings, through better operating efficiency and
extended life expectancy of the system.
(d) Yantai District heating supply component

The original preliminary design recommended a peak boiler plant with 4x29 MW hot water boilers;
these were endorsed by the SAR, together with associated equipment and facilities. The boiler plant
was intended to provide additional heating at peak load condition, at which point the existing heating
source (from Yantai Bo-Hai Thermal Power Co. Ltd) was inadequate to meet the demand. It must be
mentioned that this solution was criticized by some members of the expert panel during review of the
preliminary design, a compulsory process required by the domestic government. However, it was
adopted because there was no better option at the time.

During the detailed design at implementation stage, further discussion and negotiations were held with
the heating source provider (Yantai Bo-Hai Thermal Power Co. Ltd) which agreed to carry out
modifications and improvements to its existing facilities so that a reliable heat source would be
available to enable the heating network to meet the peak heating demand. This has led to the deletion
from the original design of the peak boiler plant which became unnecessary as a result of the heating
source provider's modifications. The change resulted not only in a better technical solution with an
enhanced environmental benefit, but also in savings in capital investment for the borrower.

To meet the demand of the increasing numbers of heating users, the heating network was expanded
using loan savings. The expansion included the construction of approximately 10 km of main pipeline,


                                                 - 43 -

10 km of branch pipeline and eight heat exchanger stations covering an area of 1.5 million m2.

There was a mis-procurement case for Yantai (the only one for the whole project) on contract package
YDH/23.1-1 which involved the supply of communication and controls equipment for the heating
network. This resulted in the cancellation of US$1.4 million from the loan. This happened because
there were disagreements between the Implementing Agency and the contractor regarding some contract
conditions, and the contract was not signed after bid opening. Although this is unfortunate, it had no
impact on the implementation of the heating system, as the equipment was eventually procured and
installed using the counterpart financing.
(e) Xiao-Qing River Basin environmental pollution prevention and control

During project implementation, the Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB) (in coordination
with the Provincial Financial Bureau and the Provincial Development and Reform Commission),
developed detailed implementation procedures for use by XRB Environmental Pollution Prevention &
Control Revolving Fund. Local municipal governments were actively involved in the project selection
and decision-making processes to ensure quality. After careful analysis, the number of small
enterprises to receive the fund distribution was revised from 42 at the appraisal, to 32 during actual
implementation.
(f) Institutional strengthening and training

No change was made to the original scope and all tasks have been successfully implemented with
assistance from the international consultant.
5. Quality at entry

Project preparation, including scope formation, design and other aspects, has been proven to be
satisfactory, and has caused no obstacle for successful implementation of the project. Changes to the
components and addition of new projects using loan savings as described above, have neither caused
restructuring of the project, nor necessitated change to the implementation strategy for achieving the
project objectives.

Predictions for heating demand in areas to be developed proved to be a little optimistic. In some areas,
for both Yantai and Weihai, heating networks were constructed but building development (both
residential and industrial) lagged behind. This resulted in less revenue generation for the heating
companies. However, this is closely related to economic development in the borrower's country, as
heating demand in Weihai has been increasing rapidly since 2003 (one to two years after the originally
planned components were completed). Thus a more thorough analysis could have been carried out.
More importantly, some flexibility should be included in the implementation strategy in future, in order
to tackle the uncertainty associated with the current dynamic economic and social development in the
borrower's country.

Achievements of objectives and outputs

6. Outcome/Achievements of objectives

The project has contributed substantially to protecting water resources, reducing air pollution, and
improving sustainable environmental management practices in Shandong Province. Completion of the
planned wastewater collection system in Jinan enabled the Jinan Wastewater Treatment Plant to
function to its design capacity and significantly reduced the pollution loads to the local watercourses.

The successful commissioning of the Jinan water supply component has greatly improved Jinan
Municipality's water supply system, resulting in a significant reduction in the extraction of ground
water. One of the obvious benefits is that the famous Bao-Tu Spring in Jinan has resumed flowing in



                                                 - 44 -

the last few years and the groundwater level has risen a number of metres. The Yantai component has
built one of the most advanced district heating systems in China, replacing over 300 small coal burning
heat supply boilers and over 60 000 residential coal burning stoves. This has resulted in a significant
improvement in air quality in Yantai Municipality.

The successful completion of the Weihai combined power and heating system has permitted centralized
heating services to be provided to a large number of users in the high-tech economic development zone
and the number of subscriptions to the heating system has been continuously increasing. Measurement
records show improvement in the air quality in the area and this positive impact has been praised by
both local government and residents.

The Xiao-Qing River Basin component has made a noticeable contribution to improved environmental
infrastructure management for sustainable expansion of environmental services. The management
practice of all agencies involved in implementation has improved through their adoption of the
institutional strengthening and training package.
7. Output by components
l Jinan wastewater

(US$36.5 million SAR; US$27.98 million December 2005)

    Successfully implemented between 1999 and 2005. Now collecting sewage up to 370,000 m3/d for
    the catchment, with about 220,000 m3/d flowing to Jinan WWTP for treatment. The sewage
    system provides services to an area of 108 km2.
l Jinan water supply

(US$62.6 million SAR; US$89.61 million December 2005)

    The originally planned component was successfully implemented between 1998 and 2001, and the
    additional works, using loan savings, were implemented between 2003 and 2005. The water supply
    system now has a storage capacity of 46 million m3 raw water taken from the Yellow River and is
    supplying 440 000 m3/d raw water to the existing water treatment plants in Jinan.
l Weihai District heating

(US$42.9 million SAR; US$43.18 million December 2005)

    The originally planned 24 MW power generation and 3x75 t/h heating supply capacity were
    successfully implemented between 1998 and 2001. The additional 25 MW power generation and
    130 t/h heating supply system, using loan savings, were implemented between 2004 and 2005.
l Yantai District heating

(US$6.1 million SAR; US$47.16 million December 2005)

    The heating supply system was implemented between 1998 and 2005, including the additional
    components which used loan savings. The heating network, with fully automated computer-based
    control system, now supplies heating to 85 000 families and over 1000 institutional users covering
    a gross floor area of approximately 8.8 million m2. The project has increased Yantai
    Municipality's centralized heating supply coverage from 30 per cent in 1999 to over 85 per cent in
    2005.
l Xiao-Qing River Basin environmental pollution control sub-loan facility

(US$10 million SAR; US$10 million December 2005)

    The XRB Environmental Pollution Prevention & Control Revolving Fund has been satisfactorily
    implemented. Thirty-two small industry enterprises have received fund distributions to control their
    industrial pollution.



                                                - 45 -

    In addition, the Shandong Provincial Government has greatly enhanced industrial pollution controls
    in the XRB through policies and actions; has increased the water flow from the Yellow River to the
    Xiaoqing River; and has constructed 13 wastewater treatment facilities in the basin with a total
    additional treatment capacity of 750 000 t/d for industrial wastewater.
l Institutional strengthening, construction supervision and training

(US$3.9 million SAR; US$3.2 million December 2005)

    Satisfactorily implemented between 1998 and 2005, in two packages: A and B. Further details are
    given below in paragraph 9.
8. Net present value/economic rate of return

Net present value (NPV) and economic rate of return (ERR) for each component were calculated at
appraisal and documented in the SAR. However, there are insufficient data to estimate the NPVs and
ERRs for the five components at project completion. In addition, assumptions and details for the
original calculations at appraisal are unavailable and, therefore, comparisons of this nature, using the
same basis, either is not possible or would be largely meaningless.

Institutional development impact

Institutional capacity building and training has been carried out through five contract packages
including:
· Package A : institutional and financial strengthening
· Package B: construction supervision
· Package C: institutional support and equipment for Environmental Protection Bureau
· Package D: training and Management Information Systems (MIS) support
· Package E: other ­ equipment and support for provincial and other finance bureaus.

The objectives of the above packages have been achieved through extensive work by the consultants
and the implementing agencies.

The project successfully helped create three new public utility entities: Jinan Municipal Drainage
Company, Yantai Heat Supply Company and Weihai Botong Heat and Power Company. Institutional
development and training has been provided to these new companies, with the existing Jinan Water
Supply Company, the Provincial Project management Office (PPMO), Provincial EPB and finance
bureaus all involved in the implementation of the project.

Both the new and existing utility companies have benefited from considerable improvement in the
prospects of sustainability through institutional development, in particular the work of Package A. This
package introduced and implemented, for each company, a computerized financial management system,
cost accounting, business planning, human resource development, performance measurement and
training system. Package B was primarily involved construction supervision, coupled with procurement
and construction management support to the PPMO and the Implementing Agency (IA) and training to
local counterpart construction supervision personnel. Packages C, D & E focused on the PPMO, the
EPB and finance bureaus, including implementing various training programs, procuring needed
equipment and establishing MIS systems etc.


9. Poverty alleviation and social improvement

This project has also had important social benefits, despite its objectives being originally focused on
environmental improvement. Several hundred new and permanent jobs have been created in the three
new public utility companies and many temporary jobs were created during the construction of the



                                                 - 46 -

facilities.

Millions of people are now benefiting from the better air quality and a much improved heating system
in Yantai and Weihai and millions are enjoying a safe and reliable water supply in Jinan. The improved
water environment in the Xiao-Qing River system will benefit many farmers and families in the area by
providing better living conditions. Other benefits occurred in association with the project, including
resumption of water flow in the famous Bao-Tu Spring in Jinan, as a result of the recovery in the
groundwater level. This spring is visited by millions of tourists and local residents annually.

Major factors affecting implementation and outcome

10. Factors outside the control of government or implementing agencies

Immediately after the completion of the heating supply system, slower than expected development of
some areas by private investors in Weihai delayed connection to a number of heat-users between1999
to the early 2000's. However, development has increased dramatically over recent years, resulting in
the much higher heat demand which caused Weihai to expand the system using the loan savings.

Market price escalation on major construction materials during 2003 and 2004 caused problems for
construction progress on some civil works contracts which had been bid on a fixed price basis.
11. Factors generally subject to government control

Slow government approval processes on new projects using loan savings have delayed the start of
construction. Eventually these new projects were implemented on a retroactive basis for the first year.

There have been many complaints from the IAs that it took too long to gain the required approval on
ICB goods bidding documents and bid evaluation reports.

Government restrictions on breaking road surfaces within city areas at certain times during any year
have also had an impact on construction progress for pipeline projects.
12. Factors generally subject to implementing agency control

Cost estimate at appraisal was inaccurate.
l Actual costs for civil works and goods categories do not match that estimated at appraisal. This
    affected the progress of disbursement, as adjustment of World Bank financing on goods and civil
    works categories needs to be approved by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and will take time.
l Costs estimated using government rates at appraisal are generally much higher than actual contract
    prices, causing large loan savings. But it needs to go through a long and complicated process in
    order to use the loan savings.

There were cases where the IAs tried to implement unreasonably tight construction schedules, thereby
causing potential variations/claims by the contractors.

Sustainability

13. Sustainability assessment

Sustainability may be assessed in terms of

(1)    whether the appropriate institutional arrangement has been set up

(2)    the ability to operate and maintain the facilities

(3)    the adequacy of sustainable financing capability.




                                                 - 47 -

The overall project can be considered sustainable against these criteria, although there are issues to be
resolved in the future.

Yantai Heating Supply Company and Weihai Heat & Power Company, although newly established
enterprises, are considered fully sustainable in terms of institutional arrangements, operational capacity
and financial strength. Jinan Water Company (JWSC) is sustainable in the institutional and operational
context but it is currently running at a loss. This is primarily because sales do not match its full
production capacity, as many industries have been using self-supply water sources as these are
currently cheaper than JWSC supply. However, the situation is likely to improve with the enforcement
of the central government's directive which requires that self-supply be shut down if a municipal water
supply source is available. The sales for water supply are also expected to increase with the rapid
development of the local economy. In this context, JWSC is likely to be financially sustainable in the
near future.

Jinan Municipal Drainage Company (JMDC) benefited from institutional strengthening through the
Technical Assistance (TA) package and has built sufficient capacity in technical operation,
maintenance, business planning, human resource management and financial management. However,
there are issues in relation to the transfer of assets and financial autonomy. Some of the existing sewer
networks (constructed prior to the project) continue to be owned and operated by the district
governments. Consequently, because the wastewater services are provided by different entities, the
wastewater tariff collected is remitted to the Jinan Finance Bureau which returns a portion of it to
JMDC as a budgetary allocation. JMDC has been continuously lobbying the government to resolve the
assets transfer issue. What is being highlighted is that it takes time to resolve this kind of issue as it
involves complicated ownership factors and various interested parties. The problem is likely to be
resolved within the broader framework of government-initiated reform in Jinan Municipality. Given the
fact that reforms in the public utility sector are increasingly a focus for local governments in many
cities in China, full sustainability of JMDC in the medium to long term is confidently assured.

Bank and borrower performance

14. Bank

We consider the World Bank's performance highly satisfactory during both project preparation and
implementation stages. The Bank's staff involved in this project has provided very useful assistance,
advice, guidance, training and supervision to the project personnel in Shandong, and the diligence of
Bank staff is very much appreciated by Shandong PPMO, the IAs, the EPB and the finance bureaus.

Quite a number of Task Managers from the WB have worked on this project, and all of them have
made valuable contributions to the successful implementation of the project. Although the change in
Task Managers is a little more frequent than we expected, it is understandable and acceptable
considering the longer than planned implementation period.
15. Borrower

The national, provincial and municipal governments have been very committed to and supportive of
this project during its inception, preparation and implementation. Strong efforts have been made by all
IAs and the SPPMO to resolve issues encountered at every phase of the project. All IAs performed
very well in their project management, with good skills and adequate resources. Although Jinan
experienced difficulties in relation to land acquisition and resettlement at one stage during the
implementation, the issue was eventually satisfactorily resolved with assistance from the provincial
government, which showed great support and flexibility under the difficult circumstances. The assets
transfer for JMDC remains an unresolved issue which in turn has led to JMDC's financial uncertainty,


                                                   - 48 -

but the government has already demonstrated its willingness to deal with the issue.

Lessons learned

16. Lessons learned from the project

The implementation of the Shandong Environment Project has provided a good opportunity for
SPPMO, the IAs and all other agencies involved to gain valuable experience in institutional
development, financial and environmental management, skills improvement and the physical
implementation of projects. Lessons have also been learned in many aspects of project execution. A
brief summary of experiences and lessons learned is presented below:
l The project has assisted Shandong Province to gain significant experience in the implementation of
    World Bank financed projects, including project initiation, preparation, appraisal, procurement,
    project management, contract administration, construction supervision, institutional development,
    and financial management.
l A World Bank financed project can bring in advanced management and institutional benefits
    through the assistance provided by international consultants.
l Thorough analysis should be undertaken during the project preparation stage of any uncertain
    implementation aspects. Flexibility should subsequently be incorporated during the implementation
    stage.
l Price adjustable contracts should be used to combat market price fluctuation.
l Cost estimates at appraisal, using government rates, proved excessive; more realistic cost data
    should be obtained at appraisal stage.

Construction of some sections of pipes within the city area was significantly delayed owing either to
resettlement issues or to government restrictions on road surface-breaking. More detailed engineering
investigation should be carried out at appraisal stage for pipeline projects within city areas to avoid
pipeline routes running through residential blocks. In areas where such issues are unavoidable,
tendering or awarding contracts should be put on hold until the land acquisition or road-breaking
problem is fully resolved.




                                                - 49 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 28428
                                                                                                                                                                                        I

                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                 RUSSIAN                                                                                                                                               I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              This map was produced
                               FEDERATION                                                                                                                                             I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               by the Map Design Unit
                                                                                                                                                                                    I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of The World Bank. The
                                                                                                                                                                                   I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  b o u n d a r i e s , c o l o r s ,
                                                                            HEILONGJIANG                                                                                          I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   denominations and any
                                                                                                                                                                                 I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    other information shown
                       MONGOLIA                                                                                                                                            I                                                                                                                                       B o H a i                                                                                                          o n t h i s m a p d o n o t

                                                                                                                                                                   DIaIYunIhe II


                                                                             JILIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    imply, on the           part of
                                                                                                                                                                  I                                       To Cangzhou                                                                                                                                                                                                                 The World Bank Group,

XINJIANG                                                                                                                                                         I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    any judgment on the legal
                                                                      LIAONING                                                                                 I
                                               MONGOL                            D.P.R. OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            status    of any territory,
                                            NEI    BEIJING                                                                                                    I
                                                                                  KOREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               or any endorsement
                                                   BEIJING                                                                                                     I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      or acceptance of such
                                                        HEBEI  TIANJIN                                                                                      I
                                                                                         REP. OF                                                                  To Cangzhou                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         boundaries.
                                                                                         KOREA                                                            I                                                                                                                                                                                                             Changdao
                                               SHANXI                        Yellow
                                                           SHANDONG                                                                                    I
                                                                              Sea                                                                 I                                       Zhangwei     Xinhe                                                                   Hekou
                                                                                                              H E B E I
            QINGHAI              NINGXIA                                                                                                         I
                           GANSU                                   JIANGSU                                                                      I
                                        SHAANXI   HENAN                                    East                                                I                                                          Qingyun
                                                                                          China                                              I                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Penglai
                                                              ANHUI          SHANGHAI                                                      I                                                                              Wudi
                                                                                           Sea                                                                                                     Leling                                            Zhanhua
   XIZANG                                         HUBEI                                                                                  I                                  Ningjin
                       SICHUAN                                                                                                          I
                                                                     ZHEJIANG                            To Shijiazhuang               I                                                                                                                                                                                                         Longkou
                                                                                                                                     I
                                                           JIANGXI
                                                HUNAN                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                   I                                                            Majia                 Yangxin

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kenli                                                                                                               Yantai
                                GUIZHOU                           FUJIAN
   National Capital                                                                                                               I                                                                                                                             Lijin                                                                                                               Fushan                                          Weihai
                                                                                                                                 I
   Province          YUNNAN                                                  TAIWAN                                           I      Dezhou
   Boundaries                             GUANGXI   GUANGDONG                         PACIFIC                                   I                                                                                       Huimin                                                                                                                                                                      Laishan
                                                                                                                                I
   International                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Dongying
     MYANMAR                                                  HONG KONG               OCEAN                        I  I I I  I                                                                                                             Binzhou              He                                                                                                                                            Muping
   Boundaries               VIETNAM                      MACAO                                               I I                                             Linxian                                                                                                                                   L a i z h o u W a n
                       LAO                                                                                                                                                                              Shanghe
                        P.D.R.                                                                             I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Zhaoyuan             Qixia
                                              HAINAN                                                      I
                                                                     PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                         I      Wucheng                                                                                                                  (Yellow)
                                                                                                                                                                                Linyi                                                        Gaoqing                                                                                                                                      Daguija He                                                 Rongcheng
                                           To Shijiazhuang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Laizhou                                                                               Wendeng
                                                                                                                                  Pingyuan                                                                        Huang                               Boxing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Xiaoxing    He                   Guangrao


                                                                                                    Xiajin                                                       Yucheng                                                                                                                                                                                       Laiyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Jiyang                                 Huantai                                                                                                                                                 Rushan
                                                                         Linqing   I                                          Gaotang                                                                                                    Zouping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Shoguang                      Changyi
                                                                                       I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Laixi
                                                                                         I                                                                                                                                                                     Linzi                                                                                                                  Haiyang
                                                                                       I                                                                         Qihe                                                                Zhoucun                                                                                     Pingdu
                                                                                    I                                                                                                                                        Zhangqiu
                                                                                     I                                                                                                                                                                    Zibo                                             Hanting

                                                                                      I                                                                                                           Licheng
                                                                                        I                                                                                                                                                                           Qingzhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Changle   Weifang
                                                                                          I                                                                                                  JINAN                                         Zichuan
                                                                                           I
                                                                                            I                                   Chiping       Changqing                                                                                                                                                                       JiolaiHe
                                                                                             I                                                                                                                                                                                                          Fangzi                                                                                                H u a n g H a i
                                                                                              I
                                                                 Guan Xian                                                                                                                                                                                                       Linqu
                                                                                               I                                                                                                                                     Boshan
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                 I    Liaocheng
                                                                                                  I                                                                                                                                                                                                   Anqiu                                                   Jimo
                                                                                                   I                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Gaomi
                                                                                                     I  I  I    Dong'e
                                                                                                               I
                                                                        Shen                                     I                                                                                                                                                                              Wen He
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Chengyang
                                                                        Xian                                                                 Pingyin
                                                                                                                 I                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Jiaozhou
                                                                                                                I                                                                              Tai'an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHINA
                                                                                                                 I                                                                                                                                           Yiyuan
                                                                                                                    I                                                                                                   Laiwu
                                                                           Yanggu                                                                                  Feicheng

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Gangcheng              Yi                                                                                      Laoshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      He                                                                                  Qingdao                             SHANDONG
           H E N A N                                                                                        I                                                                                                                                                                                                     Zhucheng                     Huangdao
                                                                                                              I                              Dongping                                                                Dawen    He                                                                             He                                                                   ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                               I                                                                                                                                                                                         Wei
                                                                                                                 I                                                                                                                         Xintai                                                                                 Jiaonan
                                                                                                   Liangshan      I
                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                     I                                               Ningyang                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROPOSED INVESTMENTS:
                                                                                                                     I                                                                                                                                                       Yishui
                                                                                                                       I                        Wenshan
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         Da Yunh                                                                                                                   Mengyin                                                Wulian                                                                                           WATER STORAGE AND TREATMENT
                    To Xinxiang                                                                                            I                                                                                Sishui
                                                   He                                                                       I    e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WATER SUPPLY PIPELINE
                                                                 Juancheng                                                     I
                                                                                                                                 I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DISTRICT HEATING SYSTEM

                         Huang          (Yellow)                                                     Yuncheng                      I
                                                                                                                                    I                           Yanzhou                                                                                                    Yinan              Juxian
                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                       I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
                                                                                                                                          I

                                                                                                      Juye             Jiaxiang                                                                                              Pingyi
                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                              I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XIAOXING RIVER BASIN
                                                                                                                                                  I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (POLLUTION CONTROL SUBLOANS)
                              Dongming                                                                                                                                                     Zoucheng
                                                                                                                                                   I      Jinning                                                                                                                                                       Rizhao
                                                  Heze                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                     I               Nanyang                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COUNTY (XIAN) HEADQUARTERS
                                                                                                                                                      I                                                                                                  Beng
                                                                                                                                                       I             Hu                                                                    Fei Xian                                                                                                                                                      PREFECTURE HEADQUARTERS
                                                                                                Wanfu                                                   I
                                                                                                       He                                                I
                                                                                                                                                           I                                                                                                                              Junan                                                                                                          PROVINCE CAPITAL
                                                       Dingtao                                                                                               I                                                        Shanting
                                                                                                                                  Jinxiang                      I I                                     Tengzhou                                                          Hedong                                                                                                                         PORTS
                                                                                                                                                                    I                                                                                          Linyi
                                                                                                                                              Yutai                   I
                                                                                                                                                                        I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AIRPORTS
                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                           Chengwu                                                                           I                                                                          Louzhuang
                                                                                                                                                                               I                                                                                                   Linshui
                                                                                                                                                                                 I                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIVERS
                                                    Cao Xian                                                                                                                        I                                      Zaozhuang
                                                                                                                                                                                     I                                                                                                                                                                                                       I   I  I I  CANALS
                 To Zhengzhou                                                                                   Shan Xian                                                             IWeishan
                                                                                                                                                                                         I                                                            Cangshan
                                                                                                                                                                                          I                 Xuecheng                                                                                                                                                                                     NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
                                                                                                                                                                Weishan Hu                 I                                     Yicheng
                                                                                                                                                                                            I                                                                                                                                                                                                            RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                              I                                    Taier                     Tancheng                                                                                                                                    COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                I               I I  I I  I  I  IZhuang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I                                                                                                                                                                      PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                To Bengbu        I                                  I I I
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I                                      I
                              H E N A N                                                                                                                                                            I                                      I                                  J I A N G S U                                                                                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                            A N H U I                                                               I                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                     I                             I I I I  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                      I               I  I  I  I I            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I            I        I                                                                                                                                                           0           20       40        60      80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I                      To Bengbu
                                                                 To Luohe                                                                                                                               I I                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                            I  I  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                II I  I I                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I                                                                                                                                                     KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                         To Fuyang                       To Bengbu

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SEPTEMBER 1997

