WORLD BANK LOANED PROJECTS FOR
SHANDONG URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Shandong Researc (m   Enmental Protection
o ~y~996  /
(S-mp[Z7 1A,



Contents
1. General Introduction
2. Summary of the World Bank Loaned Projects
3. Natural and Social Conditions in Project Cities
4. Predicted Impacts on Environmental and Mitigation
Measures to be Taken
5. Economic Benefits and Losses
6. Environmental Administration and Monitoring Program
7. Public Participation
S. Assessment Conclusions



1. General Introduction
1.1 Assessment Objective
Provide the basis for decision making of relevant departments,
assure the projects reasonable and suitable in environmental aspect. and
make all the environmental problems be identified in the inception stage
of implementing the projects and be taken into consideration in the
process of site selection, planning and design. so as to make the
unfavorable impacts reduce to minimum level.
1.2 Basis for Compilation
1.2.1 Guohuan (86) File 003 Management of Project's
Environmental Protection
1.2.2 Huanjianjian 1993 File 324 Notification of Strengthening the
Environmental Impact Assessment Works of international
Financial OL ganization Aided Projects issued by NEPA,
National Plan Committee, Finance Ministry, Chinese People's
Bank
1.2.3 State EPA's Huanjianjian (1996) File 086 Returning Letter to
Opinions on ELT of Projects Aided bv World Bank loans in
Shandong
1.2.4 World Bank Expert's Preliminary Appraisal Memorandum
1.3 Identification of Environmental Impact and Division of
Assessment category
Table 1.1 Identification of Environmental Impact and Division of
Assessment categorv
Projects         Air Water Ecology Society Category
Jinan Yellow River Water       4  ,                .  A
Supply Pondage Reservoir
Jinan Waste Water Network -     a                       B
Yantai 500 Heating Network  4    4  I            a      A
Weihai No.3 CHP Plant    4    a                4      A
Project-wide Assessment                               A
I



According to the construction features and regional environmental
characteristics of the projects' sites, the division of assessment categorv
are listed in Table 1.1.
1.4 Assessment Principles and Methods
1.4.1 All the projects should be in accordance with the laws, regulations
and standards of environmental protection. The contents and depth of
assessment required by OD 4.01 of World Bank should also be obeyed on
the premise of executing the relevant regulations of EIA in China.
1.4.2 According to the sprits of the World Bank's Guidelines For ETA
(OD 4.01) and Notice on Strengthen EIA Jobs of International Monetary
Organization Financed Projects, all the projects with category A should
be proceeded overall assessment, comprehensively taken the favorable
and unfavorable impacts, long-term and short-term impacts, reversible
and irreversible impacts into consideration. To the project with categorv B,
onlv the main environmental problems are analyzed.
2. Summary of the World Bank Loaned Project
2.1 Survev
The World Bank loaned projects consist of six subprojects
distributed in three cities in Shandong province. There are two projects in
Jinan, one is the Jinan Yellow River Water Supply Pondage Reservoir
project, the other is Jinan Waste Water Network project. The other two
projects are Yantai 500 Heating Network project in Yantai city and
Weihai No.3 CHP Plant in Weihai citv. The Xiaoqing River Revolving
Funds Project and Yantai Demonstration Project of Cleaner Production
are not included in the scope of assessment.
2.2 Brief Introduction of World Bank Loaned Projects
2.2.1 Jinan Yellow River Water Supply Pondage Reservoir Project
The water is abstracted from Dawangmiao Sluice of Licheng District,
through the pump station to sedimentation basin, then transported by
deliverv pipeline to the reservoir. The reservoir is the water supplv source
of Jinan No.2 Water Purification Plant. The total and effective capacity of



the reservoir are 41.2 and 34.2 million m3, respectively. The inflow
volume is 8.65 to 9.65 m3/s with the average depth of 7.13 m. The length
of the box dam is 1 1.63 km.
2.2.2 Jinan Waste Water Networ k Project
This engineering is the conveyance svstem of Jinan Wastewater
Treatment Plant. The total area is 108 km2, which is the service scope of
the plant.
2.2.3 Yantai 500 Heating Netvork
The project is the construction engineering of heating network which
is used to transport the heat produced in Huangbohai CHP Company to
Zhifu District. The length of planned main pipeline network is 30.22 km.
There are 42 exchange stations. 2 pump stations and one boiler house of
peak load boiler.
2.2.4 Weihai No.3 CHP Plant Project
This plant is a newlv built plant with 3x75t/h high pressure fluidized
bed boilers and 2 sets of turbogenerator. The engineering includes the
CHP plant, steam pipeline network-, heat exchange station and hot-water
pipe network.
3. Natural and Social Conditions in Project Cities
3.1 Natural Conditions
3.1.1 Natural Conditions of Jinan
Jinan is located in 1160 12- l 7" 44 E, 360 02- 370 04'N with the
Mount Tai in its south and Yellow River in its north. It is hilly in its south
with the average height of 100-400 m above the sea level and in the
middle part with the average height of 40-100 m above the sea level, and
in its north is the alluvial plain with the average height of 2040 m above
the sea level. The basic landfonn in Jinan is higher in its south and north,
lower in its middle part witlh the shape of shallow plate.
3.1.2 Natural Conditions of Yantai
Yantai is located in 1200 -- 1230 E. 360 -- 380 N in the eastern part of
3



Shandong peninsula. In its east. south and north parts is the Yellow and
Bo Sea. In its west part is the Weifang and Qingtao Municipality. The
length from its east to west is 280 km, while in the direction from south to
north, the length is 130 km.
The project area is located in Zhifui District. It is adjacent to Muping
countv in its southeast. In its east and north, is the Yellow Sea.
The landform in Zhifu District is complicated with the typical
features of hilly region. The highest height in the district is 400 m above
the sea level. It belongs to eastern part of Jiaodong shield and northern
edge of Jiaodong raise region in geological structure.
3.1.3 Natural Conditions of Weihai
Weihai is located in 1210 -1230, 360 41- 370 35' N in the eastern
part of Shandong peninsula. Korea peninsula and Japan archipelago are
to its east and south across the sea. It is adjacent to Yantai in its west and
Liaodong peninsula to its north across the Yellow Sea.
Three directions around the Weihai urban area are hills and one
direction is the sea. The range of height is from 70 to 100 meter above the
sea level. In its seashore region is the plain whose soil structure is
composed of sand and alluvial laver caused bv marine deposit.
3.2 Social Conditions
3.2.1 Social Conditions of Shandong Pro-vince
Shandong province locates in eastern coastal area of China. Its area
is 156.700 km2 with the population of 86.71 million (population density:
553 per km2). It has 17 municipalities or its equivalencies, 139 counties
or county level cities or districts, and 46 cities. Shandong is one of the
provinces whose economic development is rapid. Its GDP in 1994 is
387.2 billion vuan ranked the third position in China. Its GDP will hit
640 billion yuan in 2000 according to the plan.
3.2.2 Social Conditions in Jinan
Jinan is one of historic cultural city and the birthland of Longshan
Culture. Jinan is a political, economic, cultural center of Shandong
province. It has five districts and counties. The urban area of Jinan is
2,119 km2 with the population of 5.3731 million. The density of
population in Jinan is 653 persons per km2.
4



3.2.3 Social Conditions in Yantai
Yantai municipality is a modem, international harbor city with high-
tech, commerce and trade, tourism as its main industries. It has
jurisdiction over 5 districts, 5 county level cities and 3 counties. The total
area of Yantai city is 13,500 km2 with the population of 6.3 million. The
project will be constructed in Zhifu District, which is the Yantai
municipality's political, economic, cultural center. The area of Zhifu
District is 47.4 km2 with the population of 0.4 million.
3.2.4 Social Conditions in Weihai
Weihai municipality is a provincial citY in Shandong. It has
jurisdiction over 1 district. 3 county level cities. The area of Weihai
municipality is 5436 km2 with population of 2.42 million. The people
living in urban area are engaged in industry and commerce . While in
rural area, the people are often engaged in agriculture, fishery and
aquaculture industry.
4. Predicted Impacts on Environment and Mitigation
Measures Taken
4.1 Jinan Yellow River Water Supply Pondage Reservoir
Project
4.1.1 Predicted Impacts on Enviroiunent
4. 1. 1.1 Impacts on Environment in Construction Phase
A. Impacts on Ecological Environment
The project will be constructed in the Northern Stretch Embankment
of Yellow River. The earth work will affect surrounding agri-ecological
environment.
B. Noise and Raise Dust
Transportation, vehicle and machines will bring about noise and
dust, which will affect the environment to certain extent.
C. Migration
5



There are 1186 persons of 300 households need resettlement. The
migration and land occupation will bring about certain impacts on living
and industrial activities.
4.1 .1.2 Impacts on Environment after Operation
The forecasting results of salinization and desertification of soil after
operation show that after adopting the seepage prevention measure,
digging penetration prevention ditches at the foot of reservoir's and
sedimentation basin's dam, the secondary salinization can be avoided.
After using of the sedimentation basins and sand stockvards, the
secondary ploughing is an effective method to prevent desertification.
The trend analysis of the reservoir's water quality show that'the
water qualitv in Yellow River is in a stable state. The first water just after
the Yellow River's drv-up is not suitable for abstraction.
After analogical investigation and assessment of Pucheng Reservoir
which has the same water source, geological and pollution sources
conditions as the Queshan's, we know that after five-vear's operation of
Pucheng Reservoir. its water is in middle eutrophic level, so we can draw
the conclusion that there is no danger of eutrophication for Queshan
Reservoir after its five-vear's operation. The control indexes for nitrogen
and phosphorus are 0.6 and 0.04 mglI, respectively.
4.1.2 Mitigation Measures
4.1.2.1 Seepage Prevention Measures of Reservoir
There is a soil film on the slope of box dam connected with another
soil film vertically buried under the ground of dam base to prevent the
seepage of the reservoir.
4.1.2.2 Around the box dam of the reservoir and sedimentation basin, the
seepage prevention and drainage measures will be taken to prevent the
soil's secondary salinization caused by the water level raise of
groundwater.
4.1.2.3 Redesign and re-planning of discharging system of farmland in
the project area.
4.1.2.4 Water Quality Assurance Measures
If the water level of the reservoir is lower than 24 meter. the water
6



will not be suitable for abstraction. Water delivery pipes will all be buried
under ground so as to reduce the impacts on surrounding environment
and protect the water quality.
4.1.2.5 Secondary ploughing measure will be taken to prevent the
sedimentation basins and sand stockvards from desertification after their
lifetime.
4.2 Jinan Waste Water Network
4.2.1 Predicted Impacts on Environment
4.2.1.1 Impacts on Environment in Construction Phase
Raise dust and noise in construction phase will have certain impacts
on environment and transportation. 1,460 persons of 310 households will
be resettled. 235.37 mu land will be occupied. The eighty three
enterprises and one school will be affected. The total cost for migration
and resettlement hits 64.7945 million yuan.
4.2.1.2 Impacts on Environment after Operation
After operation, the water quality in service area of project will be
improved and the pollution caused by wastewater's seepage will also be
mitigated. The operation of wastewater treatment plant will improve the
water quality of Xiaoqing River.
4.2.2 Mitigation Measures
Advanced machines. rational arrangement of construction time, high
construction efficiency, spraving water and covering of the soil will
reduce the impacts of noise and raise dust to minimum level.
4.3 Yantai 500 Heating Network Project
4.3.1 Predicted Impacts on Environment
4.3.1.1 Impacts on Environment in Construction Phase
*  Raise dust and noise produced in construction phase will have certain
impacts on surrounding environment.
* There will be certain impacts on transportation.
7



* The total area of land occupation is 43.125 m2. No resident houses
will be removed. Only 800 m2 house of village owned enterprise and
1,650 m2 building of Yantai Fuel Company will be demolished.
4.3.1.2 Impacts on Environment after Operation
A. Newly Added Air Pollution Sources
The newly added pollution source is the peak boiler. Its pollutants'
emission volume and concentration can accord with the national
standards. The maximum one-time concentration of S02 and TSP are
only 10.6% and 0.83% of corresponding standards, respectively.
B. Positive Effects
290 industrial boilers, 289 small boilers and domestic stoves will be
replaced after operation of the CHP plant. It will save 132,100 tons coal
for industrial use and 84,100 tons coal for domestic use annually. In
winter, the emission amount of S02 and TSP will reduce 6,808 and 4,403
tons, respectively. The removal rates of S02 and TSP are 20.2% and
34.14%.
The maximum removal rate of S02's and TSP's ground level
concentration will be up to 60% and 40%. The guarantee rate of 20% of
pollutants being removed is up to 60%.
C. Noise Impacts on Environment
Forty two pump stations are about to be constructed which will be
have certain impacts on some region at night, but the noise level does not
exceed the standard.
4.3.2 Mitigation Measures
4.3.2.1 Mitigation Measures in Construction Phase
* The pipeline network should be buried under the land which does not
have the natural resources.
* Strengthen traffic management, the main traffic lines and commercial
streets should not be selected as construction scope.
* Advanced low noise machines should be selected and the construction
should not affect the residents' rest.
* Spraying water on the sands and soils at the two sides of roads to
8



reduce the raise dust.
4.3.2.2 Mitigation Measures after Operation
A. Control Measure for Air Pollution
The water film dust removal facilities with the removal rate of 980/o
will be selected. The limestone will be added for desulfurization. (removal
rate: 50%). The dust is emitted through a chimney of 80 meter.
In coal yard, there is a water spraying instrument equipped.
B. Control Measure for Noise Pollution
Low noise machines and sound proof facilities are equipped.
C. Control Measure for Ash and Cinder
All the ashes and cinders are comprehensively utilized in brick
factory.
D. Control Measure for Water Pollution
Wastewater will be discharged into wastewater treatment plant.
4.4 Weihai No. 3 CHP Plant Project
4.4.1 Predicted Impacts on Environment
4.4.1.1 Impacts on Environment in Construction Phase
The impacts on environment in construction phase are from raise
dust and noise.
4.4.1.2 Impacts on Environment After Operation
A. Impacts on Atmosphere
* Impacts on Atmosphere of Newlv Added Pollution Sources
Under the stabilitv of B, C, D, the maximum landing concentration
of S02 and floating dust can meet the corresponding national standards.
In winter, the maximum dailv concentration of S02 is 0.0090 mg/m3,
9



accounting for 6% of the standard: the maximum daily concentration of
floating dust is 0.0021 mg m3, accounting for 1.4∞o of the standard; In
summer, the maximum daily concentration of S02 is 0.0080 mg/m3.
accounting for 5.33% of the standard: the maximum daily concentration
of floating dust is 0.0020 mg/m3, accounting for 1.33% of the standard
The axial concentration of S02 and floating dust under the adverse
meteorological conditions can meet the corresponding standards.
The annual daily average concentration of S02 is very low,
accounting for 3.33% of the standard.
* Positive Effects
The Weihai No. 3 CHP Plant will supply heat to all industrial
enterprises in the southern area of the city. It will replace 75 sets of
boilers and 15,000 small domestic stoves which bring a lot of wastes into
the air; therefore, the plant will help to improve ambient air quality in
Weihai after its operation. Cooperation among No. 1, No. 2 and No. 3
CHP Plants will begin soon and a network of heating is expected to be
built which helps to solve the problems of air pollution.
B. Impacts on Water Environment
There is small impacts on surface water environment due to the
wastewater of the CHP plant discharging to wastewater treatment plant.
There is no poisonous or harmful substances in the water discharged from
CHP plant. If the seepage prevention measures be taken, there is no
impacts on water quality of groundwater.
C. Impacts on Noise Environment
All the noise value of monitoring spots are lower than the standard.
There will be little impacts on environment if the noise control measures
are taken.
4.4.2 Mitigation Measures
4.4.2.1 In Construction Phase
A. Raise Dust Control Measure
A wall with the height of I to 2 meter will be built and water is
sprayed along the roads to prevent the raise dust from diff-using.
10



B. Noise Control Measure
Low noise equipment will be selected and construction at night is
forbidden.
4.4.2.2 Operation Phase
A. Control Measures for Air Pollution
Electrostatic facility with dust removal rate of 99.1 % will be adopted
and the desulfurization rate is up to 85% by using the fluidized bed boiler.
The chimney is 120 meter high.
B. Control Measures for Water Pollution
All the wvastewater are transported to wastewater treatment plant.
C. Control Measures for Ash and Cinder
Ash and cinder are transported to building material factory. There is
a revolving cinder vard in the plant and another vard for accident use in
the galley 1.5 km southwest to the plant.
D. Control Measures for Coal Dust
Timely spraying water will reduce the raise of coal dust.
5. Economic Benefits and Losses
After the implement of Shandong Environmental Protection Project,
the environmental quality in Jinan, Yantai and Weihai will be improved.
At the same time, the investment environment in these three cities will
also be optimized. It will push the development and open-up of the cities
forward, which brings about positive impacts on social and economic
development of Shandong province.
5.1 Jinan Yellow River Water Supply Pondage Reservoir
Project
After the operation of the reservoir, it can satisfy the need of water
supply in Jinan around year 2000, which will do good to groundwater
protection and recovery of Springs Landscape. The annual income of the
11



project wiIl hit 115.88 million yuan. The first-year's benefits w'ill be 7.767
million yuan. With the time going by, the income will have an ascending
trend.
5.2 Jinan Waste Water Network Project
After the completion of the network, there will be obviously' social,
economic and environmental benefits. All the wastewater in the service
area will be delivered to Xiaoqing River by the main pipes, including
220,000 m3/day wastewater discharged to the river after being treated in
the wastewater treatment plant. So the water pollution in the river
channels in urban area will be effectively collected and the pollution load
will thus be reduced. The daily removal amount of COD, BOD and SS are
88 tons, 53 tons and 81 tons respectively. After 11.29 year's operation, all
the investment can be paid back. The internal earning ratio is 22.34%/o.
The project's operation risk is small and 20 million yuan can be saved
annually after the treatment plant's operation. There also exists
immeasurable social benefits in perfecting city's overall function.
improving people's living standards, and promoting reform and open-up
in Jinan.
5.3 Yantai 500 Heating Network Project
The total investment of this project is 46.198 million US dollar. The
project's annual income is 19.83 million US dollar with a pay back period
of 8.6 years. The earning ratio of investment is 16.6% with economic net
value of 8.94 million US dollar. It will save 216.200 tons coal and
5.42x104 million Kwh electricity, 1.6x105 tons water annually. The
indirect economic benefits will hit 9.9814 million US dollar including
0.79 million US dollar compensated for land occupation. The saved land
area for constructing boiler houses will be 73,000 m2.
There are many low heat efficiency, low emission height small
boilers and domestic stoves which will be replaced by the project. It will
reduce 65,000 tons ash and cinder annually. The maximum removal rate
of S02's and TSP's ground level concentration will be up to 60% and
40%. The guarantee rate of 20% of pollutants being removed is up to
60%.
It will change the situation that pollutants' concentration exceeding
the standards every year, which brings about environmental benefits.
5.4 Weihai No.3 CHP Plant Project
12



All the economic indexes of the plant can meet the national
requirements. The pay back period of loans is 8.77 vears with the eaming
ratio of 20.03%.
After operation of the plant, 75 boilers and 15,000 domestic stoves
will be replaced. 4,116 tons of S02 and 2,189 tons of TSP will be
reduced. Construction of the plant will curb the deterioration of ambient
air quality in Weihai which has notable environmental benefits.
6. Environmental Adminiistration and Monitoring Program
6.1 Environmental Administration
The Shandong Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau and
local EPB are in charge of the environmental administration to
construction units. The administrative job will be in accordance with the
relative national regulations.
The construction units should have internal environmental
institutions, whose jobs are in charge of environmental administration and
monitoring, five to eight persons needed.
6.2 Monitoring Program
All the monitoring program of sub-projects will be implemented by
construction units and administrated by provincial and municipal EPB.
All the monitoring data should be reported to local EPB. The project
city's Environmental Monitoring Center will be in charge of the training
and monitoring quality examination.
6.2.1 Monitoring Program for Jinan Yellow River Water Supply
Pondage Reservoir Project
To ensure that the water quality can meet the Portable Water Quality
Standard, there are five spots set up in the proiect. The monitoring items
are as following: sand amount, PH, As, Hg, volatile phenol, total nitrogen.
total phosphorus, permanganate, total bacteria and coli-group. The
frequency of monitoring is once every month.
6.2.2 Mlonitoring Program for Yantai 500 Heating Network Project
6.2.2.1 In Construction Phase
13



The environmental measures must be implemented under the
administration of local EPB.
6.2.2.2 Operation Phase
The monitoring program will be executed as Table 6. 1.
Table 6.1 Monitoring contents of Yantai 500 Heating Network Project
Objective              Location            Number!  Items    Frequency         Units
Chemrical Factory
Bearng factory                    502    Once three;    Local
Ambient air quality       Sanatorium              5        NOY       month5     Monitoring
Urban area                      TSP                    Center
Leeward of peak boiler
Replaced pollution   Location of pollution sources    :Demrolish or, Once three   Local
sources                                     280    stop using   months     Momntoring
Center
Pollution sources   Chimney of pollution sources          S02    Once three       Local
wluch coal amount ,                               21       TSP       months     Monitoring
reduced                                                                       Center
Peak boiler house          Chimney                     i S02, TSP  Once three     Local
1 I               months      Monitoring
Center
-          |  Pump inexchange station       44
Pump in boler house         I I
Air-blower             I                            Environmental
Noise                   Fan                  I        Leq    Once three Protection Dept.
Coal conveyance belt        I                 months   of the company
Plant site of exchange station  44
Exchange station's boundary  44x4
Once per  Environmental
Cinder             Transported to Building Material Factory      day    Protection Dept.
of the company
6.2.3 Monitoring Program  for Weihai No. 3 CHP Plant Project
The monitoring items, selection of monitoring sites and periods are
strictly according to the requirements of Monitoring Regulations for
Power Plant and Technical Guidelines for Power Plant's Monitoring.
6.2.3.1 Flue Gas
14



Once everv vear. The monitoring items are: concentration of S02.
NOx and dust, and volume of flue gas.
6.2.3.2 Ambient Air Oualitv
Once everv year for TSP, S02. NOx and landing dust in plant site
and living area.
6.2.3.3 Wastewater
Industrial wvastewater, cinder water, chemical water and domestic
sewage. The monitoring frequencv should be in accordance with the
requirement of Technical Guidelines for Power Plant's Monitoring.
6.2.3.4 Noise
Main machines produced noise and boundary, living area of plant
site. Once every year. The monitoring periods should be arranged in
daytime and at night, respectively.
7. Public Participation
7.1 The Pattern of Public Participation
Based on the environmental and construction characteristics of each
sub-project, the investigation table was made to collect the suggestions
and attitudes of people who would be influenced by these projects.
Participants were mainly divided into several part as below: workers,
peasants, soldiers. merchants, students. teachers etc.
7.2 Investigation Result
120-500 investigation tables were distributed in each sub-project
and over 80% tables were returned. According to the investigation results,
83%.-95% participants thought it's necessarv for these projects to use the
World Bank loans. Most of them agreed that the atmospheric and water
environment would be improved in the area near the project, however,
they gave some suggestions to the projects, including the methods to
prevent and control the pollution should be considered bv the unit in
charge of construction during the process of building, especially the
influences of construction on the residents.
15



8. Assessment Conclusions
8.1 Jinan Yellow River Water Supply Pondage Reservoir
Project
The construction of the reservoir will increase 156 million m3 water
supply to Jinan annually. This will mitigate the tension situation in dry
years in Jinan, which will speed up the economic development in Jinan,
promote social stability, recover the springs landscape.
The project is composed of abstraction, sedimentation, water
delivery and storage parts. Either in construction phase or after operation,
there will be unfavorable impacts on surrounding environment. In
construction phase, land occupation, transportation, industrial and
artificial activities will bring about waste, raise dust and noise which have
certain impacts on surrounding environment besides the destroy of
vegetation. But, it will have little impacts on regional ecological
environment. The occupied land except the pits will be secondary
ploughing after two years. After the implement of the engineering, due to
the change of surface or groundwater's water level, it will cause the
water-logged and salinization of the soil, or desertification. After adopting
mitigation measures such as seepage prevention and discharging, step by
step using and second ploughing to prevent the desertification, the
unfavorable impacts will be reduced to minimum level. So this project is
feasible in environment. Moreover, all the mitigation measures are
feasible either in technology or in economy.
Three factors will affect the water quality in the reservoir after
operation. They are Yellow River's water quality, precipitation and dust.
If the water quality control planning, total discharge amount control and
feasible engineering measures are taken. the water pollution in the
reservoir will be avoided. The water quality in the reservoir will not
exceed the middle-eutrophic level.
8.2 Jinan Waste Water Network Project
After the implement of the project, the water qualitys in river
channels in the urban area will be remarkably improved. The pollutants
discharged into Xiaoqing River will thus be reduced.
On the premise of adopting practicable measures, a series of impacts
of the project on the social environment will be reduced. So the project
has notable social, economic and environmental benefits, which should be
implemented as soon as possible.
16



implemented as soon as possible.
8.3 Yantai 500 Heating Network Project
The project's impacts on environment are mainly in construction
phase. These kinds of impacts are temporary and reversible. If correct
measures are taken, the impacts will be reduced to minimum level. After
operation, the environmental benefits will be notable because it changes
the situation that pollutants exceeds the standards in sucessive years. Its
positive effects is greater than negative effects.
8.4 Weihai No. 3 CHP Plant Project
The construction of the project will curb the deterioration trend of
ambient air quality in Weihai. So, under the circumstance of correct
mitigation measures be taken, the project is feasible and necessary.
Generally speaking, if the Three Synchronization Principles is
persisted in and mitigation measures suggested in the reports are taken,
the projects' implement . will bring about great improvement in
environmental quality. So the Shandong Environmental Project is feasible
in environmental aspect.
17



NVORLD BANK LOANED PROJECTS FOR 
SHIANDONG URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT
(PROJECT-WIDE)
October 1996
Shandong Resea   mstmiotf       onmental Protection
The center of Environmli   cices. Shanidoiig Universitv
Slhandong Design Institute of Environmental Protection



r~~' fl         -                                        lJ
1 ff    3X;j 1A -  I~f0IiiL; iT I 1}  l O:r
Shandong Research Institute of Enivironmental Protectioii
Address: 50 #, Lishan Road, Jinan
Telephone: 6955042
Postcode: 250013



Preface
The fast development of economy of Shandong Province lashes environment
greatly, envirorunental quality of some cities and rivers is tending to deteriorate
constantly. Shandong Province plans to apply for loan of World Bank to build(l 3 roup of
projects which can reduce the discharge of pollutants and improve enviroimental quality,
in order to prevent environment from deterioration and promote fine circle. After
discussion with World Bank, it is determined that Shandong Environmental Project is
composcd of six sub-projects and sofi projccts. Tne six sub-pro jces aie distribudted over
three cities( Jinan, Yantai and Weihai city ) of Shandong Province. Loan project of Jinan
area is composed of Jinan Queshan Pondcage RZeservoir for Yellow ltiver's Waler Suppiv
charged by Jinan Water Company and Jinan Urban Sewage Pipeline Network charged
by Jinan Urban Construction Bureau; loan project of Yantai area is Yantai 500 Heating
Network charged by Yantai Heating Power Exploit.ation Ofrice; loan pi oject of Weltai is
Weihai No.3 CUP Plant Project charged b)y Weihai No.3 CI-IP Plant. Xiaoqing River
Basin Treatment Fund Project charged bv Shan(long Environmental Protection Buireall
and Yantai Cleanup Productioi Projcct are out of the project-wide assessmIcnt of this
time.
According to demand of National Environmental Protection and World Bank,
environmental impact rcport of four sub-projects and project-widc project should be
worked out during feasibility research phiase of project. So construction units
respectively entrusted uiits with Class A certificale to work out envirotnmenltal impact
report of every sub-project, and Shandong Urban Emironmental IProtection W13-Loan
Project Office entrusted Shandong Environmental Protection institlte to work out
environmental impact report of project-wide project. All environmcntal imi,pact reports
of project had been worked out in September, 1996 and had been checkedl an(l accepted
by experts of World Bank. Environmental impact report of project-wide project is
worked out on the basis of environmcntal impact reports of sub-projects according to
Notice on  Ennhancing  Management of Environtnental Imnlact Assessment of
Construction Project with L oan of International Financial Organizalion aiid of Chiina and
Manipulative Guidelines of World Bank( 4.01 edition).
Experts of World Bank. National Environmental Protection Bureau. Shaticdong
Environmental Protection Bureau and Shandong Enviromnental PIrotcctioI W13-Loan
Project Office give this assessment zealous help, here, we expresc onr whliolehearte(d
thanks!
There may be some errors in project-wide assessment report because of' time and
ability limit, please oblige with your valuable comment.



Contents
Preface
1. General Introduction
1. 1 Assessmeent Objective and Guidelines
1.2 Basis for Compilation
1.3 Assessment Scope and Standards
1.4 Identification of Environmental Impacts and Division of
Assessment Categorv
1.5 Principles, Methods and Key of Assessment
1.6 Assessment Uniits anid its Stuff
2. General Conditions of Shandlong Environmental Projects
2.1 General Conditionis
2.2 Brief Introduction of subprojects
3. Natural and Social Conditions of Project Cities
3.1 Natural Conditions
3.2 Social Conditions
4. Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures in Jinan
Project Area
4.1 Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures of Jinani Yelloxv
River Water Supply Pondage Reservoir
4.2 Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures of Jinan Waste
Water Network
4.3 Overall Environmental Impacts Analysis in Jinan Project Area
5. Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures of
Yantai 500 Heating Network
5.1 Project Analysis
5.2 Investigation and Assessment of Air Pollution Sources
5.3 Monitoring and Assessment of Existing Ambienlt Air Quality
5.4 Monitoring and Assessment of Noise
I



5.5 Forecast and Assessment of Project's Impacts on Surrounding
Enivironlmiienit
5.6 Analysis of Environimental Measures
5.7 Alternative scenarios
6. Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures of
Weihai No. 3 CHP Plant
6.1 Project Analysis
6.2 Analysis of Pollution Factors
6.3 Existing Situation Assessmenit and Impacts Analysis of Ambient
Air Quality
6.4 Existinig Situationi Assessment and Inmpacts Analysis of
Groundwater
6.5 Environmental Impacts Assessment of Noise
6.6 Coal Aslh anid Cinder's Imitpacts oni Enivironmlient
6.7 Impacts oni Environment in Constructioin Phase
7. Economic Benefits and Losses of Shandong
Environmental Projects
7.1 Jinan Yellowv River Water Supply Pondage Reservoir project
7.2 Jinan Waste Water Network Project
7.3 Yantai 500 Heating Network Project
7.4 Weihai No. 3 CHP Plant Project
7.5 Environmental Investments and Benefits Analvsis
8. Environmental Administration and Monitoring Program
8.1 Environmental Administration
8.2 Monitoring Program
9. Public Participation
10.Assessment Conclusions and Suggestions
10.1 Conclusions and Suggestions in Jinian Project Area
10.2 Conclusioins and Suggestions in Yantai Proiect Area
10.3 Conclutsions and Suggestions in Weihai Project Area
10.4 Overall Conclusionis of Shandonig Environmiienital Projects
2



1. General Iitroduction
1.1 Purpose of Assessment and Guidelines
1.1. 1 Purpose of Assessment
Offering policv-making foundation for concerned departments. ensuring loan
projects are proper and reasonable to en-vironment. And ensuring any enviroiunenial
problem to be certain at the earlier stage of project so that it can be considered in
selecting address, planning and design of project and its adverse impact to environment
can be reduced to the lowest degree.
1.1.2 Guidelines
Wiith direction of concemed policies and environmental protection laws, making
Xfl1 use of present environmental impact assessment data and routine inspection data of
local environmental departments realized the purpose of developing economy and
protecting environment at the same time. Emphasizing charactenistic of project and
making area total amount control of polJutant.
1.2 Basis of Compilation
1.2.1 GH(86) No.003 File Environmental Management Measure
of Construction Project.
1.2.2 HJ(l 993)No.324 File Notice about Enhancing Management
of Environmental Impact Assessment of Construction
Project Using Loan of Intemational financial Organization.
1.2.3 LZF(19 87)No.21 Shandong Environmental Protective
Management Measure of Construction Prroject.
1.2.4 World Bank Guidelines for Loan Project ----Environmental
Assessment. 1992.7.
1.2.5 Shandong Environmental Protection Proposals for
Reconmmended Projects by World Band.
1.2.6 Technolog-ical Guidelines for Environmental Impact
1 -i



Assessment(HJFT2. 1-2.3--93).
1.2.7 Environmental Impact Report of Shandong Urban
EnVironmental Protection Sub-Projects Using World Loan.
1.2.8 Overall Plan of Projection City and Area Environmental
Protection Plan.
1.2.9 Entrusting Certificate for Overall Environmental Impact
Assessmcnt of Shandong Urban Protection Project Using
World Bank Loan.
1.2.10 HJJ(1996)No.086 Letter in Reply about Investigation
Opinion about Environmental Impact Assessment
Outline of Shandong Urban Environmental Protective
Project Using World Bank Loan.
1.2.11 LHF(1 996)No. 156 Opinions about Environmental
Impact Assessment of Shandong Urban Environmental
Protection Project Using World Bank Loan.
1.2.12 Memorandumn of PreliminaIy Assessment by Experts of
World Bank.
1.3 Scope and Standard of Assessment
1.3.1 Assessment Scope
1.3.1.1 Assessment Scope of Jinan Yellow River's WR'ater Supply Queshan Pondage
Reservoir Project
Assessment Sc.ope of Water and bed-soil of Yellow River is from Dawangniao
drawing-water sluice to 2 Kim upper reaches. Asscssment scope of soil environment and
underground water cnvironment is 1000 m around a zone soutll to Davvangniiao, nortl
to settling area, west to the second settline area and east to pondage reservoir.
1.3.1.2 Assessment Scope of Jinan Urban Secvage lipelinc Network lroject
Surface and underground wvater of the senicc scopc of wastcd wvatcr treaLnent
plant, voice environment 50 m around main sewage line.



,1.3.1.3 Assessment Scope of Yantai 500 Heating Network Project
Assessment scope of atmosphere is Shizhong District of Yantai. assessment scope
noise is 100 m around licat-exclhanging stations.
1.3.1.4 Assessment Scope of Weihai No.3 CHP Plant Project
Assessment scope of atmosphere is 6 km around center of the plant, scope of
underwater is 1.0 kmn around dust field, scope of noise is I m around plant boundary and
Jiali Village and Songjiawa Village near the plant.
1.3.2 Assessment Standard
1.3.2.1 Atmosphere
Quality standard of atmospherc cnvironmcnt adopts thc 2nd-kwecl stanidard of
Quality Standard of Atmosphere Environment(GB3095-82).
Discharge of atmosphere pollutant adopts National Standard of Discharge of
Atmosphere Pollutant of Boiler(GB13271-91) and 2nd-level standar-d of Shandong
Discharge Standard of Wasted Gas and Pollutant(DB37/006-91). coal-firing plant
adopts Discharge Standard of Atmosphere Pollutant of Coal-fuling Plant.
1.3.2.2 Surface Water
Assessment of surface water environment aclopts the 4th-class standard of Quality
Standard of Surface Water Environment(GB33838-88), qualitv assessment of Yellow
Rrive's water adopts the 3rd-lass standard of Quality Standard of Surface Water
Environment(GB3838-88).
Discharge of wasted water adopts new expanded standard of Com preheinsive
Discharge Standard of Waste Water(GB8978-88).
1.3.2.3 Underground Water
Quality assessment of underground water adopts the 3rd-class standard of Quality
Standard of Underground Water(GB/T14848-93).
1.3.2.4 Noise
Adopting Environmental Noise Standard of Urban listrict(GB3096-93), Noise
Standard of Boundary of Industrial Enterprise(GB 1348-90) ansd Noise Limiit of
Boundarv of Construction Spot(GB12523-90).
1 -3



1.4 Identification of Environmental Impact and Division of
Assessment Categoo
According to characteristics of local envirounment and sub-projects, distinguishing
of environnmental impact and division of assessment category sce T'able 1. 1.
Table 1.1 Identification ofenvironmental impacts and division of assessment caleory
Air Water Ecological   Social  Cate
environment envirornent gory
Jinan Yellow River Water Supply Pondage Reservoir  4    4         4       A
Jinan Waste Water Network             4   _B__           4      B
Yantai 500 Hcating Netvork;      1    4  _       _              A
Weihai No. 3 CFIP Plant                                        A _    A
Project-wide Assessment of Shandong Project    = =__   __           .  A
1.5 Principle, Method and Emphasis of Assessment
1.5.1 Principle and Method of Assessment
1.5.1.1 All Projects should comply with laws and standards about environmental
protection of our country and meet assessment content and depth demand of World
Ban;k Guide for Lnvironmental Impact Assessment(4.01).
1.5.1.2 According to World Bank Guide for Environmental Protection Assessment
(OD4.01) and Notice about Enhancing Asscssment Mlanagement of Environxmental
Impact of Construction Project Using Loan of Intemational Financial Organization,
making comprehensive assessment about en-vironmental impact of all A-class projects.
Considering the adverse and beneficial impact, long-tern  and short-term  impact,
reversible and irreversible impact of planned proiects comprehensiveh. Analyzing the
main environmental problems of B-class projects emphatically.
1.5.1.3 Making fu1l use of present-data of environmental impact assessment and routine
inspection of local environmental protection departments and making necessary
measurement. Selecting assessment factor correctly. Analyzing environmenial impact of'
planned projects objectively. Offering specific treatment measures to adverse impact of
project in order to reduce it to lowest degree.
1.5.1.4 Encouraging the public to participate, solicitinig opinions from ithc public witl
various methods directly so that benefit of concerned people or societv can he
considered thioroughly.
1.5.1.5 Paving enough attention to project of dismantling and migration. proving the
necessity of disniantling and migr-ation and investigating the poss; ale social impact of
1-4



dismantling and migration.
1.5.2 Emphasis of Work
Projects with A-class environmental category.
1.6 Introduction of Concerned Assessment Unit and People
1.6.1 Undertaking Units and Coordinated Units
Six institutes including Shandong Environmental Protection Institute, which lhave
been engaged in environmental research and assessment for a long time, take on report
books of overall project and four sub-projects. They have strong research capability,
advanced instruments and comprehensive basic data of environment, economy and
society. And they accumulate enough experience of assessment of environmental impact
of construction project. Qualification and record of these institute see Table 1.2.
Table 1.2                Introduction of assessment units
Units              Certificate's FStuff with technical titles____
_________________ _t__class ._l_otal stuMl senior7kfiddle  Assistant
Shandong Research Institute of   A          80       14       23       27
Environnental protection  i                             i ,
Shandong Design Institute of     A         55       9        16       20
Environmental protection                       _
Environmental Sciences Center,   i    A     5        18       15       13
Shanidong Universit 
Jinan Research Institute of     B         99       1 3      35       4(0
Environmental protection
Weihai Research Institute of     B     !  50        4        10       16
Environmental protection                       ,
Yantai Research Institute of    B         88        9   I  27         40
Environmental protection  l
1.6.2 Job Division of Undertaking Units
See Table 1.3.
1.6.3 Introduction of Stuff Undertaken the EIA Jobs
See Table 1.4.
1 -5



Table 1.3                             Job division
Projects                Undertaken Unit     I      Cooperating unit
3inan Waste Water Network   Shandong Design Institute of 1  Jinan Research Institute of
I  Environmental protection   I  Environmental protection
Jinan Yellow River Water   Shandong Research Institute of   Shandong Environmental
Supply Pondage Reservoir    Environmental protection    I  Monitonng Center
Yantai 500 Heating Network  Environmental Sciences Center,  Yantai Research Institute of
I___   Shandong University     Environmental protection
Weihai No. 3 CHP Plant   Shandong Design Institute of   Weihai Research Institute of
Enviromnental protection   Environmental protection
Project-wide Assessment of  Shandong Research Institute of |   All the above five iinits
Shandong Project        Environmental protection   I
t -6



Table 1.4              Introduction of stuff undertaken the EIA  obs
Name           lTitle           ositioon     Major               Uniits
Wang Z.hongxun    Enguieer      Section chief   Exiviroinueiiital Slhandong Reseai cli Institute
engineeTing  of Environmental protection
Zhang Kuan       Senoir                        Ecology
Li Yingzhi      Senoir                         Physics
Li Jianzhi     Engineer                     Meteorology
Xie Gang       Engineer                      Operations
Researclh
Wang Jianchun    Assistant                       Geology
DnJingdan        Senoir      General engineer   Chetriséy
Fu Xinting      Senoir        vice-general     Physics
engineer
Li Jun       Engineer                     Environmental
.______________   eng icernng
Zhang Hongxu      Senior                      Environmental Shandoong Design lnstithte of
engineering   Environmental protection
Zhao Jie      Engineer                     Environmental
eneineering
Song Wen    Associate Prof                    Chemical    Environuneiital Sciences
____________ Center, Shandong University
Wang Yan        Lecturer                      Chemical
Dong Min       Engiueer                          Soil    Jmlan Researcli Institute of
Environmental protection
Teng Yuq        Erni                           Cheeestry
Gu Huazlao      Engineer      Vice director    Agncullw e
Wang Haiying     Engineer                     Enmironmental Weihai Research Institute of
en iecrnng   Erinvirounental proteboion
Zhanlg Jie     Assistant                    Hydrogeology
Li Changhai      Senior      General engineer   Chemical
Li Yanbo       Enpineer      Section chief   Environmental Yantai Research Insiltite of
el_geieermg| Enviyoiunelntal pirotection
Luo Zhanjun      Senior                        Chemistry J_
1-7



2. General Situation of Shiandong Urban
Environmental Protection Project Using
World Bank Loan
2.1 General Situation
On March, 27, 1993, Chinese Government and World Bank signed a 3-year
Rolling Loan Plan from 1993 to 1996. Shandong Urban Environmental Protection
Project Using World Bank} Loan is listed in Loan Plan of 97 Financial Ycar of World
Bank, and the loan quota is about 100 nillion dollars. Through repealed discussion with
World Bank, it is determined that Shandong Environmental Protection Project is mainly
composed of six sub-projects, Xiaoqing River Basin EnNironmental Protection Funds
and Yantai Clean-up Production Project of which are out of the assessment scope of
this Lirne. llie names, local cities and inivestinunt situation of othel fouI sub-project see
Table 2. 1.
Tablc 2.1           Introduction of Shandong Environmental Projects
Cities                                                 Investment
Name of Projects       Total. million vuan Workl Bank Loans
.__________  ..__ ____________________________ .______  nulltfion US dollau
Jinan    I   lia YelDow River Water Supply      499.46            23
Pondage Reservoir      _                _
2      Jinan Waste Water Network   2'.56                 15 
Yantai    I      Yantai 500 1-lcating Network     38S              23
Weihai    I        Weihai No. 3 CHP Plant        300.20           17.25
2.2 Brief Introduction of Sub-projects
2.2. 1 Jinan Yellow River's Water Supply (Q)teeshan Pondage
Reservoir Project
Abstracting water of Yellow Rtiver Irom Dawanigmiao sluice gale ol Lichleng
District by water-drawing pump stationi to scdimcntation arca, and thden tlhrough 1.3 knm
waterline, drawing water into planed reservoir which offers water for Jinan Yellow
River No.2 Factory by pump station.The storage capacity of planned Pondage reservoir
is 41200 thousand m3, efficient storage capacities 34200 thousand m3 and entering flow
of water of Yellow River is 8.65-9.65 m3/s. Perimeter of the reservoir is 11.63 km and
average storage deptlh is 7.13 m.
2.2.2 Jinan Urban Sewage Pipeline Network Prolject



The project is a conveyance system of Jinan Sewage Treatment Plant. Scope of
the project is the urban sewage main pipeline system in service limit of Jinan Sewage
Treatment Plant, the total area is 108 km2 and residential area of which is 61.6 kin2.
2.2.3 Yantai 500 Heating Network Project
The project is construction of heat-offering network and necessary facilities, which
offer Zhifu District of Yantai produced by Yantai Huangbuohai CIIP Plant in
simultaneous production of power and heat to realize mass heat supply. Planning to build
30.22 km first-class hot-water network, 42 heat-changing stations, 2 mtunk pumps and
one 4x29 MW steam dome.
2.2.4 Weihai No.3 CHP Plant Project
It is a new CBP plant, installed capacity of which is three 75t/h high-pressure
circular fluidized boilers and two CC12-4.9/0.98/0.294 steamers. The project includes
construction of CHP plant, steam network, first-class network and heating power station
etc.
2-2



3. Introduction of Natural and Social
Environment of Project City
3.1 Introduction of Natural Environment
3.1.1 Introduction of Natural Environrnent of Shandong Province
3.1.1.1 Geographic Environment
Shandong is coastal province of China. Geographical position:l 14'36'--122o43E,
34∞25'-38∞23'N. East-to-west length is over 700 kmn and south-to-north width is over
400 km. Land area of Shandong is 156.7 thousand km2, making up 1.6 percent of total
area of China.
Shandong Peninsula sticks out betveen Buo Hai and Huang Hai, western inland is
bounded by Hebci, Henan, Anhui and Jiangsu Province from north to south.
3.1.1.2 Climatic Environment
Clinmte of Shandong is classified in warm temperate monsoon climate. Eastem of
Peninsula has the characteristics of marine climate while Northwest Plain has
characteristics of continental climate. It is dry, windy and dusty in spring, hot and rainy
in summer, clear in autumn, cold and short of rain and snow in winter. The annual
average temperature is 11-140C, increasing progressively from peninsula to inland. The
annual average precipitation is 500-1000 mm.
3.1.1.3 Fresh Water Environment
Shandong is situated in middle latitude zone with little precipitation. so the area of
surface fresh water is small. The area of surface fresh water of whole province is about 4
million mu, not as much as 2 percent of land area. There 5000 rivers longer thlani 5 ki;
and 18 rivers longer than 100 km, but most of them are seasonal rivers which are steel)
and fast. The water lost is much more than that permcating underground, and water
existing on the surface is more little. The major lakes are Southern Four Lakcs and
Dongping Lake. There are 5000 big or small reservoirs within the boundary of province.
Yellow River is a river passing through Shandong Province. It enters at
Shishuanglou of Dongmning County of Southwestem Shandong, runs towards northeast
through 6 cities and 21 counties of Northwest Plain and pours into Buo Hai at Kenli
County. The river in Shandong Province is 571 km long.
3.1.1.4 Sea Environment
Shandong is a coastal province. XVide seas and plentiful sea resource are
advantageous to economic development. Only the area of shallow seas 170 thousand
km2, which is 1.1 time of land area of Shandong. The land coastline is 3121 km and
3-1



island coastline is 683 km. which add up to 3805 km.
3.1.2 Introduction of Natural Environment of Jinan
3.1.2.1 Geographical Environment
Jinan is situated in 1 16012'-1 17044∂ and 36002'-3704'N, at the south of Yellow
River and the north of Mount Tai on the north of Middlesouthern Mountainous Region
and contiguous to Yellow River Alluvium Plain towards north. Terrain is long and
narrow from east to west, and high in south and low in north. The south of Jinan is
mountainous and hilly land with an average elevation of 100-400 mn; the middle is plain
with an average elevation of 40-100 m; the north is alluvial plain with an average
elevation of 20-40 m; at the north end is the ground river--Yellow River with a 30 m tall
dam, which fonn the shallow-dish basic terrain which is lower in middlc and high in
south and north.
3.1.2.2 Climatic Characteristics
Jinan is classified in warm half-humnid continental monsoon climate, the four
seasons of which are distinctive. It is dry and windy in spring, hot and rainy in sumuner,
clear and pleasant in autumn and cold and dry in winter. The average temperature is 14.2
0C, annual average precipitation is 685 mm, annual average wind speed is 3.2mts. The
perennial dominant wind in southwest, wind frequency is 39.4%; the sub-dominant wind
is northeast wind, wind frequency is 30.4%.
3.1.2.3 Rivers
There are two river systems such as Yellow River and Xiaoqing River. Yellow
River enters at Changqing County, through Licheng and Zhangqiu, then runs along the
northern boundary towards Zouping. The river within boundary is 134 km long.
Xiaoqing River rises spring of Jinan, runs through Licheng, Zhangqiu and Zouping, and
pours into sea at Yangjiaogou of Shouguang County. The whole river is about 240 km
long while it in Jinan is 76 kn long.
3.1.2.4 Hydrology and Geology
The hydrogeological condition of Jinan is complex. Cambrian and Ordoiician
carbonate rock stratum is distributed in south hill region. Rain water permeates
underground and becomes crevice karst water. It flows towards north, gushes out and
becomes spring group when it is obstructed by gabbro.
3.1.3 Introduction of Natural Environment of Yantai
3.1.3.1 Geographical Environment
3-2



Yaitai is situated on the east of Shandong Peninsula , geological position: 120'-
123∞E and 36∞-38∞N. It is closed to Huang Hai and Buo Hai at the east, south and north
and contiguous to Weifang and Qingdao city at the west. It is 280 kn long from east to
west and 130 km wide from north to south.
Project site-Zhifu District of Yantai is on the north of Shandong Peninsula,
geological position: 112∞24'E and 37∞24'N. It is closed to Huang Hai at the north and
east and stands facing Dalian at the north. It is contiguous to Muping at the southeast and
bordered to Fushan District at the west and southwest with the boundary of Jia River.
Terrain of Zhifu District is complex, it is a typical hilly region with an average elevation
of 400m. Urban district is on the northern edge of Jiaodong lump region.
3.1.3.2 Climatic Characteristics
Zhifu District is classified in warm temperate monsoon climate. The change of
season and monsoon is distinctive while the daily temperature change is small. It has
Characteristics of plentiful precipitation, moderate rainfall and clement climate. The
annual average temperature is 12.4∞C, annual average precipitation is 749 mm and
annual average wind speed is 4.2mls. Annual dominate wind is southwesten winid.
3.1.3.3 Rivers
The seven mnain rivers are Dagujia River, Qu River, Heng River, Le River, Majiadu
River, Guangdang River and Xingfu River etc.. The length of all rivers within boundary
is 71.7 km while the boundary length of Dagujia River is 22.8 km.
3.1.4 Introduction of Natural Environment of Weihai City
3.1.4.1 Geographical Environment
Wcihai is situated on the cast end of Shandong PenirLsular, Gcographical position:
121011'E and 36041'-37035N. It is surrounded by sea on three sides. It stand.s facing
Korea Peninsula on the east and facing Japanese islands on the south across sea. It is
separated from Liaodong Peninsula by Buo Hai Strait on the north and contiguous to
Yantai on the west.
The urban distnict of Wcihai is surrounded by mountains on three sides closcd to
sea on one side. It is classified into hilly region with an average elevation of 70-100 m.
The coast land is smooth and layer structure is sedimentary fine sand layer and impulsive
layer.
3.1.4.2 Climatic Characteristics
Weihai city is classified in middle latitude monsoon climate. It is marinle climate
wiffi characteristics of cold spring, cool summer, warm autumn, lukewarm winter,
plentiful wind and great humidity. Its temperature varies slightly in day and at night and
3-3



its verdant perod is long. The annual average precipitation is 760.7 mm. The annual
average temperature is 12. 1∞C. Dominant wind is northwestem wind.
3.1.4.3 Rivers
The main rivers are Wuzhe River, Yangting River, Xujia River and Zhangcun River
etc. They are classified in nai river, source of which is near but length of which is short.
The basin area and flow is small while the seasonal change is large.
Geographical position of project cities see Chart 3.1.
3.2 Introduction of Social Environment
3.2.1 Introduction of Social Environment of Shandong Province
Shandong is situated on the east coast of China. Its total area is 156.7 thousand km2
and its total population is 86710 thousand. Its density of population is 553/kn2. It is
composed of 17 cities(prefectures), 139 counties and 46 cities. Shandong is one of the
provinces the economy of which develops fast. Its GDP in 1994 is 387.2 billion yuan,
ranking third all over the country, and is planned to amount to 640 billion yuan in 2000.
3.2.2 Introduction of Social Environment of Jinan
Jinan is one of the famous cities of historn and culture. It is the birthplace of
Neolithic Longshan Culture. Now Jinan is the capital of Shandong Province, is the
political, economic and cultural center of whole province. It is composed of 5 districts
such as Lixia, Shizhong, Tianqiao, Huaiyin and Licheng District and 5 counties such as
Zhangqiu, Changqing, Pingyin, Shanghe and Jivang, urban area is 2119 km2. Total
population amounts to 5373.1 thousand and density of population is 653/km2. Jinan is
comprehensively developing city with industry as its main body. It has formed an urban
industrial system with 35 industrial departmcnts with machine. metallurgy, chemistry, oiL
building materials, light industry, textile and paper-making as its main bodv.
3.3.3 Introduction of Social Environment of Yantai
Yantai is a modernized and international port city vith advanced technological
industry, trade and tour as its main bodv. It is composed of five districts, five cities and
three counties, its total area is 13.5 thousand km2 and population amounts to 6.3 million.
The project area-Zhifu District is the political, econornic and cultural center ol Yantai.
Its total area is 47.4 km2 and its population amounts to 400 thousand.
3.3.4 Introduction of Social Einviroilnient of Weihai
Weihai was promoted to prefecture citv in 1987 by sanction of the State Council. It
3-4



9  ,    / f~~ ,    1  4ts R-xD   >-3w't '                                                            Yantai         Weihiai
|   ,  g\  ,  e>Rt  ,,  s fl1  irwN;  ' 0 0 ) ;; city \ 0EciW |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c                          ty            it'
, < -A - W y r A;                                       A, P.1 mi
> t$' ff  <      w  ""    Jinan Ciy +8                                  i7      ',           /      v     _
\1   V    S;SI<-E--S     ?        ))  lsoX  r l          /   F -(e   $|%i) t~~~~~-o
) C/ r2;2    t    z  . '   ,tj  _   t  -  -! -  -  * (--  --fQ ---w---  IISSfit n_. .  . _  . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A a
/J   >7   >2t>-l--4TlJ; -t*-  r   'l ∞tw   ∞ß    9  )' tit;    /   ft4                            , LegelldM O
g  r.w.;  t-\>1? Rm,^< ! : 53f,,, ,;.~~~~I
t_ftf ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -t  es n>3*  d;-<i",   ^
{  _   _  _ r _  _  > _  Fig.3. I  Location  Map  of  l'roject City                               *   ~~~~~~Project Cit) 



is composed of Rongcheng City, Wendeng City, Rushan City and I-uincui District.
There are 36 towns and 2918 natural Villages. Its total area is 5436 km2 and its
population amounts to 2420 thousand, in which 76 km2 is urban area and 420 thousand
is urban population. Industrial and commercial population is the main body of urban
population. The suburb people are mainly engaged in agriculture, fishery and aquatics
cultivation.
3-s



4 Environmental Impact and Mitigation
Measures in Jinan Project Area
4.1 Environmental Impact and Mitigation Measures of Jinan
Yellow River Water Supply Pondage Reservoir Project
4.1.1 Project Analysis
4.1.1.1 Location
The project area is located in the end of north stretch zone, northern bank of
Yellow River, facing urban area of Jinan across the river, belonging to Daqiao Town of
Licheng District. Jinan is located in 36 02' to 37 31' N and 1160 11' to 1170 44' E,
which is in middle west part of Shandong Province. The topography of Jinan is higher in
its south and lower in its north. Southem area of Jinan is hilly and, middle and northem
parts are plains. The elevation of urban is 30 to 40 meters above the sea level.
0 Location of abstraction site: The Queshan Reservoir's abstraction site is located in
north of Jinan, northem bank of Yellow River. The Luokou hydrometric station is
located in 2.5 kilometers upper reaches of the abstraction site, using Dawangniao
abstraction gate, which was established in 1995, between the twelfth to sixteenth
darns of Dawangrniao's dangerous section.
*  Location of sedimentation basin: The sedimentation basin was selected at the back
of dangerous section of Dawangmniao to 309 highway. The length and the width are
about 3.2 kilometers and from 0.3 to 0.7 kilometer.
*  Location of Queshan Reservoir: Queshan reservoir is located at the end of north
stretch zone of Yellow River, facing the Yellow River's dam in the east and north
stretch zone in the north. It is adjacent to the former railway from Beijing to
Shanghai in the south. The axis area of the dam is 6.08 square kilometers. The 308
and 309 highway are 1,700 meters to the north and 1,000 meters to the southwest of
the reservoir, respectively. See location chart.
4.1.1.2 Brief Introduction to the Proiect
4.1.1.2.1 Chier Function and Property or the Project
The chief function of the project is to guarantee the water supply from Yellow
River during the river's dry-up period so as to solve the city's water shortage problem, to
meet the city's need for water for its economic development and its residents' daily life
and to restore Jinan's spring scenery. The property of the project is newly built.
4-1



22                               0
5p A                         ∞ rK 4AAr0   ij
0  #to/a                   . .                      . O,'I      ∞
|~~ 0                                                                          3g     u*R75 Ir-  z Y 7   .. S 
=                                                              ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)' '  c. "e.
~~~~~~~~~~~OW                                          dAlao               o;    -   :  \
0   !   '   Lg  ''E3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~io                                  9l1   X   : 4*
4 F(k L0         2A 
- i S               C aesflfr'-............  ...... _  ........'.  .  \. ßA1 -u-* ∞-- 
< E o i,~~~~tsl-\.:tl .>                    ,       'i';J---                      - e
OAo a                       PlZ $ sIF ∞   ~  ;:           t  . 2-I, , 
-  S    t lX N slock gate,                   _ __   __              __
0~~~~R0 
;E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 -R                                         IQ? (Ti FS 11  -
9      t~~~~~E                                                         IC)SCat Gegahc1osto   la
\\o  mj;;-  -  >  O              Scale    10
..' ,   . a .....        . .... v*                                                       o  XE  _
*                                  0    0                           Scale~o  0't  I 2000
J-9~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~I



4.1.1.3 Water Supply Target of the Project
Water supply target of the project is to guarantee a daily supply amount of 367
thousand tons during a Yellow River dry up period of 81 consecutive days.
4.1.1.4 Scale of Water Diversion and Water Supply of the Project
4.1.1.4.1 Scale of Water Supply from the Reservoir to WVater Plant
According to the design of the project, an amount of 440 thousand tons is to be
supplied to Shawangzhuang Yellow River No. 2 Water Plant and an amount of 367
thousand tons dunng the river's dry-up period. If the water loss in pipeline be 1%, then
the daily water from the reservoir will be 444 thousand tons and 370 thousand tons
during the river's dry-up period. The designed volume of flow is 5.14 m3/s and 4.28
m3/s.
4.1.1.4.2 Scale of Water Inflow into the Reservoir
Based on thc number of days when water is available in Yellow RZiver ( 97%o
guaranteed ) and the reservoir's water supply plan, plus evaporation and leakage, the
pump station's volume of inflow is 8.65 m3/s and increases to 9.38 m3/s during Julv
through September every year.
4.1.1.4.3 Scale of Aqueduct's Water Diversion
Based on the inflow scale, evaporation in the sedimentation basin, water loss of 5%
leak-age and a water loss of 3% in sand convey the designed water diversion scale of the
aqueducts is 9.34 m3/s and increases to 10.14 during July through September every year.
4.1.1.5 Overall Layout of the Project
4.1.1.5.1 Industrial Process of the Reservoir
Water is to be firstly diverted from Yellow River through Dawangmiao diversion
sluice and then pumped into the sedimentation basin. Preliminary sedimentation basins
are all along the river embankment. Through 1.3 kilometer's pipeline, the water is to be
sent from the sedimentation basins to an intake pump station which in tum pumps the
water into the pondage reservoir. then the water will be sent to Shanwangzhuang Water
Plant through an outflow pipeline which spans the Yellow River for about one kilometer.
The mud will be dredged and pumped to sand stock-yard through mud pumps. See
Figure 4.1.1 and Figure 4.1.2.



K)   A   ~~~~~44g7'\.  ~ 114I-1
~~~~~           '~~~~~~~CD



I iflow
*'Yellow    River|      Pump               'Sedimentation
IDawangmiao             Station    i       lBasin            pipelines
Diversion Sluice -I       jQD  =1O.14-1      i(Preliminary) toj
Q 15 m3/s     |       Im3/s                                 21be dredged  j 2(.8m, 1.3
km
lIntake  Pump!         |Reservoir (million) 1    IOutflow
iStation      t ...   | UT=41.2m3                Culverts      I
QD =9.65 m/s          UT=34.2 m         rD5i.1 m s
Pump Station          Pump        Station       [Shawangzhuang  Water
X QD=5.14 m3/s  -   * across the river           Plant 440 thousand m31s        b
Fig 4.1.2   Flowchart of Queshan Pondage Reservoir
4.1.1.5.2 Comparison of Reservoir's and Sedimentation Basin's Position
Designs
There is no change in the reservoir and sedimentation basin's location area
except some changes in the anTangement outside the Northem Stretch Embankment. The
scope and protection objectives of environment impact assessment of the alternative
scenarios are the same.
4.1.1.6 Main Contents of the Project
4.1.1.6.1 Canal Pump Station Diversion Project and Chief Indexes
The canal pump station locates behind Dawangmiao Divesion Sluice and is a level
I pump station. It's designed volume of flow is 10.6 m3/s and the designed anti-flood
water level is 30.8 meters. It has 6 sets of pumps with a total capacity of 6x280 kW. Two
of which are in reserve.
4.1.1.6.2 Sedimentation Project and Chief Indexes
The project will use sedimentation ditches which is more than 700 meter at is
utmost width, 3.3 kilometers long, 24.2 to 24.5 meters high. The utmost alluvial height
of the ditch is 32.3 meter and the highest water position is 32.5 meters. Designed term of
use is 25 years. The area from Dawangmiao to Yueva dam usable for sedimentation is
1.4 square kilometers. The sedimentation ditch is going to be used stage by stage. The
first stage is the continuous depositing stage. The bankl will be built up to 29 meters
4-3



during the first phase of construction. the using water level being 27.5 meter. It thfe
expected continuous using term is three vears, during which time aggregate diversion
volume of water will be 524,724,600 cubic meter, diversion volume of sand, 3,573,500
cubic meter, sedimentation volume of sand, 3,241,700 cubic meter, sand volume into
the reservoir, 331,800 cubic meter, sedimentation rate, 0.91.
The second stage is the applied stage during which the height of the bank will be
increased by one meter yearly and the applied water level will be increased by one meter
annually, ensuring no less than two meter's depth of the applied water. The utmost
height of the bank will be 32 meters. In this stage, the term of usage will be three years,
during which time the volume of diversion and sedimentation will be the same as in the
first stage, aggregate deposit of sand will be 3,266,200 cubic meter and 307,300 cubic
meter of sand will be discharged into the reservoir and sedimentation rate Will be 0.91.
In the third stage, two ditches will be used instead of the usage of one ditch. The
highest applied water level will be 32.5 meters, the height of the bank will be 33.5 meters.
The sand will be disposed by means of " dealing with sedimentation vith digging",
transported to the sand stockyard through the sand transporting pipe witl the assistance
of the dredge. The method will last until the 25th year, the annual volume of water
diversion being 174,908,200 cubic meter, volume of sand diversion, 1,191,200 cubic
meter, sand deposit, 1,012,400 cubic meter, volume of sand discharge into the reservoir,
178,800 cubic meter, sedimentation rate, 0.85.
The term of usage of each stage and the sand content of ciitches will be shown in
Table 4.1.1.
Table 4. 1.1 The tenn of usage of each stage and the sand content of ditches
Stage Utmost water- Term of usage   Sand content(kglmn)   Mlean diameter
level    I             'Flooding   Non-flooding!    (mm)
First     27.5            3          2.66         1.49         0.0054
Sccond'   30.5             3           2.55        1.34         0.0048
Third      32.5    1      19          2.55        1.32          0.0031
4.1.1.6.3 The Project of the Sand Stockyard and the Chief Indexes
In the later stage, the use of on single ditch will be taken place by the altemate use
of two ditches. The sand will be dug out and sent to the sand stockyard, which will be set
at two places. The sand stockvard east and south of Nanfan V'illage serves in the first
stage, the usable area being one square kilometer according to 1.010.0()0 cubic mctcrs'
sedimentation basin. The stockyard can he used for six years. 'The satnd stockyard o' the
second stage lies outside the Northern Stretch1 Embankment, about 3.2 kilomelers long
from Dawu Flood Discharge Sluice in the west to Daw, ,u Water Discharge Sluice. Ilhe
southem end of the Northem Stretch Embankment, Nith the average width of 600
meters, area of about two square kilometers, average elev;ation of 24 meters. can be used
for 12 years, supposing the height of sand stocking is about 6.5 meters. The tenm of
sedimentation will be seven years. the total tern of application will be 25 years. Alter this
term, the area outside of this stretch area, from Wanvao MIain Sluice in the east, to Qihe
4 -4



River Sluice will continue to be used. The sand stockyard will be developed by
purchasing land by stages, comprehensiveh' developing the warping area. In the later
stage, warping and secondary ploughing will be used to prevent desertification.
4.1.1.6.4 Water Diversion to Sedimentation Engineering and Water
Diversion Indexes
Water delivery engineering is made up of outflow gate of sedimentation basin,
water delvery pipeline, pump station and culverts. The designed flow into the reservoir
is, 8.65 m3/s from October to June, corresponding highest water level of the reservoir
being 29.87 meters; 9.65 m31s from July to September, with highest water level of 24.97
meters and designed water level of flood control being 30.4 meters. See Table 4.1.2.
4.1.1.6.5 Pondage Reservoir and its Main Indexes
Queshan Reservoir, with the designed capacity of 41,200,00() square meters,
belongs to middle-sized plain reservoir with its shape of triangular. The water source is
fr6m Yellow river. The water is abstracted by the first pump station and conveyed to the
reservoir through a 1.3 kilometcr's long underground pipcline. elic maiin inidexes of the
reservoir is shown in Table 4.1.3. The water level, area and capacity of the reservoir are
listed in Table 4.1.4.
Table 4.1.3          Chief technological indexes of the reseroir
,~~ ~ ~ .
Items    I    Unit       Ind'exes   I   Items    I    Unit        Indexes
Length of the    kari         11.63     Average height     I II        22.74
embankmnent _             _            'of the bottom I           i
.     ~~~        ~~31s  I                       3 
Capacity       1O,OOOm   1   4120    lUsefu capacity IOI00 m3  '   3420
Area of       zkm      i    5.96      Inflow volume    rn3/s    1    8.65
resened water !                                                    i    9.65
Normal water      m           29.87      Aimual water  i 1,000 ni      16437
level    !            l            I   volume                  I
Average water|    m       I    7.13     i Annual suppl) 1   1 0,000 nm   15607
level    _                             of water
Dead water      In            241.0       An }nuual   !  0.000111      .137
level                 '               evaporation
Dead capacity   10,000 m i     700    1Annual leakage   10.00()n113     303
4.1.1.6.6 Pipeline Project (W'ater Supply Project) and Chief lndexes
The water supplying pipeline will cross the former Jingiu Railwav and Highway
309, and then extend to southwest. Traversing the Yellow River betwveen Zhuhequan
and Din,gkou, it will arrive in the north of Xinxujia 'Village, and along the west ring road



Table 4.1.2 _____Calculation of rcservoif's_regufatig in 19,95 ______                                 __________   ___
Mvonth   Abstraction Inflow Inflowv volutne Outliowv volume  Surplus   Loss of  Loss of depth by   Area    Loss of Capacitv at end  Water
period   (m3Is) (10,000 m3)   (10,000 m3)  10,000m3  leak-age    evaporation    (km2)   volume    of M'onth  level (mn)
_______ l0,000 m3     (MM)___   10,000m3   10,000 ni3  __
-- -      -~-                                      -700                                   24.0
10        30      8.65     2242.1         1376.4    -865.7       15.1         65.6 -~5.79          38.0o   -- 1512.6 -~25.41
IL -1--   29      8.65     2167.3   ~ 1332.0 - ~835.3            27.0         54.0      -~5.83     31.9        2289.0     26.75
.- - -12 - -  9-      8.65   --1420.0    -~1376.4   ~ 43.6           32.7 ---    46.5   -~5.87  -27.3             2272.6 --26.72
I-- 1 -    25 -- 8.65   -1868.4            1376.4       492.0      35.8   -     39.4        5.88 --23.2         2705.6 -~27.47
-2    ~ 27         8.65     2017.9 ---    1243.2       774.4      44.4   --42.7            5.90     25.2       3410.7      28.67
3         19      8.65     1420.0        136.          43.6 _ 49.2            96.3        59       5-7.0    -  33'4-8-.1    -2- -  56
4        28       8.65   -~2092.6 --     1332.0 -_ 760.6         53.5 -~-111.2            5.94     66.1       3989.1      29.75
5.1-5.5  --  5   8.65      373.7 -    - 222.0         151.7      9.6-        2 I.        5.96     12.6       4118.6      29.87
5. -5.3  0   -8.65   __0 -~ -962.0 _---962.0                    43.8 _      110.'3 - --5.94       65.5      _3047.3  --28.05
6--    0-    -8.65-          0       -  1110.0~~ ~-1110.0_    35.1           108.2        5.87     63.5 ___1838.7         25.97
7.1-7.25     0 -~-8.65  __0  - - -925.0                 -925.0      15.3 - ~-0    -- 5.81               0         898.4      24.34
7.26-7.31     6      9.65      500.3         266.4   _    233.9  _2.7        --0  -~-5.78               0 --      1129.6      24.75
8         18   9.65        1500.8    -  1376.4 _-   124.4        16.2    -     0~-   5.78 --  0 ---~1237.8                24.94
2  -.  ..IQ --  ~9.65  833.8     -  1332.0      - 498.2     13.0   -      7.       67-    27. 1           699.:5-- - - - 24.0
Total      216              16436.9       15606.6   ____ I_ 393.4                         ____ 437.4 ___________
4 -6



Table 4.1.4          Queshan Reservoir's water leveL area and capacity
Water level  22.4   23    24    25    26    27    28    29   29.87
Area (km2)    0    5.44   5.58 { 5.76   5.80   5.83 1 5.86   5.90   5.96
Capacity  |0      156   700   1274  1852  2433  3017  3605 I 4120
10,000 rn3
arnve at the Yellow River No.2 Water Plant by crossing XirLxujia Village. The whole
pipeline has a length of 9.5 km in which the distance across the Yellow River bed is
between 1100-700 m, and the distance along the west ring road will be 3.24 km. The
pipeline will cross the Yellow River by means of underground axis and traversing. When
crossing the Yellow River, the pipeline will be two steel pipes with a diameter of 1.8 m
and with a net distance of 5 m between them. Elevated pipes will be used to cross the
banks and the alluvial area with a traversing distance of 1050 m. llTe height of the pipe is
6.8 m. Receiving wells will be built on both sides of the river. The pipeline beyond the
southem bank is 3.999 km. Two cement pressure pipes will bc btuied at the depth of
2.5-6 m and the average depth will be 3.7 ni. Check wells are drilled along the pipeline at
the interval of 500 m. Valve wells and connecting pipes will be equipped every 1500 m.
4.1.1.6.7 Flood Discharge Sluice Project
The purpose of this sluice is to prevent or miniiize the loss of accidents and to
lower the water level or empty the reservoir. The project uses Dawu water discharge
sluice which will be rebuilt for flood discharge. Its designed water level will be 29.87 m,
dead water level 24.0 m, sluice plate bottom 21.5 m high. Water discharge rate will be 40
m3/s. The process of discharge is shown in Table 4.1.5.
Table 4.1.5     Discharge process of the reservoir
Water Level     29.87     24.0  ! 23.82  ! 23.50    23.00       Sumi
Days of discharge T   0     10.31  I  0.31      0.61      1.3
As shown in the chart, it will take 10.31 days to discharge water from the highest
water level of the dead water leveL that is 24 rn, water discharged 34.2 million m3. It will
take 12.35 days to empty the reservoir, discharging 41.2 million m3.
4.1.1.6.8 Irrigation and Discharge Project
A. General Introduction to Original Irrigation and Discharge Project
Originally the end of the north stretch area was part of the area irrigated by water
leaking from the Yellow River. At the head of the ditch, behind the inflow sluice, there
are 3 main ditches which lie in the east, west and north, and sedimentation area, pondage
reservoir and other accompanying constructions. The discharge project consists mainly
of Qiji River and Dash River- the two main discharge ditches and branch ditches, and
the discharge sluice project, etc.
4-7



At present, 3 mnain ditches and 2 discharge ditches and part of the branch ditches
and the accompanying constructions have been completed. Thie cast main ditch fi-om
Nanfang Village to Queshan, is 6 km long, with the designed flow volume of 3 m3/s.
The west main ditch, from the sluice to Dingkou Village of Sangzi Town, is 6.4 km long
with the designed flow volume of 2 m3/s. The north main ditch, from the sluice to Sundi
Town in Jiyang by way of Highway 308 and Dawvu sluice, is 15 km long with the
distance of 2.8 km from Dawangmiao to Dawu. The original 25 km's main discharge
ditch, at the end of the north stretch area, joining Dashi River from Nanfang Village via
Dawu discharge sluice, is now added with main ditches and tunnel sluice project.
B. Outline of the rIigation Project of the Area after the Completion of the Project
The reservoir project, after completion, will have great effect on the original
discharge system. The 4 km long main discharge ditch from Nanfang Village to the north
stretch embankment and Dawu discharge sluice will be used by the reservoir. In order to
ensure the passage of discharging, it is planned to dig a discharge ditch along the
northern side of the pondage reservoir and the former I Iighway 309, from Dawu flood
discharge sluice to the outside of the northem stretch embankment, thcn from the
embankment to Dasiti River. The ditch will be 6.95 km long, 3.85 km of whichl along the
northern stretch cmbankrment will be used togethlc witlh leakage prevenition ditch.
Furthermore, the change of the discharge system entails the constrnction of 10 new
bridges.
4. 1. 1.6.9 Power Supply Project
From Dawangmniao No.1 pump station to the pondage reservoir, and then to
Yellow River No.2 Water Plant, the whole water source project has 3 pump stations with
a total power capacity of 3145 kw. The sedimentation basin No.1 pump station requires
1680 k-w, the inflow pump station (No.2) requires 465 kw, and the outflow pump station
(No.3) requires 1000 kw. The 3 pump stations are all accoutered with transforners.
4.1.1.6.10 Transportation Project
When the project is completed, the pondage reservoir will cut off Jinan-Dezhou
Highway 104. It is planned to built a motorway, about 2.5 km long, from Jidan Highway
309 at the point 500 m from Wangiiazhen northNvard to Highway 308. Besides, to
guarantee the management and function, a 7m wide asphalt road will be built on the top
of the embankment of the reservoir.
4.1.1.6.11 The Grade of the Project
The project of Dawangmiao sluice, which takes water from the Yellow River, is of
grade I. In the sedimentation channel project, bunding tunnel is of grade II, and others
are grade m.
Queshan Reservoir has a designed capacity of 41.2 million m3 and is a niiddle-sized
plain reservoir of grade m. The main construction is designed according to grade II's
4-?



standards. The northem embankment is a flood prevention project of grade I. The
embankment, except the Dawu discharge sluice modificatio  pi-ojcct (gradc l), is of
grade II.
The outflow pipeline project is of grade fl. The pipelines across the Yellow River
are of grade I and the rest is of grade III. Construction of the discharge sluice is of grade
L
4.1.1.6.12 Total Investment and Chief Indexes of the Project
The project will cover 12819 mu of land and dig 2.0241 million m3 of earh. Earth
replaced is 6.1351 million m3. Total amount of concrete is 80.382 thousand m3. It also
need 1.4909 million ordinary workdays. Chief matexials consumption: 5370 tons of steet
2063 m3 of timber, 34913 tons of cement and 7569 tons of diesel oil.
Static investment of the project is 469 million yuan. TIotal investment amounts to
499.4598 million yuan.
4.1.2 Investigation and Assessment of Environmcntal Quality
4.1.2.1 Investigation and Assessment of Existing Situationi of'
Pollution Sources
From the result of investigation of poliution sources, there are no large or middle
size enterprises. There are only 50 small size enterprises in the project area which have
no poUlution or light pollution. The industrial zone of Daqiao town lies in about more
than 2 kilometers away from the reservoir. The enterprises within the industrial zone are
of none pollution or light pollution which will not be harm to the reservoir.
Briquette is the main fuel consumed in the area for cooking and heating. The
annual coal consumption amount of residents is from 5,480 to 6,850 tons. The annual
discharge amount of S02, NOx and TSP are from 175.4 to 219.2 tons, 19.8 to 24.8
tons, 274 to 342 tons, respectively.
4.1.2.2 Monitoring and Assessment of Environmental Quality
The environmental quality assessment will be proceeded on the basis of
monitoring of Yellow River's water, substrate sludge, groundwater and soil.
The monitoring sections are shown in Fig. 4.1.3. The assessment standard of
Yellow Rivers water is Class 3 standard of National Surface Water Quality Standard
(GB3838-88); class 3 standard of Groundwater Quality Standard (GB/T14848-93) will
be adopted for groundwater, background value of moisture soil will be adopted for
substrate sludge and soil. Single-factor-index method is adopted for assessment. the
assessment results are shown in Table 4.1.6 to Table 4.1.9, respectively.
4 -9



% ~     T
.7                                 'o,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~3
sluicc. sipbon _,,,:-\ r Ar :45 , AS ;9QE lri¢f .l.d1.
rallway   - >-; f>mev7Xa i .-~>.!-t i2225.w  W- tile arrazed dot ap Orctireltl moll(oratiot
rcservir         g                   7 7   J   s  fC         S3ic 1River
:    desiJtcr;desilangzone   a ~~~~~~~~  r47      X         * ~~ge re



Table 4.1.6    Assessment results of water quality in Yellow River
sectionlPH       N      Mn'I~~~~~~~~~~                  N
Section! PHI Cl I NM-I  p!N'   Mn'   F     As
I0.59 0.21t 9.00 1O.621 4.88  0.441 0.54   0.05    3.20   0.80
-T _
2P   j0.5310.201 9.95 10.981 5.09  0.42_  0.57 1 0.03 1 2.10   0.80
Note: Cl means chlorides; NIl means ammonia nitrogen; N' means the total nitrogen;
P means the total phosphorus; Mn' means permanganiate index; F mcans fluoride; As'
means total arsenic; Hg' means total mercury; V means volatile phenol.
Table 4.1.7    Status assessment results of substrate sludge in Yellow River
Items          Pb             Cd            As                     I Cr6+    r  Hg
Index         0.41      1    1.28           1.02          2.60     1    2.15
The results of monitoring and assessment of water qualitv in Yellow River show that
in the inception stage of the river having current, there are relatively severe pollution of
ammonia nitrogen, total notrogen and total mercury. The concentration of ammonia
nitrogen in spot 1 and 2 are 1.80 and 1.99 mg/I, which are 8 and 8.85 times more than
the corresponding standards, respectively. The concentration of total nitrogen in spot 1
and 2 are 4.88 and 5.09 mg/I, which are 3.88 and 4.09 times more than  lhe
corresponding standards, respectivelv. The concentration of total mercun in spot 1 and
2 are 0.00032 and 0.00021 mg/l, which are 2.2 and 1.1 times more than the
corresponding standards, respectively. Other factors of water quality are up to the
corresponding standards. The first reason that anmmoniia nitrooen, total nitrogen, total
mercury exceeding the respective standards is in 1996, there were 132 days drl-up in
Jinan section of the Yellow River. The second is the monitoring period was just after ten
days of Yellow River having water, because during the period of
Table 4.1.9                     Assessment result of soil
Spots.      Total Phosphorus        As          M Mg          K           Na
1X1  _  *,       0.58             0.87    i   0.95         0.83    ,   1.12
2#1              0.62         !   0.91        0.86         0.83    1   0.96
I~~~~~ i_ I_,
3#1     l        0.60             1.00         0.91        1.01         1.36
4#      l        0.66         i   0.76   1   0.84   1   0.89   1    1.52
5#               0.56             0.91        0.841        0.71        _2.16
6#      j        0.60             1.24         0.94        0.89   I    1.92
Aver.    1        0.60         '         0.5    0.89    | 0.8C6
_______________________   __________________________________   ___________________   ___________________[____________________________________0__



Table 4.1.8           Assessment results of grounidwater
Spots P1l    Total    V    M,l   NN    NNI N;  | As    BHC   Coli-    Total
lhardniess                                                         group   bacteria
1  0.54    1.91      1    1.20  1.345  26.25  3.84   8.27    none  none  >76.67         16
2'  0.80    1 .34    notic  0.49  0.001  0.25   3.86    1.23    0.37   none  >76.67      18
3'  0.12    1.11     1   0.70  0.019  llotIC   3.77    1.73    none  none  >76.67       17
4   0.52    1.51   niotnC  1.91  0.001   0.15   3.83    1.20    none  none    6          14
:  0.18    1.36    none  0.65  0.042   0.5   3.82   0.84   0.002  none    6             15
Aver. 0.43    1.45    0.7   0.99  0.282  5.44   3.83   2.65    0.08   none  >48.40         16
Note: Nl I i means ammnionia nitrogen: N- Imiean1s the totil nitro(grn: Mn mcanis permanganate index -, F mearns Ilioride; As'
meanis total arsenic: V meatis volatile pheniol: NN means nitrate nitrogen: NN' means nitrite nitrogen.
4-11



Yellow River's dry-up, the river bed was obviously polluted by the aitificial actiOilies.
The impact was still remained just after the river had water. It is also means that durinlg
the period of Yellow River firstly having watcr, the water quality is not suitable lor
abstraction.
0  The results of monitoring and assessment of substrate sludge in Yellow River show
that in the single indcxes of Cd, As, Cr6', H- are larger tlaui I except that of Pb. 'I'he
times of exceeding corresponding standards of Cd. As. Cr6+, Hg are 0.28. 0.02,
1.60, 1.15, respectively. See Table 4.1.7
The results of monitoring  and  assessment of groundwater showv that the
groundwater has been heavily polluted and is not suitable ibr drinking any more.
The indexes of total hardness, ammoniia nitrogen., total bacteria. coil-group in all the
five spots exceed the respective standards. The concentration range of coli-oroup is
from 18 to larger thani 230. The maximum concentration is 75.67 times m0ore than
its standard, emerged in spot 1, 2 and 3. The concentration range of total bacteria is
from  1.4)1O3 to 1.8v1tJ. 'I'he maximum concentration is 17 times more than its
standard, emerged in spot 2. Thc conicertrationi range of total hardlness is from i501
to 861. The maximum concentration is 0.91 times more thall its standard, emerged
in spot 1. The concentration range of ammonia nitrogen is ftom 0.754 to 0.773 mgnl,
The maximrnum concentration is 2.86 times more than its standard. emerged in spot 2.
Other indexes such as permanganate index, nitrate nitrogen, nitrite nitrooen and
fluoride exceed  the corresponding standards in some of the monitorino spots. Thle
concentration  range  of perrmanganate  index  is from   1.46  to  5.74  mg71.
Concentration in spot I and 4 exceed its standard. The concentration range of
nitrate nitrogen and nitrite nitrogen are fiom 0.02 to 26.9 and nione to 0.525 migil.
Only the concentrations in spot I exceed the corresponding standard. 'I'he
concentration range of fluoride from 0.844 to 8.27 mgil. Only the concentration in
spot 5 can mect iLS standard. The maximum conccntration cllerge in spot 1, hliich
is 7.27 times more than its standar(l. Other indexes, for example, volatile phienol,
arsenic, PH are up to the correspondiing standards. Thelrec is ino 131 IC founded in the
*  samples. The exceeding standards ol' coli-grollp and total bactelia have close
rclation to thle local sanitarv conditions. It is estimated that there are sonic rclatiotns
behveen the relatively high content of fluoride and geological conditions. The results
of investioation and assessment of soil show  that the concentratioin of total
phosphorus and magnesium in all the five spots are lower than respective standard,
wlhile that of potassium and arsenic slightlv exceed the respective standards. The
exceeding times of potassium is 0.01. emerged in spot 3. T'he exceeding limes of
arsenic is 0.01, emerged in spot 6. The exceeding plhenomiienia of so(iiuimii is severe.
All of its concentration exceed the standard except that of in spot 2. T'he maximnum
concentration is 1. 16 times more than its standard. emerged in spot 5.
4.1.2.3 Investioation of Stabilitv of Yellow River's WI'ater Quality
Due to the short assessment period, the representative of the mi oniitotitng
results is relatively poor. lTo grasp the stalility of w^ ater qluity of Yellow Rivet, wve
;-12



collect 5 years monitoring data of three section. Following table is listed the
statistical results of mean value and corresponding index of these sections.
From the table, we know that all the indcx can mect the corrcsponding
standards except the ammonia nitrogen which the index is 0.1 times more than is
standard.
Table 4.1.10 Assessment results of water quality of Yellow River's main stream
Items           1Mean value  Glass 3 Standard     Index
PI1            *  8.1           6.5-8.5          0.73
Total hardness         13.2           450             0.29
Chloride            71.6            250            0.29
Dissolved oxygen         8.0             5             0.40
COD                 4.1            1 5            0.27
Ammonia nitrogen         0.22           0.2             1.1
Nitrite nitrogen       0.029          0.15            (.19
Volatile phenol       0.0001          0.005           0.02
Cvanide            0.00036          0.2           0.0018
Mercury            0.00006        0.0001            0.6
C.hromium(6+)            -            0.05        '
Arsenide            0.012          0.05            0.24
Lead               0.04           0.05            0.80 _-
Cadmium             0.0014         0.005            0.28
According to the historical data of Yellow River, we find that the water quality
in the river is stable. The concentration of pollutants in the water do not change
obviouslv. One reason is in the lower reaches of this river, there are no large run-oil
converged in. So the chances of bteing polluted is reduced. Ihe other reason is the
absorption function of silts in the river wvhich can purified the water quality during
the subsidence process of silts. These two reasons determine the stabilitv ot the
water quality in the river.
4.1.3 Analysis of Factors Influencing the Environnment
Analysis of the project's environment-influencing factors is carried out in three
ways. One is the projects impact on the environment during its construction period.
The other is the reservoir's impact on the enwironment when it is put in use. Ihe
third one is the environment's impact on the prqoect.
4.1.3.1 The Impact of Duration under Construction on
Ecological Environment
According to the construction plan, the duration under construction will last
about two years. The impact of duration under construction on ecological
4-13



environment will depend on job practice, construction season, features of
engineering, topography, landforms and ecological status to a great extent.
4.1.3.1..1 The Impact on Vegetation
In addition to reduction of vegetation rate caused by the land occupation of
sedimentation basin, water delivery engineering and reservoir, the tentative
occupation of lands such as tentative houses, roads, parking area, treading of people,
roller compaction of machineTy will also bring about damages to vegetation. The
engineceing activities like carthwork and filling of dam foundation will make carth's
surface naked, this will bring about soil losses to a certain extent if theie is a big rain.
The impact will be mainhl imposed on the crops in the farmland because of the
plain landform in the project area. This kind of impact will be recovered atler one
to two years except that of caused by earthwork. It will not have an) great impact
on ecological environment.
4.1.3.1.2 Impacts of Noise and Raise Dust on Environment
In the peak-hour of construction, the construction of sedimentation basin,
water delivery pipeline and reservoir will be conducted simultaneously. According
to monitoring data of other large scale reservoir, the noise will be up to 70 to 90 dB
around the scope of 200 meters of working face. Moreover, the tail gas of motor
vehicle and flying ashes will do harn to the surrounding environment. But it will do
little harm to the villages due to the long distance.
4.1.3.1.3 The Impact of Wastewater and Solid Waste
The domestic wastewater and solid waste being produced within the
construction period will bring about negative impact on ecological environment if
these are discharged without due treatment. The destroyed crops and lands during
the construction should be compensated. This kind of impact will be eliminated
after completion.
4.1.3.1.4 The Impact on Transportation
During duration under construction, part of the road from Jinan to Dezhou
will be occupied, the measure which is about to taken is to build a tentative road.
4.1.3.1.5 Migration and Settlement
The acreage occupied b) the engineering includes twvo parts. One is 7.19
square kilometer used for constructing reservoir. The other is about 1.11 square
kilometer, which is occupied by sedimentation basin.
The total household of migants is 304 with the population of 1,186
4-14



(including: male, 733; female, 453).
The migration will have impact on the migrants to a certain exient. So, a action
plan for migration and resettlement had been drafled. The budget for land
occupation and migration are 50.49 and 69.48 million yuan, respectively, with a
total of 119.97 million yuan to reduce the unfavorable impact of the project.
4.1.3.2 Analysis and Forecast of Project's Impact on Environment
after Construction
4.1.3.2.1 Analysis and Forecast of Project's Impact on Geology
The main impact on geology is from construction of the reservoir and
sedimentation basin.
A. Geological Features in the Construction Area
The project area locates on the Jinan rock mass of Luxi breakl and bulge region
with the Qihe-Guangrao break on its north, Qianfoshan break on its east, Ganggou
break on its west. This area belongs to monocline structure. From the Quaternary
period, this area belongs to slight uplifted region. The flood drainage area. on the
north of the Yellow River, locates in the low-lying zone formed by northward
movement of the crust. See Fig 4.1.4 and 4.1.5.
The project site lies on the alluvial plain of the Yellow River. The top la! er of
the river course is the new alluvial deposits which is chiefly yellow sand soil (alQ4)
with some fine sands or clay lens. Its thickness can be 20 m at its utmost. The
bottom layer is AIQ3 which is gray and brown soil and clay with calcium blocks in
hard plastic form. Within the exploration depth (20 m) on either bank are mainly
the yellow sand soiL soil and clay, mostly in plastic or soft plastic forms. The rocks
under the north bank are complcx. The old desolate river course shallowly covered
under the reservoir area is mainly made up of fine sands.
Jinan rock mass (V3/5) is under the Quatemary stratum and crops up only at
Mount Queshan north of the river, Yaoshan, Jinniushan, Biaoshan, Manshan,
Sushan on the south. The so-caIled " Nine Points in Shandonig's Fog" refers to the
nine mountains. The area of Jinan rock mass is about 464 km2 whose lilhology is
complex basite. The rocks are chiefly gabbro, diorite and sinaite, etc. Its main body
stretches from east to west, 45 km long and 20 km wvide. Most of the rock mass is
covered bv the Quatemary stratum. The rock mass has an out-stretching contact
with the surrounding rocks with an angle of 60 and the rock mass is like a cover on
the top. There is also some granite in the rock mass. So the project has a good
stability on this solid rock mass.
The northern part of the rock mass is 02 Ordoxician limestonie. In fiirtler
north it is C+P carbon sestem plus Dyas seratum till the south of the Qihe-
Guangrao Break. And the 3rd stratum appears under the Quatemary stratum.
4-15



-4~~~4
(t FE W  FA       E )
C4P
\~~~~~4j c- C+
-\ e+ o/0q
(   st.a.  (+∞    \    1'4
0   **& \6                  I +
C   iG ,   E+O       \  (
Fig.4.1.4  the gabbro structure vestige map of Jinan city
Scale 1:500000



Stretcling zone located the north of Yellow River
g;/   \;             ~~~~Yellow River                                      1
~~~ /   : S_                                  /  ~~~~~~~~~~ Yellow River Y
Fig.4.1.5 the regional geologic
map of Jinan Yellow  River
tA14@X  g gk, x )                                    water diversioti works
\ <  ~~~~~~~~~  \ ~~~~~Legend
t t12             +14                                 .            ==            bridge
i) tW& railway
geologic boundary line
Scale  1:50000



B. Geological Conditions of Reservoir and Sedimentation Basin
The earth within the exploration depth of Queshan Pondage Reservoir's
bundings can be categorized into 3 layers. The first layer is mainly artificial sand
soil fillings, about 23.0-33.06 m in altitude, 8-9.6 m in thickness with some soil and
clay in. The second is the alluvial layer covering the reservoir site, about 3-6 m in
thickness, part of which is the old desolate river course, such as the distance from
Pale No.5+700 to No.6+100 which is 15 m deep with mainly sand soil plus some
clay, soil, fine sand layer or lens. The third laver is the river and lake sedimentation
layer (al+1Q4), generaly at 18-20m beneath with mairdy soil and layers of clay,
sand soil or lens occurring altemately. The fine sand layer between Pale No.7+000
and 8+000, 9+200 and 9+800 constituted the old river course.
Although the perviousness of the soil and clay in the 3rd layer is smaller than
0.01 m/d and can be viewed as a water-proof layer, it is not continuous, and thick
enough. The sand soil layer surrounding the reservoir, especially the fine sand layer
in the old liver course is the main Icaking area. Undcr the action of a @ig} water
head, land slide might occur, flooding the reservoir, causing salinization and
swamping. Saturated sand soil and fine sand layer are all easily liquified, thus
measures must be taken to avoid leakage and to discharge water.
The ground water level ini the reservoir is generally 21.5 m. The earth of the
sedirnentation's bundings can be categorized into 3 layers and 2 inter-layers from
top to bottom. The first layer is sand soil, 0-4 m thick, plastic-softplastic in form.
The second layer is soil which is plastic, 10 m thick and is the nmain part of the
sedimentation basin. In this layer are many thin layers or lens which can be
categorized into 3 interlayers according to their lithologv. The first interlayer is
alluvial mud or alluvial earth with a stench smell in the soft-plastic or fluid-plastic
form and in the shape of lens. Its maximum thickness is 2.4 m. The second
interlayer is plastic orange clay with a thickness of 0.8-2 rn, ZK4+337 can be more
than 4.0 m. The third interlayer is plastic sand soil; ZKO+868-1+710 and
ZK2+340-3+194 are continuous and the thickness is less than 4.0 m. The land in
the sedimentation basin is low-lying. The ground water is 1.0-1.5 ni beneatll;
elevation 23.00 m.
C. Hydrogeological Conditions
The ground water in this area is mainly the ventage water of the Quaternary
stratum. The chief water-containing layers are the sand soil layer and fine sand Layer.
Compensation for the ground water comes from the atmnospheric rainfall and
Yellow River's side leakage. The depth of ground water varies with the season and
the distance to the river. Normally it is 1.0-2.5 m beneath the earth and the water
quality is good and there is no erosive C02. Ventage pressure-bearing water is
normally 20 m beneath and is of fine quality and abundant in amount. Its water
levcl is 0.5 m lower than the hydrobath.
4-1 6



D. Analysis of Project's Impact on Environmental Geology
From the above-mentioned geological conditions of the project site, the
reservoir and the sedimentation basin, we can see that the rock break in the area is
not well developed. Besidcs, the scale of the reservoir is not very big, leakage
amount is small and the leaking water will compensate for the Quatemary stratum's
ventage water. Therefore there won't be any direct influence on the rock break.
And, on historical records between 1970 and 1995, there were 19 earthquakes of
1.0-3.3 level in this area, which thus belongs to the earthquake inactive area.
According to China's Earthquake Severity Illustration Map (1980 Edition), the
project locates in a VI level area. The pondage reservoir and sedimentation basin
won't bring about any earthquake.
The reservoir, sedimentation basin and sand stockyard arc low-lying. The
surrounding sand soil layers, especially the fine sand layer in the old river course are
the chief leakage area. Under the action of a high water head, flooding and
secondary salinization may occur.
4. 1.3.2.2 Forecast of the Project's Impact on Soil's Secondary
Salinization
A. Groundwater's Impact on the Soil's Salt Content
The salt in the ground water is the source of soil salt. Ground water level
influences the soil's salt content. Researches in Dezhou Ling County by Agriculture
Research Institute of China show that the stronger the evaporation of the ground
water is, the bigger the substrate water evaporation is, and the bigger the
accumulation of salt in the soil. Years of research prove that it is best for the ground
water to be controlled at 2 m in spring, 1.5 m in falL I m in sunmmer. This is based on
the characteristics of North China's climate and is a most effective measure to
prevent salinization.
B. Conditions for the Secondary Salinization of the Project Area's Soil
The project site locates on the alluvial plain with a small gradient. Owing
to the Yellow River's alluviation, there is a water-logged terrain with thick earth
layer. The earth comes from the river's alluvial substances in which there are lot of
soluble salts making salinization possible.
The project area belongs to the temperate zone with a half moist monsoon
climate, cold and dry in winter, rainy in summer, quick warming-up and dry in
spring, quick cooling-down and drastic shortage of rainfall in autumn. The
prerequisite of salinization is that the yearly evaporation is bigger than the
precipitation. However, the seasonal interchange of the moist and dry will cause salt
accumulation in spring and salt deduction in summer and salt accumuLkitiot again in
fall.
4-17



The groundwater under the project area is veiy shallow, between 1.0 to 2.5
meters and an easily salinized area. Thiis is one of the main characteristics of the
project area's agricultural ecological environment. If there are no eflective
measures aflcr the project is put in use, it's possible that the ground water level will
rise, causing secondary salinization or water logging.
C. Project's Impact on the Salinization of the Surrounding Area
The project area is subject to the impacts of climate, hydrogeology, hydrobath,
drainage, etc., belongs to the salinization-prone zone and also stands good chance
of getting salinized. The ground water level around the rcservoir remains 2.5 mcters
almost unchangeable, with changes no bigger than one meter. Influenced by Yellow
River's side leakage, the water is difficult to drain. When the pondage reservoir is
put in use, water level of the reservoir is seven meter above ground, dam base
leakage and pressure from the high water level will cause the rise of groundwater
and some areas may even be water-logged, and thus causing the increase in salt
content of the surrounding arable land.
Sedimentation basin is built in the low-lying area. Ground water is 1.0 to 1.5
meter beneath, mineral content 0.7 to 1.2 g/l, soil's salt content 0.076 to 0.90%6.
Besides, the bundings of the sedirnentation basin and the alluvial altitude will cause
an alluvial delta, the length of which will vary in different phase of the operation of
the sedimentation basin. See Table 4. 1. 11.
Table 4.1. 11    Mud's alluvial altitude and elongation of the delta
in different alluvial phases
|    Alluvial altitude  of the!   Length of the delta
l__ _  delta(m)                   (km)
End   of  firstl   27.2                           2.5
phase          ,
End  of second!    30.2                           2.5
phase
End   of  third!    32.2                          1.8
phase          X__
From the above we can see, the changes in the alluvial delta caused by the
building of the sedimentation basin and alluvial height change of the original ground
structure, break the connections between surface water and ground water and cause
the rise of ground water level and waterlogging, asseverating soil s secotldary
saiinization.
D. Measures Taken to Mlitigate Impacts
a) Measures Taken to Prevent Reservoir's Leakage
HDPE plastic fim is highly water-proof, adhesive and adaptable and hence the
ideal leakage-proof material. Vertical plastic application has alrcady bccn widely
used in the hvdro-projects. which is convenient in use, cheap in cost and effective
4-1 l



in leakage preventiorL etc. In this project the top laver of sauid soil has a
permeability of 103-10-4 cnm/s. There is a whole layer of soil eight to nine meter
below whose permeability is 104-1 o7 cm/s. So, a single laver of 0.4 millimeter thick,
ten meter wvidens polyethylene film will be applied vertically alongside the
reservoir's bundings. top of the film will meet the film built in the dam, making an
enclosed leakage-proof layer.
b) Leakage Prevention and Leak-age Discharge Mleasures
To discharge the water leaked around the reservoir, some leakage
prevention ditches are needed. The ditches from North Bunding's Dawu Flood
Discharge Sluice to Dawu Water Sluice will be used together with the newly-dug
flood discharge ditch outside the North Stretch Embankment. Leakage prevention
ditches will be dug from Yanjia Vilage. Ditches will be dug outside both the south
and west bundings, the center line of which is 37 meters to the out ring of the water
discharge ditch. The ditches has a bottom width of two meters, a depth of three
meters (the proportion of height to slope is 1:2, while the proportion of bottom
width to slope is 1/10000). The total length of the ditch is 6.95 kilometers in which
north bunding takes up 1.6 kilometers, east 1.3 kilometers, south 3.6 kilometers,
west 0.45 kilometer.
There will be connection ditches every 200 meters between leakage prevention
ditches and water discharge ditches at the foot of the reservoir. The connection
ditches are one meter in bottom width, 1.2 meter in depth (the proportion of height
to slope is 1:1.5, while the proportion of bottom width to slope is 1/5(X0).
There are four tunneLs on the old Jinhu railroad outside the south bunding. By
digging the connection ditches the leakage prevention ditches are connected with
the flood discharge ditches in the North Stretch Zone. The water leaked will be
discharged by the discharging system through Dawu flood discharge sluice and the
flood discharge ditches outside the North Stretch Zone. Besides, check sluice will
be set at the confluence of the leakage prevention ditches to prevent the counter
flow by high water level.
There are seepage prevention ditches in all the directions of the sedimentation
basin except in south. The average height of the seepage prevention ditches is 23
meters above ground, with bottom wNidth of three meters. rhe proportion of height
to slope is 1:2.5, while the proportion of bottom width to slope is 1/5000.
E. The Forecast of the Project's Impact on Soil Secondary Salinization
To mitigate the pro,ject's impact on soil secondarv salinization, at cast, south,
north and west bunding 37 meters away from the dam a leakage prevention ditch
will be built and another at 15 meters away from the east, west and north sides of
sedimentation basin.
The maximum and minimum linear distance between the reservoir and the
sedimentation basin are 2.05 and 1.06 kilometers. respectively. The design of the
reservoir area and scepage prevention ditch around the sedimentation basin are the
same as those of the by-ditch in Yuchencg Yellow River irnigation area. According
4-19



to the research results shown in Report of Comprehensive Management on
Salinization and twenty years' practice, leakage prevention ditch on by-ditch
standards ( depth 3 meters, bottom width 2 meters, the rate of height to slope is 1:2
and the rate of bottom width to slope is 1/1000) can control an area of 5 to 8 square
kilometers. Groundwater has an average drop of 0.23 meter and mineralization of
groundwater has an average drop of 0.305 g/l. Thus it can be controlled between 1
and 2 meter after leakage proof and leakage prevention work is done to the
reservoir and the sedimentation basin. And it can restrain secondary salinization
from occuwning.
4.1.3.2.3 The Forecast of the Project's Sedimentation Basin's Impact
on Land Desertification
A. The lInpact of the Project's Sedimentation Basin and Stockvard's on Land
Desertification
When the project is put into operation, the annual water diversion amount will
be 174,910,000 cubic meter, and the annual sand conveyance of the ditch is 1.191
million cubic meter. The use of the ditch's sedimentation is divided into three stages,
a total of 25 years. The applicable sedimentation area 1.4 square kilometer. In the
sevcnth year, on ditch will be converted into two ditches. The useable water level will
reach its highest of 32.5 meters. Ihe altitude of the dam is 33.5 meters. Tlhe water
inside is 2 meters deep. The mud in the ditch will be dredged and transported to sand
stockyard. The first stage sand stockyard area is about one square kilometer. The
height of the sand pile in first stage is 8.5 meters with time limit of six years, while
the area of second stage is 2 km2 with sand pile height of 6.5 m. So the stockyard is
useable for twelve years. Thus it can be seen, the project's sand conveyance amount
is large, sand sedimentation and pile occupies a wide area and sand pile reaches high.
The use suspension of the ditch's sedimentation basin and fulfill of the sand
stockyard are main factors that cause the desertification.
B. Measures to Mitigate Land Desertification
Main measures taken to prevent desertification are concentrated use of dixided
land. After use, build the dam with mud dredged, plant trees, establish imgation
system and resume cultivadon . Thus desertification can be overcome and
occupation of land can be lessened for developmcnt of agriculture.
C. The Forecast of Desertification
The covering of the sand sediment and resumption of cultivation after use of
the sand stockyard is one of the successful experiences about soil amelioration in the
Yellow River flooding area. And it has been spread to use from the 60's till now.
The irrigation area of Xiezhai in Heze district had been widely using warping ever
4-20



since 1969. The warping area was 6200 hectares. Warping amelior-ates the
cultivation layer of the land. The highly nutritious alluvial lands raises the soil's
nutritious content of the sandy and salty lands after warping and improves its water
and fertility preservation. See Table 4.1.12 and 4.1.13.
Warping raises agricultural production. Dongming county, bordering upon the
Yellow River in the west, has long been drifted and a large sector was formed and
dusty all year around. Before warping, the average output per mu was 115 jin. Since
1976, the project's quality control has been strengthened. Alluviation was introduced
to ameliorate the soil. In 1983, 90.5 thousand jin of grains was contributed to the
countzy. Wangdian Village in the same irigation area has 2,468 mu arable land.
Before warping, the average grain yield per mu was 120 jin with a total of' 296
thousand jin. After warping in 1979, per mu's yield reached 440 jin and totaled 1086
thousand jin, 3.7 times of that before warping.
It follows therefore that, only if overa}l planning is executed in the project area
and input and output is serialized, warping and covering will surely be able to
enhance fertility and physical properties of sand stockyard lands, resume use of the
'land, and attain the goal of making best use of the lands in the sedimentation basin
and sand stockyard and raising the grain yield and refraining from desertification. If
more is invested in agriculture in this area, comprehensive management is executed
and farming done scientifically, ,better results will surely be seen.
Table 4.1.12   Warping soil's nutrient content and substitute amound
(1983, soil investigation materials)
1,~ ~ T Iic- iAmun
'Type of IOrganism iNitrogen ,Phosphorts  Alkaline iQuick- Quick- Amound
isoil    (%)      o(% o)    (nitrogen lPhos- ipota- !(mg/l Ioog
Before  bDust soil '0.22   '0.013    0.098      '20       q1      399   4.0
warping Sa3inized.0.45      0.032   .0.072       31        2     '92     5. 3
Afler   iSand soil!0.27  ~0.031   :0.096         36       12    '84    '5.3
,Mixed  i0.60     10.042    o.087       ;60 (4           ;88    ;7.3
warping jAlluvial 0.83     '0.064   '0.088        73      ,7      156   ;1.6
Table 4.1.13     Warping soil's physical testing results
(1983, soiFl investigation materials)
Warping jType  ofTest point'Capacitv ',Porositv  lAir      ;Capiflarv '1l ield
1soil               1(C/cm3)  (%)       iporosity  'porosity  ;water
i                        I ,   '(oO     i0∞o)     iconltenlt
Before  !Alkaline  iJiaolou   11.43    ,46.64    13.64     ,42.4      129.87
After    IMiddle  ,Sanchun 11.26       152.45    118.31     34.31     41.67
i Alluial  Laiyuan  |1.38     147.92    16.34     |41.58    i36.39
Aluvial  Xi.aoJing |1.22      ,53.96    113.59    !40.37    136.21
_|Alluvial  ~Gaocun  110.4    ,60.75    114.62    '46.13    144.8
4.1.3.2.4 The Analysis orthe Project's Impact on Irrigation System
4-21



and Flood Discharge
A. The Project's Impact on Irrigation System and Flood Discharge
After the complction of the projcct, the sand stockyard and the sedimentation
basin of original inigation area will overlap the east main ditch. The original four
kilometers long main discharge ditch from Nanfan Village to Beizhan and Dawu
flood discharge sluice will be occupied by the reservoir, and this will exert great
itpact on the project area's irrigation system and flood discharge.
B. Mitigation Measures
In the view of making surc the irrigation system and flood discharge system
work properly after the completion of the project, the project is to re-plan and design
the two systems in the area. The original sedimentation basin will be expanded
northwestwards to a new aquaduct, eastwards to Nanfan Village, southward to
Dingkou Village and northward to No.309 highway, and the total area is not changed.
Along the south of the pondage reservoir---the original Jinghu railway and No.309
highway a main outflow ditch will be dug via Dawu flood discharge sluice across the
northem stretch embankment. And then along the northem stretch embankment
eastward the ditch is to be linked with Dashi River, and to be met vith leakage
prevention ditch, and this will basically ensure good uirigation. Besides, at the
confluence of the leakage prevention ditch and flood discharge ditch, a check sluice
will be built to prevent high water level flood water from backflowing into the
leakage prevention ditch.
C. Impact Analysis
After re-planning and dcsigning of the irrigation system in the proicct area,
irigation can be basically ensured.
4.1.3.2.5 Analysis of Impacts of Abstraction from Y'ellow River on Surface
Water in Jinan
A. Current Situation of Water Supply in Jinan
The water supply of Jinan consists of three main water resources-groundzwater,
reservoir water and Yellow River water. The total designed water supply is 880,000
t/d, of which 50,000 t/d from Wohushan &Jinxiuchuan reservoir north of Jinan. in
1983, Jinan Yellow River Water Diversion Works was ratified by the State Planning
committee. The amount of designed water supply is 400,000 t/d. The first project
has already in operation since May, 1989 which provides 200,000 tVd. The second
project is up to be completed, however, it runs in a worse condition because of
shortage of water supply without pondage reservoir.
4-22



B. Conditions of Water Uses and Drainage of Jinan
The conditions of water uses and drainage of Jinan see Table 4.1.14.
Table 4.1.14   The conditions of water uses and drainage of Jinan
Unit: 10,000 tld
Items         g Amount of water uses    i           Drainage
living    Industry   Total     LMng ;  Industrv   Total
Amount   24.6        55.4      80    !2.9           47.1       68
C. Amount Predication of Water Demand and Drainage of Jinan in the Future
The conditions of water demanded drainage in 2000,2010 and 2020 are shown
in Table 4.1.15.
Table 4.1.15 Amount of water demand and drainage of Jinan in the future
Unit: 10,000 t'd
Items  1  Amount of water demand      |  Amount of drainage
Year      L _ing               Tiing j  Industrvl  Total
2000      37.26      81.64      118.90    31.67  I  69.39 T   101.06
2010      55.50  i  120.80    176.30    47.17        102.68 i  149.85
2020      64.35      145.00    209.35     54.70  i  123.25     177.95
D. Analysis of Water Supply Resources in Jinan
At present, the water supply resources are groundwater, reservoir water and
Yellow River water which are analyzed in detail below.
a) Groundwater
Considering Jinan as a famous spring city, the spring spraying should be
guaranteed when extracting groundwater. According to calculation, the range from
300,000 tld to 420,000 t/d is rational with spring spraying at the rate of 85,0(X) -
120,000 tld.
b) Reservoir Water
After Wohushan and Jinixiuchuan reservoir project are extended. the amount of
water supply will reach 150,000 t/d.
c) Yellow River Water
The Yellow River runs into Jinan west from Pingyin county to east Fanjiavuan,
Zhangqiu county with a total line 172.9 Km. This gives an advantage of using
Yellow River water. Based on the analysis predication of Yellow River water, the
water amount in the follow years is: 8.25 billion cubic meter in 2000, 6.7 billion
cubic meter per year in 2020. So it is possible to use Yellow River water resources
before 2020 if the project is made in order.
d) The Action of Abstraction from West to East
4-23



It is a large water supply project to use the water of Dongping lake wlhich
pondaged from Changjiang River, Yellow River and Hanjiang River. If this project is
completed, 200 million cubic meter would send to Jinan every year. So it is a main
water supply resources in the future.
E. Impacts Analysis of Abstraction from Queshan Pondage Reservoir on
Groundwater Environment
From the Table 6.1.15, it may be found that with the economic development
and population increase of Jinan city, the amount of water demand and drainage
becomes larger and larger. However, there are only three main water resources in
Jinan - ground water reservoir water and Yellow river water, meanwhile the water
supply of reservoir is very limited. So the only method to get water supply should
over-extract ground water if the Yellow River water isn't uscd. C)bviouisly, over-
extracting will mak-e serious results, such as the level of groundwater decreasing, no
spraying of Baotu spring, bad influence of Jinan natural landscape and the indirect
influence the tourism. Moreover, over-extracting will cause to water supply shiortage
of Daming lake and Xiaoqing river. This will hinder the realization of the aim to V-
class which the water quality will reach the "The quality standard (GB3838-88) of
ground water in 2000". Thus it is very useful for maintaining both groundwater level
and spring landscape and it can also improve the groundwater quality afler extracting
Yellow River water.
4.1.3.2.6 The Impact Analysis of Slit Produce(d in the Plrocess ofY ellow River
Water Purifying on Environment
In the whole purifI,ing process, silt comes from three sources:(a) the depositing
tank of the first plant; (b) the inclined-tube depositing tank of the second plant; (c)
the two-valve filter tankl of the second plant. The sill produccd by inclinedl-tube
depositing tank, and two-valve filter tank of second plant is drained off to the sewage
tank, then sent to the water distribution by sewage pump of the first plant. finally
processed alter combining with Yellow River water. Ilicrclorc, therC is no bad
influence of the fifth from incline-tube depositing tank and two-valve flter tank on
the surround environment. The silt produced by the depositing tank- of the first water
plant is drained off to the salinization zone. At last, sewage will be separated fiom the
silt by natural depositing and sent to the drainage canal. The silt could be used to
strength Yellow River dam when the height and wvidth reach the planned size, soil
will be chose to cover the silt and it couldn't make any worse effect.
4.1.3.3 Impacts Analysis of Environmenit on the Engineerinig
The main impact of environment on engineering is the flood as wvell as the
impact on water quality.
4.1.3.3.1 Impact Analysis of Flood on Engineering
4-24



Fig.4. 1.6  The schematic block diagram of water treatment
technological process and silt discharge trend
IV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
liiclimd ttI,elttan
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F f =,    1 -.; _ 
I          1l~~~Tie finm v1tier pi~ut 4  IwRi%vr                 'I The ~coud -.Natcr Oiti ~f Yellow  River
-[~ L  1001) 1            3            0                          1             X               0HL
- ~~~Floccutlent
-         ~~~~~ilt              Chlloriiie



A. Existing Situation of Channel Segment of Yellow River in Piroject Area
The river segment in project area is one of the narrowest segments in vellow
River. The width of river channel is usuallv about I Knm. The narrowest site of the
river is only 459 meters in width. There is a intertidal zone in the left bank of the
river between Luokou and Houzhangzhuang section. Its width is about 1 k-ilometer.
Duc to thc control of Lhc engincctiig in both banks, (he cuoss slake of swale is no(
violent. So its location is stable.
The change of washing sludge in the channel segment is violent because of the
impact of water and sand from upper reaches. The changes of water level of
different flow in various hydrometric station is listed in Table 4.1.16.
Table 4.1.16    Change of water level under different flow
Flow                3000(m3/s)                     500)Otmn/s)
Year           1976            1990           1976            1990
Aislian        39.50           40.51          40.80           41.90
Beidianzi       30.92          32.20           32.60          33.77
Luokou   i    28.90             30.05          30.40           31.77
Liujia uani  i    25.00           25.47          26.30           26.66
From Table 4.1.16, we know that in Luokou station, the rise of water level under
the flow of 5000 m3/s is up to 1.37 meters over the fourtecn years. I'hc lise of water
level under the same flow show clearly the rise of channel deposit, which means the
decrease of capacity of flood discharge and increase of chances of flooding. The
monitoring data also show the same conclusion: in 1976 at Luokou statfion. the highest
water level under the flow of 8000 m31s is 32.14 meters, while in 1996, that of under the
flow of 4,780 m3/s is 32.24 meters. Both reaches in thle Luoklou section ha(d been
inundated with the water of average depth of 0.5 meter.
From the analvsis above, the left intertidal zone of Luokou will be inundated under
the normal flow of 5000 m3/s. but it will not do harm to the bank.
B. Analysis of Northern Stretch Zone of Yellow River in Project Area
The tas}ks of north stretch zone are diversion of flood and ice. The reservoir locates
in the end of stretch zone north of Yellow river. It Nvill directll affect the reservoir for
using the stretch zone under what circumstance. Now we analyze as following according
to the data we have got:
After completion of stretch zone, there is no catastrophic flood IMl now. According
to relative data, if there is a catastrophic flood with a flow of 22.000 to 46.1000i mA/s in
the huavuank-ou station, the flow in lower reaches of Aislian station wvill still be 11.0() to
12,000 m3/s after diversion of reservoirs and flow discharge channels in upper reaches.
The stretch zone should undertake the capacity of' diversion with the flow ol' 1 000 to
4-25



2,000 m31s. Following Table 4.1.17 show the calculation result of average depth of
section near the reservoir according to the flow of 2,000 m3/s.
Table 4.1.17  Average depth of water in the section near the reservoir
Flow (m3Is)    Speed (m/s)   Area of section Width of section  Average depth
(M2) 2(m)                      (m)
2,000          0.55           3,636           4,000           0.91
The average depth is 0.91 meter gained from the table.
C. The Impact after Completion of Xiaolangdi Reservoir
Xiaolangdi reservoir locates in the lower reaches of SanmerLxia reservoir. From the
calculation result of relative department, after the completion of the Xiaolangdi reservoir,
there is no need to use the retarding basin if the scale of flood is emerged once every one
thousand years. If the scale of flood like that of in 1958 or 1982, after the retarding flood
of Xiaolangdi, the flow in Huayuankou will be reduced from 22,300 to 9,600 m3/s and
15,300 to 8,700 m3/s. So the flood will not exceed the safe limit of river channel in lower
reaches. If there is a catastrophic flood once every ten thousands years, after reduction of
Xiaolangdi and reservoirs in its upper reaches, the flow in the site of Hu3yua3nkou will be
reduced from 41,700 to 27,350 m3/s, then by means of diversion of retarding basin , the
flow in Aishan will not exceed 10,000 m3/s. Due to the rise of river bed in recent years,
continuing increase of the water level under the same flow compared witll previous years,
the capacity of flood discharge will decrease. Though the completion of Xiaolangdi
reservoir has the function of retaining flood, the flow will probablv exceed the safe limit.
So the possibility using stretch zone for flood diversion will still exist if there is a
extraordinary flood.
So we can draw the conclusion that the normal flood will not have great impact on
the Queshan reservoir. if there is a extraordinary flood, the using of strctch zone lor
flood discharge will have certain impact on the reservoir.
4.1.3.3.2 Analysis of the Environment's Impact on Queshan Reservoir's Water
Quality
After the operation of Queshan reservoir, its water quality will be mainly depended on
the water quality of YeDlow river and other eniironment factors.
A. Analysis of Water Quality of Queshan Reservoir
a) lInpact of Water from Yelow River on the Reservoir's Water Quality
According to our monitoring and assessment of water quality in abstraction site of
Yellow river, after dry up of 132 days, in the inception stage having water from upper
reaches, the concentration of ammonia nitrogen. total nitrogen, total mercurv exceed the
4-26



respective class 3 standards of Surface Water Quality Standard (GB3838-88). If we
calculated the input amount of pollutants according to the designed flow, ltle antIn1ual
amount of chloride, total nitroger, peniianganate index arc 8678.7, 802.1, 429.0 tons,
respectivehl. For details, see Table 4.1.18.
b) Impact of Rainfall and Dust Fall oni Reservoirs Water Qualitv
According to design scheme, there will be no impact from run-off and penetration
of surface water and groundwater. Mforeover, because of no pollution sources around
the rcservoir and the using of pipeline for water delivery, thic pollutants will miainl comxe
from that in water of Yellow River, rainfall dust fall or digestioin of pollutants from the
reservoir's bed.
Table 4.1.18    Investigation results of pollutants in water from Yellow River
Polutants      (Concentration I Input amount of    Formula of calculation
(mg!l)       pollutants (L'yr.)
COD               2.61              429.0             \V=QQ C vl 0'
Chloride            52.8             8678.7         WV: pollutants amount
Ammonia nitrogen         1.8              295.9        into the reservoir, tons;
Total nilrogen        4.88              802.1            Q: anulual nfow of
Total phosphorus       0.062              10.2           water into reservoir;
Fluoride           0.537              88.3              C: pollutants
concentration
Total arsenic        0.0025             0.4              of'water into _he
Total mercunr        0.00032            0.05          _ r resevoi, nig ,__
Volatile phenol       0.004              0.66
In above chapters, we had discussed the impact from nwater in Yellow river. TIic
impact of rainfall and dust fall can only be reckoned by analogous investigation due to
the limit time.
The Pucheng reservoir used for analogoous investigation lies inl no-tili of EYellow river,
south of Binzhou city. The main function of this reservoir is providing waler tor industry
and drinking. It has been thirteen years after the operation of this reservoir and distance
Table 4.1.19     Comparison of Queshan and Pucheng reservoir-
Reservoir     Origin    Surface soil in  Area   Capacity I Depth    Sources
the bed    ( kin2) million ni3  (ni)
Pucheng      Artificial    Light loam    1.4  l  5.69       5.5   Yellow River
Queshan      Artificial    Liht loam  i 5.96      41.2     7.13   Yellow_River
Reservoir  Temperature    Relative   Illumina Precipita- Eva po- Alineraliza-tion
humiditv    -tion     tion     ration    rate (gl)
Pucheng        12.4     i   65-66      2755.5   596.6  ;1266.91    0.5-2.0
Queshan,       14.5         65-68      2710.1   665.7   1300.0i  0.68-2.15
from Queshan to this reservoir is 1 10 kilometers. The reason of choosin- it lor
4-27



investigation is its same meteorological condition, geological conditiorL abstraction
anddelivery method, no pollution sources and surface run-off around, etc. See T able
4.1.19.
P Pollutants Input Amount from Rainfall
Polutants may enter the reservoir by means of rainfall and snow. The pollution
load of rainfall is analogously calculated according to relation between the
precipitation and concentration of pollutants in it gained from twelve months'
monitoring data in Pucheng reservoir. See Table 4.1.20.
Table 4.1.20    Input amount of pollutants from rainfall
Pollutants    i  Input amount (tWyr.)             Formula
Total ritrogen            1.05                      W=P>xC
Total phosphorus  i        0.06         !Where: poDlutants load in the rainfall
Chloride               3.52                 in unit area (kg/ kt2);
IP: precipitation, nun; C: conceiitration
l                      I    of poDlutants in the rain fall
TW=WxA
TW: pollution load, kg; A: area of
I                      ^            reservoir
_ Polutants Input Amount from Dust Fall
The calculation method is the same as that of in calculation in pollutants amount
in rainfall. The calculation results are: annual amount of duLst 258.2 tons, including
0.43 ton of lead, 5.62 tons of total nitrogen, 1.79 tons of total phosphorus, 8.73 tons
of organic matters.
c) Impact from Digestion of Pollutants in Reservoir' s Bed
We cite expert's results from Research on Water Quaity Forecast and Management
Planning and Reservoir and its Environment' Impact (USSR). They think- that the
fifteenth day after pondage of the reservoir is the peak-hour of digestion of pollutants in
reservoir's bed. It is proven from static simulation test that afler three to fottr times of
water circulation, the impact of pollutants' digestion can be omitted. Moreover, about 10
% of sands in the Yellow River's water will be settled in reservoir' s bed. After five years,
this kind of impact can also be omitted. According to the dead capacity of 7 million cubic
meter, in the inception stage pondage, the digestion can be omitted if we take the
measure such as washing the substrate sludge.
d) Impact of Agricultural Activities on Water Quality
Because there are farmlands around the reservoir, the likely impact of agricultural
activities on the reservoir is the spraying of agricultural chemicals and using of chemical
fertilizers during the growth period of crops.
0 Impact of Spraying Agricultural Chemicals
Organic phosphorus chemicals such as Azodrin, Rogor or 1605 are sprayed
from April to October. According to the drift test of agricultural chemicaLs in
Research on Water Quality, Forecast and Management Planning. when 1he wvincd
speed is up to 5.4 m:s, the maximum drift distance and altitude are 20 and 2.5
4-28



meters, respectively ( the agricultural chemicals should be sprayed w-hen the w-id
speed is smaller than 5.4 mis). Because the height of dam is ten meters higLh and a
anti-penetration dike being built, the agiicultural chemicals will not alfec thde water
quality in the reservoir.
* Impact of Spraving Chemical Fertilizers
In 1995, the total amount of chemical fertilizers used in the project area wvere up
to 3,796 tons, including 2,228 tons of nitrogen. 1,344 tons of phosphorms. From the
analysis of using period and method of chemical fertilizers, comparinig the height of
dam and farmlands, the function of anti-penetration dike, we know the using of
chemical fertilizers will not affect the water quality in the reservoir.
After the operation of the reservoir, the main factors affecting the water quality are
water quality in Yellow River, rainfall and dust fall. The amount of total nitrogen and
total phosphorus brought about by rainfall and dust fall are 0.83∞o and 18.14%0 of that
caused by Yellow River, respectively. The using of agricultural and chemical fertilizers
will not affect the water qualitv in the reservoir. With respect to the impact of dioestion
from reservoir's bed, after three or four times of water circulation, it can be omitted. So
if we take measures like washing before operation of the reservoir, there ivill be no
impact from the digestion from reservoir's bed.
B. Trend Anal-sis of Water Pollution in the Resenroir
The pollutants in the reservoir are mainly from Yellow River. rainfall andl dust fall.
With respect to Yellow River, because its river bed is much higher thanl average
height of ground and assimilating capability of sands in the river. thte water qualitv in
Yellow River will be in a stable state.
In terms of pollution from rainfall and dust fall. the impact is very snmall Cxcclt tIlat
caused by total nitrogcn and total phosphorus.
From the analysis above, we know that the factors affected the water quality in
reservoir are in a stable state. In addition. The planning supply and use are fundamental
balance. The period of water remaining in the reservoir is relatively slhort because the
water recvcles once a vear, this will be helpful to the water quality's stability.
4.1.3.3.3 Analvsis and Forecast ot Queshan Resen'oir's W ater Quality antd
Eutrophication
If the reservoir accepts excessive nutrient substances, the alga and other water
plants will be overbreeding, which will cause the dissolved oxygen in the waler bodlv
reduced greatly and deterioration of water quality.
We selected the Pucheng Reservoir as analogous investigation objectivc to forecast
the possibility and development trend of eutrophication.
A. Assessment of Nutrition Situation in Analogous Reservoir
This assessment utilizes the scientific achievemcnt of Research on Assessmcnt of
-:-2 -



Pollution Situation and Protection Measures of Pucheng Reservoir's Water Qualitv of
Binzhou Environment Protection Monitoring Station in 1989. The characteristic method.
nutrient state index, judgment method of nutrition tve are taken to asscss the
eutrophication of Pucheng Reservoir's water quality according to investigation and
monitoring of eutrophic indexes.
a). Characteristic Method
In the research on Dahuofang reservoir, according to the divkision standard put
forward by a Japanese expert, the raised the division method of nutrition types as
follows: oligotrophic type; middle nutiition type; eutrophic type. The assessment of
Pucheng Reservoir's water indexes is shown in Table 4.1.21, the type of Pucheng is
between middle and eutrophic type.
According to recommended standards in Research on Forecast of China's Main
Lake' Water Quality (Table 4.1.22), the average concentration of COD. total nitrogen,
total phosphorus, transparency are 3.33, 0.32, 0.028 mg/I, 0.46 ni, respectively. The
main types of plankton alga are blue green alga and diatom. The water quality is between
middle and eutrophic type.
b) Nutrient State Index Method (Carlson)
This method divides nutrient state according to the exponent of characteristic index
of eutrophication. Following is the formula for several indexes:
Table 4.1.21 Comparison of division of nutrition type and characteristics
of Pucheno, Reservoir
Items       Olipotrophic j   Middle        Eutrophic   i  lucheng
Total nitrogen    0.02-0.2   j   0.1-0.7        0.5-1.3    I  0.11-0.50
Total phosphorus   0.002-0.02    0.01-0.03    0.01-0.09       (.008-0.044
I         ~~~~T          .
Color        Blue green       Green       Y-ellow Vreen   Yellow gzreen
Transparency        >5             1-5           <1.5           0.46
PiI            6-8            7-8            7-9         8.24-8.67
BOD              <1            1-3            >3            2.25
DO           Saturation   I From skin to   Saturation in ! From skin to
_____________    _______  lower layer    1  skin  layer  lower layer
Phytoplank-ton      <3 0         30-100          >100           33.7
I_Zooplankton        <100        1000-2000        >3000     _    930
total bactcria     >100        100-10000       >100000o   i     55
4-30



Table 4.1.22         Assessment standard of lake's eutropDiication
Nutrition   1l .   Water Quality (mg)        _ _         Alga
type       COD | T-H I   T-P   SD (m)! Biomass   Dominiant species
Extremely       0.06j   0.01|  0.0004 48.0
oligotrophic     0.121   0.021   0.0002 27.0 1 <50                  /
Oligotrophic  1  0.24!   0.041   0.002,  15.081   /   ,             /
0.481   0.081   0.005    .0  100         Chrysophyceae
Middle-      0.961   0.161   0.010   4.4  150         Crytophyceae
o__gotrop_ _c  I   !       i                 _ i_I
Middle  1  1.80|  0.311  0.0231  2.4 1 200             Dinophyceae
Middle-Eutrophic   3.601   0.651   0.050    1.3  250        Bacillariophyceae
Eutrophic       7.10'  1.201   0.11 1  0.731 300    1 Bacillariophyceae,
I  t  !     !       $        I    ~~~~~~~Blue alg<a
More eutrophic   14.0 1  2.30!  0.25       0.40t 500      Blue and green alga
Seerely eutrophic!  27.0 1  4.60;  0.56    0.22i 780        Green alga and
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  j__ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   i _ _ _ _ _ _ _ i_   E uglena
Extremely    f 54.0 1  7.101   1.23 !  0.121<200    i   Heterotrophic
eutrophic    ____j_|_j__                                    organism
ISISD = 10 x (6- InSD)
7~lsv1Oxj n2)
-E;SI 10x(6-2.04-0.68. lnchI)
'Sicl = 10 x (6   n
1n2}
\1     I~n2     )
TSI~~ =L0y     44 - 0.63 An SS)
(1.21- 0.76.In COD)~
TSIco = 10x6- xn2               )
TSOD= x(6  121- 0-.826 nT)
TSI,=10x 6-              1n2     I
Where: SD---transparency, m;
chl----chlorophylL mg/rM3;
TP--total phosphorus, mg/M3;
SS-suspended substance. mg/l;
COD-chemical oxygen demand, mg/;
TB---total bacteria.
The TSI value of middle, middle-eutrophication and eutrophication are 40-50, 50-
60, larger than 60, respectively.
The calculated results are shown in Table 4.1.23. The value of T SI is 57.5, so, the
water quality is middle-eutrophication type.
4-31



Table 4.1.23    Calculated results of Pucheng Reservoir' s TSI value
Value          SD      chl      TP        Ss      COD      T13
Monitoring average i 0.46    2.47     28       68.2   1  3.33  T  585
TSI          71.20    39.28  1 58.00    77.68  j 55.68  ! 42.83
c) Judgment Method of Nutrient Type
Three indexes, total nitrogen, total phosphorus and COD are selected as assessment
factors put forward by Department of Biology of Liaoning University. The formula is as
follows:
f T-N0) (T-P0)   (COD,)
E=        .+         .+,         ,~
T_ - lo     T - PO )   k CODO)
Where: T-N1, T-P,, COD,, the monitoring value, mg/I;
T-No, T-Po, CODo, assessment standards, the limrit value of
intemational standard, 0.20,0.02, 3.0 mg/I;
K, weighting coefficient, K=0.5
The value of E is 3.49 after calculation according to assessment standards listed in
Table 4.1.24. The Pucheng Reservoir belongs to rmiddle nutrition type after four years'
operation. By analogous reasoning, the Queshan Reservoir will not be in a state of
eutrophication after operation in the year afler following five years.
Table 4.1.24   Assessment standards of judgnent method of nutieLt ty e
I E         0-l         1-2         2-4         4-8          >8
Nutrient type  Oligotrophic  Oligotrophic   M hiddle  j Middle to    Eutrophc
to middle                           Eutrophhic
B. Forecast of Nitrogen's and Phosphorus's Concentration in Queshan Reservoir
Nitrogen and phosphorus are the most important indexes inrdicating the
eutrophication extent of the reservoir. So, Finding out the input, output and
accumulating volume of nitrogen and phosphorus has important meaning for forecasting
and prevention the eutrophication in the reservoir.
a) Calculation of Nitrogen's and Phosphorus's Balance in the Reservoir
From the analysis of chapters above, we know the annual input volume of nitrogen
and phosphorus are 808.77 and 12.05 tons, respectively.
The annual supply amount to Jinan city of the reservoir is 156.07 miUion cubic
meters with the seepage loss of 3.93 million cubic meters. So, the accumulation amount
of nitrogen and phosphorus are 28.77 and 2.13 tons, respectively.
The results are calculated by monitoring data just after dry-up of Yellow River on
July, 8, 1996, as we discussed above, it is not the normal period for abstraction. For
remedying the defects of the data, we utilize the aver age value of routine monitoring data
4 -32



in Dayuzhang floodgate and abstraction site of Pucheng Reservoir (total nitrogen, 0.46
mgll; total phosphorus, 0.046 mg/I). The calculated results are shown in Table 4.1.25.
The annual input amount of nitrogen and phosphorus are 75.61 and 7.56  0toS.
respectively. The accumulation amount of nitrogen and phosphorus are 2.01 and 0.2
tons, respectively.
Table 4.1.25 Results of nitrogen's and phosphorus's in the reservoir
unit: tJyr.
Pollutants               Input        Output    Accumulation
Total nitrogen  flooding period   808.77        780.00   1   28.77
non-flooding period          75.61         73.60          2.0 1
Total phosphorus  Ilooding period   12.05         9.92          2.13
t       non-flooding period            7.56          7.36          0.2
b) Forecast of Nitrogen's and Phospihorus's Concentration in Qucshnui Rleservoir
Vollenweider model is taken as the forecasting model of nitrogen's and
phosphorus's concentration in Queshan Reservoir. Following is the formula:
c =C, -(I+1z4),Y
Where:
C----annual average concentration of nitrogen and
phosphorus according to weighted volume, mg/l;
Cj--annual average concentration of ritrogen and
phosphorus according to weighted flow, mg/1-
Z--average depth of the lake, m:
Qi--water flow load, calculated by annual flow (Q) di'ided by
area of lake (A), m3/ m2.yr.
The input data for calculation of Yellow River watcr are: concentration of nitrogen,
4.88 mg/I; concentration of phosphorus, 0.062mg'l; average depth. 7.13 m: water flow
load, 27.58 m3/ m2.yr. The forecasting result of nitrogen's and phosphorus's
concentrations are 3.88 and 0.049 mgiA respectively.
From the results, we know that the concentration of total nitrogen is 2.88 times
more than class 3 standard of Surface Water Qualitv Standard. The concentration of
total phosphorus can meet its standard. If we forecast the concentration of nitrogent and
phosphorus using the data from Dayuzhang floodgate and abstraction site of Pucheng
Reservoir, the results are 0. 17 and 0.018 mg/I, which all accord with their corresponding
standards.
C. Analysis of Relation Between Nitrogen's and Phosphorus's
Concentration and Eutrophication in the Reservoir
We know the forecasting results of nitrogen and phosphorus of two different input
4-33



data are 3.88 mg/l and 0.049 mg/i, which is using monitoring data just after Yellow
River' drv up, and 0.17 mg/I and 0.018 mg/l which is using average monitoring data
from Dayuzhang floodgate and abstraction site of Pucheng Reservoir. The nutrient type
of the two results are eutrophic and middle eutrophic, respectively.
After the five years' operation of analogous reservoir, the monitoring concentration
of nitrogen and phosphorus are 0.32 and 0.028 mg/i, respectively, which is slightly
higher than the forecasting result of the second circumstance. So the frst circumstance is
not feasible in practice.
By three methods' forecasting, the nutricnt type of the analogous reservoir aflcr five
years is middle eutrophic type. So, after five years' operation, Queshan Reservoir
belongs to middle eutrophic type.
In addition, the rcsult of ecological simulation of Research on Water Quality and
Management Planning show, when the concentration of nitrogen and phosphorus are
0.40 and 0.032 mg/l, respectively, it will not cause the overbreeding of plankton alga.
D. Control Indexes for Total Nitrogen and Total Phosphorus
Nitrogen and phosphorus are two indexes to control the cutrophication of the
reservoir. So, from the point of view of controlling the input amount, we calculated the
permissible amount of entering the reservoir. Then we gained the pcmissible
concentration of nitrogen and phosphorus in Yellow River' water. The fonnula is listed
as follows:
93     . 'X
1-R
Where:
L_--permissible amount entering the reservoir, gIm2.yr.
V---volume of the reservoir;
Q----water flow enter the reservoir,
Z-average depth;
LN-controlling standards for nutrient salts;
R-detaining coefficient.
The R is calculated as following fornula:
R=0.426-exp(-0.27 1. Q,)+0. 574.exp(-0.00949- Q1)
Where:
Q,=Q/A, water load in unit area. 9.38 in/ m2
A, area of the reservoir.
The permissible input amount of nutrient salts are calculated as follows:
WN= LN-A
4-34



The permissible input concentration of nuitrient salts are calculated as follows:
c=
Q
Where:
C---- permissible input concentration of nutrient salts, mg/I;
W----annual input amount of nutrient salts eniter the reservoir
from other ways, ton.
The calculated results are shown in Table 4.1.26. The peniissible input amount of
nitrogen and phosphorus 97.02 and 7.21 tons, respectively.
The pernissible input concentration of nitrogen and phosphorus are 0.55 and 0.033 mg/i
in addition to the allocation amount to other reservoirs.
Table 4.1.26   Perissible input concentration and load of nutrient salts
Pollutants    Permissible input amount (t)   i Control  Pennitable! Control
standard    load      standard
W"         W          !AW        for        for    for Yellow
Reservoir  Reservoir    River
Nitrogen      97.02       6.67      90.35  !    0.31      1 6.28      0.55
Phosphorus i    7.21  1    1.85        5.36       0.023      1.21       0.033
So the control standards for nitrogen and phosphorus in Queshan Reservoir are 0.6
and 0.04 mg/l, respectively.
4-35



4.2 Environmental Impact of Jinan Urban Waste Wllater
Nethorki Project and Its Protection Measures
4.2.1 Project Analysis
4.2.1.1 Overview of Present Waste Water Network
4.2.1.1.1 Brief Introduction
Most of the present waste water network was constructed according to the
sewerage project designs in the 1983 Jinan Urban Overall Planning. As witlh the overall
planning, the network is consisted of 7 sewerage systems: Jiqilu system. Jiltuolu system,
Daming Lake system, Liuhangtou system. liuangtaiqilihe svstem. Wangsheren svstem
and Dangjiazliuang  system. Presently  only  tie  Wanigslhereni sysctm  and  tlhe
Dangiazhuang system do not have the main waste water pipes. In the planning. there are
3 waste-water treatment plants: Baliqiao Waste water Treatment Plant (trealing waste
water from the Jiqilu system), Wangshlren Waste water T reatment Plant (treatilng waste
waler from the Wangsheren system) and Jinan W'aste wvater Treatment Plant (treating
waste water fiom Jiluolu, Darning Lake, Liuhangtou and Huanglaiqihihe systems).
However, Baliqiao and U'angsheren Waste water Treatment Plants have not been built
vet.
This assessment is chicfl aimned at the 4 wastc water netwoiks Covered 1y Jinai
Waste water Treatment Plant. The 4 systems locate within an area enclosecl b1 thle East,
South, North Ring Roads and Wuvinoshan Road. with a total coverape ol l(10 km2.
Tlhc present scwcrage network- s--stem is mainly made up of wastc w*atcl maini and
branch pipes, pump stations and inverted siphon pipes. See Fig. 4.2.1 ior delails.
4.2.1.1.2 Pipeline Length
Present waste water pipelines within Jinan Waste water T'reatment Plant's coverige
in 1994 hiad a total lenigtlh of 145.51 kmii p)arts of whiJh aic biik-arch dlitclhes ald Iovoild
pipes.
4.2.1.1.3 Pipeline Distribution and Outlzts
1) .Jiluolu System
a. From Yinoxongslian Road to Daweier Road to Tianclieng Roa(l (2  waste water
pipelines alreadv exist thcrc on the cast anid wvest side.s of tlhc roadls), to thic soutl
bank of Gongshang River witlh a )1000 min - Dl 50() mm main blanking pipe
connected in and extending nortlhward alonigside the wust bank of Gongsliang RJver
and thcn across Xiaoqing, River into Jiluoqiao Waste water PImtipi Si ttiOIi.
b. A 1500 x 1750 mm brick-arch ditcli north of Gonoshang River extends nortIhvard
to joinl Jiluoqiao WVaste wat5ir Pump Station also.
c. Two north-to-south waste water pipelines from Luokou also join the Jliluo(lio pump
station.
d. All other branch pipes in the system join in the above-mentionecd waste watcr pipes.
e. The waste water from all the pipelines are directlh pumpe(l into Xian(qinp River



Legenid
2  =< t  Fig.4.21 THE EXISTING SEWAGE PIPELINES
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



through Jiluoqiao Pump Station.
2) Daming Lake System
a. A D600 nun waste water pipeline exists along the east bank of Xiweizi Ditch, which
then invcrted siphons across the rivcr to join the 1050 mm main pipe on Shengohan
Road, and extends northward to B3ciyuan Road and then turns westwartd to mcl
Jiluolu brick-arch waste water ditch.
b. A waste water pipe along Baotuquan Road extends to Kunshunmen Bridge and
inverted siphons across the south moat and onward to Ximen Bridge, and inverted
siphons again across the west bank of the west moat to go northwaard tlrough the
Wulongtan Park to meet the D700 mm waste water pipe on Tongyuan Street, and
then goes northward to join Xiweizi Ditch inverted siphon pipes.
c. A waste water pipeline on Wenhua West Road extends westward--Chaoshan Street
northward-Heihuquan West Road westward-Kunshunmen Bridge to meet the
D700mm waste water pipe on Baotuquan South Road.
d. A D500 mm waste water branch pipe goes northward along Lishan Street to meet
Daming Lake Waste water Pump Station.
c. South of Jingshi Road. waste water pipes on Shungeng Road and Yulian Road go
northward to Jingshi Road and join in the east and west ditches respectively.
f. Other branch pipes of the system connect to their nearest river courses. Thus
lots of waste water goes into Darning Lakc.
3) Liuhangtou System
a. aTwo waste water pipelines on the east and west sides of Lishan Road (east D500-
D1200, west D400-D700), from Jingshi Road to Beivuan Road, are pumped inlto
Liuhangtou River at Liuhangtou River Pump Station.
b. Waste water branch pipelines from west to east on XWenhua East Road. Heping Road
and Jiefang Road all lead to Yangtouyu east ditch.
c. A waste water pipe on Shanda Road. from Wenhua East Road to Jiefang Road. meets
the Jiefang Road waste water branch pipe. Waste water from Wenjua Road and
Heping Road east of Shanda Road all goes to Shanda Road waste water pipe through
branch pipes.
4) Huangtaiqilihe Svstem
a. Two waste water pipes along the east and weest sides of East Ring Road fliom (Gon e
South Road to Qianjin Bridge (west D300 - D700, east D500-D800) go to Xiaoqing
River.
b. Two waste water branch pipes on both sides of Iluanyuan Road, fronm chemical fiber
factory westwards, meet the East Ring Road waste water pipe.
c. Industrial waste water from the terylene plant goes through Huayuan Road and
Shanda Road northward to Gongve North Road to meet the D800 waste water pipe
paved by Jinan Bus Factory, D700-D900.
4.2.1.1.4 Waste Water Inverted Siphon Stations
4-37



Presently there are 4 pump stations: Jiluo Bridee. Jiluo Road. Daming Iake and
Lishan Road.
4.2.1.1.5 Waste Water Inverted Siphon Pipes
Presently there are 7 inverted siplion pipes in only JiluolU svsteiii ;11d Daliniiig Lake
system.
4.2.1.1.6 Present Wlastc Watcr Amount
1) Present Domestic Waste Water Amount
In 1994, Jinan possessed an urban population of 1.471 million. domeslic water
consumption 246 thousand m3/d. Since therc is no measured value for the urban
domestic waste water. we take 85% of domestic water consumption as the nuimber, and
estimiiate the urban domiistic waste water in 1994 to be 209 thousanld m3/d.(Domestic
waste water quota was 142.3 m3/person.d.).
The population withiin the waste waler treatment plant's coverage was 977 thousand
in 1994, domestic vaste water bcing 139 thousand m3,'d.
2) Present Industrial Wasle Water Amnount
In 1994, Jinan's urban industrial wvater consumption (self-reserved vater resources
included) was 554 tlhousand m3/d. waste water rate 850o. anld thus an ind(iustuial waste
water discharge of 471 tlaousand m3:'d. Tlhc indiLstrial waste water dklhain_ge ainomit
within the waste water treatment plant's coverage was 304.6 thousand m3/d. In 1994,
there were 40 main industrial polluiing sources in the urban arca. 21) of which were
within thc *vastc water network with a waste water dischargc of 33.OS l0ilhlon tois. Chief
pollutants: SS 6803.73t, COD 13282.24t. petro-productq 56.62t. sullfide 3.78t.
3) Present Total W1'astc Water Discharge
Presentlv the total waste water dischargc in the urban area is 680 thousand m3/d.
Jitan Waste water Treatment Plait treats a total amioujnt of 443.6 thousand ini3d.
4.2.1.1.7 Problems Existing in the Present XVaste Water Network Distribution
Prcscnt scwerage network distribution is not quitc rcasonable. The main pipcs do
not reach their places, which causes the malfunction of the waste waler treatment plants.
There are too many pump stations and too much operation costs. Some discharge
channels are combiined scwer; some ditches are stone-walled of serious Icahkage.
Diameters of waste water pipes are a hit too small. Ihus the waste water pipes on Weier
Road, Yulian Road anid Slhuengeng Road are beating a heavy load, antd waste w,Yatcr
overflow occurs frequenth'. Pipelines near Daming Ia.ke, eqpecially south of the lake are
in a mess. Main pipes discharge directlv into the lake. A 1)1000 iwaste water pipe has
already been laid down along the east part of Daiaing Lake Road. oliowe'Vr. since the
outlet of the pipe has not been found yet, it i9 still not in use. Iot f industrial waste
water has been discharged into the city domestic waste wvater pipes. causing occlusion
owing to too many sohiqoids. As withi thc raii and waste w%atcr combined scewers,
overflow occurs often in check wells (clrint- raintime. he (lowed streanl patts of thc



inverted siphon pipes are oflen blocked. Plus, the maintenance and management
techniques are backward, which makes it difficult to clear ilhe pipes. Sludge
sedimentation and overflow occur in most inverted siphon pipes.
4.2.1.2 Overview of the Waste Water Networik to Be Built
4.2.1.2.1 Construction Scope
The construction scope of thic projce;t is thec city wast vvatWr pipclinc systoni
covered by Jinan Waste water T'reatment Plant, which is from lDaxin River on the east
to Weiliu Road on the west, from the north Ring Road on the north to the south Ring
Road on the south, a total area of 108 k}mn.
4.2.1.2.2 Construction Term
The sewerage network project is to start on May 1, 1997, with a 4-year
construction period and is to be finished in 2000.
Annual construction arrangemcnt:
1st vear: Main pipes on Xiaoqing River
2nd year: Main pipes in each waste water systenm's lower reac}ies
3rd year: Main pipes in each waste water system's upper reaches
4th vear: Branch pipes in eacb waste water svslem
4.2.1.2.3 Discharge System.
Thlis .svstem will be rain-waste wafer (lifiluence, so rainwater is not taketi inlto
account in dcsign. For some area where it may be difficult to adopt dililunenc, closurc
work mav be adopted temporarih?. Branch pipes will be enlarged, but not the main pipes.
4.2.1.2.4 Confluence Arrangement
Drainage area will be divided according to the 4 existing svstems: .Jiluolu svstem.
Darning Lake system, Liuliangtou system, Iluangtaiqilihe systeml. See Fig. 4.2.2.
4.2.1.2.5 Waste Water Flow-volume L)istribution for Each Svstem
1) Jiluoly system: 11.3 thousan(d m3/d
2) Daming Lake system: 167.4 thousand m3/d
3) Liuhangtou svstem: 90.9 thousand m3,'d
4) Huangtaiqilihe system: 139.5 thousand m3/d
Total volume of flow is 579.1 thousand m3/d
4.2.1.2.6 Layout of Waste WValer MaIn Pipes
Wkaste Waler network is consisted of 3 parts. waste water branchi and main pipes,
pump stations, and inverted siphon pipes. The project to be built is based oIl the
renovation and enlargement of the present networkl. For lavoul alTangement, see Fig
4.2.3.
4.2.1.2.7 Contents of the Project



--- ----                            - -, .No                                    
Fig4.2 SWERPAGE SYSTEMU CATCHMEN~TS~ OF JINAN
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
H = = B -2         t       X              ~~~~SEWERAGE TREATMEN-T PLANT



M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ff~E f                                  /a_  - ,                 LEFiIIIIIJiL%.
Legcend
MAIN MOr
-- - - - -  R  AILWY~
LXI S11N%  PIleF4 TI
A10 ~E R(CDTIMuIU
-- -  --  ~NOV INa1OD SIM'O
£nl  ll    1     A                   //      I:Fig.4.2.3  LAYOUT OF THE PROPOSED SEWAGE SYSTEM
OF JINAN SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~~~~  _    



Fig.o4.2.4 The profile of water system
ainnd monitoincg section of Jinan city        (                        D
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 .' ;4 
1Ae  /S    \<   \.E    ->t'Si08\         A         ..-..    ,        ,./
:,AIR
Legend
-             I~~~~~~~~~~~~Mt
-      ©    ~~~~~Drinking miltcr  e  etn   dsIie
re,Mfurcc.    point



rable 4.2.5 Equal Stand;ird Plollution Load and Pollution Load Ratio of Each Poliuting Sourcts and Polutants
Fiactoties                          ICr6+       Pb       As      phenoli   Oil   CODcr    SS   Sulfide   PoUuton Load tPn) RatioW  Sestal
Jiiiani DayjPaper Co. No. 2 I'lant                   .                  _  _                 [19.55   7.06                    26.6          24.94     1
Jinan Davi Pit er Co. No. I Plant                _                                              9.80   6.26                   16.06         15.06    2
Jinan YtLMI_ g Clhemnical P'lant                  0.05              2.57                     I         3.48    6.08           12.8          11.42    3
Shandonr_. leolhol Gerienal Works                _____             _ _991_                                                    9.91           9.29   1
Jin Daa Pqtpcr Co. No. 3 Plant                __               _ _       __.      .     _       3.38   2.62  __               6  _6211.5
Jinaii Lis.t-ihiduscal Phint                                       _______ -    -               5.75                 _         5.75          5.39    6
JinanNo.I Prininr   ndlD _v%e _ig l _l__          [ -                    -__                    2.63   1.18   1G5              5.46         25.1   t 7
Jinan l'lP.nnaccutic-Al Factor                                  _ _____L__ ____ -_              4.02   1.08                    5 1   __78_  7        T
Jinani 13eer Brewvey______ __ ___                          __ _          _     __               3.67                          367            3._4   I9
lnn'ha        P!Ce mc a__ P_                                                ____ .tL            06  -I 95                     3.63           3.40 _LO
(lItiafl tiiCaht (._ emic;d Fiber Gener-al Co. _                  .j                            2.42                           2.42 ____  2  2.27      I
Shatidmig I Inansztaila Pover Plait _             0.13    0.03      ( .3 2                      0.22  _.t17                   2 1_           2.03     12
JIlnalrimpfao !3ied" Paper Mill                                                                 1 >  ,  .  1.06  1 1)_  _._    1.8           1.69     13
Siha iid    om.ecP      ntP_                                                 1.-20           o 0.22 -Che mi2al                               ,, 2  1.11    14
Jisna  rowe.1 FactorI                                                                           0.65   ). 26    123            1.1__         1 07     15
.1fiIan T)i(d F1aCt( 'r                         ,___ I_ [v23                                    0.39   1.27                    0.89          ( 83    16 
nat Cic;e-MeicneFaty                                                                     0 69   iJi3                    0 31 _            7     1
._ i. _   ____ __  _ _ __ 0_ _._7                                                                                                                     17_            __  .      __ __  
Jiiran Automobile Fictlory        ___ _                                  __            0 ') 75  0.32                          0.6      7      (.3 T  _18
Jillan Rallwav Mlaituieurnc F Iactorv_                                   _             '-       0.09   )0_9                    06           -(i 9
Jin_ Pawla-Resecirch Intitute   ___________       _____.             ___'--  ____                                              0.            ' _,  s  1 '0
Elu3Jl StandIird PlI'1li(in L.ad of PoQU1tant; (Pi toral)  .18  0  . .89 _I)   01 __,                  269      7.96        1(06.6_
P>lf.l lM_LoadRaeK%                    __=_ Raw1   (i.03    2 2.71 _ )4                1.u's    1.5 9    25 22   76                  ____
C;¢ n.i  .  9  8  .   4        7   i  s         1    :.      |   3     1     __



Tweniv of the 24 monitored item, are ciected( as the rivyr waler qiiality assesment
paraIncters. Assessmcnt is made aecording! to Surfa;c Water QualitN slaindaids
(GB3838-88) n1 wvatcrbods,.
4.2.2.2.4 Asst;ssment Method
Singlc parameter index methio(d is aidopted.
4.2.2.2.5 Assessment Result
See Tables 4.14-4.20 in Chapter 4 of Waste W7ater Network's Environmental
Impact Assessment Report for details.
From the tables we man  find ihic Xiaoqin- Piver's wvaler quality conditions as
follows.
a. Clhef overstanid items are dissolved oxygen, chrmiiical oxygen consuniption. N113-N.
biochemical oxygen demand. KpfnO4, volatile phenol anc  etro-prod1ucts. which
belong to organic pollution.
b. Xiaoqing River wvaterbodc has been seriously polluted. Somc chiicf organic pollutants
are several times and even several tens of times over standard. So its wvater altv
does not have tie: V-level water's function. Thiis is because Xiaoqin) River- takes 'u in
too muchi industrial 3nd domestic waste water andl does not have thic n3tural iniflow
water and thus lacks self-clarification abilitv.
c. Comparison of the setiuio watei qualit) at Muliziuang. Mlatansliai, WVuliuzihai anid
Huanxiangdian reveals an aggreiating pollution tendency from upper stream to lower
stream. This is because more and more urban waste water joins in the river fiom
upper to lower strcam, and the river's sclf-clarification ability cainnot countcraict the
increasing polilition.
From the tables we mav see that almost all the branches of'Xiaoqiilg River have
been polluted by CODcr, BODS, NI3-N, K.nO4., petro-products and volatil- plienol.
Gonmshang River and waste water station branches are even polluted 'y fluoride. None
of tle branihes nicets Ilte Su-facc Waler Stanidaid IV.
4.2.2.3 Investigation and Assessnient of Lake W\ater Quality an(1l *ater-lihing
Creatures
4.2.2.3.1 Investigation and Asseqsment of Lake Water (Onalitv
Jinan Environrnent Monitorinlg Station's 1992-1994 routine nionitorino materials
wvill be used for investigation and assessment of Danming Lake wvatcr quality 
1) Positions of Monitozine Points
Monitoring points are Lixia Pavilion,  Wuniinp Pavilion and I luibo Pavilion.
2) Monitored Items and Analysis Method
Monitored items includle: temperature. P1i. transparency. total suspension. total
hardness, pctro-products, dissolved oxyogenL CODcr. DOD;. I1NInO4. total N. total P,
volatile phenol, canide. As. total Hg. Cr6-i. Ph. Cd. Cu. 7n. K. Na ansd colihacillh,.
Analvsis method Ior cachi item is caniied out ac;cor1diln 1to  Lnii ollinlict;al Mon loili'n
Teclhnque Norms.
3) Mlonitoring Iime and Fre(quencv



Water quality monitoring occurs once in every of the follonvulg 6 months each y ear:
March, April, July, August, October and November; water-living creature once in every
May and October each year.
4) Assessment Parameters and Standards
Seventeen items are selected as the lake water quality assessmnett paramncters.
Assessment is made according to Surface Water Quality Standard (GB3838-88)lV'.
5) Assessment Method
Single parameter index method will be adopted.
6) Assessment Result
See Table 4.2.7 to figure out 92-94 Daming Lake water quality's pollution sub-
index.
From Table 4.2.7 we may find Daming Lake's water quality as follows:
a. Chief over standard items are chemical oxygen consumption, 5-day biochemical
oxygen demand, KMnO4, total N, total P, and coligroup.
b. Daming Lake water body has been seriously polluted and does not have the TV-level
water's function. This is because the lake takes in too much domestic wasle water.
4.2.2.3.2 Investigation and Assessment of Water-living Creatu-es
Table 4.2.7 1992-1994 Daming Lake WN'ater Quality Assessment Result
1992              1993               1994
PH                0.91              0.83        I      0.52
SS        I       0.42              0.37               0.42
DO               0.138               0.34              0.17
CODc.       L      3.12               3.70               2.39
BOD5               3.18               2.24               1.67
Permanganate index!      1.42               1.86       i       1.57
Total nitrogen        3.39               6.65               3.58
Total phosphorus i      4.72              11.08              5.27
Volatile phenol        0.1                0.1               0.15
Cyanide             0.06               0.06              0.02
Arsenuc             0.07              0.13               0.05
Mercurv             0.06               0.1                0.09
Cr6+      '        0.4               0.4                0.4
Pb               0.007              0.04               (.06      _
Cd                 I                0.02               0.02
Cu               0.005              (.01               0.03
Zn               0.0003               -                0.013
K
Na
Coli-group    I                         2.38               2.38
Jinan Environment Monitoring Station's 1992-1994 routitne monitoring data wvill
be used for the investigation and assessment ofI vater-liNing crelurcs in D)artillg
4-'2



Lake.
1) Water-living Creature Nlonitonrng Result
There are 3 monitoring points, WVuming Pavilion, Lixia Pavilion and I Iuibo Pavilion,
to monitor the living creatures in I)arning Lake. Monitoring is made twice ditinn the
dry-up period and thli normal pCiiud(. iCIis trioiiitoacd  inCludv: llaniktoniI bCIeihos,
chflorophyll (Y and total Coli-roup. See Table 4.2-X a.n(i 'I'able 4.2.9 tor monitorino
results.
2) Assessment Paramctcr, Method and Standard
A. assessment parameter: plankton, benthos. chlorophll . Coli-<.roup;
B. method and standard:
a. Algae pollution index method is used for plankton, that is, to give different
pollution indexes (PI) to 2() kinds of algae which are able to stand pollution. According
to tlie amiiount of algae that appear in the siunph;, total PI iiiay bo figuic d out.
Standard:         P.1   <    15          sli2ht  pollution
P.1   15 - 19       middlc  pollution
P.1   >    20        senioxis  pollulion
b. There are manv assessment methods for benthos. Biological pollution inde:x
method is adopted here. Chandler tally system is alIso used lor result comparison.
Los (N1-, )
BPI  -- -------
Log (N2'2 2), Log (N3' 2)
In the equation:  2 ------ Constant (lest denioniinator be 0)
NI ------ Number of olinochacte. bdI eloura and midoe lava (numnm2)
N2 ----- Number of' other water beetles except polvc13aete. shellfish
and midge lava (numnhii2)
N3 _-__ Number of molIusca (num/m2)
Standard:    BPI   <   0.1         clear
BPI   0.1-0.5        slight pollution
BPI   0.5-1.5          - middle pollution
BPI'   1.5 - 5          - middle pollution
I3PI   >    5         hcaNv pollution
110 living Creaturc       SelrioS polutioVn
ClIandler tallv svstem is to assess waler pollultion degree 1y tallyirg tlhe kind(s ol big
benthonic spineless creaturcs and the scries of thcir reduction and disappearanc wvith the
water qulalitv gettinc worse and worse.
Standard:          CBI   300         sliaht  pollution
CB131   45-30()   middle  polltition



CBI   0-45         heaxy  pollutlion
c. Chlor-ophyll a is by American EPA stanidard, that is,
Chlia (mg/m3) > IO        over nluttition
Clla (ng/ni3) 4-10        niiiddkl jnutiilion
Clhia (mg/m3) <- 4       poor nutrition
d. Coli-group is by Surface Water Quality Standard (GB383s-SS) M-gradc (for
domestic drinkable water resources I1-level protection area, common fish lprotection
area and swinmuing area), that is, <= I0OOOOiL.
3) Assessment Result
See Table 4.2.10 below for different item's asscssmint iesult.
Table 4.2.10  lakes and Water (reatures Assessnment Rcsult
Year monitorng    Plankton                      Beithlos             CWl0oopllv   CoE
I  Points   |                                                         a
QXO
.   ~  ~   ~    -__    ,        I      .                I _ _ _  _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ ____ v
P.l   Result B|P  i Result  I ('R1T  Result I  Ntiilion t        Pi
_   _ _   I   I   _______  i  i   ________       _____    i    Level
WVuniing    26    H-Icawy ~4.001' cx-middlc                   Overnutrition 2.39
Pavilion  I      Pollution1 _     polluition I    i___
.                          i -             1 .-- -I. ____.___  
93      Lixia   ) 26    HeavN  15.3601 Heavy  i                     . ovelnutrition 2.38
Paiilion  |      Pollution !   Pollution |u                           -
Huibo      '26  I Heavv 13.298iXc-middle I                 I C-)errinfrilion12.3I
PavilionjtPollution' 3              __          I     _     I
Wuming  Ir33  | Heavy i3.91  x-nmiddle,            9    1Ieavy  overrlnutrition
I Paxilion  I       Pol_Iution_ I_oll_t_o_l                                   I
94      Lixia   l 29    Heavy   5.72 1 Ileavy    24   H1eaim  j (cmutuiltion 12.38
|_Pli__on         !Pollutiont     1 Pollution I    'Polutioni 
Huibo   l 24    Hea,,, I 5.54 !ihea!v 15   I                 0vv ()venjutirlioni 2.38
_ _ _ P av ilio ni  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _
!____ __________    Pollutioill      Pouution2 |      PollutiO
From  '1able 4.2.10 we mav see ihat eveny moniloiiTi point hias becn senously
polluted anid oveniutlitioni exists. This is bQcausc:
a. For a long time, domestic waste water has been Damring -ake's main wviter seonrce.
clear water sources being onlv the insufficient raintall and some surface iuntoll water.
whichl mitigates the lakc water's sclf-claiification capacity drastically and aggztavates
pollution ancl the accumulnation of the nmlritious materials in thc lalc.
b. Large inflow oli nutritious salts is time miain lcasoti ofD a);lini,u" L aIa's o{xcrnimi,iliio.
Darning Lake takes in large amount of urban donestic waste wvater, plus solme tnoll-
point source pollutants washed into the lake by rainstorms.



Table 4.2.8  1993 Daming 1Lake WVater Quality LI ing Creatiure Monitoring, Result
Plankton                                Bentlios                              Total
Chloropliyll Coligroup
~~~__ _ __.______ _._,.__                                                    _X               __ .___ __
Kinds; Creature [N ajotilv    X lajority   Kinds Creature NIajotity  NMajority     r mg/L     numL
Density      Kind        Kind             Densit      ; Kind    Kind
_   (num'L) ! _      _   Percentage         (nurnmL)           Percentage      _
Wuming   43    301900  Aeruginus           82.1       5      1360   Slender    81.2         426.42    >23800
Pa3ilion                  Cysto-algae.                               midge
Chlorclla.
.Ovicyst a1fae:
Isactis_
Lixia    16    267900  Acrunus   I  66.9            5      3456   Slcn(let    73.1         213.2     -23800
Pa-ilion                 mCveto-algae                                rnidge
Synedra,
Chlor ella.
1O%icNst a]pae                  II---                           __
IlItibo    43    253000 ( Aeru!,inus   ,   65.1      5 I    192    Slend(ler    58.3       137.96   ->23800
Pamilion                  Cystoalgac,                                midge
'Svnedlra.
CIhlorella.                    I
_Oxiclst al2cj
.4-5c



Table 4.2.9  1994 Darning Lake Water Quality Lixing Creature Monitoring Result
Plankton                           Benthos              Chlorophvl  Coli-
I      group
__      _  _ _        ._         _   ._,_           _ _   _  _    _     .   .     _   _   _ _
Kin(ds Creature Majority   Majoritv  Kinds Creature Majorityi  majority    nigL    numL
Density   Kind       Kind           Density   Kind      Kind
(num L)           Percentage        (num/L)          iPercenha2e_
Wutring  26   24040  Chiorel;a,   67.9         2      224    IIop       71.4      87.75    >23800
Pailion                (hicvst                              Water
a- zae     __      -orm!
Lixia    27   1722()(  ClilorelIj,    68.4    5    2784   Slender    69.0       84.26    >23800
Pa.ilion                0xicvst                              midge !
______w a_                                                                    _  _ __ _
I luibo    25 1 17398  ClilorcIl4    65.0     4    216(0  Slender    64.4        84.87    >23800
Pavilion                OicNst                              rmidge
l ~~algae 
4  _ _



c. Human interference also contribute to the lake's pollution and overnutntion.
4.2.2.4 Environmental Impact Forecast aii(I Assessmient of Surface AVater
4.2.2.4.1 Brief Intioduction to Wastc Watcr Trcatiuciit I'lant's Tcoluiiqucs
When the waste water netwvork- is put in use. the waste water treatment plant will
also get into operation with a treating capacitv of 220 thiousand m3/d in whicht industrial
waste water takes up 55%O. Waste watcr mauinl conics fronm the city's cicniical, paper
making, textile enterprises. Inflow water qualitv is: CODcr 500 mg/l, BOD5 260 mg/L.,
SS 400 mg/L. Outflow water qualitv is: CODcr 100 mgiL, BOD5 c= 20 mrgL. SS =
30 mg'L.
1be treatment adopts the push-flow bioacration technique. (ligesting and
dehlydratuig tili sludge at a middle teniperalure, sludge amiounit (dryv solid) beinlg 53.4,'d.
Presently the waste water treatrnent plant hac not been in use yet, so thlere iq no Nvav to
know the sludge's composition, and the sludgc's treatment method cainot be decided
either. WUhn the waste wvalr treatmcnt plant is in opcrationi. thc sludgc produced will bc
trealed harmlessly according- to World B3ank's rcquircnwnt.
Wlhen Lhe treaunent plant is in use. tihe annual rcduction aimount o thlc pollutants
discharged into Xiaoqing River will be: CODcr 32120t'a, BOID5 19345t'a, SS 29565 t/a,
which means a great irnprovement of the river water qualitv.
4.2.2.4.2  Enxironmnental Impact Forecast ind Assessment
1) Forecast factors: CODcr, BOD5
2) Forecast section sclected: Damnatou ioutine iotuitoriig sction
3) Forecast model
According to thc routine moinitorin  result.. walte (quality anid water amtiotit wvill
adopt thie mixed model:
n
QICI - Q2C2 = K(QlCl1 4   qiCi)                     (4.2 - 1)
(I-K)(QIlCI +   iCi)
i=1I
or   C2-    --------                                      (4.2-2)
Q2
In thle equations, Qi and CI are the comparison section's water quantlitY and wvale'r
quality; Q2 and C2 are the forecastcd section's water quantity antd watelr quality:
n is the nimber of discharge oullels anrd branches betveen ihe compani+on
section and the Iiecast section; K is tie pollutants' comprchensive reducioon index.
4) Parameter Estimation
4. -.5 



The value of K may be figured out according to the monitoring data of the preseiit
upper and lower sections' water quantity and quality, that is:
Q02C02
K = 1 -                                        (4.2 - 3)
n
QOlCOl + E- qiCi
1=1
In the equation, COI and QO1 are the present upper stream comparison section's water
quality and quantity.
With the available monitoring sections and data, let's take the Maanshan section and
the waste water treatment plant's mixed section as the comparison section, and take the
Damatou section on the lower stream as the forecast section. T'hen QOI = Q'()1 + QP
(4.2 - 4)
Q'OlC'O1 + QpCp
CO 1 =     ----         ---                          (4.2 - 5)
QO1
In the equation, C'O1 and Q'01 are the present water quality and quantity at Mlaanshan
monitoring section; Cp and Qp are the water quality and quantity floNving into the
treatment plant; C02 and Q02 are the present water quality and quantity at Damatou
monitoring section.
Since it is hard to determine the water quantity and quality at the discharge outlets
and branches between the waste water treatment plant and DamaloiL we assume that
before and after the treatment plant is in use, the number of outlets and branches remain
constant and its influence is included in K's value, and is not considered lhere. So, this
forecast result is just a group of rough data.
Listed below are the data for Maanshan monitoring section, Damatou monitoring
section and waste water treatment plant's water qualitv and quantity.
Table 4.2.11     Monitoring results of existing section        unit: mg'I
Season      Mahanshan           Damatoti           Wastewater Treatinent Plant
Volume COD   BOD  Volume COD BOD            Inflow           Outflow
',m3/s               'n3/s              Volume ;CODIBODIVolmlie'COD'BOD
Dry    2.8  j 433.53 t 255.48  8.9  !227.81 109.1 22.0000 i 500 j 260  22,0)04 100  20
I                       .t*                         ,      ,    4
Normal1 3.26  133.16 1 45.33  11.8  117.11 48.6 22.0000  500 260 22.0`'.! ' 10()0  20
Comprehensive reduction indexes of Xiaoqing River bctwecn the comparison
section and the forecast section can be figured out through the above monitoring data
and equations.
4 -s*



Tahle 4.2.12  Xiaoging River Pollutants' Comprehensive Reduction Indcxes
Dnt seasnn                Nonual season
KCOD,            I.2U. I0190
KsOD5                        0.185                        0. 90
5) River water Quality Forecast
Use equations 4.2-1 to 4.2-5 to make water quality forecast on Damitou section.
See Table 4.2.13 for forecast result. When the waste water treatment plant is in use,
water quality' at the comparison section will clhange with thle rcduction of pollutants
caused by the treatment of the waste water plant. in equations 4.2-4 and 4.2-5, Qp
remains unchanged and Cp is the water quality after treatment.
Table 4.2.13 Foiecast Result at Damatou Section
|___________  Value m y season               X aiue ti ntotial season
____________   Exi~~~~~~~~stini  Forecast    Reductioni    ExistiIigu Fics  euto
CODCI       227.8   +z13-4.47        9 3 1       117.12   I  47.8   r
BoD         1(39.08     60.70   1  48.38         48.58       11.92       36.66
From Table 4.2.13 we can see that there is a considerable recluclioni of the two
water quality indicators (density of CODcr and BOD5 at Damatou). wihich means a
great improvement of Xiaoqing Rivcr quality,
6) River water Quality Impact Assessment
After completion on the urban n-aste wvater Il-tvork, the waste Iwalcr trea3tilit
plant will be in normnal operation and Xiaoqing River water hodvl's tunction will remain
unchanged. Surfacc Water Qualitv Slandiardl  (GI33838-S8) IM-levsl  loilaS ;11  still
applicable. Table 4.2.14 shows the impact assessment rcsult of Damatou forecast
section's indexes.
Table 4.2.14  Water Quality Impact Assessment Result             unit: mtl
Section                  Value of COD,                      Value of c&O)i
For.-calst 1 Nonn1 Exceed(mitig noi  i   I    'I         -11Ei  |  III
I                               i~~~~~caI Nr  L.ceiIL  lii
Damatou| Dry,| 134.47-20              1 1.17     i 60.70       6           5 170
tN3omiall 4728    2          27.28         1 1i 1s
From Table 4.2.14 we may see that on completion of the seweerage networl.- and
normal operation of the waste water treatment plant, Xiaoqi,ng  River walcr quality
indcxes, CODer an1d DOD5, still c;annot nwct th,le surfac \xaIcr I\'-lavrl stail.dliJ.
4.2.3    Present (Ground Water Qwalityand Impact Analysis
4.2.3.1 Present Grounid Water Quality and  impact Analysis



4.2.3.1.1  Present Ground Water Quality Monitoring and Assessment
We make tle following asscssment according  to  Slirn(loiug  I'I oviiice
Hydrogeological General Station's 93-95 routine monitoring data.
1) Present Ground W ater Qualitv Monitoring
A. Investigation Scope and Monitoring Positionls
See Fig 4.2.5 (For names of monitoring points, see the waste water netnvort's
environmental impact assessment report.)
B. Items Monitored: Cl-, S04(2-), F-, N03-N, N02-N. NI14-, total Fe, Cu, Zn. Mo,
volatile phenol, CN-, As. Hg, Se, Cd, Cr6+, Pb, total hardness, mineralization.,
oxygen consumpion. PH.
C. Analysis NMethod: Ground WI7atcr Quality Testing Methods (DZ/T 0064-93)
D. Mionitorinti alime and Frequency
Gr-ound water quality nomially will not clhange greally willini a shior-t period of time.
Sampling falls into the drv-up period and the normal period since rainfall brings about
big influence. Monitoring time is the normal period or the drv-up period from 1993 to
1995.
2) Present  rouindm  Water Quality Assessment
A. Assessmient Mlethiod
Assessment is according to Ground Wk ater Quality Standard (GB.T 14848-93) Ill-
level norms with sinale-factor index method.
B. Assessienit Result
See Table 4.2.15 for assessment result of different monitoring points.
From the above assessment we mav see that:
a. In the asscssment area, karst wvater quality is better thani tilat of thc rock-holc water.
None of the monitored items is over qtanclard in the 1 2 lkarst water monitoring
points (including Jiefangqiao Water Plant Heiliu Spring, Baotu Sprinlg and the plaunts
self-use wcUls), except that at No.3 point N702-N is 2.5 times over standard. total
hardness is 0.001 times over standard.
Tlu-ee nmonitoing poiits (No.15 is out of the Ikoure) are set for icklkole watur.
which are all situaledl along Xiaoqinc River. Assessment showsl that except for No. 14
point where no items was over standard dluring 1995 drv-up period, the other points'
total hardness and mineralization were all ovcr standard, 0.24-0.529 tinics and 0.131-
0.124 times respectively, and N02-N at No. 15 point was 0.5 timeq over standlar(l. This
means that aside from shallow depth and human poluLioL grouiId wvater is also affected
by Xioqing River water.
b. Karst water is sliahtli polluted in some areas
Except No.3 point, thouglh there are no itens over standard at No.1 an d No.11
points which locate on both sides of the ditch valley on the southeast, part of th' arlea'
monitored values of Cl-, SU4(2-), N02-N, N03-N. total hardness and nmilneralizalion
are higher than those of other points, which micans that the karst water in that arca has
alreadv been poDuted slightiv. Part of the reacon lies in the eolokgical contditions and
human interleretnce in the arca.
c. Jiefangqiao Water Plant's 1993-1995 drx-up or normal pcriods monitoring materials
analysis shows that there was no obvious change in karst water qualit in recent



1) Inverted Siphon Pipes
See Table 4.2.1.
Table 4.2.1                Inverted Siphon Pipes to Be Built
Sewage              Location of inverted siphon        Diameter Length
system                                                  (mm)   Q(m
Jiluolu    From Jiluo Road across XQ River              D1200   50x2
System                                                           _
1.Xiluohe main pipe across XQ River           D1200  50x2x2
2.Dongluohe main pipe across XQ River         D1600   40x2
3. East Gate of Damning Lake                  D1200   60x2
Darning Lake 4.Renovation of inverted siphon pipe on Heihuquan R  D900   5OY2
System    5.Siphon pipe at cross of Square E.Ditch&Shungen R  D500   41x2
6.Cross of Qingnian East Road.and Square E Ditch    D600   4Ox2
7.Renovation of sihon pipe at Xiweizi Ditch   DIOOO   4(x2
1. Lishan Road across Xiaoqing River          D1400   5(x2
Liuhangtou 2. Beiyuan Road main pipe across Liulhangtou Rivcr . D500   40x2
System    3. Heping Road across Yangtouyu East&West D60()0  4Ox2x2
Ditches                                        D900   50x2
4. Huangtai South Road main pipe across Liuhangtou  D500   40x 2
5. Jiefang Road across Yangtouvu East Ditch
Hangtaiqilihe East Ring Road across Xiaoqing River         D1500   70x2
Systemrn
2) Pipelines
The project's pipeline network, is consisted of the renovated pipelines and the
newly-built pipelines. See Table 4.2.2 for details. 1lhe waste water network includes only
the 1-grade and II-grade pipes, wlhose diameters mare all bigger than D300. The thinmer
m-grade branch pipes are not included. Waste water branch pipelines in the newly-built
communities and enterprises have already been laid down. but have not been conmecLed
to the main pipe systems yet.
For the communities under construction and to be constructed , laing of their
waste water disclharge branch pies will take place togetlher with the comnnuities'
construction. All branch pipes will be planned and monitored by the Municipal
Construction Bureau. Pipelines for enterprises' special use will be connected by the
enterprises thcmselves according to municipal administration's requirements.
3) Waste Water Pump Stations
Jiluoqiao pump station was built in 1987, and is presently in good condition. There
is no need for enlargement since its future operation is only 181.3 thousand m3/d.
North and south Lishan Streets main pipeline and Darning Lake Road main pipeline
meet at Lihuang Road Cross, and then go northward through Lihuang Road railroad
flyover. A D1600 waste water pipe has already been laid beneath the railroad flyover
whose elevation is very low. Therefore the upperstream main pipes can bc directly
44-40



connected in, which makes the Daning Lake punp station obsolescent.
A new punp station whose designed capacity is 100 thousand m3/d will be built at
the cross of Lihuang Road and Beiyuan Road to pump the waste water from the soutI.
The present Lishan Road pump station will fall into disuse.
4.2.1.2.8 Project Investment
Investrnent for this urban sewerage network- project will be 256.95 million yuan.
According to World Bank's requirement, given factors like price rise, etc., the total
investment is estimated to be 282.65 million yuan, in which 155.15 million yuan is
domestic fuids, and 127.5 million yuan from World Bank loans (about 15 million
USD).
Table 4.2.2 W57aste water pipelines in each system
iDiameter,Jiluolu systml Daminghu   Liuhangtou .!HuangLaiqilihe,  l otal
!iluolu I  stem    system      system   I  system
(mnun)  Main !Branch, Main lBranch Main I Branch lMain' Branch!
D500                                                       g i   0  ∂  8oo
D800 !       300 !o !_____                                2050
D700 !       300  _            __!_I___800
A    D800        ,1000 _            ____t___l1000
D900  1i000:  _  _I_  _  _ __    _  _ _  _ _  _           100()
i D1000I OOO         1150!       '_i__1 1150
!D1200 _    i       j600,        i_i_ i____                 600
__ PTotal 1 10001 2700  1750   1950 !,                         7400
D3001 _      _!    '1000:                                 1o00oo
D400 i_,_,                1200        2950 i   1500  5650
D500   ,___. 650'                     3400                4050
1 D6001             i    ,2000'         700'              '2700
t D700   _          T      .5050    _'_ 2600                7650
D800        ' _ 1iooo  1200!        , _            900    3100
B  i D900 i             11100; _     i       i     _         I 1100
DI tDooo t    |    1    i      | T          1           !
D1200 !2250i        3700_  !   !     . i     i1oo!      ! 7050
j    fi D1400 |      _        '       1 1400'!     120501         1400
X    i D1500) i                t    *       I
i D1600       I '    29001        _     _                   2900
ID1800 127001       1    '        '400! _                 i 3100
D2000                                                 1750.  1 
!    !__  Total 14950 !  0 o104501 11100 18001 9650 !31501 2400   43500
Total     59501; 2700 112200i 130501 1800! 9650 i 3150i 2400 ! 50900
Note: A: Renovated pipelines  B: Newly-built pipelines
4-4j



4.2.1.3 Coordination of Waste Water Discharge Sources, Urban Waste Water
Treatment Plants and the Project
4.2.1.3.1 Present Waste Water Amount and Forecast
Waste watcr amount: Sce Table 4.2.3 for Jinan's waste water amount in 1994
Table 4.2.3 Present Waste Water Amount Statistics (1994)  Unit: thousand m3/d
i Domestic Sewage   Industrial Sewage   Total Sewage
_____ _  Amount   ,     Amount             Amount
Urban Area          209 _              471                680
Sewage Treatment        139               304.6             443.6
Plant's Coverage   _               _                  _
See Table 4.2.4 for waste water amount forecast.
Table 4.2.4 Forecast on Waste Water Amount              Unit: thousand m3/d
Sewage I  Domestic Sewage       lndustrial Sewage   I Total Sewage Amount
Type .    Amount Forecast      Amount Forecast          Forecast
Year of    2000       2010      2000       2010   j  2000       2010
Forecast
Urban AreaT  408       619.2  1  1052 _      1715__ _  1460      2334.2
Sewage
Treatment 1 202.5      255.4  i  279.5      323.7      482   i  579.1
Plant's
Coverage I'
4.2.1.3.2 Coordination of the Project, Waste Water Discharge Sources and Waste Water
Treatment Plants
The sewerage network project will be started on May 1, 1997 with a construction
period of 4 years, and is to be finished in 2000. The waste water treatment plants vill be
in normal operation. By that time, the urban waste water amount will be 1460 thousand
m3ld, and Jinan Waste water Treatment Plant's coverage will be 482 thousand m3/d.
But its actual treatment amount is only 220 thousand m31d with the rest 262 thousand
m3/d being discharged directly into Xiaoqing River. In 2010, the total waste water
amount of the 4 systemLs within the network's confluence scope will be 579.1 thousand
n3d. The waste water treatment plant will still be insufficient to meet the network's
capacity. Therefore, the II-phase of the project of Gejiagou Waste water Treatment
Plant should be quickened. Jinan Waste water Treatment Plant's II-phase construction
has a treatment capacity of 230 thousand m3/d, and its total treatment capacity of 1-
phase and lI-phase is designed to be 450 thousand m31d.
There will still be 129.1 thousand m3/d to be discharged into Xiaoqing River.
Thercfore, to reduce waste water discharge, strict measures should be taken to control
the main polluting sources, close some hard-to-manage enterprises, innovate production
4-42



techniques, save and reuse water, etc. in order to mitigate the pollution in Xiaoqing
River.
4.2.1.4 Economic Feasibility Analvsis of the Project
Action plan of Jinan urban sewerage networlk project is compiled on the Iollowing
principles:
*  designed for a far future, the year 2010;
*  compiled on the basis of Jinan Gejiagou Waste Water Treatment Plant main pipes
system layout;
*  adopted rain-waste water diffluence to control water bod) pollution effectivey,;
*  on the basis of the existing pipelines, taking into account the connection with Jinan
Waste Water Treatment Plant's imported pipes;
*  taking advantages of terrains to discharge downward, minimising the number of
pump stations;
*  pipelines arranged to take in all the waste water; Newly laid pipes are first to
discharge the areas with large amount of waste water, poor water quality or other
situations of urgency;
*  When the original pipe is found not thick enough, to build a new one should be
firstly considered. Where it is hard to widen a road and there is no place for a new
pipe, renovation of the original pipe should be considered.
Based on the above-mentioned principles, this prQject has the following features:
4.2.1.4.1 Small Work Amount, Low Investment
I   The project basically makes use of the existing pipes. Total work amount of Ihe
project includes 50.9 km's renovated and newly-built pipelines, 1.5 km of newly-built
inverted siphon pipes, a newly-built pump station, 235.37 mu of land acquisition and
58725 m2 of dismantling area. Basic investment of the project is only 256.95 Imillion
yuan, much less than the usual investmcnt ratio of sewerane network; and waste wiler
treatment plant.
4.2.1.4.2 Low Operation Fund
The project takes advantage of the natural terrains and the existing pipeline
elevation. Therefore only one new pump station is needed for the nen network and one
preserved, which greatly reduces the fiuture operation maintenance 1ees.
4.2.1.4.3 Significant Envirornental Benefits
1) Small Environmental Impact During the Construction Period
Except the two main pipes in Darming Lake system which entail a fuill-length
pipeline renovation and new construction, the pipelines in other svsienims are Sparsely
situated
at parts of different roads, which will restrict environmental impact into limited areas. In



line with the overall planning, the project's pipe-laying and construction will be
simultaneous. Overhead pipe-laying will be adopted at suitable places in or-der lo mitigate
the environmental impact on the neighborliood.
2) Significant enviionmental benefits after completion of the project
On completion of the project, Jinan's urban infrastructure will be strengthened,
urban water quality will be radically improved and pollution in Xiaoqing River will be
greatly mitigated, which will guarantee a great improvement in the urban enmironxnent.
Therefore, the project is feasible both technologically and economically.
For detail description, see Project Environmental Impact Analysis Report.
4.2.1.5 Analysis of Project's Environmental lmpact Factors
The network construction is a big project for the urban and industrial waste wvater
to be transported to and treated by Jinan Waste water Treatment Plant. It is a project for
pollution control environment protection, city beautification and improvement of urban
infrastructure. However, as a construction item, during its construction and operation, it
will inevitably bring about some impact on its surroundings, and may even bring about
some changes in the city's overall planning. Analyses are made in the followvine three
aspects.
4.2.1.5.1 Analysis of the Project's Impact on the Social Environment
The project will bring about many impacts oni the social environment, degree,
scope and duration of impacts being different and complicated. To solve the main
problems, five aspects to be affected have been decided according to experts'
consultation and technical analysis wvhich are urbali transportation, urban population,
flood prevention and discharge, urban green lands and the original underground network.
wilh the first 3 aspects to be affected nmost seriously.
1) Project's Impact on Urban Transportation
The projcct involves 24 streets within the coverage scope with a total lcngtlh of 49
km. Except that two main pipelines are laid along both sides of Tiancheng Road, other
streets are all single-pipeline laying. Most main pipes of the project are form south to
nortlh; east-to-west pipelincs are mostly branchi pipes, most of wlhich arc short and affect
only a small area.
Newly-built and renovated pipelines mtostly locate witlin the urban area, which
will bring about certain impact on urban transportation durino construetion. Biggest
impacts on urban transportation exist on the following 4 roads.
a. From south ring road northward to Yingxiongshan Road to Weier Roa( to Tiancheng
Road to Jiluo Road to north ring road, wlhich is Jinan's transportation aorta.
b. From south ring road northward to Yulhan Road to Qingnian West Road to Wenhua
West Road to Shunhe Street to Shenochan Road to Qinghe Road to Yan-hu Road on
4-44



the north bank of Xiaoqing River.
c. From Shungeng Road northward lo Qingnian East Road to Chaoshan Street 1o Xianxi
Alley to Darning Lake Road to Lishan Street to Lihtuang Road to East Luohle Road
to Xiaoqing River.
d. Parts of Lishan North Road and Shanida Road.
Irnpact on the above-mentioned roads during construction chiefly rests in tiie traflic
increase on their adjacent roads. Traffic jams may occur on some of the roads.
To reduce traffic pressurc and improve the roads' traffic capacity, stricter measures
should be taken on traffic management, vehicle dispatchment and bus line adjustment.
Construction is to take place peniodically and separately on a reasonable schedule.
Biggest mutual impact occurs on the tow main pipeline construction in Jiluo Road
system and Darning Lake Road system. Presently, Jinan is planning to build a flvover
along the Daming Lake system. The construction of this flyover conisists of 2 plhases.
The first phase is from Qingnian West Road to Shunhe Street to Jingshi Road Cross to
Jingyi Road Cross; the second phase is from Shunhe Street to Shengchan Road to
Bciyuan Road. It is suggcstcd that the waste water pipes be laid togedter wNith the
construction of the flyover and construction of the main pipelines in Jiluolu system be
temporarily suspended till afler the completion of the flyover in order to mitigate traffic
pressure brought about by construction.
2) Project's Impact on Urban Population
The project entails a land acquisition of 235.37 mu, most of which arc old roads,
residential area and enterprises' land. It involves a dismantling area of 31280 m2, 310
farnilies and 84 cntcrpriscs. Population afIfcted hits 1460. Migration and settlcincnt foe
comes up to 64.7945 million yuan. It is planned that local and migrant settlement be
adopted.
3) Project's Impact on Flood Prevention and Flood Discharge
Jinan's rainwater discharge system makes it possible for the rainlwater to be
discharged into the nearest river course and finalhl into Xiaoqing River. The main
flood-discharge ditches in the system are renovated natural river courses.
Xiaoqing River is Jinan's chief flood-discharge channetl but its capacity is pretty
low and is onlv able to deal with a flood ever' 5 years. Xiaoclino River's brinclhes wilhin
the coverage scope, which either flow into or are pumped into Xiaoqing River. have also
pretty low capacities, handling floods event 20 to 50 y ears.
Pipelines in the network project are mostlv laid along the streets. so there will not be
mnany crosses with flood-disclharge ditches. For tlhe few which do entail crossings,
overhead inverted siphon pipes will be adopted, so the project will not bring about any
impact on the city's flood-discharge svstem. Only at Shunhie Street part where Xiweizi
Ditch will be covered up owing to the construction of the flvover, flood-prevention
requirements should be taken into consideration in waste water pipeline laving. It will be
better for the construction to take place duriig the ditch's dry-up period and oii a high
level of flood-prevention capacity.
i 4 _'



4) Project's Impact on Green Land
The project will take place together widh road construction. The greenbelt along the
streets will be affectcd most. Present grcenbelts in Jinai 'arc not wcll distributed. Tnc
greenbelts along the project-concemned streets are of low quality. 'T'herefore, according to
the overall planring, mcasures will be taken to improve tlhe greenilbclls alon,g (le projecl-
concemed streets after completion of the project.
5) Project's Impact on the Old Underground Networl
Pipelines are laid according to the pipeline overall planning. Specific locations and
mutual relations of the pipes have already been specified in the overall plan. Therefore
there wilV not be many pipeline crossings. For the few which do entail crossings,
municipal departments should coordinate with each other on the principle that temporarv
pipes give way to permanent pipes, pressure pipes give way to nion-pressure pipes and
small pipes give way to big pipes. Special leaders should be appointed to take charge to
avoid damage to the existing water pipes. gas pipes, power lines, communication cables.
etc. No problem will occur in the mutual relations of the underground pipclines.
4.2.1.5.2 Analysis of Project's Environmnental Impact Factors
The project's environmental impact factors include: surface water, gounid water,
noise and dust during construction. According to I'OR. surface water, ground water and
noise are the key factors. Analyses of the 4 above-mentioned factors fuollow.
1) Analysis of the Project's Impact on Surface Water
The network project has 4 systems to transport Jinan City's waste water to Jinan
Waste water Treatment Plant. The plant's I-phase capacitv is 22(0 thousand mT/d. but is
not in use since the network has not been built yel. After completion of tihe network
project, the waste water presently discharged into thc river courses will be sent through
pipes into Xiaoqing River blank pipes, 220 thousand m3/d of the waste water will be
treated by the waste water treatment plant first, and then discharged into Xiaoqing River.
The rest will be discharged directly into the river. On the one hand, the waste wvater will
not be discharged into the urban river courses, so the pollution in Gonosliang River,
Dongluo River, ,iluo River and Liuhangtou River wvill be cffectivewl controlled, and
Darning Lake will retrieve its former beautv. On the other hand. since the 220 thouisand
m3/d waste water is treat4d, quantitv of pollutants in Xiaoqing River will be greatly
reduced: reduction of COD 88t/d, BOD 53t1d, SS 81td, which contributes greatly to tlhe
comprehensive treatmcnt of Xiaoqing, River.
2) Analysis of the Project's Inpact on Ground WNater
After the completion of the project, the quality of the surlace waler in ihe rivers and
lakes within the covcragc scopc will be improved, and thc pollution caused by the
leakage from surface water to ground water will be mitigated. On the other hand, the
waste water network, covers a big area and many streets, so leakage in waste waler
conveying will be the main polluting source afier the complction of the project.
Since tubewell drainage technique is adopted in the network construction. gromnd
4 -41l



water level for certain areas will be affected, which will cause ground water loss and
ground water level decrease. Therefore, during construction, measures should be taken
to enhance the quality, of construction, like the joint of pipes, invertcd siphion pipes, etc.,
and to quicken construction speed in order to mitigate the impact caused this way.
3) Analysis of Project's Noise and Dust dutring Construction
lhe project is a large-scale infrastructure construction item which involves a big
construction area, lots of vehicles and machines, big carthwork- and a large construction
population. The construction vehicles and machines will be the chief polluting sources of
noise and dust, like digging, piling, concrete mixing, earth-conveying, road-rolling, etc.
Besides, since the construction sites are usually closed or half closed to traffic,
indirect noise and dust pollution may last for the whole conistruction period owing to the
increase of traffic in the neighboring area. Ilowever, it will cease on completioni of tlhe.
project.
To mitigate noise and dust pollution. stricter measures should be taken to enhlance
construction management. Construction is to be planned into separatc phascs on a
reasonable schedule. Construction vehicles and machines should be used at a time when
minimum impact on the neighborhood is possible. Spccial roads and special traffic time
should be arranged for the construction vehicles. Special trucks arc to transport the
surplus earth to designative places outside the citv in time. Construction sites are to be
clcaned up in lime when construction ceases. Advancedi maclhines will be used.
Construction speed is to be raised. And the construction period is to be shortened.
Efforts will be made to mitigate the project's impact in time, space and degree.
4.2.1.5.3 Project's Impact on Overall Planning
The action plan for Jinan Urban Waste Water Netwvork is compiled according to
Jinan City's overall planning, on the basis of Jinan Gcjiagou Wl7aste water T'reatment
Plant's Main Pipeline System Lavout in 1989. During the compilation of the action plan.
coordination of different factors was given full consideration. Present existing pipelines
have been used to the utmost. Pipelines are laid at designative roads, with only a few to
be widened. The whole network falls into the 4 systems, with a renovated pipelile lengtlh
of 7A4 km, a ncwly-built pipeline length of 43.5 km, a total of 50.9 km along the existing
designative roads. Therefore the project will not bring ahout too much impact to the
city's overall planning.
4.2.1.5.4 Analvsis of Project's Impact on Ecological Restoration
'I1is network- project is botlh an urban public facility anid anl onviiomuetital
protection facility. After completion of the project, ecological environment will be
restored to a certain degree.
a. Water quality of Xiaoqing River will bc greatly bettered. Worsening of the ecological
system will be checked. For many years, pollution in Xiaoqing River has brought
abouL the changes in the river's water conditions, ecological balance being shattered.
With the waste watcr network being put in use, Xiaoqing River's ccology will be
restored to some degree. and the agricultural ecology will develop in thie direction of



beneficial circulation. Xiaoqing River has been irrigating its neighboring farmlands
for 35 years, the pollutants migrating into the agricultural ecological system. The
waste water network will greatly mitigate the pollution in this point and the land
vegetation and ecology will be improved greatly. Besides, the fishenr production in
Laizhou Bay will also improve since Xiaoqing River flows into the sea there. lost
of all, Xiaoqing River inhabitants' health wil be guaranteed.
b. Jinan is known as the "Spring City" which is famous for its 72 springs with Darning
Lake like a pearl in the city. However, water pollution has badly damaged Jinan's
tourism. Due to too much inflow of the urban domestic waste water, the original clear
lake has been badly polluted with organic matters and been overnutritious, consuming
lots of dissolved oxygen. River courses in the city, like Gongshang River, Dongluo
River, XiJuo River, Liuhangtou River, Weizi Ditch. etc., have become waste water-
dischlarge ditclhes, smelly and sludgy all year rounid, vhich greatly damages thle city's
environment. After completion of the project, urban waste water will be sent to the
waste water treatment plant through a complete pipeline network, pollution in urban
livers, lakes, springs, etc., obviated; thus the tourism rcsourecs wiU be protcctcd
effectively and "Spring City" will keep its name forever, and the Daming "Pearl" will
shine again.
4.2.2 Present Surface Water Quiality, and Impact Assessmeint
4.2.2.1 Iivestigationi anid Assessment of Pollulitig Sources in tlie Waste W\ater
Network
nhis part of work- is to find out thlC main polluting sources and main pollutants
cischarged into Xiaoqing River by the enterprises within the waste water network's
coverage scope.
4.2.2.1.1 Investigation of Waste Water Polluting Sources in the Waste Water Network
Jiuan waste water network takes in domestic and industlial waste water within its
coverage scope. Presently, this kind of waste water is discharged into Xingoji River,
Gongshang River, DongJuo River, Xiluo River. Liuhangtou River. Guangchangdong
Ditch, etc., and fmally into Xiaoqing River. Some cnterprises disclharge adiectly inlto
Xiaoqing River through pipes or ditches. In order to find out the chief polluittig sources
and pollutants in Xiaoqing River watur body, pollution investigalion must be canieil out.
According to thc f-actozics' production techniques and propcrty of thizeir waste water-,
assessment factors will be Hg. Cd, Cr6+, Pb, As. volatile phenol. CODcr. SS and
Sulfide. See Sewerage Pipeline Netwvork EiniroLuiential hItpact Assessinent Report for
details in pollutants discharge and heaxv poUllting sources.
4.2.2.1.2 Assessment of Polluting Sources
1) Assessment Standard
Standlards for Waste WVater Comprehensive Discharge (GB8978-88) wil be the
assessment standards. I-type pollutants are assessed according to stipulations in Table 1;



II-type pollutants in Table 2 II-grade "prcsent" standards.
2) Assessment Method
Equal standard pollution load method will he adopted.
4.2.2.1.3 Assessment Result
Through the equal standard pollution load equation, pollution load of each polluting
sources and pollutants and the pollution load ratio in thcir respective arcas will be found.
See Table 4.2.5
4.2.2.2 Investigation and Assessment of Water Quality of Xiaoqing River and Its
Branches
For river water quality assessment, Jinan Environmental Monitoring Station's
1992-1994 routine monitofing materials will be used.
4.2.2.2.1 Positions of Monitoring Points
See Table 4.2.6 and Fig 4.2.4.
4.2.2.2.2 Monitored Items and Analysis Metlhod
Items monitored in Xiaoqing River and its branches include: teniperature, PI1, total
suspension, total hardness, dissolved oxygen, KNMnO4, chemical oxygen consiunptionL
NH3-N, N02-N, N03-N, volatile phenol, cyanide, As, Hg1 total Cr, Cr6+, Pb. Cd, Cu,
Zn, sulfide, fluoride, petro-products, electrical conductixity. Analysis melthod for cach
item is carried out according to Environmental Monitoring Technique Norms.
Routine monitoring points monitor on Miaoqing River section twice every water
period, each time for a day and once every day; for branches, once every Nvater period,
each time for a day and once everv day.
Table 4.2.6 Surface Water Routine -Monitorinn Points
Water Body             Section Position             Notes
.                |       lUl~~~~~uli7luang 4   St|5;ate and( 1l0r~ic llCC l
Xiaoqinga iver             N Maanshan               Citv lRun
N _uliuzla    _          Citv Rtu
Huanuiangdian        State and Province Run
Gongshang River
Branches of Xiaoqing River   Liuhanigtou River
Sewage Station
Wuumina Pavilion            State Run
Darning Lakee            Lixia Pavilion            State Run
7.                      -
Huibo Pavilion               te ItatcRun
4.2.2.2.3 Assessment Parameters and Standards



:   \e--)'~~~~~~ .'-                                  /j I / A                                     f
. . . . .t, .fi . . . .l
/ t                                                            L I    ad
''  a  b"  9'¢ltRS       y                         >s               im~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ra OU="
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A \i   \  4 iAz              ;fia ifsr
- ~~~~~~~~~~~ii1~~~~~~~~~~
slll  chebmlatic dziagraltll OtolgeOle< SeCCtiOII senloVtie area'                                          -
-K 1       . .-.~.. .1. .  l. .  ......... .  jcm iit.llXscl;l rol e l>c w-m.lcs.a .r.erlk,l -
Il .w - I                                           ~Qjal Ellouitail
L~~~~~~~~
1 1lilSelljl: -Slil Igtleotis rocss SriElg iarst urideerg.roundl %vatcr Jcirl
Fig2 4.2.5 T,l,.,e partit,i,on map of tandergroualdi -water
cinvil tonillient setisitive areas ,an(i d,ist i-ibttion m-ap of
molliOX ilg point ini Jinnn11- cit-y



Table 4.2 15  _    _                _            Assessment results of   undwater qulit-
Sites Date  Cl  SO.,2   F  I No.1-N  No2-N  NH-    F   I                                                                            M i i  | I o  CN'  As   H-  C Se   Cd  CrC+ Pb    _  091 |  xl   PFI
1   93.7 0.159 0.307        0.339  0.105                 1 < 0(511                       < .05                 <.06  <c05  0.73-1 0.552'          0.3 
.._     ._        __ _  _    _ __ _   ._ _   _ _ _  .__   ,   _  _              _ __   _ __                                     _ _  _   
.__  95.6 0.165 0.231 0.20  0.480  0.335                                                                                    0.' 28 0.5451 0-457    0.6
_  93.11 0.052 0.173 0.25  0.155  <0.03  <0.025 <0.0661 1                                                        -         0.578 0.4161  0.12     0.2
3   93.6  0.230 0.404       0.642   3.50                 <           c     005 ____05 !                         0.24  <.05  1.)01 0. 68           0.1
94.5  0.076 0.231   1 0.232  <0.03                      I _                                                      -   0.609          0.12    0.2
5   94.9  0.202 0.221 0.20   0.396   0.05  <0.025 <0.066 i<.0005 <.005 <.00025 <.50                 0.06 <05 c 05 0.07 <15 0.16 <.05  0.76)   0.15  0.2
6   94 9 0.120 0.154 0.251 0.158  <0.03  <0.025 '.0.066 1.<0051 <.005  0.006  <.50 <.06  - (15 <.05 0.05 1< PS5 <.06  0.10  0.58-. 0. 150! 0.17   0.6
~~~~~~~__  __                                   _,_............. _  .1                                  - . , -   _   I___    _   
93.7  0.137 0.163 0.20  0.283   0.10  <0.025 <O0661<.0(5|0.05  ().ooS .c5() <06 <05  :Q5 0.08  125 012  '05  0.606 0.1791  0.27-02
____  ______________________                    0005 I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.50 <.06 <.05 -:.05 0.08 <.1-5 0.12, <.05  0.606 O  0179 0.7 .
7   949 0.112 0.134 0.30  0.212  <0.03  <0.025 <:0.0(6c.o005f<.005  0.006 I                                                          1   0.18    04
956  0.125 ().150 0.220  0.2 40  <0.03  <0.025  0.066 <.005 S 0.02 <.00025  -.50 <.06 <.05  -.C5 0.051<125 <06  <.05   5      159!  0.07      05
X   93.7 0.093 0.134 0.25 0.175   0.15  <0.025 <0.066< 005 <OOS  0.009  <.50 <.06  -.(05  J5 .0.07 <.125( 0. 12  <.05  0.517  .1          0.27    03
9 .93.7 0.084 0.173         0.127  <0..3         _005                                    < --  <S       I       <.0O6  <.05 0.53V0110.112
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00   <.0  .-O 06  __ ___ _0 < _  <. 0_  __0                                                                                ._2__ _
10  93.10 0.11  0 . 15 0.0 0 4).348  <0.03  <0.025 IS.0 66<.005 <05I<00251<.50 <.06 <.05 ..(,5 :.A015l-C.125 < 00  <.05  0.673 0.500! 0.07    0.2
1 04.4C .100 0.176 0.15! 0.367  <0.03  <.0.025  Om0 66<OSkO00SI<.00025j<50 <.06 <.05  .05 0.0.     15 0.12  <.05  0.658 0.495   0.30           0.1
._  __   t_ _,                ___             -- .    K' -T-                 ---   --6  5t - I  I -
(1 03.7 10.292 10.423       0.678  0.135                 i< 0051     1       1             05       !    I    |<06              6  0356, l.632.  I_(
12   5a61  .29 (1 0223  )30  02 40   0.38                  <005                                            --  -  -_i56                    0.113  1  o
I3.6 0.508 0.6631       0083   0.27.!0 I                                                          I<osl _  I      .05                         0.4
F-t-e-7-______            _____   .__,_I__  -    - - - .         t- -         t-                    -                I________
13  949  0.516 0.7         I156          _        ___          41                             l                             1.2731.041          I
I    1  95.6 0.513 0.596                 3 0.136  c-0.03_  |    I                         _     _       I                    1.246, 11.04    0.55   0 1
E (3 6 L0 <O) )141       '( 3    O0                        00.51   1                    .0                   1     i<0  1.1 4() 11.078 1           1  
936 f0300 0~~~  ~    ~~~~~~~~~.134  038  <0031    <os                             .s_ _06i <.O
I    '    ._  I_ j____  _                                     j     , _,                                                 I .__ _    _
I 11  947 10.299 0.18      0. 054          I] _    _6 __._                              I          __I|__1___ |L                                    ) _
95 6 0.052  0.096 0.15  0.119  <0.)3                     -j     !                                          < 06'       0.456) 0.352   ) 3     1 0
43 6 __L_ 53! 0.8,45     .06S 1 T.                                                                                <-05                             j . I  1.-  0.3
|   3 1;| 6 >(ss3lo.&4SI   'J068    1.'0 I                005!                         <z.05 ____!  !_<.051 1.529+111                             .
4 -61



years.
Above all, ground water quality in this area is generally good, and karst water is
better than rockhole water. However, monitoring result shows that karst water has also
been polluted. Points where monitored item values are high mainly locate in the
southeast part of the urban area, which means that the ground water conditions there are
sensitive and should be protected particulariy.
4.2.3.1.2  Ground Water Environmental Impact Analysis
Operation of Jinan Urban Waste Water Network will bring about great impact on
urban ground water conditions. The impact lie in the following aspects.
1) Impact during Construction
During construction, plenty of digging work must he done to bun, the pipes. And
the deeper the pipes are to be buied, the more digging work is necessary. Two
possibilities exist to cause negative impact on ground water.
a. South of Jingshi Road, in Jingshanzhuang, Yangtouyu, Nanjiao Hotel, Yingxiongshan
mountain areas, limestone are shallow or even exposed. Tllirefore, local explosioi
is necessary for pipe-laying. Dynammon will bring about NOx pollution to ground
water. The degree of pollution is in direct relation to the explosive amount and
development of limestone rockholes. The more explosive is used, and the more
developed the rockholes are, the worse the pollution will be. But, this kind of
ground water pollution will be. But, this kind of pollution will only cause the
degradation of water quality, not of the water's function.
b. During old network renovation, the formed sedimental layer of sludge on the bottom
of the waste water discharge ditches havc to be digged up again, which makes it
easier for the waste water to percolate underground, causing an increase in
percolation within short period of time. So, during renovation, like Yuhan Road,
Weier Road, Shengohang Road, had better take place during dry-up peniod to
minimize waste water percolation.
2) Inpact on Ground Water When the Network is in Use
a. Positive Impact on Ground Water When the Network is in Use
When the network- is in use, waste water will be discharged through pipes instead of
ditches, and will flow into waste water plant for treatment, which will greatly reduce the
waste water percolalion supplement to ground water. At present, waste water is
discharged mainly through ditches.
Since the ditch bottoms have vern good perviousness, especiaDly in the south and
southeast parts of the urban area where limestone is shallow or even exposed, waste
water is sure to percolate down, causing pollution to underground water. Due to lack of
systematic monitoring materials and relevant data, there is no way to calculate this
percolation amount. But bascd on the analysis of waste water dischargc ditches,
geological structure and the present underground water conditions, waste water
percolation is sure to have happened. Influenced by waste waler percolation, Jinan urban
rockhole water quality is generally very poor, and karst ground water quality has also
been affected.
4-62



When the network takes the place of discharge ditches, waste water percolation will
be avoided and ground water conditions and quality will also be bettered. It will bring
about the most obvious impact on rockhole water and karst water will also be favorably
influenced. Present karst water pollution will be hindered.
b. Negative Impact on Ground Water Wlhen the Network is in Use.
Negative impact on ground water lies in the waste water leakage caused by pipe
breakage, pipe joints or shaft inverted siphon pipes. The leakage will bring about ground
water pollution. If the pipeline position is near the original dischargc ditch, then the
leakage will not aggravate ground water pollution. But if the pipes are laid where there
are no discharge ditches like the east part of Beiyuan Road, new local pollution will
occur. The pollution will be more obvious, especially at places where the rock
perviousness is good, like most of the newly-built network area north of Xiaoqing River.
4.2.3.2 Measures Taken to Prevent Ground Water Pollution
Operation of Jinan waste water pipeline network will protect and improve the urban
ground water conditions. However, pipeline digging and burying, and waste water runoff,
overflowing, dripping and leaking will bring about ground water pollution. Since there
are too big differences in hydrophite types, Quaternry Period thickness, aerated area's
lithology and leakage prevention, ground water will be divided up into different areas
according to its sensitivity, no tlhat corresponding protection measures may be taken.
And, protection measures will also be taken in project design and the construction
peiod.
4.2.3.2.1 Ground Water Sensitive Area Division
Jinan locates on the joint of Taishan mountain's north stretch and its front sloping
plain, and is of a high-south-low-north terrain. The southem low mountains and hills are
500-900m above sea level; the middle hills are 1 00-500m above sea level: the northern
sloping plain is 10-100m above sea level. The work area locates in the middle and iiorai
of the city. Southeast area is tectonic corrosion and corrosion hills. Northwest area is
sloping plain, declining northward, slope declivity being 0.23-0.9%∞. Ditch valleys are
fully developed.
Exposed seralum in the area i5. mainly composed of Ordovician, Quaternary Period
and Yanshlan period magma rock. See Fig 4.2.5 for the network area's Hy&dogeological
conditions. GCound water sensitive area can be divided into 3 kinds according to surface
lithology, Quaternarv Period thickness. aerated area's leakage prevention and low-hin2
hydrophite types, etc., that is, grounid water enviroiuient very sensitive area (1), grouInd
water environment sensitive area (II), and ground water environmtent non-sensitive area
(DII). Detailed description follow.
a. Ground Water Environment Very Scnsitivw Aeca (I)
This area locates in the southern area of the city, which is the area south of the
igneous rockbody's southern boundary line, including Jingshanzhuang, Yangtouyu,
Qianfoshan mountain, Baotu Spring, Heihlu Spring. Baliwa, Yinxiongshan mountain, etc.
The karst ground water is supplemented in the southem mountain area ( out of this area),
4-63



and then flows into this area. It is blocked by the nollhern rock body. so springs form
when water level is raised above the ground level. This area is rich in karst ground water.
It is an important source for Jinan urban water supplv. and a place where most famious
springs locate.
In this area, hydrolith bodi is exposed or shallowhy buried. In the cxposcd area.
karst crevices are filUy developed with good perviousness and thus poor waste water
percolation prevention capacity. So this area's environmental condition is very sensitive.
In this area, even small amount of low density pollutants will percolate into the hvdrolith
layer, causqig pollution. Therefore, this area is categorized into the very sensitive area
due to its social function and its poor self-protection ability.
b. Ground Water Environment Sensitive Area
This is the area north of Xiaoqing River, where the Quatemary Period thickness is
mostly more than 30m and creviced hydrolith bodv is fulls developed. It has some water
supply capability. Its surface litholog; is mainly of fine sands and sandv loam. So this
area has good perviousness, and thus poor waste water percolation prevention capability.
Therefore, it is categorized into the senLsitive area.
c. Ground Wl'ater Environrment Non-sensitive Area (III)
This area locates in the wor;k area, fiom .linan's old urban area to Qilihe in the east.
where Quatematy Period thickness is 10-3()m. and( litliology is mainly laiii. carth lam.
and sandy loam. Surface layer of this area does not have good water-containing rock
body. Undemeath is the igneous rock bodv, so the whole area is of little value in water
supplv. Although the low-lying aerated laxer (lam.n earth lam. sands loam) has good
perviousness, percolation of pollutants in this area will not bring about amy apparent
impact on water supplv and springs. Therefore, this area is categorized into the. non-
sensitive area.
4.2.3.2.2 Ground Water Environmental Protection Area Dixision
a. Karst Ground Water Kev Protection Arca (I)
This is the ground water envronment very sensitive area (1). In this area, great
attention must be paid to ground water enmironmental protection. Firstly. in city planning
and industry arTangement, this area should be listed as thc cultuiai atrea and( scenic
tourism area. where polluting enterprises and urban garbage pileup are prohibited.
Secondly, stlict manaoement should b.e administered on domestic waste water anid
garbage disposal. Domestic waste water should be discharged through the pipeline
network. Discharging into natural ditches is prohibited. Furthermore, large amoutnt of
human manure used in vegetable growing will cause N03, N02, N1H44 and colihacillus
pollution to ground water, so the scale of vegetable growing should also he propcrly
controlled.
b. Crevice Ground Water Key Protection Area (I1)
This is the ground water environment sensitive area (11). T his area can hc platwued
into thc industrial area and the living arac, but waste water miust be discharged tlhrough
the pipeline network. And management of the networkl should be improved to reduce
possible leakage of waste water water. According to design, the rework can basically
meet the need. However, with the expansion of the city, the network's ser se coverage



scope should aLso be enlarged, especially in tlc noilliern line sand area neal the Yellow
River. The whole urban area should be within the network-'s service coverage.
c. Crevice Ground Water General Protection Area (H1)
This is the ground water environment non-sensitive area (Im). Since this area does
not have good water-containing lavers and is of little valuc to waler supply.
environmental protection work in this area can be centiered on ground surface
environmental protection. This does not mean environmental protection of this area's
ground water can be ignored. Pollution should be avoided of the southem karst ground
water and northern cre-ice giound water bv this area's polluted water produced by
strong mining.
4.2.4 Present Noise Environment Qualitv and Impacts
Analysis
4.2.4.1 Present Noise Environment Qualitv and Assessmeiit
4.2.4.1.1 Investigation about Present Noise Situation
The planned Jinan Waste Water Network Project is comnposed of 5090(1 m new and
reconstructed branch and main sewage line, 1400 nm inveiled siphon and 100.000 m3/d
pump station. The branch and main line and siphon wvill be laid along 22 traffic roads
while pumps will be on the northwestem comer of the closs site of Lihuang Road and
Jiaoji Railway. According to the division of noisy, functional area, 481 0 in pipelinic will
be in 0 aream 2875 m in 1 area, 21725 m pipeline and 640 m inverted siphon in 2 area
and 21490 m pipeline and 760 m inverted siphon in 4 area.
4.2.4.1.2 Monitoring of Present Noise Situafion
The noise of functional areas is measured by Jinan Environmental Monitooring
Station. Through uninterruptcd 24 hour-monitoring of 9 inispected slpots evcry season of
a year, 3648 data are acquired. 837 data about traflic noise are acquired through 8:00-
12:00 and 14:00-18:00 monitoring of 92 spots of 37 roads in March of every year.
The monitoring result of noise of functional area and traflic in 1995 are shownin 'Iabic
4.2.16 and Table 4.2.17.
Table 4.2.16     Statistical results of noise in everv function area  uitit: dB(A)
Quarter,  Category 0     Category I    Categor!7 2    Category 3     Category ,1
La  Ln  Lan !La  Ln  Lan  La  Ln ILan  La Ln  Lan  La ' Ln  Lan
I   57.6. 39.7 56.2! '58.9 164.0 1 69.5: 62.5; 52.5. 63.5 70.0 '56.3 69.7 73.9! 69.5 77.0
2   155.9i 52.6' 59.4 f 67.4 t65.9 i 72.2 60.4  52.1 62.5. 58.0 54.5 i 61.41 71.4 68.8 i 75.4
3    56.052.855.53.454.3,60.259.6! 0.760.3 58. 6srs .3C |i6>8. ,71.4
4    557, 481566 158.4!54.3 61.3S 597i55.2'62..41 59715S.2 62 4!   O.Q147 5.8
Year  56.3 48.3 ! 57.9 i 59.5 59.6! 65.8 60.0! 52.6 62.2 61.8 54.6  63.5 71.4 69.01 75.7
Norm  5s 0   40        55   45        60   s!        6   55 7S,0   55
4-_F



Table 4.2.17    Noise monitoring results of main roads in 1995  unit: dB(A)
Name   Length (m), Width (m)! Vehicle flow(vih)  Leg   LI 0  L50  L90
Beiyuan     5397      32.4          2641        70.6  73.7 i 68.6  64.9
f    .                           ,     .     .     .~~~1 
Daweier    2207       32.6          1994        689  72.5  66.5  62.2
Gongyebei|  1614       31.0   I      1880        76.8 1 81.0 I 74.0  70.0
Heping   _ _2275 _     17   t       1620        72.0  74.7  67.7  64.0
Jiluo   !  2833       35    l      1705        71.6  75.3  70.5 1 63.6
Lishan     4084       36.3   1     2497        69.6 1 72.6  67.1  61.8
Minghu      1500       15           1420        75.7 1 79.0 t71.0 163.0
Shanda  _      _2907  13.9          1349         1.   75.4  67.6  62.6
Shuenhe !  760   1  12.0   1        1290        73.1  75.0  67.3  63.0
4.2.4.1.3 Assessment about Present Noise Situation
1) Assessment Standard
The National Standard: Noise Standard about Urban Environment(GB 3096-93)
will be adopted in the assessment.
2) Assessment about Present Noise Situation
a. According to the data of monitoring, present noise of all the 4 areas passed 1by planned
netvork exceed the standard, especially in 0 area, 6.3 dB above standard in the day-time
and 8.3 dB above at night.
b. The noise of 9 main road passed by main pipeline, besides Daweier Road and Lishan
Road, all exceed standard, especially in Gongyebei Road and Mlinghu Road, is
respectively 6.8 dB(A) and 5.7 dB(A) above.
c. Main pollution source of 22 traffic road passecd by planned networ}k is Iraflic noise.
4.2.4.2 Analysis of Noise's Impacts on Environment
4.2.4.2.1 A.fer construction, all network will not produce noise besides 6 sewage pumps
of pump station which sound level are 98 dB(A), and they have no adverse effect on
environment because of working in 10 m deep ivell.
4.2.4.2.2 Noise pollution of planned project is produced mainly during construction. We
investigated the equipment, pattem and work-rest schedule of construction in detail in
order to make clear the influence of construction noise. At the same time we inspected
the construction spot in Lihuang Road and measured voice source, so we got a clear
understanding of noise pollution of construction. Excavation and top pipe patterns will
be adopted in planned object. In general, noise pollution of excavation pattem is heavier
while that of top pipe pattem is lighter.
1) According to depth and diameter of pipe and geological structure, excavation palteni
will be adopted in 25470 m (680 of it is siphon) of planned project. Machinery will
mainhl be used in excavation. MIain equipment and noise intensit -of machine excavation
see Table 4.2.18.
d -6h



Table 4.2. 1 8              MIain noise equipment and it sound level
Name of equipment             N'umber             Sound Level dB(A)
Bulldozer                    4                      105
Excavator                     2                     105
V'ehic.les       '          12                      100
Pile driver                   2                     115
Crane                       3                      95
Concrete mixer                  2                      85
Roller                      3                      105
Fork-lifi truck                3            !         105
Usually these equipment work on a 50)V m long working line at the same time.
According to spot-monitoring, the work, site match a 85 dB(A) linear sound source
which attenuates to 70 dB(A) below in 30 m away according to AL=1() Ig (r2/rl).
Because generaRly the excavation site is 50 m away from buildings and the planned
project is public welfare business, transient noise pollution is sufferable to most
concemed people.
2) Top Pipe Construction
According to construction principle, top pipe pattem can be used to all pipeline with
a diameter over 900 mm which is buried over 4 m deep underground. 26830 m length of
the project will be constructed bv this way(720 m of which is siphon), which takes more
than half of the whole pipeline network. According to the terrain, a working hole will be
digged every 50 or 100 m( upper 4m of the hole is digged bv machine, lower hi, people).
One trench. two conveyors and one pile drive will be used to dig hole. (ieclrralli'. holes
can be diggcd at same time, which match three 87 dB(A) point noise sources. T he noise
will attenuate to 60 dB(A) below 30 m away according to AL=() lg(r2/rl). Fewer
machines, an shorler working time of top pipe construction mainly underground r-esult in
lighter noise pollution.
4.2.4.2.3 Construction pattern by stages will be adopted considering the triaflic condiition
during construction. Because of synchronous construction of Shunhe Viaduct and
Pipeline Network, the vehicle flow of neighboring road  will increase, then traffic noise
will rise.
4.2.4.2.4 According to on-the-spot investigation. the pipeline network will pass 34
sensitive spots( 6 of them are hospitals, 11 are schools and 17 are residential areas
which be tak-en in account emphaticaUlv.
4.2.4.3 Conclusion of Analysis.of Environniental Inm pacts or Noise ant lrotection
Mleasures
4.2.4.3.1 Conclusion
I)Jinan Pipeline Netwvork will be laid along 22 traffic roads( 9 of them are main lfies )
distributed in 4 functional areas. The main pollution source is traffic pollution.
a -67



According to National Standard(NS), present noise of all the 4 areas exceed standards
especially in 0 area, is 6.3 dB above standard in the day-time and 8.3 dB above at night.
Thc noise of the 9 main roads passed hv main pipcliuc, hcsidics D)avcicr lRoad and(
Lishan Road, all exceed thc NS limit. In Gongyebei Road axnd IMinghu Road, situation is
especially serious.
2) After construction, all pipeline network will not produce noise besides 6 sewage
pumps of pump station which produce 98 dB(A) noise, and because of working in 10 m
deep well, they have no adverse effect on enmironment.
3) The noise source of pipeline network- is maiil produced during construction.
Excavation and top pipe patterns are mainhl adopted and main pollution source is
machine noise. A 500 m long 85 dB(A) linear source will be produced during
excavation and atcnuatc according to Al -1() lg(r2'ri) while Ihrec 87 (113(A)point
sources will be produced during top pipe construction and attenuate accordling to Al =20
lg(r2/rl). Construction noise, especially excavation noise, wvill influence environment in
some degree. At night the effect wrill be more obxious.
4.2.4.3.2 Protection Mleasures
1) Speeding up construction pace and shortening time limnit of the project through plan
and organization to lighten the influence of noise.
2) Top pipe construction pattem should be adopted as fully as possible(artilicial
excavation pattem can be adopted in sensitive area) in order to rcduce the noise
pollution.
3) Schedule for construction and for use of noisy equipment should be rationally
arranged. Construction should be arranged in the dav-time as full as possible.
4) Advanced equipment of light noise should be selected and excavation spot should be
away from sensitive spot of noise.
4.2.5 Land Requisition and Dismantling
4.2.5.1 Quantity of Land Requisition and Dismantling
The land requisition and dismantling concem 1460 people, 83 enterprises and 1
school. 235.37 mu land will be conscripted and 310 families will have to move. Area of
dismantled house is 31280m2.
4.2.5.2 Compensatory Measure for Land Requisition and Dismantling
It is estimated that the total area of requisitioned land is 235.37 mu and the cost is
14655.4 thousand yuan while the total area of dismantling house is 31280 m2 and the
cost is 50140.5 thousand yuan. Then the total compensatorn cost for land requisition and
dismantling is 64794.5 thousand yuan.
310 families have to moved, most of which will suffer loss in different degree.
About 130 thousand yuan will compensate to each family, in wlich 0(0 Ihousand yuan
i-or settlement cost and 30 thousand yuan for other compensatory cost. Futthermore, the



removed families will be offer with flats. The concerned enterprises and schools wvill be
compensated, too.
4.2.5.3 Specific Safeguard MIeasure
a. Special institution will be established to be in charge of settlement and compensatory
matters during land requisition and dismantling.
b. Through propaganda, increase the transparency of policies, make removed people
realize the irnportance of the project and their living quality will not decline by proper
measure.
c. Removed people can appeal to judicial institution according to china's laws if they
discontent with settlement or compensatory.
In brief, all kinds of social environmental protective measures will be cmployed to
lighten the adverse impacts of land requisition and dismantlng and to ensure the
successful accomplishment of the project.
4.2.5.4 Analysis Conclusion about Social Environmiienital Impacts of Land
Requisition and Dismantling
a. The evaluated area is a conjunctive area of old city and town. Its characteristic of
higher population density, land productivity and fixed asset value result in higher cost
and economic price of the project. But implement of land requisition and dismantling
plan and construction of pipeline network wvill improve living environment and living
quality of residents, including the target people.
b. The impact on social environment of the project mainvly expresses in aspects of
dismantling and settlement, and it is actual. direct and irreversible. The influence is
negative in short-term but positive in long-term to most concerned people. Most of the
concerned people agree wNith inplement of the project because the) can make up their
cost with government compensator) or potential interest of the project.
c. Measures should be taken to enhance social environmental protection and to ensure
that living quality of concerned people will not degrade.
4.3 Overall Analysis of Environmental Impacts of Jinan
Loan Project Area
Jinan area has hvo loan projects: Jinan Queshan Pondagre Reservoir Prroject {or
drawing Yellow Rivcr to supplv water and Jinani Urban Waste 'Water Networik Project.
There is little relation between two projects, and en-Oronmental itmpacts of each project
is independent. Environmental influence of them is detailed in front two section.
In brief, construction of Jinan Queshan Pondagc Resenroir will increase 156 million
tons water supply for Jinan. relax water supply tension of Jinan during dryvup period of
Yellow River. It has momentous significance for prompting econonmic development and
restoring Spring City s spectacle of Jinan. The sewage pipeline network project will
greatly improxe water quality of rivers and lakes and restore the attractive natural
-69



spectacle of Jinan. Its benefit in economy, environment and society is significant.
The construction of projects will probabhl bring some adverse impacts on
environment, but it is temporal. the adverse influence can be lower to bottom by proper
meanings. As long as the Three Synchronization discipline is persisted in project
construction, the influence will be very little, and its positive effect wil be much greater
than the negative one.
4-X 0



5 Environmental lmp)act anld Mitigatio-
Measures of 500 Heating Network in
Yantai Project Area
5.1 Environmental Anahvsis on the Propose(d Pryo ject
5.1. 1 Backgr-ounid
The proiect area is 47.4 km2 with population of '4)0.000. and is expected !,)o kcTp the same
in the vear oi 2000. There exist three CHP plant. by iiirce factor ies (Snillhetic I ealher Faclory.
No. 2 Chemical Plant. andl Printing adiini  Ilouse) ini 1istricl 7hiI u. thIse pnts pro\ides
heat for the processina h.at and space hcatin- of respectivc iactory. total atncrating capacity iR
17.25MIW witlh seven boilers. producing 2671 hi ot steam.
5 Residenits lBlocl; A;reas own their own relatily bivy er boiler houses (I 2 boilers in all) in
the area. they are: Nlinshena. Shili. Yuxiu. fI uarmia  and .linde. The total capacily of the 12
boilers is 1.800t(h. and mainly used ior space heatino in Winter.
Besides. there are two coimmercial ClIP plants in the area. Oine is owned 1y IIuatian I eat
Power  Company with 2xl5 00kw  turbogenerabor sets and 3x20t:h hoilers. Ihe other is
Huang-Bo-Hai Heat Power compary with two lines. Line A consisis of 2x2.5NW43.1x6XNI'
turbogencrator sets anid 4x3Sth boilers. .ine B  is compl.Osed of' 2x;ONIW-2xlI0OMIW
turbogenerator sets and 2x230t.h--2x460t`h boilers. wvhich will be used as heat source of'l>1Y 'N.
A general survev in the area shows that the total builldn space needing, hieating in Winter il
9.7674 million in. of which 1.937 million m? have distxict heatil  (including tlhoses b  self-
owned boiler house). Mxost of other building spiace is still hcate(d 1w dispersed coal-huilnita
boilers or even stoves. The ratio of'district lialti,n, in D)istrict /.1ihi is otnl\ 1 O.f;."
5. 1 .  Relationship between the Proposed Project and the I hialni-
Bo-I liii I leat and I)owe-er Compam-
'I'he  iuano-IBo-Tai fleat Power Company now  has twvo liTles. I inc A COnTi-ts of
2x2.5NIW-3x6XNI- tulrboencrator sets anJd 4x35t h h oilrs.  ine T  is composed  of'
2.x50N\IW--2x100NIW turbooenerator sets and 2x2301t1 h -2x-60 h boilers. 'I'hc lotal capacity of'
the gcnerator installation in lliiang-13o-liai icat an(d Power Conpanv is 323NI'\V. which are all
USe(1 Ibr electricity geieera1io.i
A analysis shows that the ratio of eneilr\y utilizatioll is -10`% when a11 thl encml-y is used lOr
power generation. wvhile when combination of' power andI heat in an TpowNer station. the ratio of'
enel-y utiliza tion can be raised to ca. 901∞. Ileince tlie basic heat sous cc ol 1'YI IN will -e tile
2.xIOONMW turbo-enerator sets in Line B of lluano-Bo-llai Company. So thie PYIIN N6ill Tbuil(l
the network and some auxiliary eqjuipment and thuis supply diztrict healitin bw purchasing heat



IL[:l 1-' i                                                  t-
/~~~~~~~~~/
X / 180000
;-.O ) 00 0  1.8 3.6  5.4  7.2 9 . i 0.8
Fig. 5.1.1    : ;< ,2n1,ii 1 o,a;iui ,f Y        51))  ical ing 'cvork



from heat source. For Huang-Bo-Hai Heat Power Company an(l PI-YIN' are managed by two
different administration departments. thex hav-e no relationisluhlp but seller and buyer.
T'o ensure the proposed improvement in au, quality by iniplemrnt:ation of P1YIIN. the
experts from the World bankl requested to analyze the air pollution-preventioni measures in the
Huang-Bo-Hai CHP CompanN.
5.1.2.1 'I'he Air Pollution-prevention MNeasures and Am-nount ol E.mitted llolitntill
In Iluang-Bo-IIai Ileat Power Company, thc flue gas 1;omn1 lhe 2 boile rs ol 2201( 'h is given
off by a 1 00 m high stack installed with electrostatic precipitator. whilie tilat It1oim the 2 boilers ol'
4lOtIh is given off from   a 180 m high stack  equipped wilh clecil-o.tatiC precipitator. T'he
detailed information is listed in Table 5.1.1.
Table 5.1.1       Data of Flue Gas Treatmnctit in I luan-g-Bo-I1 ai CI-II' Company
Capacity (MNW')                        2 x 50                      2 x  (1    -
Capacity of Steam (t'h)               2 x 220                      2 x 41)
Coal Consumption (tih)                  47.5                         5(3.
Emission Rate (NM3 's)                  104.6                       110.2
Height of Stack(m)                       10(                         1 80
Diameter of the Stack (mi)               4.0                           .'
Temperatuic oif Flue Cias at.           400                          40(
Output (k)
Way of Dedusting               electrostatic precipitator   electrostatic precipitator
Efficicncv of'Dcdusting(0o)              98                          9'8
Table 5.1.2                Emission Rate of Air Pollutant
Item                  I 00rn Stack    I X(oh  ilack   Total itn tlle
_______________________________________________________________Company
S02 (tih)                               0.82           0.87              1.69
Flvash(tib)                             0.12           0.13              0.25
Concentration of FI, ash in Flue Gas.   314             331
at the Output of Chimney (mg'm3)
5.1.2.2 Comparison ol'the Emission with the Standar-d
A. S(o2 Emission
Trhe limits in Class 2 ofI (( Shanidong I'roxicial Akir Pollution Em nissi;iOn standards ))
(DB37;006-91) are: 1 .06t 1i of  SO   forI stacL of 100 In 1hiit11. alid 2.X 1  1  of  SC)   br 1 tbn
high stack.
Accordinig to Ihe requirenients 10 *-     Expanded Constructiomi ol VXov%cr SLatioll' of
A( -ir Pollutioni Eitiissiotn Statdarrds fJoin Boilers )' GB7] 3223-91. ii \ c:'1co rcd 111h! 111
_  I



permitted SO2 emission rate in the whole Company is 2.13 tVh. T he dctailed calculation  method
is not described here. While the present emission rate of SO2 is 1.69 tJh so it is also in the limit of
the National Standard. of GB 13223-91.
B. Emission of Fly Ash
According to the <( Air Pollution Emnission Standards for Boilers )) GB13223-91. it's
calculated that the allowable maximum of fly ash in the Company is 531 mgINm', while the
present concentration of fly ash cmission is 0.31 mg/Nm3, far less than the Standard limnit.
5.1.3 General Picture of the Proposed Project
5.1.3.1 Objectives and Scope
The main objectivcs of the PYHN are to:
*  supply CHP heat through district heating in District Zhifu. and thus dismantle the existing
boilers and stoves, so as to improve the air quality,
*  demonstrate how to implement some new technolog) in composition and operation of
district heating (DH) system to reduce its operation coast and increase its reliabiiitv.
*  demonstrate new heating systems to be installed in the consumer's house so that room
temperature can be independently regulatcd an heating bill can be collected according to
the used heat quantity.
5.1.3.2 Scale and Main Counterparts of tne Project
The annual'heat consumption is 3.82x106 GJ/y. The proposed project anid its counterparts
includc: 30.22 km long hot-water network- (Grade 1), 42 heat-exchanger stations. 2 booster
pump stations and one peak load heating boilers (4-;29MW).
5.1.3.3 Investment
The total investment of the proposed project is estimated to be RXIB Yuan 388 million
(USD 46.2 million), in which RMIB Yuan 193.2 million (USD 23.2 million) is the loans from the
World Bank, and the others will be collected domestically.
5.1.3.4 Staffs Arranged
The organization being responsible for construction and implementation of the proposed
proicct if Yantai Heat and Power Office. The present member in the office is about 120, The
staffs in the agencv will be increased gradually to 543 when the operation are in full scale.
5.1.3.5 Heating Area



Area of this project area is 47.4 kmn with population of 400.000, and is expected lo kelc)
the same in 2000. This area is the center of politics, economv and culture in Yantai Citv.
The scope of the proposed project will supply heat to 22 planned block areas (Fig. 5.1.2),
the district heating area will be 8.164 million M2 (actual floor area, the flooing is thc samc).
iincluding most civil and public buildings of District Zihifu. The Municipal Planuing shows that
the 22 block areas will have total building area of 7.72 million m2, including 5.5 million im2 of
civil used  building and 2.22 million mz of public building.
5.1.3.6 Plane Distributioni of the Proposed Project
The proposed project is west to Huang-Bo-Hai Heat and Power Company, east to Putao
Mount, north to the North Road and south to the Qishan Road, as shown in Fig. 5.1.3.
The District Heating Networkl will be 30.22 km long, including a 8.5 km long main line.
The main line will be located above the slope of hillside of the southem hills. skip to the North
through the Ruzi Mount, to the East through 'No.3 Fenghuangtai Road and above ground along
to Xinshinan Road. then it will be started to burv under Huanghan South Street, Yuhuangding
West Road, East Road, Xiguan South Street, Shangli Road to 9No. 3 Road. The location ol the
mainline was decided by the M1unicipal Govemmentl Planning Bureau, Ileat and Plower )Office
and the design institutes aftcr careful discussions and considerations.
For the heating load of the proposed project concentrates mainlv in the end and middle of
the network, the beginning and end of the network is designed like branclhed shape, and the
middle is circle-like.
The peakload heating boilers is east to the Huang-Bo Hai Heat Power Company (onlv
separated by a wall), 5 km from the urban area.
According to the heat-supply rcquirements and on discussing with the NIunicipal Planning
Bureau, 42 Heat Consumer Substations and 2 Booster Pumps will be constructed. their detailed
locations are shown in Fig. 5.1.3.
5.1.3.7 Implemenitation Arrangemiient
The proposed projccts will be fmiished in 4 vears, see Table 5.1.3.
Table 5.1.3     Gante Charter of the Proposed Project
Construct, Pipe   Number of  Number of. Number of Arca Heated Investment
ion PhaseI Building  Built Heat   Booster  Hcating    (1000 M2)   (1I113
(km      Station*     Pwnp    BoilerBuilt               'Yuan
Million)
Year I   9.19        6                                 819.0       80.8
Year2    9.15        11                 '             1750.6      90.1(
Year3    6.70        17         **          **        3,138.2  __ 150.20
Year 4    5.18       8           2           1        2,456.2     67.70
Total   30.22       42                                8.164.()    388.0



(Note:
|    Peakload Heatuig Boiler House
A    Regional Heating Boiler House
(1)  Heat andc Power Statioi of Synthetic Leat-her Factoi,
(2)  Heat and power Station of Printing and Dyeing Plnie
(3)  Heati-iand Power Sliion of Io.2 Cliemical Planit
Proportion  I   55,000
Vil age     rie
| |<        |';1 4/  > 7                                                                               1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,;
~~~ Ata~~~~~~
A
rwrezS~~~                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ it tn tbk  r1ik\
fPo'A.ler 5Thflpaxmy
Figi. 5.1.2   Geographic Location of Yantla 500 Hleatinig Network



If~~~~~~~~7
! ~~~~a  __'lI>li I: ijlit,z .. ...7... ;&                   ,/   'r          _ Sm   
+Cv,~~~~~~~~~__                                            a a            ºif-llslt!lI 7   / 
MlkI pmv-'a CoT,.!px:, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~L ~
1 /  -             . ~~~~~~;;~-;-~   71y
, ,.,   _  4,                      1/ /oiL'                                     \  IZ5.
Fig. 5.1.3    (VeCr'11  Pl:   Disll rburiuj ol the JI'ioject



Note: * 6= all the Station 1.2,3,4,5 and 6
11= all the Station 12,13,14,21,22,23,24,28,29,30 and 34
17= all the Station 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 26, 27, 31, 32 and
33.
8= all the Station 3, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, and 42
* start to construction
5.1.4 Technical Aspects of the Heating System
The technical aspects of heating network and peak load heating boilers' house will be
briefed in this section.
5.1.4.1 On the Heating Network
A. Operation and Adjustment of the Heating Network;
The main heat source of the PYHN is extracted steam from the two 100MW boilers in Line
B of the Huang-Bo-Hai Heat and Power Companv. the steam's parameters are: 0.2047 Mpa
absolute pressure and at temperature of 121 'C. Maximum of steam-extracted is 460t0h, and the
capacity of heat-supply is 1,090.8 GJ/h.
The extracted steam enters the head station, and heats the water in the network b v transfer
heat from steam to water. The heated water enters the secondary heat consumer station, anid is
raised to the required temperature and then sent to consumers. Circulation pumps are installed in
the heat station to withdraw water through the main line, to force it through the heat exchangers
and feed back into the network- again. The technological diagram of the heating Network is
shown in Fig.5.1.4.
The network is divided in to two pan. The part between the head station and the secondary
heat-exchanger station is called Primary Circuit whose water is at 127/60 'C, The palt between
the secondary heat-exchangcr station and consumers is called Secondary Circuit. whose water is
designed to be 80/55 'C. There is no hydraulic relationship between the Primary and Secondarv
Circuit. Fig. 5.1.5 shows the adjustment curves of water temperature.
The temperature of water suppled bv the netNvork is affected b-v the outside temperature,
which also influences on the operation of the peak load heating souI ces.
When outside temperature at 8 to -1.5 IC,the heating-supply load is 1,100 GJih, the
supplicd water tempcraturc remains constant at 1 1 0 'C in Primary C ircuit. T'hc water from head
station can enter the secondarn station and change to suit heating re4uiremenIts.
NNThen outsidc temperature below -1.5 rC, heating-supply load is u) to 1,500 GWI. the flow
will remain constant. However some flow must be raised to 150 ∞C by installing a peak load
heating boiler withi capacitv of 400GJ/li, and then enter the maini circuits and mix witli the
unheated flow  (110 'C) to reach supply temperature of 127 'C.
Under the condition of outside temperature below 6 C, hcating-suppl- load is up to
1,652.42 GJ/h. bevond the heat-supply ability of Power Station and the Peak Load Hleating



- 'euliral (!troLiug M-c-iH--                                                rI- J--  ;                     - - .  - .  - _  -- -
1117tr~, (0]roi  -lcm                                            _                                                  7:
s   W A - - 1t _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   2                          Hea I  tL  t c
s   <   t  t  _ _ ß ß (03 } Aß 10.                       @                                                                 jr
:) j t t ;'lc~~~~ :,i.o-tIIIr('iu                          iil     !lF ii.       rn                                          Elct C  p I    T
of PflI~~~~~~~~.u-\' Ni                          IrP1111 . 
Rec 'cJitig 'urip ,t         | L _ _          I        @ 3o1st.er l'iiinp.    LÖ                                      Water R_cciilg Pi-i-
Fig. 5.1 .4        (1 )ia~rar of' a(ICs<l. WIeCN;N
Tl   rn.Vat(er  
Fig. 5.1.4             Diaorlam  of'l eIainpX Nletwovlk



qo
.Tetntrature of Ithe Water Suppbedr by  knmwy NctwnTk
100                      _         I                             -     -
90  -                                                                          -  --
65
,,  4    4    -2    -I       {    2       i     4      5     6      7      8t
Fig. 5.1.5 adjulsa ine  g   Crw<s of Waterr 'l       per4ure



Boiler. Tlhen the existed three boilers in Yuxiu. Shifu and Minsheng  Block Areas will go into
cue`. 'TIlc end consumer ini these Arcas can cliange to g,et heat from these thrcc boilers (wc call
ilcii Unconnected End Pcakload Boilei's (UEP13)), and Ih thirce hcat station (30, 36 and 39) in
the Arcas will stop operation, ant thus keep the flow in Primary Circuit at 127 'C and in
Secondary Circuit at 80 "C.
TIC consumers in the Inetwor-k is indirectly coomictcd, andl hals heating meters in cach house,
the room  temperature can be adjusted from  5 'C  to 26 'C  by thennostat valve. So the
temperature can be independently controlled and teic licat used can bc Midependently measured.
When outside temperature is lower than 8 'C, the network starts to operate, and the heating
period is estimated to be 139 days. The operation case of the heating sources in heating period is
shown in Fig. 5.1.4, tic heatload chanige is slhown in Table 5.1.4.
Table 5.1.4    Case of Heating Sources' Operation and. l1catload
Name            F'utcboni       Heatload       Operation Case     Operation  Note
(_____  '((L/l )  'S1ae.] Saoe  'Siage 3   (cd)
Iiallu,-Bo-Hahi 'L3asic t leat Smuce    I (W.00'                         1:39   I.txistedt
CH~. P    Co p n   _ _ _ _   ._ _   ._ ___ __  __.__  . .  _ _ __ _ _ _     _-_ _ _ _
Peakload Hleating   i-leIt Source for  375.82              ;      v        68     Tobe
13oiler   !I'eak- Acdiisting  B;          '      '                            1uilt
;Uicotuiecled Enid  Hleat Source for  185.8                        .       20    Existed
Pealk Load Boiler  Peak Adjusitig
ThIal,1                1652. 12     71      1       20
Note: v nmarks operatoli.
13. SItIctuvc and Composition of the Nctwork
'I'wo forn of pipe-conistruction are used, onic is 1. sm underground and aniother is 1 to 6 m
above ground. as shown in Fig.5.1.6. Pipes above ground will be insulated with wool segments,
0. 1 n thlick. fastcned wvith galvanizcd stecl wire. Outside the insulation laver, glass fiber
reinforced plastic wrapping and aluminum  foil covering are used as protecting cover. Pipe
directlt  buIicd underground will be insulated with polysocyanuric acid ester.
IHeat Exchangc Substation has divisions ot' lleat and Ilowcr Svs1cm, Plover Distribution,
Instrumentation and On-duty. Of the 42 Substations . 29 with an area-of 18(l m2 will serve only
lowv buildings. and the other 13 possessing area of 240 m2 will serve the buildings high than 8
Iloor .
The Booster Pump Station consists of pump room, distribution room, instrument and
control roomn and On-duly room. The wvater-supply pump room possesses 393 ml and has 5.
booster pumps (Il l1 1-250-401), and thc water-withdrawing pump room has an area of 298m2,
andi 4 booster pumps (1S200-1 50-400).
C. Water Supply and Balan;e in the Hecating Network
'Tlc vatier in the proposcd project will be provided by Yantai 'I'ap W\aler Company. T'he
5-G



** 0'
o.2



rlate of waler consumption in the PYHNT is 2851/h. annually water consumption is 950.000 ton,
Ill.nly use;Cd in llat-coplls;ttlg to thlc n1twork and dail ilc ol the slls.
Water is compensated to the networlk in lcat Consumier Station. lrhe tapn water must be
soliened. dcoxygen. and being alline before entcrino the tictivork. In Prinary Circuit * watcr is,
conipnsated in Head Station byv SOt/i, tlic amlioutit ol rcyvcling water is 5200Lli. In the
Secondarl, Circuit, water is comnpensated in the Secondary Stations by 220t'y, and the recycling
watcr is 14.000t/h.
The daily-life water-consumption inl hcating ntiwork is 12.51/ih. Ihe watlc balance of the
heating netw%ork- is shown in Fig.5.1.7.
5.1.4.2 Oni the Peakl1oad   leatiiig BoLiler I loLse
A. S.cale of Construction
Construction of pIeakload heating boiler house inlcludes 4 hot watcr boilers witlh capacitv of
40i"h  i.e. 29-W. The 1Ieating Boilers' ability  is 4000GJ,/h, and  consumption is 21tlh. The
yearly running tinm of the boilers is 68 days, and the full load running time is 15 clays. The boiler
lhouse will use bilube watcr  flni dcdusting cquipmlenI(elliciency: 98X), and limc stone wiu be
add(ld to the water film to remove 50%. of sulfur in the flue gas. Basic investment of the boiler
house is IvIB Yuan 72 million, accounting for 22.9% total basic invcstmcnt ol thc project.
B. Plane DIistibution of the Factory, Area
The factory area is 119.5 m long in cast to west andi 148 rn longy in south to nolth, and is
diNidcd into two palts:
1Parts I is production area in thc north,  willt maiin Iactoiv buildinggs, au.xiliary buildings,
stacks rectifier room, water pool and pump house existing. Part 2 is storage site of coal and coal
Cin1der,. and in) sottliwVest of thC }louse arca. lThc gate ]br)C persons' in-and-out o* thlc factory will
be ill the cas. %Vwhile thie gate foir transportation oI coal and(l coal cinider i.s iti soutlh cast and
noithwest corners. The dtetailcd distribution is seen in Fig. 5.1.8. 'lres, flowers andl grass will be
planted in diflkrcnt blocks according to thle finction of the block. 'Ilhc greCI area will be 14%∞ of
thc fiactoor.
C. Production l'echnolog
Coal in tlh storage sitc is transp)orted to coal channcl by forklift, thcni to belt convevor by
vibration fecd-suppliers. Afler miagnetic-selection, grindiniig and screcniing. tlhe coal is sent to
chalmbei and combusted to hcat water in boiflers. When the water in boilers is heated to 150 C, it
l1ows in to the netvork- and mixed with the water of 1 10 'C in head station.
The produced flue gas is treated with bitube water film dedustinlg equipment containing
lincstone. The treated flue gas wil be conducted to stack  an(d then given off to the air.
rhe cincdcr lalls inlto the cindcr-scourinig channel, the finc cindcr and the sludgc wvatcr firom
cledutistinig dc-'ice also enter the channel. The slag in tlis project is removed to slag-sinking pool
I1v wet lhydiaulic cinider-renmover svstem.
4 hot valer boilers (DI1L29-1.5/150/90-AI)) with eliciclcv of 85"o arc installe(d in the
hcating boiler louse. During full load running. the Ilowing rate in each boiler is 554L/h. The
"F-.7



12.5                         2.
ay iiP-. VJk |rL/ai C*
Water Network
282.5  .                     SCCOIAdSay Hcat i
z            220   . C.2onsume2 StatoIL   220        oss
Q= 1 400Oth        Evaporation, Leakage
so50    Cot.mer Staion       45    Loss
Q=5200t/h           I3vaporation Leaakage
285.0                                  l
3~~~~~~~~~ . ∞                   upply to lsilcr
_ _ l [ ~~~~~Q=2215tVh
~~ <,                .Wa~~~~~swe ',V;m;l- Dvlisoihal¢ d
. , ~~~~~~~0.5
2.5  c
1.0   Slag-RemovulgQ SYstell  .1.5
y =i                    Q=40Vth             Evaporatioll ,cakage
1.5    .1.5
1Daily liec Water         Waste Water to lDiscianged
Unit: tVh.
Fig 5.1.7   D)iaizrarm  of Wate- Balance in the Ilealing Network



t- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
© ~~~~~~110)113                              o
M4ote:
r12     _                                                                         1 . I   | |  | |  | II Matn FIIC(;Ty House  2 Alljxalija/ Dep-artneinnt
3 Tlransfet Stalion     4. Puilley
5. Clrlslting Roolm     6. :.2oad-Accenter Room
7. S-SuikingPool    8F Transformer Substation
9 Sludge PLshiugsh "uw  I louse   10 W'ater Pool
I I DIv Co"al She'd    12 Scale Ficus.e
14Sin                                                   13. Pump Roomrt        14. Cliimnev
15. Car Pauking        16. Etrtance Guard
17. Coal Yard
Fig. 5.1.8      Planie Distribution of peakload Heating Boiler I-Ioiise



technological diagram of the boiler house is shown in Fig.5. 1.9.
I). Nature ol Coal to be used
ihe coal is mnined in the North of Shautxi Province, and will be supplied by the Yantai
Mlunicipal Fuel Company. Its nature is listed in Table 5.1.5.
Tarble 5. 1 .5               Analysis Results of tlhc Coal lo be Used
Itemii         A                                                Q%)  %MS (∞,0)  ! \, (∞)'    '   (M/Kg)
NaturC            19177            0.63             25.()            22.411
The maximum coal consumption in the boiler house is 21 /h, and yearly coal consumption
iS   .80] XO t. Coal is transported to the storage site (area: 2400m2) bv trucks.
E. On the W'ater Used in the Boiler I-louse
WVatcr in thG pCak load hcating boilcr housc is supplicd from tlhc  W lunicipal Watcr-supplying
NetNvork-, and is mainly used in daily life . slag-remover and firc-pre'vention.
The recycling water and compensating water in boilers is supplied from the head station.
The cinder-remoing  water is 40t/h,  atn(t be recycledl alter precip-itating and filtered. It only
neCCeI 1. 51ii waler compensated, 0.5t/h ol whlich comes trom wvastewater (lischalgcd from
boilers, and the rest 1.0t,h is fresh water. Daily lil water in the boiler house is 1.5 t,h, and water
for lire )prevention is 1801.ili. The maximum of total water (discharged flom the boiler house is
60t/d. A water pool with capacity of 300m13 vill be constructed to meet water-supply requirement.
Tlhe water balance in the boiler house is shown in Fig. 5.1.7.
5.1 .5 Analyisis on Envirolm- ental Im Ipact. of the I icating Network
The environmental impact factots of thle cHeating network itn its constr uction phase and
operation plhase will be separately stated here, and the corresponding prevention measures will
also be presented.
5.1.5.1 Durinig Construction Phase
In this period, grooves are dig to bury the pipes, and the auxiliary facilities will hc built,
these actiNitics will have some effect on the road, trallic, people's lif and scenery.
A. Road and Traffic
More than two Lhirdls of lhe pipes (includino thc maini linc in urban arca anld all branched
lines) wvill be buried underground along the built roads. Such design can shorten the length of the
pipe, provide convenience for connecting the secondan network; and avoid resettlement.
Ilowvc\lr, its disadvantages arc road destructioni and i-affle jaml.
Following arc the mnain features of this project:
O   The miiajjor bIusiness streets suchI as the South Street, Nortlh Ro(ad are not in the construction
e   Five tlatic lines vill involve in the network conslruction. two of which (Shengli Road and
5-S



lairl4 Et) t27 v                                                                                                           .
L                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Flue Ga3,-,
[jot viact (I 5tl  
DHL29-1.5/150/90-AD           Fluie Gas~                Fluie Gas
Zn4-n
Hot Water (11 X
1-lead Station                           W~~~~~~~~ei' De&usLiEIi wUl slag-Re:noving SyiMeln
aist anI CCi' er
'1'ransported to out%icde by Tiutci
Fig. 5.1 .9   Diogr:m of Production Tedlnolo:-y of th  Pe,akload Heaiting BJoilor



Jiefang Road, vehicles passing: 34/min) with widths of 18 - 20m will be crossed by the
network. It is suggested that construction in the two roads should be done part by part so as
to avoid roule-changinig and traffic jam.
Construction site in Zhichu Road is in suburb, the road is wide and the dug length is
short, so if strict management measures are taken, little effect will be arisen in construction
phase.
The pipeline will be buried along the Jianshe Road and Dahaiyang Road with 18 meter
wide and vchiclc flowimg of 25/min. The dug width is 1Om and dug length is long. So tralfic
jam in some places can not be avoided in a short time. It's advised thal some automobiles
change their route to other road.
O  The roads in suburb.like Chufeng No. 5 Street and Zhuji Road are wide and have fewer
vehicles, so thlerc is little effcct on the trallic in construction phase.
*  The construction has little effect on the traffic of the 15m wide roads in urban area. The
lOm-wide roads in urban area lik-e Baizhu Road and Huangshan South Street have less
people and bik-es passing, and vchicle-passing rate is 14/min, these roads will be half closed
and the vehicles are limited to go in one way.
*  There is no impact on people's working and bikLe-passing in the above roacds in construction
pllaasc.
*  The two narrow streets (Xiguan South Street and Suochengli Strcet) arc now walking streets,
and there no automobiles going on them. Hence during conistruction period. the two streets
will be full closed, people and bike should go around them.
During construction phase, there are only a few roads to be fullv closed, and the closed time
is about 20 davs. While the network- will be constructed in the urb)an area with developed traflic,
so big traflic jam can be avoided.
The pipeline located above the roadside is 2m from ground. When passing above the road,
the pipes must be located highi enough to exert no elfect on thc tralfic.
B. IIumane and Scenery,
The principle in designing this project is least resettlement and building's destruction. The
population affected by the land requisition and resettlement is 115, which has been taken into
careful consideration in the project design. The detailed information on resettlement and it
social-economical effeGts'is described in " the Report of Analysis of Land Requisition and
ResctLiement's Effect on Society Economy"
The Suochengli Street is planned to be the area of "Old Appearance of the City" by the
M'unicipal Government. Most of buildings in the tvo sides of the Street were built in Ming
Dynlasty, now have an area of 64,000m2, and arc used as resident house and small store. These
buildings will be a little affected in construction phase. So it's suggcsted that this Street should be
dug by manpower so as to avoid the buildings' destruction.
Thete are no Natural Reserve Zone and Wet Land in the construction sites. The trees and
grass along construction sites will be carefully protected, so there is no bad effect on the
ecological environment in construction phase.
C. Noise
5-9



In construction phase, the main noisc sources arc construction machinery. It's suggested
tiait the lools wilh lower noise should be used to ensurc noise in the corLstruction boundaiy is
lowcr than 75 dB(A) (    N( iational Conistruction Boundary Noise Limit )3 (G1312523-90), and
thc worker should be equipped with sel-protectors. 'lTo avoid noise's ellect on resident's re:st,
the construction slhould be done in daytime.
1). D)ust ArIiseIn fr-oIIi Construction
The dust arisen by digging and spoils manap,ement has some effect on environment, so it's
suggested to spray water regularly on the construction site and spoils. Durinig windy time, the
workers should wcar dust-proventer to lessen dust's ceffect oni their health..
5.1.5.2 Operationi Phase
In operation phase. the main pollution of the Hleating Network is noise. and a little daily life
watcr. No waste gas and slag are disciharged from (lie Network.
A. Noise
The noise sources are heat consumer stations and booster pump stations, whose noise
intensity is 80 - 90 dB (A). To lcssen the noise's eflect during operation, all the pumps are
concentrated in purnp room equipped with sound insulators. 'IThus the -noise intensity out of the
pump room  is lowered to 70 dB(A), within the limit of  (( National Design Regulations for
Cotntrolling, Noise in Industrial Enterprises )) (GBJ87-85). The noisc is lower than 35dB(A) when
roaching the rcsident areas, witlin the limit of  (( National Enwoviro ental Noise Standard in
Urban Area )>  (GB30G6-93). The staffs in the pump room  are all equipped with noise-
prevolnters.
13. Waste Water
The waste water in the Heating Network is 300tld, and comes from daily life. It will be
discar ged to the urban waste water network.
Thlc enNironniwntal inipact of the 1eleating Network in (lifuireni phases is summarized in
Table 5.1.6.
lal)le 5.1.6  Enviiolnmeital Impalct ofthe lleating Network at Different lllase
Pollulion             Construction Phase                 Operation Phase
Bad Eflect  No EfTect 'Good Eflect! Bad Etect  No Effect Good Effect
A,    S02          !V
Poulltanil
'TXP                                                     .,,
Svelse,             '
"oeielx-lal mi 1- o |o \
Sc.eiierv          .___._._._._s
5-10



It slhould bc pointed out that the bad elfect of the iNctworsk in construction phase is
lC111pc)Ort'Y aan     partial. Tlc protcction nieasurcs will h. tazkeii as many as possiblc 1o dccrcasc thc
bad effect.
5.1.6 Analysis on Environmental lmpact of thc Peakload  icatming
Boiler 1louse
The peakload heating boilers will emit dust and SO2 from the stack, discharge cinder duest
remover and drain waste water from boilers and daily life, and have noise.
5.1.6.1 Emissionis
The 4 boilers in boiler house are major air pollution sources. Their annually coal
Table 5.1.7   Parameters of Emissions of Peakload Heating Boilers
Polltinon  Emnission i Height 'Diameter  T of i DediLmIing i Desulujimzing  DILSI  Conicentration
Souwces  IRate   Stack  of Stack Output Efficiency. Eflicienicy  Ciopcentratioin    of SOz
3                                                        3                
*Nin/h'  InI      m       k                                         n '
19,3      I                          !            --/N    kg/ niJN    -  -_
Cliunimle  196,034 '   80  1  2.5    400    98%        50%    I 84.71  1 16.6! 539.91  105.8
olfP,oiler;
consumption is 22,1 80 ton.  The fluc gas will bc first lrcatcdi witil bitubc watcr film  dust-
ncmovei- conLaining limestone to desulfurizc, and tlicni giveni off to air tiuouglh a 8g  t high staclk.
The parameters of the emissions are listed in Table 5.1.7.
Trhc cmission standards adoptcd in this  proicct arc  (( National 1hmission Standards for
Boilers )) (GB 13271-q1)  and  (( Shandong Provincial Waste ,as Emission Standards ))
(DB371006-91). The permitted emission values are listed in Tlable 5.1.8.
Tablc 5.1.8  Air Pollutant Emissioti Standard(s U,sed in tils llroject
Standards                          Dust                    SO,
iig/Nm3i     k ;f,lh    nV tn3
1B313271-91. Class 2 Zone. sulftifr content<2%!   250                120()
D1337/006-91             80m          600                                 120
(Ils-,s  ,.r 2  ofll nOn Pel Stltion,    60mii  63 9                             157
5.1.6.2 Waste Water
The waste water in Peakload Heating Boilers comes from boiler, slag-scouring and daily
lile.
EI,luent of wvaste water frlom  boiler is nol contlinuous, and'l dlrained; 3 timcs a dla', its
5-11



mLazximiium is 1Sjid. and the water is basic (pH: 8.5--1H). This water will drain into slag-scouring
1wol .as cLu o)ensa tcd water.
Slao-souiinb- water-is dischiarged by 40t1,d, and will bc recycled altel treatment. Is loss ratio
is 3.75%-.
The amounit of daily life waste water is 36t,d, and drained dirctlly to urban waste water
netwvork lor central treatment.
The wastewvater and its fite are shown in Table 5.1.9.
5.1.6.3 Waste Residuc
The waste residue in the Peakload 1Ileating Boiler I-louse comes from the coal
Table 5.1 .9    Production of Waste Waler in lhe Heatino Boiler House and Its Fate
Pollution Source   Amount of Waste  I Treatment Measures I         Drainage Eind
Water
(t!d)      !
Boiler              is          reused in Slag-Scounng          recycle
SlagScouring           960          after treatmneiit              recycling
Dailv Life            36                                  urbani waste water network
DIraininig oil         36         i                        urbr)an waste water network
combustion anid dust-reniover, its production rate is 4. 131/h. All the residues 1rom the
boiler house will be transported to the Light Building Material Factory to be used as feed of
bric ks.I
5.1.6.4 Noise
The noise souI-ces in thc Peakload I-leating Boler 1Iouse are listd in Table 5.1.IO.
Noise in boiler house is intense, so some necessary silencers and noise insulators should be
equipped in it. and an isolated operation room should be prepared for the workers. Some greeti
belts will also be setup to lcssen the noise's effect on the environment.
Table 5.1.1 0        TIhc  Noise Sources and lTheir Intensitv
Source               Nuiber            Intensity dB ( A j     the Working Way
Air Blow er               4                     96                 conitinuous
Blowil.<-Conldilctor          4                     9(                 continuos
CoaI Supplier               I                    86                 continuous
Wa(ter PuImI)      :       4                     85                 cOlitilluous
TIhe pollutants from produccd from the Peakload Heating Boiler House are summarized in
Tabic . 1.1 1.
S-12



Table 5.1.11   Pollutants Produced from the Pealdoa<i llcatin.7 Boiler House
l(lillttAllt   , AIIiotilit                 E nd
Emission       207.O5MNm3/a              to air by 80m high stack
Dust    1    17.54tVa
SO,,         111.79va    I
Wastewater, daily life  2000t/a              urban wastewater network
Waste Residue        4367t/a          Yantai Light Building Material ractory
5.1.7 innovations and Reliability of the Technology
5.1.7.1 A Heating System with Multi-lhcat Sources
In the project, the cogeneration plant acts as the base heat source at the beginning and the
end period of heating season, Temperature raising peak load plant and off-line peak load plants,
are put into operation in tum as heating load increases with drop of outside temperature. Such
heating system can makc the heating-supplier in the ClU-' Station match the Network without any
changes, and also save coal.
5.1.7.2 Primary Network Inicluding Loop Circuit and Branches
Looped routes are arrangod in heavy load dense area to increase the heating reliability.
5.1.7.3 Two Ways of Building Heating Network
In order to lessen the bad effect of network to the greatest extent, Some pipelines are
located above ground and some are buried directly underground.
5.1.7.4 Microcomputer Monitoring System
This system is used to eliminate hydraulic and thermal unbalances, and achieve optimum
operation. The reliability of operation and management of district heating system are thus
irnproved.
5.1.7.5 Thermostatic Valves and Heat Meters Installed in Consumers'
System
The payment for heating can be counted by heat meters, which can improve the consumer's
consciousniess lo save energy.
in one vord, the proposed project is advanced in technology anid reasonable in design.



5.2 Investigation and Assessment on the Air Pollution
Sources
5.2.1 Investigation into the Air Pollution Sources
5.2.1.1 Purpose of the Investigation
The main aim of the air pollution source investigation is:
*  indicate the number, pLane and vertcal distibution of the air polution soues in the EIA
scope, show the amount of coal-consumption and emissions of various pollutant (including
the heating and non-hcating period)
* reckon the number of the pollution sources to be rcplaced and the discharge amount of
pollutant to be cut by the construction project,,
* state the present environmental qualty and provide the datum basis for evaluating ihe
positive effect by the construction of the project,
*  on the basis of above work, some scientific evidences will be provided  to the project
design and its proposed environmental benefits.
5.2.1.2 Time and Scope of the nvestigation
Time: May to June in 1996; Scope: District Zhifu of Yantai City
Content of the Investigation
A. Number of Boilers in Industry and Enterptises
There are 448 industial and entexprises' boilers in all in District Zhifu, in-which 12 boilers
have a capacity of more than 20 ton, 11 boilers with capacity of 11 - 20ton, and 419 boilers in
the range of 2 - 10 ton, 6 boilers have a capacity 1.4 to 2 ton each. The total tonnage of all the
boilers is 3,030ton/h.
B. Civil-used Kitchen Range
According to our investigafion, the total number of small dispersed boiless, furnaces,
hot-water boilers, kichener ranges in dining room and restaurants is 2,353, and the number of the
boilers with capacity of arround of 1 ton is 289. All of them use coal as fuel. Above Al there are
still 63,000 civil used stove for heating in the area.
C. On the Installation of Stacks
Among all the industrial and enterprises' boilers, 9 boilers have stacks higher than 50mn, 15
with stacks with a height of 40-50mn, 153 with stacks with a height of 30-39m, 97 stacks with
height of 20-29m, 20 stacks lower than 20nm The stack of the civil-used furnaces is lower than
15m.
D. The Way of Boilers' Combustion
Many of the boilers are traveling grate stocker boiler, and the others include reciprocating
grate, double buniung grate and boiling boiler. Coal is the main fuel (Feicheng coal and Datec ,
coal). Cyclone Dedusting ( efficiency: 80%) is mostly used in the boilers. Most boilers havc ,lO
desulfuiziig equipments except those Paper-making Factory with an efficiency of 20%. Only a
t. I



few enterprises have water-film or electric dedusting facilities, whose efficiency is 90--95%. The
civil-uscd fumnaces liave no dedusting anid dCsuIfurizing 1acilitics.
E. The Amount of Coal Consumption
The coal consumption in industry and enterprises in District Zhifu is 1,340,500 tori, in
which 132,100 ton is used for heating. The amount of civil-used coal is 158,900 ton, in which
84, 100 ton is used for heating. The construction project will reduce the coal for space heating by:-
216,000 ton.
F. Emission of Air Pollutants
28,615 ton of SO2, and 6,541 ton of dust are given off from the industrial and enterprises'
boilers, in which 4,228 ton of S02 and 1,057 ton of dust are given off from the coal combustion
for space heating. The civil-uscd stove to be replaced by the construction project emit 5,085 ton
of SO2, 6,356 ton of dust, in which 2,692 ton of S02 and 3,364 ton of dust arise from coal
combustion for space heating.
In District Zhifu of Yantai City, the yearly enmtted amount of S02 is 33,704t, the amount of
dust given off by coal combustion is 12,897t. The annual amount of SO2 from space heating is
6,920t, and dust 4,421t.
5.2.1.4 The Investigation Results
See the EIA report of Yantai 500 Heating Network.
.5.2.2 Assessment on the Air Pollution Sources
The air pollution in the area comes mainly from the enterprises' boilers and the dispersed
civil-uscd stoves, the entcrprises' boilers give rise to more air pollution. The investigation shows
that key air pollution sources (capacity more than 20 ton/h) are distributed in Yantai Municipal
Power Station (4 boilers), Yantai Municipal Paper-
making Factory (3 boilers), Chlorine Soda Plant (2 boilers), and Yantai Municipal Synthetic
Leather Factoiy (3 boilers). Their total tomnage is up to 1515t/h.
17 enterprises use relatively more coal. The yearly total amount of coal used in the 17
enterprises is 1,068,000 ton, 79.970%o of the coal consumption of all enterpnrses.
The detailed rcsults of assessmcnt on the kcy pollution sources are shown in Table 5.2.1. it
shows that the main air pollutant in the assessment area is SO2, whose isostandard pollution
charge accounts for 92.011%, and that of dust accounts for 7.99% . The results suggest that
dedusting devices are installed in most boilers and can operate well, while the boilers'
desulfurizing is still a big problem in this area. The key pollution sources in the assessment area
are the stacks of the Huang-Bo-Hai Heat and Power Station, they contribute 75.8% of the total
pollution. Therefore, it is clear that the desulfurizang and dedusting efficiency in the Huang-Bo-
Hai Heat and Power Station play an important role in air quality improvement in the area.
From tlc view of localion, except the thrcc hcat-supply stations ( the lIcat-Powcr
Companies, the Textile-dyeing Factory, and Textile Factory), the main pollution sources
5-15



Table, 52.1 Pollutant Emidtted firom the Key Pollution Sources and Assessrnent on Thern
Narne of Uniit          Coorrdinated    Opertion  Capacity Height of Coal Con- Amnount of Amount of Poflutant   Assessment    Order
Pos,ition_    C ase    of Boiler   Stack  surnption Emnissons  Emitted ( t/a)      Resuflts
__________        x       y            -  (~~~~~~~~ ~~~t'h)    (i  ) V ta ) tla)    S02    TSP       Pn    kn(%,)   __
Line A of Huang-Bo-Hai CHP    2,060   2,560      S       220x2      100    470,711  4,942,465 8,813.89  1,190.9  17,458.68 43.59    1
--     ~Company__-
Line B of Huangbo Sea CH P    2,060   2,420      S      410Ox2     180    349,873  36,64216 6,045.81  885.18  12,976.80 32.39    2
CoTpan ____
Sythetic Leather Factory  2,600-  4,600      S,Q_   30x3        100     79,528   803,232j  1,374.24. 343.56   3,092.04  7.72    3
Tin Factory<          8700    1340       S        40x2      50      23400   255060   404.35   101.09    909.79.  2.27      4
Prntin and Dying_Factory    9,340   1,700     5         20       36      16,189   163,509  279.75    69.94    629.44   1.57     5
Chlorine and Soda Factor    1,800   3,640       S       30x2       50     16,151   163,125  279.09    68.77    626.95   1.56      6
No. 2 Factory of Chetmical  6,140   3,2 8 0     S       20x2       45     15,000   151,500  259.20    64.80      583.2   1.46     7
Engineerin              I__                                                   _         ___ _                              _
Heat-supply Station in Shifu Block  8$000   2,440  Q       10x3       50     12,914   130,431  22.3.15    55.79    502.09   1.25     8
Area                 _                                            _   __               _
Heat-supply Station in Yuxiu Block 8,900   2,440   Q        l0x3      50      10,600   107,060   183.17    45.79    412.13   1.02    9
_______  ~A rea             I__   __                                        _ _ _   _ _ _ __                       _  _
GTrain and Oil Processing Factory_ 6,400   3,600  S        8x2,      25      10,456   105,606   180.68    45.17    406.53   1.01    1 0
No. 1 weaving and DyeingFactory  7,420   3,340     S       2OX2       40      10,428   105,322   180.20    45.05    405.45   1.00-   11
Heat-supply Station in Minsheng   9,640   2,200   Q        10x3      50     10,200   103,020   176.26    44.06    396.58   0.99    12
Block Area____
Industda Coinpany. of Seaweed   6,620-  4,600     S_        4       34      9,799   "98,970  '169.33    42.33    380.99.' 0.95    13
weavn. Factory          2,800   2,640      5      l4x3,l0x12  36,36    9,648    96,435   164-.99    41.25--  371.23   0.93    14
Yantai Factory of china    1,900   2,500      S        120       45      8,913    90,021   154.02    38.50    346.54   0.86    is
Fertilzer Plant    .   2,020-  1,400      S         26 __40,40    7,749    78,265   133.90   -33.48    301.28   0.75    1 6
Paper-maling,Plant       1,240   4,400      5        35x3      100     6,584    66500   113.77    28.44-  255.98   0.64    1 7
Total                                                          1,068,043 10,787,23 36,346.8  1708.9     P-=40055.7
____________________________________________________________________ ki(%l)    92.01  7.99   _______



are in the industrial section in the west of the District. After construction of this project,
few boilcis in the west district will be replaced, but some coal consumption will be
decreased. This means that construction of the 500 Heating Network has only a little
improvement in air quality in the west industrial District, the improvement in air quality is
mainly focused on the urban area with dense population.
5.2.3 Analysis on the Change of Air Pollution Sources before and after
Construction of the Project
As mentioned in the Analysis of the Project, the construction unit will purchase
steam from CHP plant of the Huang-Bo-I-lai Hcat and Power Company as its heat
source, keep the three existing regional boilers, and build a new heat load heating boiler
house. The district heating will be realized in this way. Implementation of the proposed
project will remove 290 dispersed heating boilers in the urban area, and reduce some
coal consumption in 21 boilers (for example, 85% of coal consumption will be cut down
in the three existing regional boilers after operation of the proposed project), replaces
289 boilers with capacity of ca. I ton. All the 63,000 civil-used furnaces will also be
eliminated. Analysis on the change of air pollution sources before and after
implementation of the project is shown in Table 5.2.2.
It can be seen that construction of the project will dccrease- the air pollution
emissions in District Zhifu, so it has much environmental benefit.
The Table also reveals that implementation of the project can rcduce ycarly coal
consumption from 1,499,400 ton to 1,305,400 ton, coal consumption decreases by
13%, yearly SO2 and dust emissions are decreased from 33,704 t to 26,896 ton and
from 12,897 t to 8,494 ton separately, the cutting ratio are by 20.20% and 34.14%
respectivcly, 64.73% of the industrial boilers will be removed, and ali the civil-used
furnaces will be eliminated. Although the coal consumption cut down is not so igh, but
the cut down coal is originally combusted in the way of low heat efficiency, low
dedusting efficiency and no desulfurizing device, its SO2 and dust emission is rather large;
above all the boilers to be removed distribute mainly in urban area with dense
population, while the boilers to be added or kept are all in the industrial zone, the overall
factors are expected to ameliorate the air quality greatly in the urban area after
construction of the project.
The Table also shows that implementation of the proposed project decreases the
emissions of air pollutants in Zhifu District, which not only obeys the national regulations
on controlling the total amount of pollution emission in economically developed zones,
severcly polluted zones and environmentally sensitive zones, but also leaves quite
environmental tolerance to the area. Therefore, from the view of environmental
protcotion, construction of the project is very beneficial.
5-17



5.3 Monitoring and Assessment on the Air Quality
5.3.1 Accumulative Effect of the Emissions from the Huang-Bo-Hai Heat
and Power Company on the Environment
The West of the Pcak Load Heating Boiler to be built is in the same environmental
function zone with the Huang-Bo-Hai Heat and Power Company. All the west industrial
zone in District Zhifu will be affected by the Company (the effect scope of the Company
is 15 kne2). However, dhe boiler to be built and the Huang-Bo-Hai Heal and Power
Company will be managed by two diferent administration departments, so it is
necessary to state the accumulative effect of the emissions from the Huang-Bo-Hai Heat
and Power Company on the environmlit bcfore the project construction. The LiIA
system was not put into use commonly before 1989, and so there is no detailed materials
on the effect of the emissions from the Company on the air quality.
When Line B was built in 1989, Shiandong Provincial D)esign Institute of Eliectric
Power undertook the EIA work, and the Yantai Municipal Environmental Monitoring
Station had a five-day on-site measurements. The monitored results revealed that at
3000m fronm leeward (location of NE and ENE) of tile Company, (he maximums at any
tiMe of S02 and TSP- were 0.3495mg/rn and 1.077mg/m3, the maximums daily
average of S02 and TSP were 0.1625mg/r3 and 0.627mg/r3. According to the EIA
reports of 1989. aflenmplementation of Line B, the accumulative maximums at any time
of S02 and TSP would be up to 0.4297mg/m3 and 0.1.092mg/rn3, Ihe accumulative
maximums of daily average of SO2 and TSP would be 0.2065 mg/m3 and 0.632mg/r3.
Except that the cumulative maximums at any times of 5(:02 is near the .Standard Limits,
all other three indicators werc beyond Standard Limils, for the background values were
over the Standard Limits. Therefore, it was suggested in the EIA reports to improve the
tvo 4 meter high chimneys in Line A during the construction of Line B, in order to
ameliorate ihc background air pollution. In fact, afler tihe two boilers in Line B was put in
to use in 1992 and 1995 respectively, the four boilers of 35t/h in Line A were not used
any longer, while the total amount of coal consumption kept unchanged. Afier water-
filni dust precipitator in the two boilers of 220t/h was replaced by a electrostatic
dedusting device. the four boilers in the I-luang-Bo-I-lai Heat and Power Company, the
emissions from the Company are ali within the standard Limits.
The Yantai Municipal Environrmental Monitoring Station had anotlier five-day on-
site measurements in February 1996 for thc ElIA of the Yantai Harbour Projict. The
measured results showvs that at the Site of New Bridge,3000m from the leeward of the
IlOOm-high and 180rm-high Stacks, the maximums at any times of SO2 was 0.734mg/n3,
and the maximums of daily average of 802 andi TSP were 0.335ing/m3 and 0.796
mg/rn3. The maximums at any times and maximum of daily average for So2, and daily
average concentralion of TSP were all exceeding the Standard limits greatly, showing the
air quality severely deteriorated. According to the pollution source invesligation, the
largest pollution source is the four boilers in the Huang-Bo-Hai Heat and Power
Company, wvhose coal consumplion was increased from 626,600 ton in 1989 to 820,600
5-18



Table 5.2.2   Analysis on the Change of Air Pollution Sources before and after
Implementation of the Project
Exdsted              _         to be added    _     __    Pollution Cut               Ratio of Pollufion Cut
Type and   Coal Con-   Pollutant   Num- Coal Con-   Potlutant   Numnber Coal Con-   Pollutant    Enterprises' Boilers  64.73
Number of   sumption  Emitted (t/a) ber of swnption  Emitted (tla) of Boiler sumnption  Enitted (t/a)
Boiler                           Boiler
Industrial Boiler (10{a   S0z   TSP        (lOOOta)  S02   TSP             (lOOOtia)  SO2  TSP      Civil-used Stove   100
448       1,340.5  28,615 6,541  ' 1    21.28   111.79 17.54   290     13.21   4,228 1,057  Hot-water Boiler and    0
.                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cooki1gPilqr .
__ __ __ _.__   _   _               ._                _    ___         _____                      Coo_.   Boiler_ __ 
Smal Boiler    58.9    1,885  2,358                               289
289    _                                                                                                             , _ _ _ _.
Civil-used Stove   25.2    807   1,009   -     _       _      _   63,000    8.41    2692  3364           S02          20.20
63,000                                                                                               TSP          34.14
Hot-water     74.8   2,397  2,992               -                 -         -       -     -   Industrily Used Coal  9.66
Boiler, Cooling                                                                                       Civil-used      52. 92
Boiler
2,325           1_          _   .                     _                         _             _
Total      1,499.4  33,704 12,897       21.28   111.79 17.54            21.62   6,920 4,421       Total Coal     13.00
______________  ._______  ________          ________                   Consumption
5-19



ton now, and the percentage of S02 emission was increased from 42% in 1989 to 52% of
that in District Zhifu.
In order to get some up-date materials of air quality in the project area so as to
provide basic data for .our EIA work, we entrusted the Yantai Municipal Environmental
Monitoring Station to measure the envirornental quality in February 1996. The details of
the monitoling are described in the later section.
5.3.2 Measuremer1i of the Present Air Quality
5.3.2.1 Scope of the Assessment and Arrangement of the Sampling Sites
There are five monitoring sites for air quality were arranged within 50km around ihe
urban center in Spring so as to collect real and representative samples. The information
on air quality in winter comes from the monitoring for the EIA of Yantai Harbor Project.
Table 5.3.1    Arrangement of Sampling Sites for Air Quath Measurements
No.      Name of Sites   WDirection  Distance from the I    Function of the Zone
1_____   ___________________  s  Power Station  (kmin
1#      No 107 Hospital    SW           1.0               Industrial zone
2#    Worker's Sanatorium   E           9.0             Scenery and Tourism
3#          Harbor         ENE          5.8         Mixed zone of business, traffic
1                        E                             and residents
4#      Nursery Garden     NE           5.5                  Industry
5#       New Btidge        ENE           2.5      |Industry
The distribution of the sampling sites.are shown in Table 5.3.1 and Fig. 5.3.1.
5.3.2.2 Monitoring Items and Analysis Methods
* Monitoring Itemg
S02, NOx, TSP were selected as monitoring items.
* Analysis Methods
According to the relative regulations published by NEPA.
5.3.2 3 Monitoring Period and Frequency
We had a five-day monitoring pexiod in this Spring, and the frequency used is 4
times per day. One of the 5-day was selected to add monitoring times in the evening,
5.3.2.4 Standards used for this EIA
5-20



S   t                    ,         ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
J~  ~                                                                                                              l Js* 
ji                           ---                                                    -.                                               \                                                                          r-*=
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 ,ah 1lrvr il    7z-rir-      -
Fig.   .3.1   lt?U.44-                                                                                         ' -in4sv,.Iinfnie,St-  nSllg
re      .. 



Table 5.3.2     Statistics on the Monitoring Results of SO2 in Winter    mg/Nm3
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Site   Number f Range of  Range of daily overall middle difference ratio of exceeding the
I  of   Concentration    average   average value from the   standard (%/e)
J Sample  at any time   concentration          standard  any ime daily average
3#__    25    0.022-0:889   0.047-0.337  0.192  0.096  0.231.   12.0     60.0
4#      25    0.030-0.499   0.057-0.345  0.155  0.109  0.136    0        40.0
5#      25    0.032-0.734   0.104-0.335  0.240 0.182  0.183    8.0       80.0
New      24    0.040-0.616   0.140-0.375   0.265  0.231  0.163    8.3     80.0
World |                                                     .
Assessmei  99    0.022-0.889   0.047-0.375  0.213 10.146  0.184    7.1      65.0
nt Area |_____  ______....... 1016                        8
Table 5.3.3   Statistics on the Monito'  Results of SO2 in Spring    mg/Nm
Site   Number | Range of  Range of Daily Overall Middle IDifference Ratio of exceeding
of   Concentration   Average    Average Value  rom the  the Standard(%)
Sample  at any ime  Concentration             | Standard   any time daily
i~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~ 1                          .____    avcrage
#_____   20    0.007-0.465   0.021-0.237   0.134  0.072   0.148  O      40
2#      20  I 0.10-0.256   0.031-0.140   0.072  0.049   0.063    0        0
3#      20    0.032-0.363   0.108-0.175   0.134  0.098   0.096   0       20
4#      20    0.10-0.376   0.079-0.145   0.103  0.058   0.105    0       0
5#     20    0.023-0.455   0.061-0.259   0.150  0.121   0.129    0       60
Assessme  100   0.007-0.465   0.21-0.259    0.119  0.070   0.113    0       24
nt Area |                   _                           _
Table 5.3.4  Statistics on the Monitoring Results of NOx in Winter    mgN  3
Site   Nunber   Range of   Range of Daily  Overall Middle Standard Ratio of Exceeding the
of   Concentration    Average    Avemge Value  Differ-    Standard(%)
t Sample  at any time   Concentration              e _   ence  any time Dafly Average
3#_ T  25    0.022-0.255   0.040-0.120   0.077 1 0.057   12.0    40.0
4#      25    0.009-t.375   0.021-0.131   0.071  0.048  0.081    12.0    40.0
5#      25    0.009-0.266   0.028-0.133   0.071  0.056  0.056    8.0     20.0
t                                                       I    
New  1  25    0.032-0.256   0.048-0.158   0.092  0.085  0.053.   8.0      40.0
World    |     _            _            _        _     j       _       _
Assessmel 100   0.009-0.375   0.021-0.158    0.08  10.063  0.063    10.0    35.0
nt Area  |    {            i             l       l             j        j



Table 5.3.5  Statistics on the Monitorng Results of NOx in Spring    mg/Nm3
Site  |Numbe  Range of  Range of Daily  Overall Middle Standard'|   Ratio of Exceeding
r of Concentratio    Average    Average Value Difference    Standard(%)
+ Sample n at any Timne Concentration   I               at any Timne Daily Average
1#     20   0.026-0.129  0.053,0.081   0.066  0.065   0.027     0          0
2#     20   0.021-0.107  0.032-0.070   0.051   0.049   0.025    0          0
3#     20   0.018-0.263  0.057-0.146   0.098   0.089   0.061    20         20
4#     20   0.007-0.172   0.0580.083   0.072   0.052   0.050    10         0
5#     20   0.033-0.142   0.059-0.105   0.085   0.095   0.035   0          40
Assessm-  100  0.007-0.263   0.032-0.146   0.074   0.069   0.044   6          12
ent Area                                       i                _
Table 5.3.6  Statistics on the Monitonng Results of TSP in Winter    ngNm3
Site  1 Number   Range of |Range of Daiy Overall Middle Standard Ratio of Exceeding
of   Concentration   Average   Average Value Difference1  e Standard (%)
Sample  at any Timne  Concentration                    |
3#      4     0.273-0.585    0.419      0.281   0.165    50.0
41#     5 5    0.1680.660    0.399      0.355  0.242    60.0
5#      5    0.296-0.796     0.437      0.324  0.213    60.0
New      5    0.169-0.468     0.291      0.283   0.115    40.0
World
Asseassm-   19    0.168-0.796   0.386      0.321   0.185    52.6
ent Areaj__-__
Table 5.3.7    Statistics on the Monitoring Results of TSP in Spring    mgNm3
Site  INumbero d Rangeof  Average Middle  Standard         Ratio of exceeding
_   Sample  Concentration  Value   Value  Difference | Concentration(%)
1#       5     0.342-0.716   0.600   0.677    0.152             100
2#  j   5 1    0.114-0.436   0.289   0.298    0.210             40
3#  !___5 10.153-0.3761 0.235    0.21         0.084              20
4#       5     0.203-0.566   0.379   0.355    0.147    __60
5#       5     0.307-0.449   0.373   0.374    0.060             100
14                           4..
Assessmel  25   I 0.114-0.716   0.375   0.342 I  0.167              64
nt Al-ea        j _          _              I _  _  _
5-22



Table 5.3.8   Daily Change of the Pollutants' Concentration    mg/Nm3
Season     Pollutant           Overall Average Concentration in Monitoring
Winter  S02    06:00   ]  09:00   1  13:00       15:00   I  17:00
Winter   __S02          0.293      0.274   1  0.168   1  0.170       0.157
|   NOx        0.089 |  0.122         0.051      0.068      0.073
Season     Pollutant j         C Overall Average Concentration in Monitoring
____.___j__    06:00       10:00  ]   14:00      18:00
Spring _________J__0__169   I0.093                 0.8    _____
Spring   I S02          0.169      0.115                 0-
NOx  .   0.104        0.087   i  0.049       0.058   |
It's suggested that Class 2 of the ((National Ambient Air Quality Standard)) (GB3095-
82) be adopted in this assessment on air quality.
5.3.2.5 Monitoring Results and Its Analysis
The statistical results of monitoring are fistcd from Table 5.3.2 to Table 5.3.7. The
tinely change of pollutants' concentration is listed in Table 5.3.8.
Table 5.3.8 shows that the concentration of S02 and NOx in the morning and noon
is always higher than that of in the afternoon and evening either in spring or in winter.
5.3.3   Assessment oni the Present Air Quality
5.3.3.1 Assessment Method
The Method of Singular Indicator wil bc used as assessment methods.
5.3.3.2 The Conclusions of Assessment
The assessment results for the specified sites and area are listed in Table 5.3.9 and
5.3.10.
The concentrations of SO2 and TSP in Yantai City in Spring and Winter exceed the
Class 2 limit of National Ambient Air Quality Standard, particularly in Winter, SO2 and
TSP go beyond the Standard limit more greatly. The pollution comes mainly from coal
combustion in industrial production, space heating in Winter and traffic fly dust. The
yearly change of the pollution in the asscssment area is: more severe in Winter, severe in
Spring and Fall, and light in Summer. The pollution's daily trend is: severe in the moming
and noon, light in the afternoon and evening, more light in the night. The space
distribution of pollution extent is: more severe in the West of the City for its densely
concentrated industry, severe in the urban area, and light in the East of the City.
523



Table 5.3.9 Statistics of Assessment Results of Every Pollutant's Indicator in Spring
Item      _                      Single Indicator
Site                        SO2                NOx                 TSP
No 107 Hospital             0.89               0.66                2.00
Worker's Sanatoriwn         0.48               0.51                0.96
Harbour                     0.89               0.98                0.78
Nursey Garden               0.69               0.72                1.26
New Bridge                  1.00               0.85                 1.24
Assessment Area             0.79               0.74        |        1.25
Table 5.3.10  Statistics of Asscssmcnt Rcsulls of Every Plollulant's Indicator in Spting
Item r                         Single Indicator
Site                      SO2                NOx                 TSP
Harbor                    1.28               0.89        1       1.40
Nureiy Garden             1.03               0.71                1.33
New Bidge                 1.60               0.71                1.46
New World          .      1.77               0.92        t       0.97
AssessmentArea    j       1.42               0.81                 1.29
5.4 Monitoring and Assessment of Noise Effect in Present
Environment
5.4.1 Monitoring of Noise in Present Environment
The TOR of the EIA requires that onc monitoring site be setup at ca. 50 m from
each of 41 Heat Power Stations and 2 relay Station, the site be as near to resident area as
possible. The noise in each site was measured one time in day and one time in night. The
measurement method was strictly according to the (( National Regulations for
Environmental Monitoring)) (Noise Part). The detailed distribution of the monitoring
sites is shown in Fig. 5.4.1.
5.4.2 Assessment of Noise Effect
5.4.2.1 Assessment Standard
((National Noise Environmental Standard in Urban Area )) (GB3096-93) was
adoptcd as assessment standard. The Standard Clas6es are distinguished to use in each
site according to the Noise Environmental Function Zone of Yantai City, see Table 5.4.1.
5.4.2.2 Monitoring Results and Assessment
5-24



Table 5.4.1        Assessment Standard Used at Different Site in the Area
Function of the Area  Day dB(A) Night dB(A)           No. of the Site
Type I MixedZone         55         45     12, 13, 22, 23, 28, 29, 36,
.________________   i ______  _______37,  38,  40,   41,   42
Business Center Area and   60         50   17  8, 9, 10,. 11, 14, 15, 16,
Type 2 Mixed Zone                          17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 24, 24,
26, 27, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34,35, 44
Concenitraed Industiial Zone  65       55               1 , 3, 4, 5, 6
The monitoring results are listed in Table 3-21 of EIA Report of Yantai
Hcating.Nctwork.
In all the 43 site monitored, the maximum of noise in daytime is 69.1dB(A) in 1#
site, and exceeds the Standard limit by 8.OdB(A). The noise conies mainly from near
construction sites; the minimum of noise is 48.OdB(A). Noise in 19 sites exceeds the
standard limit at daytiie.   The maximum of noise at night is 60.4dB(A) in 18#,
surpassing the standard limit by 10.4dB(A ), and the minimum is 38.OdB(A). Noise in 14
sites exceeds the Standard limit at night. 7 sites exceed the Standard limit both at daytime
and night, they are:   1#. 7#C  13#.  14#T  18#. 36# and 39#, whose common
feature is being near to the main traffic line.
The record of monitoring shows that at daytime, the order of noise source's effect
on the monitored sites are: traffic > daily life > building sites > industrial production;
while at night, the noise in most sites come from traffic. Noise in resident area far from
main tratlic line, business center and building sites is lower, such as in sites of 8#. 12#,
42# and 43#. the points whose noise exceeds the Standard limit are mainly distributed in
thc central busiest scetion of the District.
5.5 Assessment on Impact of the Proposed Project on the Air
Quality
5.5.1 Meteorological Features of Yantai
5.5.1.1 Picture of Climate
A. Tcmperature
A recent three-year statistics  (1992 - 1994) by Yantai Meteorological Station
Tablc 5.5.1.1   The Monthly Averagc Tcmpcraturc in Yantai City    IC
Month              1   12 13  4   15   16  17  18  19   110  11 112 l Yearlv
AveragelTenpcrature -0.5 10.3 4.7 12.2 17.8 22.1 24.9 |25.1  21.5  16.3 8.9 3.5 13.3
5-25



Tab le 5.5.1.2 Winterly and Yearlv Averae e indspeed, Frequency of Winddircetion and_Pollution Coefficients ___
l'imte      Winddirec lion       N   NNrVE  1: NiE   E   E SE   SE,  SSF    s   S$HT  SW   iVlSW   H'  MHNW1 IvW   NNWT    C
Sprin         rqcco              .  '~9    5    1.09  0.91  0.91  3.99  3.44 14140 10.12  13.95  3.53  2.99  2.26  63    5.43           66
Winiddirecfion O% )                                                                 _______
Averag_ Windpec1(rd    53   5.4 .4.9   3.3  -3.9   3.1   3.0   3.4   3.6   3. 7    4.2   4.6   4.3   5.3   4.2   4.a3  _
Pollution_C'oeflcent__  2.68  1.11  0.72  0.33  0.23- 0.29  1.-33  1.01 -3.96  2.8-1  3.30  0.77  0.69  0.43   1.51   1.25  _ -
Stuinni      Frequency of       10.24 5.07  5.62  2.17  2 63  1.99  8.88  6.70 16.58  9.6  11.50  2.17  1.00  0.72  4.26  2.36    8 51
er   -Winddirection O;)             -      -       -  - -.                                                             -      _
Average_Winclspeed (mn/s) 3.6   4.2   337   329   229 2.7  2.7   3.4   3.4   3.6   3.6   3.6   2.9   4.9   3.4   2.8
Pofluflon Coeflicient    2.86  1.21  1.50  0.56  0.90  0.73 1_3.31  2.00  4.84  2.66  3.16  0.61  0.34  0.15   1124   0.85
Atitwii, Frequency of        10.71 6.0.4  4.67  0.92  0.82  1.281 1.92  3.66 11.63 12.00 13.74  3.85  3.85   5.22  6.23   4.58    8.88
n     Wjinddiredton()         . __...---                                         -                  -     -
AvrcWifldspeed  nvis)  5.   5.4   5.0  3.    3.1   2.6   20   2.5  2.          .     .    3.7   4.6   41.8   4. 3    4.7
Pofllution C'oefficient    1.9  I1.11  0.94  0.23  0.-226  0.50__0.96  1.18  4.49  4.3   4.10   103. 0.84   1.09   1.46   0.9 7
Winter~   F'requiency of'       115.5   .8  2.10  0.16  0 55  1.01  1 85  3.41  7.47  8.21  12.82  6.09  6.83,  6.55  10.70  5.O7,   6. 27
IWinddirec6on (* Oo 
A\verage Windspecdrnms)J 6.0 1 5.3  -4.5   2.6   1.8   2. 0    2.   23   2.6   3.1   3.3   4.0   4.1   4.8   4.3   4.S           0.0 
Polluton_Cofficint    2.0           IS.9053K   0h.30  0. 086  1i.119  2.841  _.6      51   .6   1.36  2.48   1.05
Frequetcyof  .    2.66' 5.47  4.06  1. 16  I. 23  1. 30  .1. 17  A.3-1 11.5  Io. 006  13.00  3.90  3.65  3.67  6.87   4.    7.6
Winddirection  %.i~                                                        .-                                          
YearlyrAv'-ge Windspeed (ns)  5.t 5.1   4.5   3.6   3.0   26I2.613.   3.2   3.    3.6   4.0  4±2   4.9   4.1   4.41   v0
IPollutifon Coefficient    2.51.709    .2011  0.50: 1.591 1.45  3.95  3.07  35                   70       0.75  11.66]  1.00



reveals that the yearly average temperature in the area is 13.0 C, the top is 38 ∞C, and the
bottom is -13.1 VC. August gas the highest monthly average temperature while January
has the lowest one.
B. Wind Direction
A recent three-year (1992 - 1994) statistics by Yantai Meteorological Station shows
that the prevailing wing in the area is SW, whose occuning frequency is 13.0%, the wind
direction second to the prevailing is N with frequency of 12.66%. The total frequency of
yearly prevailing winddirection of S, SSW and SW is 35.6%. T'he frequency of still wind
is 7.57%. The yearly frequencies of winddirections are summarized in Table 5.5.1.2. The
Rose-like Diagrams of the wind frequencies in every season and the whole year are
sliowni in Fig. 5.5.1.1 and 5.5.1.2
C. The Velocity of Wind
The average wing velocity in Yantai is 3.6m/s. The fastest wind appears in
November (4.4m/s), and the slowest in August (2.6m/s).
Table 5.5.1.3    The Average Velocity of Wind in Yantai ( 1992 - 1994 ) m/s
Month            Il  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  Ito  111  112  !yearly
ANcrage Velocity   '3.6 '3.7 f3.8  3 13 .9 !3.0 !2.7 12.6 13.4 '3.9  4.4 j4.1  3.6
D. The Other Meteorological Factors
Yearly Air Pressure: 101,180 Pa, Yearly Precipitation: 756.4mnn, Evaporation
amount: 1,824.4rnm/y, and Relative Humidity: 63%.
5.5.1.2 Meteorological Features of Pollution
This EIA uses the sounding matenals of January 1996 as major information sources
with other soundings referred.
A. The Wind Ficld Character of Atmosphere
The law of daily change of wind speed: the wind is fast in daytime and slow in night,
fast in Winter and slow in Summer, the fastest in a day is from 12 o'clock to 14 o'clock
and the slowest from 0.o'clock to 2 o'clock. So it's casier to diffuse and dilute the
pollutants in daytime than in the night.
The vertical characters of wind are: from ground level to IOOm high, the prevailing
wind is to the east, and deflects in clockwise with the altitude rising. Above 300m, the
wind is to the south, and in the altitude of 500 to 800m, the wind is to the north. The
Table 5.5.1.4     Statistics on Wind Speed at Different Attitudes  ( Mn/S )
Altitude(m      100  I 200      300  I 400  | 500  1  600   1 800         1000
Daytime      3.1  1 4.1      47  1 6.0       4.7  i  5.1       6.5  |  4.7
Niglt      2.6      5.7  I  3.7        35  _4_7  !_51    _3_9    _39-
Daily Average   2.9  | 4.7     4.4  |  5.3     4.7      5.1               4.4
5-26



N
w -E
S
C= 7.57%
ROi7i(..,!' fai;wrai1ll orf 'cawly WiljddblXoCll  f'requCllCy
S
oelsC--lli:C  )Icgran olYf Yc.-u1y  olitiony  C ocflicitiLs
Fig. 5.5.1.1    Ros-Lik9 l)iDigrainms (!1 'YcirIy Winiddivcibjon I'frqueCmy
iiul Pllution (''cllicicrins in the .Asessineni Ace:;l



W                                        E
w                                       E
S
S                      
Spring       C=6. 61%                         Summer    C=8. 51%
N
w                                       E
W                                         E
0.0      5.0        110.0%"i
S                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~S
Autumn       C-8.88%                           Winter    C=6.27%
Fig. 5.5.1.2   R(osC-Like  Diazgrlam  ol Winddiirvo;ion Frqlucncy
in !'(ur Scai        Ns in sn1nnlt Areca



wind speed at different altitudes is shown in Table 5.5.1.4.
The wind speed at evewry stability obtained by statistics distributes exponentially with
the altitude, and its indexes of outline is near to the National Standard Value, see Table
5.5.1.5
Table 5.5.1.5     The Measures Indexes and the national Standard Values
B. c             D               E              F
Measures            0.15           0.26            0.33           0.33
Standard Value(urban)   0. 15 - 0.20    0.25            0.30           0.30
B. Temperature Field Character of Atmosphere
Affected by day-night exchanging, the air temperature at different altitudes in the
atmospheric boundary layer has clear daily changes. A continuous inversion exists from
the sun-falling to sun-rising in the altitude of 0-300m., which disappears until 9 to 10
o'clock. The regional inversion character is inversion in night occuming more firquently
than in daytime, the average inversion layer is thin, and the biggest inversion is 3.2 C
_ _Table 5.5.1.6  Stalistics on Inversion Characters ( 1993.2 )
Altitude of | Time Average Height   Average    Average    Average   Times Frequency
inversion          of Bottom     Height of   Thickness   Intensity        (%)
Layer ( m )            ( n)      Top (im)      (im)   (tCIOOm )
<200     night       0           121         121         1.7      7      20.6
daytime      0           178         178        1.3       5   1  _4.7
200 - 400   night      35           290        255         1.0       8     23.5
___               .dayme  70         265         195         1.4      6      17.6
>400      night      425         857.5      432.5        1.4      4      11.8
dayim    . 217.5         717.5       500         0.8     __4   11.8
llOOm. These characters are detailed described in Table 5.5.1.6.
C. Thickness of Mixed Layer
See Table 5.5.1.7.
Table 5.5.1.7    Daily Changc of Thickness of the Mixed Laycr in a Year   (im)
Watching Time         02               08                14             20
Winter            943              972              1148            1028
Sp ilg            1252             987              1353            1142
Summer             774              748              962             747
Autun             1085              1048             1464           1250
Yearly            1014             939       |      1232            1042
The thickness of the mixed layer in a year changes from 750 to 1500m, it's the
lowest on sunset, and the highest after noon. The daily change law in every season has the
5-27



same law, as shown inFig. 5.5.1.3.
D. Pollution Coefficients
Pollution coefficient is the ratio of wind frequency to speed at every direction. The
statistics on pollution coefficients in every season is shown in Table 5.5.1.2 and Fi
5.5.1.4 The yearly rose-like diagram of pollution coefficients is seen in Fig. 5.5.1.1.
The pollution cocfficients are not even in every direction, the biggest is in S direction,
3.95; the second is 3.58, in SW direction; 0.32 in ENE direction, the smallest, which
suggests that the area in the North and Northeast of the pollution sources will be most
severely polluted.
E. Atmospheric Stability
Atmospheric Stability can shows turbulence activity of air. Mixing and
diffusing of air pollutant in vertical direction depends on the aUnospheric stability.
According to the requirements of HJ/12.2-93, the atmospheric stabilities in the
whole year and every season are defined using P-T method, as shown in Table
5.5.1.8.
Table 5.5.1.8  Frequency of Atmos heric Stability Occurring in YantaiCity  (%)
Stabihty     A          B          C         D           E          F
Spring     0.00        2.90      14.49     53.26       18.12      11.23
Summer      0.00       5.43      16.76      48.46      16.58      12.77
Autunm      0.00       3.85      12.55      50.27      18.32      15.02
Winter      0.00       0.46      7.38       57.47      21.96      12.73
Yearly      0.00 |  3.17          12.82  |  52.35      18.73      12.93
F. Joint-frequency of Wind Speed, Wind Direction and Stability
See EIA Report of Yantai 500 Heating Network.
G. Characters of Sea and Land Breeze
According to year-collectively watching matetials, in Yantai, the sea breeze is in N
direction, and land breeze in S direction. The sea breeze often occurs in daytime with
average speed of 2-3th/s, and the land breeze takes place in night at 1-3m/s.
In Winter, sea breeze appears at 10 to 12, and its direction change from south to
north or north south, and becomes weak until 16 o'clock. The land breeze begins at 20
o'clock in the direction of SW.
In Summer, sea breeze occurs at 7 to 19 o'clock, and begins to change from SW to
NW or N, becomes the strongest at 10 to 16 o'clock, and then weakens and change
direction to S or SW, the land breeze is then forned.
The watching results suggest that the Sea Land Breeze can not cause secondaty air
pollution in the assessment area.
5.5.1.3 Analysis on the Latent Trend of Pollution
5-28



heigh-t (in)
1600
1400                                      .
1200                              *    .
1000                        Y- -                                             ear
800              ,              '                     <                      . Summnter
- -___                                            _   ,  Auturnn
600 -Witer
400
200
0           2           8           14          20          24  tIiune (h)
Fig  5.5.1.3  Daily C-hange of thp 'IThickness of Mixed La3yclr in evLty Season
and all the Year in Assessment Area



N                                          N
w                                  E      W-                                   E
Spring                                     Summer
N                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~N
'S i                                E     W   .               |              E
S
Autumn                                       Winter
Fig. 5.5.1.4  Rus-Like D)iagran of Pollution CoAf1icients
iti Four Seasons in Assessnieiii Areai



* The prevailing wind in the assessment area is SW, and the second is N. The region to
the north and south of the pollution source will be more severely polluted by the proposed
procct. Thcrefore, the life and the sensitive areas should be arranged to the west of the
pollution sources to lessen the pollution.
* An inversion layer less than 300 m thick near ground appears in the assessment area
at fine breezy night, and is the strongest at 2 to 6 o'clock. Generally, the inversion is the
highest after midnight, which will depress the vertical diffusion of air pollutant from the
highly located sources, and is not good for the pollutant to distantly difflse.
* The local mixed layer is more ffian lOOOm above ground except in Summer night
(near 800m), so compared to the 80 m high stack, it is quite high. Therefore, the
reflection of the mixed layer to the pollutant will not increase the pollution concentration
near ground, but is good for increase the concentration far from the ground.
* The sea land breeze in Yantai is too weak to formn a closed vertical circuit. So it can
not result in secondary pollution.
* Yantai has no sand storm, and its yearly sand-fly day is less than 1, fog time is less
than 20 days, the shortest in the Peninsula However, it has the most precipitation in
Shandong. Compared with the inland area at the sane altitude, Atmosphere in Yantai has
stronger self-cleaning ability.
5.5.2 Calculation on the Air Pollution Concentration from Point
Sources and Its Assessment
5.5.2.1 Calculated Coefficients
According to the results of the analysis on the project, the calculated coefficients of
air pollution are SO2 and TSP.
5.5.2.2 The Diffusing Model Adopted
The proposed project is in the west head of District Zhifiu in Yantai City, and is 5 km
from the urban area. According to the local terrain and topology, the diffusing model of
plain area is used. To eliminate the effect of urban area on the air pollutant transportation,
necessawy corrections is made to the diffusing parameters in the modeL The concentration
of SO2 and TSP will be forecast using the Gauss Gas ModeL See Annex 1.
5.5.2.3  Selection and Correction of the Parameters
A. Selection of the Diffusing Parameters
For details, see EIA Report of Yantai 500 Heating Network.
B. Correction of the Diffusing Parameters
According to the relative regulations of Guideline for EIA (HJ/IT2.1-23.-93).



C. Data of the Parameters Used in the Model
a) Pollution Sources
The peakload heating boiler house to be built in the proposed project is regarded as a
point sources, whose emission parameters are listed in Table 5.5.2.1.
Table 5.5.2.1  Emission Parameters of the Point Pollution Source
Name   f Height Enission Rate Diameter Temperature Velocity of Flue Flowing Qh (kJ/B)
(m)     (mg/s)     of the  at the Output Gas at Output   Rate
t     j             Stack (m)    (t)         (m/s)    (Nm3Is)
Chimney of  80  SO2: 29,400.0  2.5        127         11.09      54.45  5,495.48
the Boiler      TSP: 4613.89                            . 1   1       1
b) On the Rising Height (a H) of the Flue Gas
According to the relative regulations of Guideline for EIA (HJ/T2.1-23.-93).
c) Parameters Related to Calculation of Daily Average Concentration
For the four monitoring sites are to the SW, E, NE and ENE of the pollution source
respectively, the typical days during which the parameters related to the daily average
concentration calculation are reckoned should have concentrated wind direction and
proper wind velocity. The concrete days are shown in Table 5.5.2.2.
5.5.2.4 Prediction and Assessment on the Air Pollution of the
Proposed Project
A. Assessment Standards Used
According to the Function of the Planned Zone of Yantai City, Class 2 of the
SIandards is suitable to the West Suburb, and Class 1 is suitable in the central urban area
B. Scope if the EIA
West suburb of Yantai City.
C. Forecast Items
*  ground level concentration of the pollutants along the axis line,
*  maximum of the ground level concentration at any times and it location,
*  ground level concentration along the axis line under the still wind,
*  daily average concentration,
*  long time average concentration
D. The Calculation Results
a) Ground Concentration at any Times
The concentration of the pollutant at any times along the axis line are listed in ELA
Report of Yantai 500 Heating Network, the maximum of concentration and its location
under different meteorological conditions are given in Table 5.5.2.3 and Table 5.5.2.4
5-30



Table 5.5.2.2               Meteorological Parameters of the Typical Days
Date         Item                               Freqcuency
02     05     08     11   14       17    20       23
wind direction   SW    SSW    SSW    SW    WSW    SW    SSW    SSW
wind velocity    2.1    2.5    3.2   3.1    3.4    2.2    1.1     1.4
.February    total cloud    0      0      3      4      S      8      10      10
02, 1995    low cloud      0      0       0      0      0      0      0       0
|   stability     F      F      D      C       C      E      E       E
wind direction    W    W      W    WNW   NW    NW          W     WSW
wind velocity    2.0    7.1    5.2    8.8    8.2    6.0    4.0    2.6
.March 10,   total cloud    0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0
1995   |low cloud         0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0
____  stability   F      D      D      D       D      D     E        F
wind direction    NE    NE    NE    NE   NNE   NNE    N            N
! wiid velocity  ( 6.7    4.5    5.0    4.4    4.5    3.7    2.3    4.7
March23, |  total cloud   I_       10     10     10 l   10    10       10     10
1995   I lower cloud  |O0        3      6      4      3      4_ _   lO      10
| stability     D      D   |D        C      C      D      D       D
wind direcbo    ENE   NE  |NE    NE    NE   NNE                N   N
wind velocity    4.1 4 2.9    4.8   3.1    3.6 4 3.6    4.9       3.0
September   total cloud     lO    lO      10    lO      10    10       10      10
07, 1995    lowercloud     10     10    10    10        10     10    10       10
|   stability    |D      D      D       D      D      D      D       D
wind direction   WSW   WSW    SW    WSW    W        W    WSW    SW
I wind velocity    5.2    6.0    4.5    7.3    7.2  - 5.0   4.1     2.5
November   total cloud   I  0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0
02, 1995    lowercloud  |_O_    0         0      0      0      0      0       0
!____   !      ID        _D     D       D D    iD           _E       F
wind direction    SW S S6W                                SW      SW
wind velocity    3.7  | 2.6    3.3    2.6    5.0    3.3    4.3    1.7
November   total cloud      4  4  2        0      0  J O     4  0      0       0
06, 1995    lowercloud      0      0      0      0      0      0  |o  |
_____  stability  E       F   I D       C      D      D      E       F



Table 5.5.2.3 The Maximum of SO2 Concentration (Cmax) at any Times
along the Axis Line and Its Location (distance from the
pollution sourcc, Xmax) Cmax:, mg/m3r -Xmax, :m
Speed I     B,C                D                 E                  F
inds   Cinax   Xinax    Cmax  |Ximax   Caiax    Xmax   Cnax   Xinax
1.50 .051379  1514:1  .024489 I 4422.5  .015303   8061.9 j.009738  19041.4
2.00 i .052967 i 1287.1 i .026091 1 3571.1   .016513 1 6344.7 1 .010793  14567.2
3.00 ! .052003  1056.3 1 .026446 1 2766.6   _ .016905 ! 4783.8      _ -
3.50  .050657   989.5   .025977 . 2546.3  .016635   4368.2 1        -   I  _
4.50    -       -   I.024580 12259.6         -   I   -   i
5.00'                  .023799   2161.3     _
5.50    -   '      _    .023011   2081.7    _
6.00    -   I          .022235   2015.8      _        _       _
7.001   -              .0207611 1913.5       -    i.-__    -   [   _
The Tables and Figs show that when m still wind in Stability B, the region 20m from the
chimney is severely polluted by SO2; while under windy condition, the concentration at
any times along the axis line firstly increascs with the distance, and reach a peak value in a
certain sites, then begins to descend with the distance.; the Cmax and Xmax decreases
with the wind speed under the same stability, and in the same wind speed with Stability
rising, the Cmax decreases, while Xmax increases.
For SO2
a. Under Windy Conditions
Table shows that SO2 concentration range is 0.0023 - 0.0524mg/3 in Stability B
and C, 0 - 0.0262mg/n3 in Stability D, 0 - 0.0169mg/n3 in Stability E, and 0 -
0053mg/m3 in Stability F.
b. Under Still Wind
The concentration of SO2 is: 0.0107 - 0.4618mg/rn3 in Stability B; 0.0224 -
0.1351mg/r3 in Stability D;  0.0027 - 0.0647mg/m3 in Stability E; 0.0004 -
0.0379m0mg/3 in Stability F. The maximum Of SO2 concentration is 0.4618mg/n3,
0.9236 times to the Standard limit, occuning in Stability B, 2Oin from the pollution
source.
c. Cmax and Xmax
Cmax of S02 is 0,0530mglm3, within the Standard Limit, and 0.106 times to the
asscssment Standard, occurring at 1,287 m from the pollution source at wind speed of
2m/s.
For TSP
a. Under Windy Conditions
The concentration of TSP is 0.0004 - 0.0082mg/m3 in Stability B and C; 0 -
0.0041mg/r3 in Stability D; 0 - 0.0026mg/r3 in Stability E; 0 - 0.0008mgln3 in
Stability F .
5-32



b. Undcr Still Winid
The concentration range of TSP is: 0.0017 - 0.0721mg/m3 in Stability B;
0.0035 - 0.0211mg/rn  inStabilityD; 0.0002 - 0.0090mg/rn3 inStabilityEE; 0 -
0.0053mg/m3 in Stability F. Cmax is 0.0721mg/in3, 0.0721 times of the Standard Limit,
occurring in Stability B at 20 m from the pollution Source.
Table 5.5.2.4 The Maximum of SO2 Concentration (Cmax) at anyTimes
along the Axis Line and Its Location (distance from the
pollution source, Xmax)    Cmax:, mg/mrn'. -Xmax, :m
speed      B, C        |        D          _       E                  F
n/s    Cmiax    Xxnax    Cmax   nXmax    Cinax    Xmax   Cniax    Xmnax
1.50  .008021   1514.1  i 2088.5   4422.5   .002389   8061.9  .001520  19041.4
2.00  .008269   1287.1   1751.0   3571.1   .002578   6344.7 4:00168S   14567.2
3.00  .0081191 1056.3   1413.0   2766.6  .002639   4783.8 i  -           _
3.50  .007908   989     1316.3   2546.3  .002597   4368.2                _
4.50           9 .      1187.3   2259.6       -        _        _
5.00    -               1142.1   2161.3       -        -                 _
5.50    _ -             1105.1   2081.7       -        _        _
6.00    -        _      1074.3   2015.8       -        -        _        _
7.00    -        _      1025.9   1913.5       -        - _      _
c. Cmax and Xmnax of TSP
Cmax of TSP is 0.0083mg/m3, 0.0083 times of the assessment Standard Limit,
occurring in Stability B at Xmax of 1,287m.
b) Daily Average Concentrations of the Pollutants
See Table 4 - 26 of ELA Report of Yantai 500 Heating Network.
It can be seen from the Table that S02 concentration at every assessment site is
within the Standard Limit. Cmax of SO2 is 0.0179 mg/rn, 0.1193 times of the Standard
Limit, occurring in NO. 1 Site, i.e., the No.107 Hospital. For TSP, the Cmax is 0.0028
mg/rn, also occurring in No. 107 Hospital.
c) The Long Time Average Concentrations of the Pollutants
The calculation of the long time average concentrations of the pollutants done by
using the wind speed, wind direction, stability, and united frequency on the basis of the
cmission parameters of the proposed project. The results arc listed in Table 4 - 27 to
Table 4-30 of EIA Report of Yantai 500 Heating Network. The distribution profiles of
the isostandard concentration is shown in Fig.5.5.2.1 to Fig. 5.5.2.4.
For S02
It is clear that the calculated long time average concentrations are within the Standard
Linit.
The calculated yearly average concentrations in all the locations are low. The W of
5-33



~~~~~~''~~~~~~ ~                                                     ' ~  i L
10~~~~~~~0 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    w  i-;           I l  i }l|01-A    
4~NurseryG'u-iden
2/                                                            ,
36                                                   N        -~~~54Nw  rig
s. ....... . b. 
31. 
H4uana-Bo-Hai Heat Power Company.        ,I.-
No 107 Hospital                            r.-.                                           
IFJ
Scale   1:50000
Fig. 5.5.2.1 Distnibution of 'Wintry Averige Isocon,;entration Line Of S0)1
Given O'ff fromBoiler's Chimney( xc 10 mg/rn')



0.10             4.
Nursery Garden    i          }
] !-:-, ;<1  --!!; }}<;   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/, //    4 
0. 30 ~ ~  ~   . 
.   vit = r m \--,  A∞S∞,    ,,/. o  .    e- -" V .-  /.................%,;
Fi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0.~~~~~~; 
-j: .7                           New Brida j-  X   j
Fig. 5.5.2.2  .L3 **bu -  J o    Yent  Harbour         Lin
He1 at Power Company                                          :    x l")mgfmI)
1         IC - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - 
Scale    :5000
jj  .107Fg  Ho                D~rbuino Xity vrig  scncnrtinLn
No ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~o  SPEitdhr  olsChme         O   gr3



N
.            0~~~.4 *^                  cl         :00
0. 4
*06
4 Niu-jery Garden
2 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
3. o        ~5 New Bnd2    .              ~...
Fig. 5.5.2.3    glislliution o Ysir}yAver.ac Ise                  Lin
of SO2 EmttdEo    oiers(:iYantai Harbour    X.   .. ....
/    .1        r~~~ V 7-     j.
HetPow~er Companv'          as       *                                    ' %
I  .~~~~~~~~~J
b No107 1-ospita
S8~~4  I      Scale       1:50000
Fig. 5.5.2.3    D2istiibution of Ye~i1y Average Isoconcentrzition Line
of S02 Emitted from Boiler's Chinmney C. X 1   m- ng/rn3



LXI                 ~~~~~~~~0. 05
lo.
| /'4 NurseryOGarden*                             U \..i
1''' ;'1 8 '=__  _ _ _ '_;  *-t- t ' ,  . .  a   zo  . !.  *  -4~h,ir~~r~          t_.r_       
\~~~-y- I
/~~~~~~o TSPPwrCmpn                 Emte Fro  Bole   - Chine ( X 0  m                        ..
0                                           .      .
No  0O7 Ho.p tal                          *.  30         . 
O. 60~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~   .,.,
a, 64 ~ ~ ~   ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~        
-,  'I  Scale      1:50000
Fia.5.5.2.4   Distribution of Yearly Average Isoconcentration Line
of TSP  Emitted From  Boiler's. Chiimney (Y                nie~m/t&)



ilic pollution sourec ias a rclativcy lower conccntration, while Locations of S and N
have relatively high concentrations. Cmax of yearly average concentration is
0.4863x103 mg/rn3, occurring in S to the pollution source.
Thc higl concentration in the Winterly Average Concentrations takes pLace in the
Table 5.5.2.5    The Sum of Cmax at any Times of Calculated and Background
Values (in Winter)
Pollution Assessment Site  Background   Calculated   Sum  Specific Contribu-tion Increment
Source |            .  Cmax at any Cmax at any mg/mr  Value  Coefficient Coefficient
|  Times mg/mr  Times mgM3        
t                    .                                t I_      _   _     _
INo. 107 Hospital    0.465      0.052   | 0.517 1 1.034   0.101      0.112
S02  !Harbour            0.889        0.022    0.911  1.822     0.024      0.025
Nursery Garden:    0.499       0.023    0.522  1.044     0.044      0.046
iNew Bridge        0.734        0.026    0.760  1.520     0.034      0.035
TNo. 107 Hospital    0.716      0.008    0.724  0.724     0.011      0.011
TSP  iHarbour            0.585        0.004    0.589  0.589     0.007      0.007
INursery Garden     0.660       0.004    0.664  0.664     0.006      0.006
|New Bridge         0.796       0.004    0.800  0.800|  0.005        0.005
Table 5.5.2.6 The Sum of Cmax at any Times of Calculated and.Background
Values (in Spring)
Pollution  Assessment Site  Background  Calculated  Sum  Specific Contribution Increment
Source                  ICmaxatany Cmaxatanymg/m   Value  Cocfficient ICoefficient
I Times mg/ml Times mm31   !_       I
I#  *  No.  107   0.465         0.052   j0.517  1.034    0.101      0.112
Hospital                   .
S02  13#, Harbour      i  0.363        0.022   10.385 0.770 |  0.057      0.061
'4#, Nurscey Garden 1  0.376     0.023   [0.399  0.798    0.058      0.061
_5#, New Bridge      0.455       0.026    0.481 0.962    0.054       0.057
Il#, No. 107 Hospital   0.716    0.008    0.7241 0.724    0.0       0.11
TSP  13#, Harbour          0.376       0.004   10.3801 0.3801   0.011      0.011
4 #,Nurscty Gardei    0.566     0.f0f1   00.57( 0.570    O.Of7     0.007
___ S#,N\cw Bridge   0.449   1  0.004   10.453i 0.453.j  0.009       0.009
1        .3  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   L .



Table 5.5.2.7 The Sum of Cmax of Daily Average Concentration the Calculated and
Background Values  (in Winter)
Pollution Assessment   Background   Calculated    Sum !Specific1 Contribution ! Increment
Source j   Site     Cmax of the    Cmax of the  mg) 3m  Value  Coefficient Coefficient
I          | Daily Average   daily Average           I
i______    _________   I m RI m 3  m g  m   _   _      .          _
llf, No. 107    0.237          0.018    1 0.255 1 1.700    0.071    0.076
IHospital                                     I_I
SO2  I3# Harbour      0.337         0.004      0.341  2.273    0.012     0.012
4#, Nursery     0.345         0.004     0.349  2.327    0.011      0.012
jgarden.
5#, New         0.335         0.005     0.340  2.267    0.015      0.015
_ _ _ _Bridge                              *
I1#, No. 107    0.600          0.003     0.603  2.010    0.005      0.005
IHospital   {
TSP  |3#,Harbour      0.419          0.001     0.420  1.400 |  0.002     0.002
L4#, Nursery    0.399          0.001     0.400 1 .333    0.003      0.003
iGardenJ
5#, New         0.437         0.001     0.438  1.460    0.002      0.002
jBridge    I                            I
Table 5.5.2.8 The Sum of Cmax of Daily Average Concentration the Calculated and
Background Values  (in Sprino_)
Pollution; Assessment Background CmaxJ Calculated    Sum fSpecific Contribution  Increment
Source |  Sitc      of the Daily   Cmax of the  mg/ m3 Value  Coefficicnt Coefficient
Average mg/ m3   day Average
i__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  m eli   [13  
I#,No. 107     0.237          0.018     0.255  1.700    0.071      0.076
iHospital_               
S02  3#, Harbour!   -0.175          0.004      0.179  1.193    0.022     0.023
4#, Nursery    0.145          0.004    i 0.149  0.993    0.027     0.028
Garden                                        I
5#, New        0.259          0.005      0.264  1.760    0.019     0.019
} Bridge .
lHNO.           0.600          0.003     0.603  2.010    0.005      0.005
107
T Hospitaol     0              0  1      0      0
TSP  _3_,harbour_     0.235_|   0.001          0.236   0.77    0.004      0.004
4#. Nursery     0.379          0.001     0.380  1.267    0.003      0.003
G                             03rden74
15#, New        0.373          0               1 0 1  0374   1  VOV7_003   I0.003
ILndr gc   _              I _                   _      _
5-35



locations of S and NE to the pollution source, and the relatively low concentration area is
in the W. Cmax of Winterly average concentration is 0.5084xlO3mg/m3, occurring in S
location.
For TSP
The area with relatively high yearly average is in the location of S and N, and the
area with relatively lower concentration is in the West. Cmax of the yearly average is
0.0759 x 10 3mg/m3, occurring in the Soutlh. of the pollution sourcc.
The area with relatively high winterly average is in the location of S and NE, and the area
with relatively lower concentration is in the West. Cmax of the winterly average is 0.0794
X 10f3mg/m3, occurring in the  South. of the pollution source.
E. The Results of Atmospheric Inpact Assessment
The assessment methods are: add the calculated Cmax of Daily Average
Conientration and the Cmax of Concentration at any Times to the corresponding
background level concentration and get two sums; then compare the sums to
corresponding Standard Limit; thus reckon the specific value, contribution coefficient and
increment coefficient. and assess them. The assessment results are listed in Table 5.5.2.5
to Table 5.5.2.8.
a) Ground level concentration at any Times along the Axis Line
For SO2
In Winter, the sum of the Cniax at any times of the background and calculated goes
beyond the Standard Limit> The maximum of the specific value is 1.82, occurring in
-Iarbour Site. However, in this site, the contribution coellicient of the proposed project is
only 0.024, and in the sites of l#. 4# and 5#, are only 0.101, 0.044 and 0.034, all lower
than 0.112. Therefore, -it is clear that the sum of SOz concentrations in these sites
exceeding the Standard Limits results from the high background level-concentration.
In Spring, the sums of Cmax at any times of the background and calculated are
wthin the Standard Limit at all the sites except Site 1. lhe  iaxunum of the specific
values is 1.034, occurring in Site 1 (No. 107 Hospital), while the proposed project
contributes only 0.101 to the pollution of this site. The increment coefficient is lower than
0.112, showing that the sum in this site exceeding the Standard Limit arises from the high
background level concentration of SO.
For TSP
In W'inter, all the sums of the Cmax at any times of the background and the
calculated are within the Standard Limit, in which the maximum of the specific values is
0.800, occuring in the Site of New Bridge. The contribution coefficients and the
increment coefficients of the proposed project in all the sites are lower than 0.011
respectively.
In Spring, all the sums of the Cmax at any times of the background and the
calculated are also within the Standard Limit, in which the maxinum  of the specific
values is 0.724, occurring in the Site of No. 107 Hospital. The contribution coefficients
and the increment coefficients of the proposed project in all the sites are lower than 0.011
5-36



respectively.
b) Daily Average Concentration
For SO2
As shown in thc Table, in Wintcr, all the sums of Cmax of the background and the
calculated  exceed the Standard limit. The maximum of the specific values is 2.327,
occurring in Site 4, while the contribution coefficient of the proposed project to the sum
is only 0.011, and those to other sitcs are all lower than 0.071, and the increment
coefficients of the proposed project to the all the sites are less than 0.071. Hence that the
all sums exceed the Standard Limnit is owing to the exceeding the limits of the
background.
The sums of the Cmax of the background and the calculated in Spring are a little
lower than those in Winter. However, except Site 4, the sums on the other sites go
beyond the Standard Limit in Spring. The maximum of the Specific Values is 1.76,
occurring in Site 5. The contfibution coefficient of the proposed project to this site is
0.019. The contribution coefficients and increment coefficients in the other sites are
lower than 0.071 and0.076 respectively.
For TSP
In Winter, as shown in the Table, all the sums of Cmax of the background and the
calculated exceed the Standard Limit. The maximum of the specific values is 2.010,
occuring in Site 1, while the contribution coefficient of the proposed project to the sum
is only 0.005, those to other sites are all lower than 0.005, . Hence that the all sums
exceed the Standard Limit is owing to that the background level concentrations go
beyond the linits .
In Spring, except Site 3, the sums on the other sites go beyond the Standard lnimit.
The maximum of the Specific Values is 2.010, occurring in Site 1. The contribution
coeffici'.nt of the proposed project to this site is 0.005. The contribution coefficients and
the increment coefficients in the other sites are lower than 0.005 and 0.005 respectively.
5.5.3 Environmental Impact Assessment on Pollution Sources
to be Replaced by the Proposed Project
5.5.3.1 Assessment Pollutants
SO2 and TSP.
5.5.3.2 Assessment Scope
The area to be heated by the Heating Network- in District Zhifu of Yantai City. Its
area is 30 k2m
5.5.3.3 Standards Adopted in this Assessment
537



The  ((National Ambient Air Quality Standards)) (GB3095-82) is used in the
assessment. According to Functions of the Zones Divided by Yantai Government, Class 2
of the Standards is suitable to the West Suburb, and Class 1 suitable to the urban central
arca.
5.5.3.4 Calculation Items
llic ground concentration and winterly average concentrations of SO2 and TSP in
the concmrned grids are calculated by using the Model recommended in ((Technical
Guideline of EIA )) HJ I T2.1 - 2.3-93.. The calculated results is compared to the
present concentration, and thus to forecast the positive effect of implementation of the
project.
5.5.3.5 Assessment Method
The pollution sources to be replaced by inplementation of the project is firstly
investigated, and the assessment area is divided in to 500x500 grids, the equivalent
pollution source in each grid is reckoned out. Th1C calculated concentration in each
concerned site is: the- value of subtracting the pollutant's concentration of the replaced
pollution sources from that of the newly added pollution sources.
5.5.3.6 Forecasting the Pollutant's Concentration
A. On the Pollution Sources to be Replaced
The survey shows that implementation of the proposed project wvill eliminate 280
boilers, decrease yearly coal consumption by 132,100 ton; remove 63,000 civil-used
stovcs, and( also decrease yearly coal consumption by 84,100 ton. The total yearly coal
consumption is decreased by 216,200 ton, and thus decrease SO2 emission by 6920 t/y,
and dust emission by 4421 t/y. The detailed infonrnaion are listed in Table 4-1 to Table
4-4. Flronm the Table, it can be secn that the pollution sources to be replaccd cmit at low
altitude, most stacks are lower than 30m (only four with height of 40, three with 35 m
high), the stacks of the civil-used stoves are lower than ISm.
B. G(id Analysis on the Pollution Sources to be Replaced
According to the Aidc Memoir lcft in May by the World bank, the assessmcnt area is
divided into 128 500x500 grids, including 102 grids containing pollution sources, and
26 grids free of pollution sources. The original grid is in the southwest suburb, its location
is seen in Fig. 5.5.3.1 -and Fig. 5.5.3.2.
C. Forecasting of the Ground level concentration of the Pollutants
a) Selcction of the Model
See Annex 1.
b) Selection of Sites for Calculation of Ground level concentration
5-38



I 14 'i of 0 1A,11
4
MAJAU
wh
'141ml
71
YantaiG
A
Genera I
Chernl'=                                                         S'
71
V
(,1,10nne md
-Soda Fact('Y
'40                                                                                      r - z
chauu,                                                                                           q
'40.                                                                         'v v a
'ro"15 FutolN,                        d          TexWe fatoq-                                                                  !.
*.toly
e
Qd           I                             F,
NJ,). 1 pl.
i-k"
O%
ai                    7I., - -
wad
fiB
ElTewary N                                                                                                 PLir..  43                                                                                            jnz)m
POP,!.   ;b                                                                                  En                      ompan,
'iz                                                                 A
P,)Wr
yant                                                                                                                                                  4,
4                                                                          -. ' -
p                                    --7
Liii A 4                                                                 04d.,-_
Lu CSo.
Zhichtl VU*e
A                         t
-71                    --------- :P.
B10A
Gneral Fx-"'ry                j
No. 10
r                                                   a                                                                                                                                                                            Of L,,ffir ShoeL                           a
Alunloval
Tixtved Foq;pjtin&
Govurim,' ,                        y   ta
4A.. Ur
r
7    1- --7-Y         /".7,.
Al
1     25000
Fig. 5.5.3.1 Distribution of the PoUution Sources to beReplaced
wo



Nursay
5000                                                            73
36*                             66    72    78   84*
New
4000                                         53          65    71    77    83
8    18*   26           40    46    52    58                  76*   82  Hrbour  96                  114   120
3000   7     17                 39    45   51w*   57            69   75*   81   89*   95                    113   11 9
_e_ iB              New
6     16    24    32    38    44    50    56    62    68    74  Fadoly  88    94   Wotid  106   112   118   124
_ __Pwe__._                   _                             _____          _atr      ____           ____ __
Power
2000   5     15  Stadon  31    3 7    43                              73    79    87    93    99    105   111  117*  123   127
No.107                                                                         
4                                                                                92    98   104  110*  116   122   126
_ _ _ _ _   E~ospfti   _ _    _  _                                                     _  __         _
1000   3     13    21                                                                           97   103*  109   115   121   125
2     12
0           1000        2000         3000         4000         5000         6000        7000         8000         9000        10000
Fig. 5.5.3.2 Grid Distribution of the Pollution Sources to be Replaced by the Proposed Project



Table 5.5.3.1 Emissions of the Representative Grids (the Boilers and Civi1-used
Stoves to be Replaced  as Area Pollution Sources)  x1O - 3Mg/s.m2
Name of the   No.   Eriission from thc   Emission of the Removed    Basis for Selection
Grid             Replaced Heating   Civil-used Stoves as Area
Boilers as Area Pollutioni   Pollution Sources
_______  802 Sources
j_____ _so,_  _    Dust        02   I   Dust
Grid of Bearing; 80   29.4574 i  8.8370    8.17177    11.02913  jRegulatedmonitonng Site
Factory       I     _         _         I          ___
Grid of the New! 100 I 28.3264    8.4977  1 10.89506 I 14.70825  Urban  Center,  having
World               _    _  . _         ,                     imonitored data in Winter
Grid  of  the) 90   58.4590    17.5373    4.08468    5.51457  iHaving monitored data in
Harbour             V____  I                      ,         *  Winter and Spring
Grid of Workers, 59   5.3291    1.5987   (0.2725     0.3665.  IHaving monitored data in
Sanitarium          _ _ !    !                    ± IWinter
The ground concentration in each Grid can be calculated from the above Formulas, but
the work-load.s are too large. Iecnce only four grids marked with thc representative
enterprises in it are selected and their emissions are listed in Table 5.5.3.1.
c) Calculation Results and Analysis
i) On the Ground level conc:entrationi of Pollution
Table 4-37 to Table 4-44 of EIA Report of Yantai 500 heating Network show the
ground level concentrations of SO2 and Dust in each representative grid under conditions
of various Stability and Wind Direction.
The results shows that the ground level concentration gradually increase with the
Stability rising, suggesting that the positive impacts of the proposed project becomes
miore obvious in stable weather. This is because: the pollutants fruin the pollution sources
to be replaced are emitted at low altitude, and the stable weather is unfavorable for them
to diff-use, so the ground level concentration of the pollutants is quite high. Under the
same stability, thle ground level concentration of the pollutant decreases with the wind
speed rising, in accordance to the general laws.
The distribution of the ground level concentration is: in Grids of Harbour and
Worker's Sanitanium with wind directions of NW, NNW, N, rNNE, NE and NNE, the
ground level concentration is lower for less pollution sources existing in these locations; in
Grids of the Bearing Factory and the New World, it's high with the wind directions of
Wsw, W, WNW, NW, ENE, E and ESE, for the big pollution sources existing
in these locations.
The detailed distribution of S02 and TSP's ground level concentrations is seen in
Table 5.5.3.2.
Table 5.5.3.2 shows that SO2 in the Grids is 0.0012 - 0.9992 mg/m3, the maximum
3  
is about 0.9mg/n , occuning in Stability F,  lowever, for Stability F takes placc in
5-39



Table 5.5.3.2    Ground Level Concentration Distribution of SO2 and Dust in the Grids
Name of  Caculated Ground Level Weather Conditions Drnaximum Concentration in    Average    Weather Conditions Overall Average
the Grid   Concentration Range    at the Maximum    Stability D (mg/m )   Concentration at Maximum Value  Concentration
133                                                                                          3
(mg,mr)         Value Occuring                           Range (mg/mr)      Occuring        (mrnK! )
SO2 the Bearing    0.0108 - 0.8985      Stability F,    0.1495  Winddirection: ESE  0.068 - 0.353 Winddirection: ESE  0.177
Factory                       Winddirection:ESE
Yantai     0.0136 - 0.9992       Stability F,    0.5756 Winddirection: SSE  0.082 - 0.443 Winddirection: SSE  0.178
Harbour                        winddirection SSE
the New     0.0085 - 0.9428       Stability F,    0.4328  Winddirection: ESE  0.053 - 0.447 Winddirection: ESE  0.210
World                        Winddirection: ESE .
New Bridge    0.0012 - 0.6957       Stability F,  0.2999 Winddirection:WSW   0.006 - 0.240 Winddirection:WSW   0.037
Winddirection:
WSW
Dust  Bearing     0.0077 - 0.5594       Stability F,    0.2633  Winddirection: ESE  0.045 - 0214 Winddirection: ESE  0.097
Factory                       Winddirection: ESE
Yantai     0.0064 - 0.4584       Stability F,    0.2176  Winddirection: SSE  0.038 - 0. 176 Winddirection. SSE  0.079
Harbour                       Winddirection: SSE                                                    _
The New      0.0064 - 0.5688      Stability F,    0.2747  Winddirection: ESE  0.039 - 0.221 Winddirection: ESE  0.101
World                        Winddirection: ESE                                                   _
New Bridge     0.008 - 0.249        Stability F,    0.1159 Winddirectioni: WSW  0.005 - 0.088   Winddirection  0.023
_________   ________________ _  Winddirection:WSW  .              .        '     WSW
540



Winter wvith a low frequency (12.73%) , so using 0.9m/m   as a S(2 cutting value not
objectively. Talsie 5.5.3.2 gives the calculated concentrationi of S02 to be cut in the
often-occuriing Stability of D (ficquency in Witl,r 57.47) . Wc thlink the value to be
cut in Stability D is more reliable.
The results of TSP is similar to that of S02 only with a lower value. See Table
5.5.3.2.
ii) On the Seasonally Average Concentration
Table 5.5.3.3 The Winterly Average Concentration Values to be Cut in the Grids mg/mr
Grid            Bcarii&a Factory          Tlhe HarboUr           Occuning
Wirnd Direction   SO2          Dust          S SO2    1   Dust       Frequency
N   0.0014        0.0058    ,                 -  _ 0.0_34  _  15.57
NE          0.0033       0.0018        0.0021  0;0010              4.40
NE          0.00o 9      0.0008    ! .00 11        0.0005          2.39
! ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i
ENE      __0.0_ 08 _      0.0003       0.0002       0.0001          0.45
E          0.0017        0.0011       0.0009       0.0004          0.54
ESE         0.0026   I   0.0016        0.0022       0.0007          1.00
SE          0.0043       0.0024    1  0.0026   i  0.0014           2.22
I         ,            I_I 
SSE     !  0.0054         0.0034    2  0.0090      0.Q071           3.40
S          0.;064   t   0.0042        o.00S'I      0.0031          7.43
ssw         0.0094        0.0063       (.0110     (.0088            8.22
SW          0.0081   j   0.0054        0.0105      0.0079   I      12.80
wSw          0.01041      0.0059   1;  0.0070       0.0074          6.08
W          0.0098        0.0093    1  0.0066   1  0.0069           6.82
WN       i  0.0093        0.0044    j  0.0056   1  0.0032            6.54
NW      I  0.0096         0.0048       00.f)49      0.0039         10.84
I-N          0.0029       0.0027    i  0.0027       0.0021   1       5.06
I            I             t            1     
Average       0 .0963   i   0.0602       0.0791   1  0.0569   !
For the newly added pollution sources and tlhe pollution sources to be replaced only
operates in Winter, so only winterly average concentration in the Grids of Bearing
Factory and Harbour is calculated, the resul1s are listed in Table 5.5.3.3.
It can be seen that in the leeward, the winterly average concentration value to be cut
3
is 0.0001 - 0.0120 mg/m  . In Grid of Bearing Factory, the concentration of S02 to be
3                            3
cut is 0.0114 mg/m  . dust is cut by 0.0058 mg/m  ; in Grid of Hlarbour, SO2
33
concentration to be cut is 0.0043 mg/m  , dust: 0.0034 mg/m. The Maximum of S02 to
3
be cut is 0.011(1 mgngm, occurring in the leewvard SSW to the Grid of Harbour, the
3
frequenicy is 8.220%. The maximum of dust concentration to be cut is 0.0093 mg/m3,
occurring in the leeward of W of the Glid Bearing Factory, the frequency is 6.82%. The
wintcrly averagc conicentration to be cut in the Giid of B3caring Factoiy: SO2: 0.0963



I3                   3                                      3
mg/m, dust: 0.0602 mg/mn; in Grid of Harlbour, S02: 0.0791 ing/m  , dust: 0.0595
3
mg/mre
5.5.3.7 Air Impact Assessmenit on the Pollution Sources to be Replaced
The pollution source to be added is peakload hcaiing boiler house, and
implementation of the proposed project will replace 290 boilers for space heating, 289
small-type boilers, and all the civil-used stoves in District Zhifu. The cumulative
emissions of the newly added boiler and replaced pollution sources is the real value of the
concerning sites during operation of the project.. To assess the impact of the replaced
pollution sources on air quality objectively, Stability D with high occurring frequency is
chosen as the wcalher condilions for cumulating. IThalt is: uider Stability 1) anid the fame
other conditions, cumulate the calculated Cmax of the newly added pollution sources to
that of the replaced ones ; then add the cumulated value to the present value of air, and
get the final prediction on the air quality on tlhc concerned sitCs. T'he calculated ground
level concentrations are listed in Table 5.5.3.4. The winterly average concentration at the
Table 5.5.3.4 Calculated Maximums of Ground Level Concentration of Pollutants in
the Grids during Operation of the I'roject mg/M3
Grid   Pollut Present, Cmax at the Ground Level |Pollution Contribution from Cuulati1 Cut
I ant I Concen of the Replaced Polution I the Newly Added Source ve Value Ratio
l__ _  I__ tration  Sources ( Stability D ) uunder the Same Conditions _   %
Bearing    SO2  0.476i      - 0.4024               0.0205          0.0950 j80.04
Factoty   Dust 0.446          0.2633               n00031         0.1860 58.29
Harbouir    SO, 0   0.889  5- 0.756               0.0222        1 0.3356 162.24
i Dust 1 0.585 t   - 0.2176               0.0035         0.3709 1 36.60
New   1 SO2  0.616 i       - 0.4328      1        0.0196        1 0.2028 167.08
Worild    Dus  0.468          0.                   0.0027         0.1960  8__12
New   ! S02,| 0.734        - 0.2999               0.0255         0.4596 137.38
Bridge   Dust 0.796         - 0.1159               0.0040         0.6841 l14.06
concerned sites during the operation of the project are reckoned in the same ways, as
shown inTable 5.5.3.6 .
Table 5.5.3.4 shows that using the maximunms of thie ground concentrations from the
replaced pollution sources as the maximums of the cut down pollution, the calculated cut
ratios of pollution by the operation of the proposed projects in the four concerning Sites
are: 80.04% of SO2 and 58.29% of dust in Bearing Factory; 62.4% of SO2 and 36.60%
of dust in Harbour; 67.08% of SO2 and 58.12% of dust in New World, and 37.38% of
SO2 and 14.06% of dust in the New Bridge. It should be pointed out that these are the
best cases. To elucidate the impact exactly, the distribution of ground level concentration
of SO2 in the Grid of Bearing Factory (a regulated site representing the air quality in the
central urban area)' is discussed carefully, and the concept of guaranteed ratio is
introduced to describe the cut ratio.
Using the maxiimum of the concentration measured at any times (0.476 mg/m ) as
542



rcferrd amount, thle guaranteed ratios of cutting tlic rfeffed amount by 2%.  10%. .....
and 80% will be calculated respectively. Table 5.5.3.2' shows that of the 240 values being
able to cut, 25 values arc more than 0.3808mg/m , i.e. the guaramteed ratio of cutting the
3
pollution by 80% is 10.42%; the number of the values higher than 0.238mg/m is 67,
i.e., the guaranteed ratio of cutting the pollution by 50% is 22.090%o; The number of the
values of cut concentration more than 0.OOXmg/ni is 240, the guaranteed ratio of
cutting the pollution by 2.270%/o is 100%. Th dlet ailed guaranteed ratio of cutting
pollution by the proposed projects is shown in Fig. 5.5.3.3. In the Grids of Harbour, using
the maximums of the monitored concentration at any times as referring, the guaranteed
ratio of pollution cutting is calculated in the same way as above. The calculated results are
also seen in Table 5.5.3.5.
Table 5.5.3.5 shows that the guaranteed ratio of cutting pollution in the Grid of
Harbour is much lower than that in the Grid of Bcaritng Factory. 13ecause, in one hand,
the Grid of Harbour includes the large public utility like harbour, railway station and bus
station, the air quality -in this area is quite bad, and the measured SO2 at any times is up to
Table 5.5.3.5    Dependence of Guaranteed Ratio on the Cutting ratio of Winterly
Average Ground Level Concentration of SO2 in the Grids
Bearing iCutting Ratio (   >) V80   170   j60   150   140  130   !20   11o   b>2.27
Factoty  lCuitting Valuc (mg/lm) h>.380S .3332 '.2S56 '.2380 1.1904 1.1428  0952 1.076 ' >.0108
!GuaranteedRatio(%  10(42  12.P50 17. <22.09 i27.91 141.25  60.83 !75-00 !Ioo
Harbour Cutting ra(io  )    j>70   60   15O   40    30    20    10    5    é1>.53
JCuttingvalue (mg/m' 6    Is3 1.5335 154445 i3556 1.2667 1.17.78 j.0889 1-0445 > 0136
GiimaawieedRatio () 13.75  15.83  17.08 112.08 118.75 [3333 357.50 '76.67 !100
Note: the cuttig ratio is reckoned using the niaximum ol 'tle imeasured concentration at any times as
refenring amount,
0.899mg/rn3. This area has the worst air quality in the City. Obviously, the bad air quality
results not only froni the coal combustion; in the other hand, the Grid of Harbour is in the
North of the City, only removal of boilers in its south can lessen thle air pollution in this
area, so thc total anmount oflpollution lo be cut must be low. 'l'luis is fit to Ihe facts, and
also in accordance to the calculation.
Table 5.5.3.6 listed the calculated winterly averagc concentration of SO2 in the
Grids of Bearing Factory and Harbour. It can be seen that the average cutting ratio of
seasonally average concentration of SO2 is more than 53%, the average cutting value is
0.0887mg/m3, the cutting ratio of seasonally average of TSP is more than 20% (including
cutting the present all particles in the air), the average cutting value is 0.0599mg/n3.
Table 5.5.3.6   Calculated Winterly Average Concentration in the Grids
after Operation of the Project mg/m3
Grid  IPoflut I Prescnt   Loig Time Average    Pollubion ContribuUon from  'unIUa- Cut
ant IConcenl  Concent-ationofthe    theNewlyAddedSource         tive  I Ratio
tration ! Replaced Pollution Sourcel under the Same Conditions I Value    %
l~~~~~~~ I  ,                                         --_  .
Bear=n"  S(. 0.16*           - 0.0963       j00 (1.00016'               0.0679  58.62
Factorv  'SP 1 0.296 1       - 0.0602                 ()0(X)03        I 0.2358  20.33
lHarvour; SO2  0.164-        - 0.0791                 0.(00019         0.0851 [48.12
TSP  0.296 i        - 0.0595                 (.0(00KA0         0.2365 '20.l1
5-43



Guaranteed Ratio
90
80 X-f 
70:
60                           I    1.  1                                  P
40 .     
-             30        X            g      X 30
20       B.           |      |||fl 
10 
2      10     20     30      40     50      60     70      80      PollutiontobeCut
Sig. 5.5.3.3 a  Change of Guaranteed Ratio with the Forecast Percentage of
Pollution Cutting in the Grid of Bearing Factory
Guaranteed Ratio
.01 36mv/ne
100   d.E                         ,                          _
90
90 _    31   (1444mg/aU
80
70                    .0889mg/rn
60,1
50 
40 K                  E       1/ 11umg/mi
30.-
-   40 /       _  .  E         h        ~~~~~~~~2667mg/g?       .5335m£/rr
20 e-                 |l  {illi              .3556mg/nr?  
lo                                               .6223~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mg/rnd
0                         205                                            Percentage of
1.5     5      10     20      30     40      50     60      70       Pollution to be Cut
Fig. 5.5.3 .3b . Change of Guaranteed Ratio with thc Forccast Percentage of
Pollution to be Cut in the Grid of Harbour



For the measurod concentration of TSP contairLs not only the coal dust, but also all
other particles, so it's bad for the comparison. However, it can be inferred that the change
of the dust cutling ratio must be the same as that of SO2.
5.5.3.8. Conclusion from Assessment
During the period of 1989 to 1994, the coal consumpfion in District Zhifu of Yantai
City increased by 3.8% each year, and the concentration of SO2 in the air also rose by
2.4%, although some pollution controlling measures had been taken in these years. The
monitoring results shows distinct difference of SO2 andrSP concentrations in the
assessment area exists between the district heating period and non- heating period .For
the maximum at any times, Of all the 6 monitoring sites in winter,the concentrations of
the SO exceed the Class 2 of ((National Air Quality Standards)) from time to time
3             0.15M/3
(NAQS Class 2: the maximum at any times 0.50mg/m ,daily average: 0.15 mg/r  )
The radio of exceeding standard limits for SO2 isl2%, and the maximum of SO2 is
0.889 mg/rn exceeding the N A Q S class 3 while in Spring, the maximum at any times
for the SO2 do not go beyond the second standard limits .However, the daily average
concentration of SO2 exceed the second standard limit both in winter and spring, The
radio of the daily average conceniration of SO2 going beyond the second standard limits is
80% in winter,and 60% in spring.The maximum daily average concentration of SO2 is
3 .3
0.375 mg/mi  in wintcr and 0.259 mg/mr  in spring all excced the third standard
limits.The above results shows that the air quality in District Zhifu. of Yantai can not meet
the demands of Class 2 of N A Q S. Some district ( about 20Km2 ) have exceed the
third standard limit.
Taking the Grids of Bearing Factory and the other few representative grids as examples,
The calculation results reveals that the implementation of the proposed projects can cut the
ground level concentration of S02 by more than 62%, and  of TSP by ligher thlan 36%.
This calculation shows that implementation of the proposed project can make the
concentration of SO2 at any times in the Urban area (area: 18 square kn) within the Standard
limit of Class 2, but can not makc it within the Standard limit of Class I (Standard limit: at any
times: 0.1 5mg/m3, daily average: 0.05mg/i3). On a  conservatively cstimate, the guaranteed
ratio of cutting SO2 concentration by 20% is more than 60%, and the air quality can become,
within the Standard limit of Class 2 in all the monitoring sites except the site of Harbour. In
the west suburb of Yantai City, the low cutting ratio of SO2 concentration results from the
fewer replaced boilers by the proposed project, SO2 concentration can be cut by 37.380/o,
and dust by 14.06% in this area. Thne concentrations of the pollutants at any times are
accordingly calculated to still be in the Standard linit of Class 2. If the cutting ratio of SO2 is
20%, the cumulative concentration of SO2 can not become in the Standard limit of Class 2.
The calculation results reveal that the winterly average concentration of SO2 can be cut
by more than 53%, and TSP by more than 20%. Using the Intcmaaional Standard limit of
Class 2 (maximum of yearly average of daily average: 0.06mg/m3, and maximum of daily
avcragc 0.1 5mgrn/3) as references, we propose that the maximum of seasonly average of SO2
544



concentration be 0.lOOmg/m3, then the winterly averages of 502 concentration in all the sites
of urban area can meet the Standard requirements of Class 2 . Therefore, it can be concluded
that implementation of the proposed project can imlprovc the air quality in the urban area of
Yaantai City greatly. The air quality would be ccrtaia to meet the requirements of Class 2 of
the National Standard in aJl the urban area except the special sections like Harbour.
5.5.4 Environmental Impact Assessment of tlhe Noise Sources
5.5.4.1 The Standards Used in this Assessmenlt
The Standards used in this assessment are (( National Environmental Standards of
Noise in Urban Area )) (GB3096-993) and ((nTh Noise Limits in the Boundary of
Construction Sites)) . Thc values of the Standard Limils in each monitoring site are
selected according to the Divided Zone's Functions, as shown in Table 5.5.4.1.
5.5.4.2 Calculation on the Environmenital Quality of Noise
A. Model Used for Calculation
Scc Annex 2.
B. Analysis on the Noise Sources
a) On the Sources during Construction Phase
According to the analysis on the proposed project, the noise sources during
construction phase are the construction maclhinery (maximum :1 lOdB(A) from
pneumatic tools) anid tlhc conveyance tools 80 dB(A) to 90 d13(A)..
b) On the Sources during Operation PJhasc
The noise sources of the proposed projcct during operation phase are: water-
recycling pumps andl water-compcnsating pitrips wvhosc noise is in 80 - 90d13(A). In
our calculation, the noise intensity of each pump is treated as 90dB(A), the number of the
pumps in each monitoring site is listed in Table 5.5.4. 1.
C. Results and Analysis
a) In Constluction Phase
In a scope of 50m from the construction site is calculated, the calculated noise from
the pneumatic tools (1 10 dB(A)) is 65dB(A), and that from conveyance tooLs (9OdB(A))
is 45dB(A).
b) In Operation Phase
In a scope of 50m from the noise sources, the calculated noise value in each
monitoring site is less than 35dB(A), witiin the Class 1 limits of Standard (GB3096 -
93).
Among the noise-monitored results of 43 silcs of present noise in the environment
(offered by Yantai Municipal Environmcntal Monitoring Station)' the present maximnum
in daytime is 69.ldB(A), and the minimum is 48.0dB(A); 19 of which exceed the
545



stanidard limits. Thc site whosc prcsent noise exceeds the standard limit most is Site 37,
owing to the effect of building construction; The maximum of monitored noise in night
60.4dB(A), and the minimum is 38.1 dB(A); noise in 14 sites excecds thc standard limit,
and thlc iioisC in sitC 18 xcxeeds the Standard Limits by 10.4 dB(A), the most exceeded
value, due to the traffic effect. The sites whose noise exceeds the; Standard Limits both in
daytime and night arcNo. 1  7. 13 . 14 . 18 , 36 and 39.The noise contribution
in daytime comes from: traffic, daily lile anid construction  only a little from industry.
The noise in night comes mainly fiom traffic. The sites whose noise exceeds the Standard
Limits distributes mainly in central urban arca.
Tlhc accumulativc values of thle calculated and the corresponding monitored sites are
fisted in Table 5.5.4.1. The data marked with * are those exceeding the corresponding
Standard Limits. Thc results show that noise in the site whosc presently mcasured noise is
willihin the Standard Limits still does not exceeds the Stanidard Limit, the proposed project
contributes little noise to the enviromnent except the Sites whose background noise
intensity is lowcr. For. thc Sites of 13 . 23. 36. 38 and 43, whosc original noise is
high, the noise will be added by 0.2dB(A) or 0.1 dB(A) in night by operation of the
project.
5.5.4.3 Coniclusion
3 The construction machincry such as pncumatic tools can yield high noise to the
environment, so to lesson the effect of nioise from the construction machinery on the
einvironment, the construction time should be arTangged in 8:00-12:00 and 14:00-
18:00 in a day, and the pncumatic tools should be strictly forbidden in night. to
protect the workers from the noise' elect, it's suggested that the workers should be
equipped with protectors.
Our calculation shows that the operation of thc proposed project will has great
effect on the region whose background noise is low, such as the Sites of 28 . 29 and
34i1 Class ! and II Functional Zones, the noise value added is ca; ldB(A). Therefore, the
silencer and sound insulator systems in thc pump stations in these zones should be
improved to minimize the noise effect on the environment.
5.5.5 Analysis on thc Effect of the Proposed Project on th1C Society
and Economy
5.5.5.1 Purpose
The benefits and the unfavorablc results of the proposed projcct arc evaluated by
analyzn- lhe various effect oni the sociely and cconiomy On the basis of the evaluation,
the measures to lessen the unfavorable results and the compensated methods are
proposed, meanxvlilc, the various favorablc impact of the project are also elucidated to
5-46



present more rcliable and sufficient basis for the construction project.
5.5.5.2 Scope
The area to be heated by the Heating Network, and the target population is the
people directly or non-directly affected by the project. The affected region is 30 km2,
including the zone of politics, business and resideiit with an area of 36%; and the zone of
industiy and mining with an area of 64%. The target population is 290,000.
5.5.5.3 Genieral Imiipact on the Society and Economy
A. In Construction Phase
More than 20 roads in urban arca will be dug to build the pipelines, and the dug
width is 3 to 5 mi, occupied width by the construction is 6 to 10m. The total dug length is
9,138m. Therefore, the traffic will not be avoided to affect during construction phase;
and the noise, dust arisen from the construction will definitely affect the walking people
and the residents along the construction line.
Construction of the peakload heating boiler house and the hcat consumer stations
needs iorever requisition land with an area of 43,125 mi2, including 525 rn agricultural
field, 30.000m2 land from village-run Brick Factory, and 12,600mm2 urban state-owned
land. Construction of tlec project need no demolishing civil house, it only will remove a
800m2 house owned by the Brick Factory and a 1,650m2 building owned by the Coal
Shop of Municipal Fuel Company. The affected population affected by the
lan(lrcquisilioli and deimolisiing is I] 5.
Thcrc is no minority nationality rcgions in tlc asscssment Irca, no rcscrving zonc of
forestry, no preserving area of culture and ancicnt relic. Although the project area is
coastal arca, the construction the project will have no cffect on the aquatic livings,
marine sources and food chain.
B. In Operation Phase
The projectw ill sulplply leal to Ihc uri)an cenital area ly. dis(licI heatillo syst_mn,
wvlich can bring active and positive effect on the society, economy and the man's life.
Howe vcr, the operation of the consumer's heat station can yield noise and thus affect on
tilc resideints to somc extcnt.
5.5.5.4 Identificationi and Selection of the Coefficients to be Evaluated
The coefticients affecting on the society and economy through special identification
and selection are lisited in Table 5.5.5.1.
5A47



Table 5.5.4.1   Assessment of the Noise Effect on Environment by the Proposed Project
No. of I Standard Number of  Background Value dB(A)  Calculated Cumulative Value dB(A)
Site    ,ls         itti           Niv li
.~_               _                                                 Nih  __ __
Szlc~CIa~S___ Ii 1ti Pwl_jDayfiinc  Nghil  ____  cii  (Aj tDaytixne   ig
1       111         5   69.1    60.2           j      32.01 69.1     60.2
3        III         5 160.2      55.6                 32.0   60.2      55.6
4   j    1ll         5   57.3     43.1                 32.0  57.3       43.4
s   :        1       S   4s.8      12.6                32.0  48.8       43.0
6   ,    111  ;      5 i 60.6     52.6          ,      32.0  60.6       52.6
7   1        1       5 1 64.1'   52.0i                 32.0   64.f    52.0'
S   '    1           5   48.2     45.2                 32.0  48.2       45.4
9_!    11            5   58.1     49.4                  3Z.0  58.1      49.4
10       II           9   57.3     50.2                 34.5   57.3      50.2
,1       ,t              . 
11       11           9   52.0     50.6                 34.5 1 52.0      50.6
12   1    1           5   48.3     44.5          I      32.0  48.3      44.7
13    _   I 1        5   60.6     46.8t                32.0 !60.6       46.9
14  II  T             62.0    56.2'                32.0   62.0      6
14       5   62.0    ~     ~    ~     _______62f            56.2
15        i 1 .       9 4 57.1     49.6                 34.5   57.1      49.6
16       i£           9   64.5    48.8           !      34.5   64.5    48.9
17                    9   55.7     46.2                 34.5 s   55.7    46.4
IS   '    II  !       S5 I 66.5    60.4                 32.0   66.5    60.4
19_j_   II            9 j 61.6    45.8                  34.5  61.6    46.1
20        II          9 I 63.1    50.0                   34.5  63.1      50.0
2 1           ,       5   57.5      50.6j                32.0   57.5     50.6
22                    5   57.8    43.1                   32.0   57.8    43.4
23   1    i     5  ~~~48.0   45.2          1       2.0  48.0      45.4-
24   ,      I         5   63.3    45.2            1      32.0  63.3    45.4
2'5       I           9   55.2      46.8                 31<5  55.2      47.1
26            4       9   59.1      43.4                 34.5 I 59.1     43.9
2 7       I           5 1 61.8    48.5            t      32.0   61.8    48.5
2 98   ,    I  1      5 j5s7.45     38.3                 32.0   57.4    39.3
29        1           5   52.1      39.0                 32.0  52.1      39.8
30   !      I1        5 t 55.5      48.0                 32.0  j 55.5    48.0
31   t    1   1       9   60.6    46.7            1      32.0  60.6    46.8
i  ,                                        _ _ _ _ -~~~~~--I---
3_        I           9   61.5    45.1            j      32.0   61.5    45.3
33        II          9   57.1      40.9          1      32.0   5 57.1   41.4
34        I t.        5   50.4      38.1          1      32.0 , 50.4     39.1
35   .         II         55.2      45.1                 32.0   55.2     45.3
36        51 __       5__   60.5    45.1                 32.0 r 60.5    45.3
37         1          5 1 63.0'   40.1                   32.0   63.0'   40.7
38        1  1        5 153.8       46.7                 32.0   53.8     46.8-
39                    5   58.2    53.8            j      32.0   58.2    53.8
40        1           5   56.4     41.3                  32.0  56.4      41.8
41                    9   55.8    42.6                   34.5   55.8    43.2
42                    5! 54.5       42.9                 32.0 |s4.5      43.3
43        I           5   51.4      45.3!                32.0  51.4      45.5
44 41                 4 i 60.1    48.9                   31.0  60.1    48.9
Nolc:: Ihe data miaikcd wi£t * aic those excecding hic correspoidinig Stalldard LinuLb.
548



Table 5.5.5.1           Identification and Selection of the Coefficients Affecting
thle Society and Economy
Coefficients           lConstruction Phasc Operation Note
z            ~~~~~~Plhase    I
Society  rLand         ;-iS               0         +: favorable Impact
'requilsition, andl 
IResettlement   _                __       I
;Public Utility  1∞             j+3S       -: Unfavorable Impact
ITraffic     J-R                1         |R: Reverse lmpact
Economy 1Economic Basis +lS ( the peasantslo       IS: Irreversible Impact
land required )
lEmiploymcnt   -IR ( the Shoppersio       3: Strong Impact
i ofr th Coal Slol )
!Business     -IR               t   1j1R i2: Middle Iiipact
Demand       I-IR               +3S       1: Weak Impact
Aesthetics 'Humane   andl-IR             1l        l0: Non-Impact
SceneTy
5.5.5.5 Analysis of the Impacts on the Socicty and Economy
A. On Society
a) Landr-equisition and Resettlement
The landrequisition includes agricultural field of 525m2, in which the vegetables are
plantcd. Accordinig lo the related requirements, thie compensated fhc 1br landrequsition
per inu is six times of it output, so the fee is RMB Yuan 19,680.00; and the resettlement
fee is distributed by 10 times of the output per mu ,the resettlement fee is RMB Yuan
32,800.00 for- agricultural ficld requisitioni. According to the public attention, the above
compensation standards can maintain the living, level of the target people.
The land required from the Brick, Factory is 30,000 in2, and the affected population
is 48. The affected p1doples can obtain the same compensation withi that of the vegetable
peasants. Above all during, the production-stopping period by the project, the affected
people can get R.MB Yuan 277.17, the urban monthly -average salary, and the workers in
the Factory will be firstly employed in thisg project.
The project need no demolishiing civil houses. The wood-brick Str-uctured houses
wvith a area of 800ne -will be dismantled hin the downtown; Ille five Coal Shops with
1,050 m2~ bric-k-ccn-uont structured building anid 600M2 brick-wood structured building in
Urban Area will be removed. According to the related regulations, the rebuilt fee for
brick-cement structure building will be paid by Yuan 640.00/in2, and for brick-wood
str-uctures buildin&s by Yuan 650/ni2.
The public attention and sun've reveal that the above compensating standards can
maintain the their present livingy standards, anid the ratio ol'acceptinig the compensating
5-49



mcasures is 100%.
There is no effect on resettlement in the operation phase any longer.
b) Public Utilities
No cllcct oni ilic Municipal Utility exists duringi conistructioni phase. Operation ol the
project will start the public utility planned by the Yantai Govenmment for 10 years; make
more than 230,000 people get rid of the troubic arisen from using of the small coal stoves;
raisc the living standard of tlhc target people; and( improve the air quality in urban central
area greatly. Its favorable and positive impacts are quite obvious.
c) Traffic
19 roads will be dug during construction phase, which brings some dilriculty to the
public traffic and the passing people. Such influence will disappears with the project
ending. According to the analysis on the project, the roads mostly affected by the project
are the Dahaiyang Road and Jiansic Road, the width of the two roads is 1 8m, and the
lengthls are 950m and 1500m respectively. The peliod of the constluction last less than 10
davs. As to the other affected roads, somc of them are wide, 0o somc of them are in
suburb, in which less traffic vehicles exist. Theref ore, the project will be little eilect on
the people's walking and bike's passing during construction phase.
B. Impact on Economy
a) LEcotnoinic Basis
Lanid riequisilion dccrease thlc peasants' livitng field, an(d Ihus change the economic
basis of tilc pcasants. 1lowever, suchi chaniges is beneficial to thc peasant. 13ecause, the
govci-lneit will pay tilcm 16 tinmcs of (lie lanid outlput. I onc halnd, the peasant get the
econonical compensation, in the other hand, the peasant can look for another job for
tlOl-C incoimecs, So coisnirticlion of Ithis project can improve thc cconomnic basis of the
peasants apparently improved, and tlhus is walmly welcome.
b) Employment
Implementalioh of the project will eliminate all the coal shops in urban area and
some boiler house in the block area. Thie staffs in the shops and the boiler house have to
lose tlheir job. The -population of the coal shops are 64, who will be employed as the
worklers in (he consimers heat station. Five boiler houses exist in the heating area, three
of which will be changed to peakload heating boiler houses, and two of them will be
managed by their original blocks. The re-employment for 126 staffs in the five heating
boiler-s will be distributed by their blocks. Trhe principle for reemployment is that their
future incomes should not be lower than before.
c) Business and Trade
Thle conistnrctioni of lhe project results in intconvenient trallic, and thus has some
eflect on the business along the traffic line. Ilowever, such elfect will end with the
construction finished.
d) Demand Level
The population now using the small stove for space heatiiig in the urban area is
2338,300. Th1C district hcating project can make the people get rid of the troubles and
s-so



much house work  caused by coal-stove using, and thus improve the people's quality.
Hence the people in this area have urgent demand for district heating system. The people
now using small dispersed boilers for space heating also find that district heating has low
coal consumption and lower lhcating fcc, so also necd district heating.
C. Aesthetics
Thc Souchengli Street belt of central urban area, where the Ming-dynasty
constructed buildings exist in the two sides of thc strects, is planned as original style-
keeping zone by the Municipal Government. The construction of the project only affect
on the roads, but has no influence on the buildings along the roads. Even though, some
powcrful measures should be taken to prevent unexpected accidents. The influence will
ends with the construction finished.
In sununary, construction and operation of the project can not yield heavy and
irrevcrsible eirect on the project area. The unfavorable results by landrequisition and
road-digging are reversible and temporally. However, the favorable and positive impacts
from the construction project are obvious and irreversible.
5.6 Analysis on the Environment Protection Measures
5.6.1 Environment Protection Measure in the Construction Period
Demonstration Project of Yantai 500 Heating Network Project will have a negative
inpact on cnvironmcnt during its construction phase. Now we try to discuss the way of
alleviate this negative impact.
5.6.1.1  Land was chosen to makc the nctwork involve important production rcsource
as litle as possible.
Nature rcsource protcction area, wet land will not be involved. Wild life biologic
environment and livestock removing line will not be disturbed. Biologic resource such as
forest, grass land will not be destroyed.
Do not destroy any historic products of culture and important culture scenes.
Do not interrupt underground pipelinc and project.
Do not remove resident houses.
Repairing the wrecked road timely.
5.6.1.2 Construction of the networkl will not involve important business streets and main
lines of communication, so as to avoid serious traffic problem. In some parts of roads
where tralfic changed to other rout, the traffic management should be strengthened.
5.6.1.3  According to the  ((Noise Standards for Boundary of Construction Sites))
(GB12523-90), any equipment which do not meet the noise control standard should be
substituted or bc used with mufflers. In case of necessary, the constructors should use
earplug in order to diminish the noise effect on themselves.
5-51



5.6.1.4  The working hours during consiruction pliasc should not be at the resident rest
time. The planned construction time is 8:00-12:00 AM; 14:00-22:00 PM1.
5.6.1.5 The road in construction as well as the sand on iLs sidcs should be watered or
oiled periodically, in order to diminish the dust.
5.6.1.6 Make sign in the construction road section, including red light in night. When
the road wrecked during the pipeline construction, a cross bridge slhould be built for the
pedestrian.
5.6.1.7 The workers doing the projects construction should be chosen under the
following condition:
Choose local worker preferentially to reduce the floating workers( workers from
other part of the countly).
Setup dwelling place for the necessary workers from other part of the countuy.
Setup treatment and collecting facilities for the workers everyday life waste.
Periodically check on the professional health and security, and make necessary
treatment.
5.6.1.8   In spite of the above measures, thlre is unfavorable influence which should
bc diminished during the planning and construction phase.
For the farmland and workshop levied, economic compensation or new settlement
will be arranged.
When the residents' work or everyday life was disturbed in project construction,
appropriate measure should be taken to get the agreement and tnderstanding of the
residents.
Cooperate with local government, subdistrict office to get their support, and make
the construction fields under good management.
By taking above measure, the unfavorable impact of the construction on the
environment can be diminished to the lest.
5.6.2 Environment Protection Measures during Its
Rulning Phase
Demonstration project of Yantai 500 Heating Network Project is an environment
project of replacing the dispersed small bsoicrs and little coal furnace witlh district heating
system. Its purpose is to improve the air quality of the urban central area . Before the
construction of the projct, main pollutants of this area at ordinary monitoring site are:
SO, 0.164 mg/Nm3, TSl': 0.296 mg/Nm3. Aftcr the construction of this project, the
eslimated value at the same site will be SO2: 0.0679 mg/Nm3, TSP: 0.2358 mg/Nm3. It
is obvious that this project will improvc this area's air quality. Because new facilities
-52



slhould l)c setup, such as peak load licating boiler house anid boostcr pump stations, thlrc
will bc unfavorable influence on the cnvironmcnt duIring its running phase. Now we
discuss the unfavorable intluence and its alleviating measure.
5.6.2.1 Air Pollution Control Measures
A. Dcdusting Measures
The bitube water-film dust removcr was used in this projcct. Its dcdusting efficiency
is 98%, the fly ash discharge concentration under the planned construction condition is
84.71 mrg/N\m3, which is in the limits stipulated in the <<Air Pollutants Emrission
Standards for Boilers>>
Investment on the double tube wet-filim dust renmover is about 2,500,000 yuan
(RMMB), higler than that on the ordinary wct-fjhi  dust rcmovcr( lower than that of
electricremover). But its dedusting efficiency is high than ordinary dust remover( close to
that of electric dust remover) It is easy to run and is suitable for peak load boiler house to
run for asuch a short timne.
B. Desulfurizing Mcasures
(1) When the flue gas goes througl the sulfur rcmover in this project, calcareous
water was used as desullurizcr. hlc desullurizing rate was 50%. Under the designed
construction condition, the concentration of S0O in the emission is 539.91 mg/Nm3,and
thc dischargc amount of S02 is 105.84kg/h, within limits sp)ecified in <<Shandong
Provincial Air Pollution Emission Standards>->.
Desulfurizing by calcarcous water is a wet desulfurizing methods. Although it needs
Icss invcstment and is simple to operate, it is casy to form dust, that will block up the pipe
andl cquipment. Thus to guarantee the proper running of this project in a long-tcrm, the
remover must be maintained periodically and correctly.
C. Dust in the Coal Storage Fields
To decrease the coal dust during its load and unload, water spiritiing device with
water cleaner should. be setup.
5.6.2.2 Measures of  Controlling Noise Pollution
According to the regulations of <<Conlrolling Noise in Design of Construction
ProLtccts>> ,wheni choosing device, low noisc equip)men1t shouild considered previously,
high noise dcvice, such as centrifugal pump and blast engine ect. should be used with a
denoiscr and muffler
In order to meet the ´<Noise Standard for the Boundary of Construction Sites>>,
the pumps should be centralized into plant buildings, and be run at a reasonable window
statc (in wintcr time, closc all the windows). Thcre should bc more green field and
enclosure wall around the plant.
Workers in the construction field should use personal protection articles such as
earplug.
5-53



For abov/c protccfion measure, it is estinaied that the noisc degree is below
35dB(A) in the ncighborhood, meet the requlrcmcnt of << Noisc Standards for Urban
Area Environment >>. There is no obvious impact on the existing noisc situation, and no
liami lo tlhc workers.
5.6.2.3 Measures for Sludge Treatment
Sludgc of quantity 4367 tun/ycar coming liom the hcat peak boilcr will all be
sent to nearby brickyard for comprehensive usc.
In wet-dcdust system which is used in this project, sludge was temporarily laid in
the sludge pond( within two days). Thus there is no secondary dust pollution.
5.6.2.4 Measures of Water Pollution Controlling
Water pollution controlling is not so important as waste gas in this project.
Because the waste water only comes from daily life which is of small quantity, and not
centralized. There is no obvious impact on the environment according to the regulation of
the Urban wastc water network.
In a word, during operation phase, thc unfavorable influence can be diminished to
least degrce through reasonable and economic prevention measure.
5.7 Altcrnativc Heating Program
The proposed project was first planned in 1987, and formnally put into rccords in
1994. The heating netwvork- was made up under a procedure of through carefully
expounding and proving by related experts, and it also undergoes consultant and
compromise arnong Yantai Municipal Government, Municipal Planning Bureau and
Municipal Heating Power Development Office over and over again. Following is a brief
discussion of this process.
5.7.1 Characteristic of Heating Area
Yantai city is a along the seashorc, and at the foot of mountain, which has a long
distanec betwvcn west and cast and a short distance bctwcn south and north. According
to the requirement of the Municipal Government, all the buildings muLst be constructed in
the arca of its contour line under 70 metcr. Thus all the building in the center area was
concentrated in a narrow region of 3km width  ( south and north direction ) between
coast and mountain. Differences among buildings' ground contour are between 0 to 70
mctcr.
Thcre arc tlirec maii lincs of conmmunication in the ceniter area. Tlbosc arc North
Avenue, South Avenue ( including Zhichu Road) and Baishi Road which are all lay in
wcst an(d cast dircction. Most of the planncd 22 lhcating districts arc on the two sides of
5-54



Soulh Avcnuc starting west from power plant and ending east to  the thlird stect, show
in Fio.5.1.3.
5.7.2  -Icaling Program
5.7.2.1 H1eatiig Mcdia
MIany-year- practice inside anid outside the country thorouglhly proved that the
heating media in the CiHP which is mainly for the purpose of heating should be hot water.
In this project the basic heating source is the hcaling units which is of cxhausting prcssure
0.2047 MPa and temperature 121C. for such a low pressure, and temperature, it is
impossible to reach the farthest user of 8 kilometer directly. Thus from both technical and
economic view, it is reasonable to choose hot water as heating media.
5.7.2.2 I-Icating Linie
Ihe center of Yantai City is an old urban area. The roads are narrow and the
underground pipc lines are concentrated. The main roulc of the heating project is laid out
froni  the west of power plant to the east. For the  users are mostly on the two sides
of the South Avenue, it is optimal to lay the heating line along the South Avenue. But for
the foliowing two considerations, it is also too dillicult to realize. First, the Soutlh Avenue
is across the center area of the city, whiclh divided the city into two parts of North and
South. It is the city's main line of communication. If the project is constructed in the
South Avenue, it will make the already heavy traffic worse and finally paralyzed.
Secondly, thcre are various kinds of municipal pipe line underground of the South
Avenue. There are only 5-8 metcr seclion wherc no pipe line laid.
Thlc othICer bcter choice is along main line of tic Fenghiuang l'ai Road in the
southen City. But sevcral water pipeline for the supply of thc powver plant has been laid
under this road. Therc is no room for the heating netwvork pipe line. Soil under the road is
mostly weatlhering rock, and it will be very difficult for the construction.
For lots of sight survey, investigations, througl compromise and compartment, the
Municipal Government, Municipal Planning Bureau, Municipal Heating Office made out
the proposal of the heating route. There are sonic  advantages in this proposal. For
example, thc foremost section of 5Km heating nctwork- is built on stilts, which has no
impact on the traffic, do not destroy the road. and do not occupy the site of underground
pipe line. The rcar section of 3Km are not at the main line of communication which has
relativehl little influence on the traffic. But there are also some disadvantages in this
proposal,
The main line divcrlcd the concentrated hcat load arca, which increases the length
of the branch line of the heating network, and then increases the heat loss. Construction
in the mountainous region bring some difficulties for the convey of vehicles and
maclhitncs.
*                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~5-55



During tle fielk visit, we noticed lhat thic pipc linc located above the Ruwi
Mountain is only 1 meter high to the suiface of the Mountain. For this area's high
elevation and that there is only a distance of about 10 mcters to the northcast border of
thc waste trcatment plant, if the waste treatnment plant extend to the northcast direction,
there surely will be some influence on the pipe line. We investigated this situation and
learned from related local department that the waste treatment plant take an area of 77400
square meter, the waste filled is 1,800,000 ton, there is no room for the development to
the northwest directiop, the planned developmcnt is on the direction of southeast, the
plant will not develop in the direction of the pipe line and there will be no influence on the
pipe line.
We also noticed that there are several cow grazed near the waste treatment plant.
Considering the secondary pollution of the treatment plant and iLs bad effects on the
hcalth of cow, Wc suggcslcd that rclaled department give altctlion to this mattcr, anid
tak-c a measure to restrict the grazing region around the waste treatment plant.
It can be seen from the above discussion, of the threc proposals, each one has
some advantages and disadvantages. But fromn a whole view, under the condition of
settling the waste filling direction problem, the third proposal are practical. Considering
the cnvironmental benefits, the third proposal has least impact on the environment.
5.7.2.3 Peak Load Boiler House
According to the data of the power plant, thcre are two heat sources whose volume
of 460 t/h, an exhausted temperature of 121 ∞C, and an pressure of 0.2047 Mpa. Due to
the conformation of stcam turbine unit (from pure condensed unit to heat supply unit)
and limited electricity load, such an exhausting volume can just meet the demand of a
basic heating, cannot be used as a peak heating source. Generally, in the project of
combination of heat-power, it is also economically unfeasible for the basic heat source
of tlhc power plant to meet all heat load. Thus a peak load heating source must be selup
outside the power plant.
Regional boiler house supplying the peak load heat is the main way in the
combination of heat-power. By this way, the power plaiit can run continuously and
efficiently. It can make the best of the energy-saving of this combination of heat-power.
As mentioned above, the peak load boiler house will be made up by two kinds of
boilcr house. one is the temperature increasinig boiler house, and the other is the end-pipe
boiler house (that is boiler house which remain some original region). The temperature
raising boiler house is serial to the first heater of thle power plant, which functioned as the
peak load heater of the plant. Comparing to the combined heat supply by the regional
boiler house, there are following advantages:
Big boiler ( 4 boilers of 29MW each, while regional boiler lhas only less than 10
MW) has high heat efficiency and  good for energy-saving. It also has complete
dedustfig and desulphurizing devices and can lighten the environment pollution.
S-56



There is no heating network circulatory system of its own. It is unnecessary to set
up circulating wvater pump and relatcd water treatmcnt facilitics. This can simplify the
boiler houLse cuipmcnt, save the slarling invcstmcnt and have a lowcr running cost.
In the running period, the recycling water volume of the first grade network can
be adjusted to avoid the fluctuation of water power due to the operation interruption in
rcgional boiler houses. When the appropriate numwber of scts was choosing, the heater can
start to run set by set to mect the system's requiremcnt of parametcr adjusting, and to
maintain the boiler nning at a high efficiency.
From above analysis, the proposed project of using power plant of Huang-Bo-Hai
Heat and Power Company as basic heating source, the temperature raising peak load
boiler house and some of the existed regional boiler house as peak load heat source is
reasonable and feasible from both the view of economy and environment.
1~~~~~~SS



6 Environmental Impact and Mitigation
Measures of No. 3 CHP Plant in Weihai
Project Area
6.1 Pro jcet Analysis
6. 1.1 Location
Wcihai No. 3 CI-IP Plant is located in Southem Urban Area of Weihai city, 0.5 kim
north to Songiiawa, 1 km west to Zhongli. It is about 12 km away from the old urban
area of tlhc city. See Fig. 6.1.1.
6.1.2 Brief Introduction of the Project
Wcihai No.3 Tlhcermal IPower Plant is a newly-built plant. It will be equipped with
3 sets of 75t/h forced circulation fluidizcd bed boilcrs, mating with 2 sets of CC12-
4.9/0.98/O.294 turbine. Telc project includes the construction of tlhcrnal power plant,
stcam pipe network, f;st grade hot water pipe network and heating thermodynamic
stations. The steam pipe network would be 17.2 knm, which provides steam for the
produclion of 24 entell)riscs and central air condilioning of 12 buildin&gs of 22.6. 1U4
m2 . Thne hot water pipe network would be 12.9 km., whichi proiddes heating for the
buildings of 109.8x1104 mn in this district.
The total investiment of this project amounts to 300.2 million ICK13, including an
expended loan of 144.9 million RMB from the World Bank, converting into 17.25
million US dollars. The plant covers an area of 12x 104 m2 with 375 employees.
6.1.3 Industrial Process
Alter bcing IIixed witli desulphuiizCs (limestotC) and crushed, the coal wil be
sent to the boilers thlrough transferring system. In boilers the chemical energy of coal is
transformed into heat energy to produce steam to drive turbo-generators, changing
mcclianlical cnergy into electrical energy, clectricity is seint to users througlh
transmission and distribution systcm. Meanwhilc, part of the steam, aftcr its doing
workl in the turbines, is extracted to the users for industrial and heating purposes. The
remained steam from turbines is discharged into a vacuum condenser to make
condenscd water, which together wvith boiler replenishing water is heated by steps
tlhrougl regeneration system and then pumped back into boilers, becoming steam
agaitn, tlius foniung a hcat-electiicity combined produclion system with recycling
steam atnd water.
The sulfur removal efficiency in the circulation fluidized bed boiler can reach
X55.,. Thc flue gas is dedusted by electrostatic precipitator then exit in lo thc air
6-]



; --a.; = .......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                      . . . . . . . . .    ,->,;  <I!;
i: i .-. --_:X ............ . \ ih;,i ~tz. ... .S.:li-2-
, sSof 4¢tt,,,  . _-- ~.; -zu 
* U!i~~71                                                                                            .                                           T 
.,.^  s.*r. ß.-X   \ ,   __,,,                             2 E.-.                         _,,_                            *           t        -~~~~~~~~~~~z
_-T - wi^-b\*,'- .......... '_ ................. , ,, .,, - 
<, >._, _ > _^,, . .. i j. * Iai~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~71
,~~~~~ ~~/   ---i-.7.
|            i .   _J-        >4 
s; % *- t t _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
, .-;z;:~~~lr  .:. .!                              ; ,, 6. , ,A                 ou'  'A'i i'i2~:  ^-



throu-Ii tic 120l2ii hig, 3m1 inner- diameter chiminey. 'Tlhc ashi ati(I cindcr is r-emoved
both manually and hy(drauilically, wvhich is transported oul to lie mnlitiple--utilized. A
cinder depot is planned to be built up in case its users may in trouble. An accident
cindei dcpot is also planned in 1.5 km south ol the plant.
hle I-ecyciling water it) tlls plant a(lopls (lie sVcor(l riecVCelni4 wvaler sysleiti. 't'he'
replcniishino water directly comes fitom tap linc. Main process flow is shiown in Figure
6.1.2.
6.1.4 Gencral Layout
Main plant building is in thc middic ol thc plant. Boilcr's building arc arrangcd in
thrcee rows. Coal yard and limestone yar-d are in the northeast of the plant, and the
cooling towci is i northwest. Fore plant sitc is in thle soutl. Tlherc is also a gatc in the
cast for rav material transportation.
6.1.5 Raw Material
Coal used in Weilhai No.3 Themial Power Plant is mainly lean coal liom Zibo.
Coal analysis is as thc following:
V  I ;  ,,y    SYV V                            Qyd      !
49.62(%Q   2.56%4   4.060' t 2.34%    33.92%1  7.0)%.  17:17%.j 4367kcal/kg
Coal firom %Zibo is transported by train to Weihai r ailway stalion, thcn by trIucks to
[lie planw. Thic coal an(l desulphurilzer(lilrcsIonc) consumjption is shown in Tabic
6.1.1.
Ta'ble 6. 1L. I      Coal aindl l)esllihuri/er Congurptiol
Consumption Amiount              Unit        ()nc B3oiler  . 'luree Boilers
Pcr             Coal              till          11.04            33.12
Hllour        Limestone            t'h            1.08             3.24
Per             Coal               /lh          242.88           728.64
Day           Limestone            t/1,    '    23.76             71.28
Per    _        Coal              All           66232            198696
Y ear        ,Limestone            t/li         6458.5           19375.5
Note: 60001r yearly, 221i (laily
Taable 6.1.2                   Rtecycling Waaer
Capacity Condensig Volume;                Rccyclini, WVater Volumie (tjh)
lKNv  'Stnmmirci-  \ Winter    Conlciisel '                         'l'otal
I        |           Summnerj Winteir j  Oil       Air   Summer; Winter
12'1 2000   120        96     ' 7800    4320         o      2 5.,0  833(    4850
6-2



,. ' lu,e g:~s
Boiler
[                          (~~~~~~~~~Ic(l?tslcr     |cliiiittcly
livid ~    ~        e siill**   X        1 1cIIrIk  1  W rt              _______         cxri      g          }-   Il**       I .
:)     r('c iii  va' ylrillc                                            forill    tllldlgr 1   11 ccuioil            X 
- --~~   ) Condenser           a
) Condener tDust Removal Svstem
Cooling Tozver                   T Iiiiviij                                              Ciiilyi  ,iiiiviiig
.~iirlcii~~Cil   -. I          tap                                                                        To Cinder Depot
flo;-p'sslv lT ;ltrer   I'Cell ls%:llr Ituillp     liglheateritIIc:Itvr
Fig.6. 1.2 Technological Process Chart



Table 6.1.3                  Replenishing Watcr
Sciial             Item                     R Rcplenishing Water Vol.m3/h
numbcr
Summer            Winter
1    Loss from Evaporation Pl=1.20%       100.0             58.2
2     Loss from Air Cooling P2=0.1%        8.3              4.9
3     Loss fronm Discharging Scwage       91.6       i      53.4
form Cooling lower P3=1.10%
4          Chemical Treatment              110              160
5        Sampling Cooling Tower            24                24
6          Fecd pump Cooling               1 6               24
7   ,       Draft Fan Cooling               4                4
8   z       Cinder Removing                15 _              20
9                Others                    12                12
10           Livelihood Water               15               15
11  |             Total                   395.5             375.5
6.1.6 Watcr Balance
Water used in this plant is directly coming from tap line with an amount about
9500( daily itl summllller and 900001 daily in witnter. Thie amount of recycling and
replenishing water is showvn in Table 6.1.2 and 6.1.3. Water amount balance is shown
in Fig.6.1.3
6.2 Analysis Qf Pollution Factors
6.2. 1 Kinds of Pollutants
The main pollutants discharged from the CUIP plant are S02, flue gas fiom
chimney, cinder from  the boilcr's bonom, ash from the dust scrubber, industrial
treatment waste water, sewage, chemical treatment water, noise from operation, coal
dust in conveyance and blow dust in cinder depot.
6.2.2 Discharge Amount of S02 and Flue Gas
The dischargq amount of S02 and flue gas are 248 kg/h and 58.14 kg/h, all can
meet the corresponding standards, respectively. See table 6.2.1.
6.2.3 Waste Water
6-3



ir.sinel tn the Platnt s Sc9*a.e pipe
jaster for citider remorin.
reed pump conlin:,
dra=ter cooling
sampler________________cooler____ai   ooe
i         W i lioelihood waterI- .                                    ;                                                     i cooler
xsahe m ple:i  rc coo lernilectia2 ?|                                                           -1
'-3..s:   '. \11 '.!,jrcs are In n  ;1.
*_________                                                                                                      *~ -, ~*....................... ~ ....  ~> g .-. JJ:., ~c-'   S  2_> '. The  trn!ect .s equnpc'.T p et h  s e C. jct.
!_i__________,___:                                                                                                                                               hoilers sod  ' :Iirnioes necd  enter
netutralizinc! pol'i                                                                                                                                                                              in                      i     cr           b m
::.i   4ios  I    ter pool                                                                                                                                          in summer 79-. 'm  it
Fig.6.1 .3 Water Balance Diagram



Waste water drained from the plant is divided into three systems: chemically treated
water, livelihood water and industrial waster watcr. All the waste water wvould be treated
Table 6.2.1     Dischargcld Amount of Almosphelic Pollutants
ltcm                                  Data
Discharged flue volume                   267258. 5Nm3/h
Dcdustcr cfficiency                        99.08%/o
Chimnev height and inner diameter of  i        H120m   D3m
outlet              __
Flue temperature (outlet)                     423k
Discharged amount of smok-e and dust              5X.14kg/h
Smoke dust density discharged                217.5mglNm3
Discharged amount of S02      I 248kg/h Sulfur removal ceficiency 80%
beforc draining into the sewage system. Its quality would accord with the Grade II
standard of "standard for sewage multiple drainage". The discharged waste waler
amount is 287.6m3/fi in summer and 312.4m3/h in winter Waste water amount is shown
in water amount balance figure 6.1.3.
6.2.4 Ash and Cinder
Tablc 4-4                   D)ischarged Asli, Cinder Animoutt
Itemi           Tnit  Total anmount  Cinder amOunt   Ash amount
Discharged amount/hour X t/h       11.8           8.27           3.45
Disclharg-ged amount/year  t/a    70800          49560          21240
6.2.5 Main Noise Sources
The noise sources in Power Plant has turbogenerator set, coal crusher, blower, air
compressor, cooling tower, source intensity is shown in Table 6.2.3.
Table 6.2.3      Noise Source iitensity of Maini Equipment
NIumiber          Equipment             Sound Level dB(A)
1         Turbogencrator set    I              90
2            Coal crusher                      95
3              Blower                          90
4           Air Compressor                     85j
5           Cooling toweri                     70
6.3 Assessment of Existing Atmospheric Environment
and its Impacts
6-4



6.3 1 The Existing Ambient Air Quality
6.3. 1. 1 Monitoring Sites Selected
hlc prevailing wind direcclion in tliis assessed ar-ea is fIroii nortLhwest and  south.
The key protected target is the urban district of Weihai City. As the chimney height
designed is 120m, six monitoring sites are planned to be arranged, whose locations are
shown in Fig. 6.3.1 and Table 6.3.1.
Table 6.3.1        Distribution of atmospheiic monitoring sites
Number!       Point     | Direction to plant    Distance to      Note
_______________________ _  ,site       chim ney
I      Changfeng          NNW                               Regula
2        Haobo            NNW                  3            Regular
!___j__.__i_ monitoring point
3        Laoji             NE                 2.5
4      So1_iawa                                            plant site
5      Jiangjiazhai         S                 3.5
6     Weiiquantanig  i     ESE                 5
6.3.1.2 Monitoring Items, Time and Fi-equencv
*  S02, NOQ  and TSP were selected as moniloring items.
a  Six times each day, right at 05, 08, 11, 14, 17, 20 o'clock in 5 successive days in
May, 1996. During the period of monitoing, we took thle observation of some
meteorological clemcnts, such as wind direction, wind velocity, total cloudiness and
low cloudiness.
6.3.1.3 Monitoring Rcsults and Analysis
Class 2 standard of National Ambient Air Quality Standard was selected as
asscssment standard.
The statistical results are shown in Table 6.3.2.
The obscrvation acquires 180 (lata of S02 an(d NOx respectively, 30 data of TSP.
llie concentration of SO2 does not exceed the standard at every monitoring time, whose
maximum value is 0.088 mgim3, accounting for 17.6∞o of the Grade I: standard. None
of averagc value excecds the standard.  The maximum  value is 0.041 iig/m3,
accounting for 27.3%o of the Gradc II standard. All Ihc one-time concentration and daily
averagc value of NOx can meet the corTesponding standard. The maximum value is
0. 132 mg,/n3, which accounting for 8.0%' of thc (Grade 1I stqndard. The maximum
concentration of' dailv average is 0.064 mg/mr', accounting for 64.0%to of the Girade H
standard. Ther-e are four times that the daily average value of TSP surpasses the standard.
Tlhc sutrpassed rale is 0.18 times larger than the stand(ard. T'he two standard-surpassed
monitoiilog places are Changfeng and Laoji, that is caused by -crowd activities and
6-5



:                *              ts i .-8vX             : -z c:L'
Z2r5,g   
. F E%              4         -          -f nl ', I
z ,' *;-z__ 6Jf '' X ,zg;Ft;tX S].O
.        -,-77                                t!                                ,'                                           ::
~~ ,.,,  r  n=                                                         .r.2._                  _,                               ;2-~~~~~~~~~t
,:'v-'">':lSltt                         '                   i                   ]                     '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
s   s  o~~~~~ *A -2 t;r^,  i
_=                                                                    '              i- sil10         -     ,~~~~~~~~~~7u  2
_   i!;p  tt!7 u           si - -  :   
@ -;-= 3 * 9 - ~~~~~~i r i'                                                      s                 a3             7zJI--   % >v 2J-  )c^ 
. < _ S j 59 4-;> - * i r7 5N JF, t f _ f f tlt7 iv.~~~~~ 11  _3!.v'l-ll.
t  _j /   >zt' *+ g>>             _        =       s¢                      [               it(lttel\Vlit't'rtleni;5r¢-1             I¢vna
i U bi b Z n !! n 3 - .>.n t~~'t q                                                       47    6 
I;i.(z3.   .   ,xXti"5    tl  .i  ......... ,t)ali>';'.' ...... [)Ill(\N,L\l't !\~^ill7:' '..................ZZ



blowino dust.
From the asscssmcnt, wc know that the atmosplheic cnviroruncnt quality of May in
Weillai City satisfies the requirements of Grade II staiidard and coniclude that the
amlbicnt air qualily is cxcellent.
Tablc 6.3.2 Monitoring Statistical Results of Ambient Air Q2uality  mghn3
Sitcs   Pollutal Scope of i Scope of    4can     Exceeding rate
nts   one-tune  I  Daily              i One-time   Daily
;_________________________ _    Average  i  _         Aver.
S02 !'nonc-0.008    0.007      0.007       0        0
ChallSengi NOx 0.010-0.13210.035-0.0641  0.057        0        0
TSP V            0.204-0.3551  0.289   _            60
S02 0.007-0.078 t0.011-0.0411  0.018       0        0
Hlaobo  i NOx '0.006-0.09110.013-0.0411  0.026  1   0         0
TSP I0.164-0 2031  0.197  !__                       0
,   ,        I       .   I   .     I         i- 
S02  0.007-0.057 0.008-0.022!) 0.014       0        0
Laoji  iNOx  0.006-0.037 0.011-0.027i  0.020  i 0            O
TSP I0.184-0.3421  0.238                            20
S02  0.007-0.088t0.008-0.0211 0.012        0        0
Songjiawa! NOx j0.006-0.052j0.011-0.0201  0.014       0        0
TSP:             0.124-0.2481 0.180                 0
S02  0.007-0.085 0.008-0.030 i 0.017       0        0
Jiangjiaji  NOx  0.010-0.124 0.030-0.044   0.037     0        0
TSP              i0.193-0.297! 0.240                0
S02  0.007-0.035 0.008-0.0121  0.010       0   (   0
Wenquanti  NOx  0.006-0.0753 0.012-0.0411 0.027       0        0
ing    TSP               '0. 114-0.280!  0.202              0
6.3.1.4 Monitoring Results of Ambicnt Air Quality in Wcilai
From the latest result of monitoring in 1994, the daily average value of the SO2 in
atmospheric environment exceeds ilic standard in January only (month of heating
season). The excess rate is 12.2%. . The maximum value of daily averagc is 0.202
mg/mn3, 0.35 times more than the standard. 'llie value of SO2 of yearly average is 0.021
mg/ni", accountiiig for 35% of the standard. Thc daily average value of NOx of each
month is all below the standard. The maximum value of daily average is 0.064 mg/M3,
accounting for 640% of the standard. Ilic daily average valuc of TSP exceeds thc
standard in April. The excess rate is 26.7%!o. The maximum valuc of daily average is
0.462 mg/rn, 0.54 times more than the standard
The rcason of SO, exceeding tire standarid in January is thc flue gas that released by
many scattered heating boilers and domestic stoves in the hcating season. The Ilue gas
rcleasing heiglht of these boilers is quite low, which causes the air pollution of near
grounld atmospheric laycr. The cxccss rcason ol- (1aily average 1.SI' value in April is lhc
spring dryness and strong wind. 'Thus it is the blowing dust that causes the excess of
6-6



TSP in tle near ground atmospheric layer.
6.3.2 Impact Prediction and Assessment of Atmospheric
E-4nviro<nment.
6.3.2.1 Mctcorological Anialysis of Polluttioin
1Tls assessment can adopt the low-altitude meteorological data monitored from
Weihai lIua Neng Power Plant, wlhich is located only 6 kin NN-E away from this plant,
and its meteorological conditions are very similar to that of this plant.
Three monitoring places were set up for meteorological analysis when Weihai Hua
Neng Power Plant had been assessed for environmental protection. They were the plant
site, meteorological observatory whicih arc near the seashore, aned Wenjuan (Liujiatai)
that is 8-9.5 knm from the seashore. I'he monitoring items include aerial wind, aerial
temperature, and aerial diffusion parameters. The monitoring period was from June 22
to July 7, and from November 16 to December 4 in 1989, with eight monitoring times
each day.
6.3.2.1.1 The Wind Field Features of Boundary Layer
A. The Frequency of Wind Directions in Consecutive Years
Th'lie frequency of wind directions of each iiioztli in conseculive years in Weiliai is
showvn in Table 6.3.3. The annual prevailing wind direction is WNW-NW-NNW, the
fiequency is 33%∞. The frequency of SSE-S-SSW wind direction is 22.2%. The annual
frequenlcy of calmii winid is 7.2∞o. Thc prevailing wind directions arc WNW in spring,
south wind in summer, NW in autumn and NW in winter.
B. T'hC Variation of Wind Direction with the H1eight
Table 6.3.4 and 6.3.5 slhow the wind directions 1requency at dil-rerent height in the
meteorological monitoring period of Sunmner and WN'inter in 1989 for Hua Neng Power
Plant. From ilihsc tables, ve know:
The prevailing ground wind in Summer is SSW-SW. Following the increase of
height, calm wind disappears. And the SW-SSW wind still prevails below lOOOm level.
The prevailing ground wind in winter is SW. Following the increase of height, the
frequency of WSW, WV, WNrNW wind directioiis is the highcst, and the fiequency of
WVN is also obviously high. And the calm wind disappears.
C. Variation of Wind Velocity
The avcrage wvind velocity of each month in consecutive years in Weihai City is
shown in Table 6.3.6. TIc table indicates the average wind specd of a whole year is
4.9m/'s. The average wind speed in spring is fast. The maximum average speed 5.6m/s is
in April. The average wind speed in summer is comparatively low.
6-7



Table 6.3.3 Thie average frequency of wvind dir-ections of each month fr-om 1989 to 1994 (%
Month N   NN E  NTE F ENE   E    E, SE   SE  ISSE              s SSw  SW VfWSW   W   W-N W I NW  NTNWA'  C
I  .    3.    1.4   0.4   0.8   1.O   1.21  2.6   5.4  4_ 7   3.4   2.4   55 11.7  _1.   _22_  7.2
2     2    3.4   2.8   2.0   1.4   1.4   3.4 [  .8_ 3.4   2.6   3.7   0.8 j6.2   13,0  19.21117.5  6.5
3    6.9   5.8   4.6   2.4   1.9   2.6   3.9 [6.1   6.6   5.2   3.8   2.3 12.8   13.6  14.2 111.2  6 .1
4    3.5   4.3   4.3   2.2   2.6   3.8   7.8   8.1   9.2   7.2   6. 0 _26 3.9   15.4 _9.5   4.8   4.3
5 2.6   2.0   4.6   4.0   2.6   5.2   4.3  10.4  11.7   7         _ .    2.7          11.8  10.4  4.0   7.0
6     1.2   3.0   5.0   1.8   4.9   5.8   7.4 [14.2  15.4  8.1   4.2    .          20    7.4 _  8.6   2.0   8.1
7    2.6   2.8   7.3   2.0   6.8   5.4   8 8534213.8  10.9 I4.6   0.6 L2.2   3.6   6.0   1.8   6.7
8    4.3   5.9   9.0   4.7 I 6.1   4.4   7.2   7.7   11.0  4.0   2.3   0. 2   2i 2.2   6.9   10.2  4.6 _8.6
9   7.1   5.4   9.2   3.6' 4.0   2.1  --43       5. L4   7.1   5.3   3.8_  1.1I   3.9   7.5   14.         8.6
1    8.6   4.0  4.7    1.4j 1.9   1.2   1.3 I_3.0 27.2 _6.4  4.8   1.9   5.4   8.6   17.3  13.   8.9
11    8.6   2.8   4.0   1.8   25-        -.4 3.9 I4.4   9.4   4.91 6.2   2.9   6.1   8.2   14.8  11.2  6.7
12    9.3   3.2   1.0   0.7 I0.5   10 81 34 66                   .4    .8   2.4 17.6   10.2 F19.9 1j5. 8  6.8
Year   5.8   3.8   4.8   2.2 13.0   3.0   4.77.2   9.0   6.0 14.4   1.8   4.3   9.8  F 13.6  9.6   7.2
6.8



Talie 6.3.4                   lWind Dircctioni Frqluenvin unm  r (I 0-lOOOm) (∞)
I1ciaht'  N    NNE  ISTN    ENE    E    ESE   SL  | SS                  W SS   SW lw Sw w      I WNW   NW NN W         C
100o0  1             5      3      9      4      6            4      16     4     26      6      6      1
900            1      3      3      1     10     7      7  1 13    17' 12    13           7      3       4
800(                         6      5     2      12      10    1 4    16    14     8      9      4
700:1                 1      4 _    6 10 4              7            2      14 _          7      2 .
6( 001       ---- - - --- - -   3   - --- 7      3      11   18      19    13      3      7      4       3     3
500     1      1      3            4      7      5      6  119    24,  12          5      2      5       2     3
400     2             2)     2      6     7      4      4-11         22 2 16       8      3    4         3     1
300     1      1             5      7     4      4      4     12    23    13    13        2      7 _     _     3   _
200!  3        1      2      7      7     4      1      6  6   6    26    11       9      8      5             4
100    6       2      6     4      2      3l3           5  IS        13    21      18     3      3       3     2
5o   9  7                   5   1  2                                11  3291 3    1  _2
10     2      11     7     2       2     3             4     10    21    26       4 4     J l               4        4
6-9



table 6.3.5                     Wind Direction Frequency in lWinter (10-1OOOm) (%)
_                          ,     r           -r                                1
lI-Let  N   INNE   NE j ENE    E    ESE I SE   SSE Is    SSW   SW  JWSW    W I WNWV  NI INNWI C
1000                  4                                         --  4      2     12    16     16    31    14        _
900    2             2                                             4.    2      12    16      16    31    14
800    2             3      2                                2     2      10    14    22      12    22    10
700     1            3      1                              . 1     1     16    13    22    12    20    7
600    3             3      3                                1     3     17    21    1 1    20       12    8
500    33            4      4     8      8             -       -6        14    21      8     23      14    4
400    3   _         2      4__                       1            6      15    26     7      23     5     6
300  6  9  4  4    1      1     1   __   ~~~~1      8     19    18    15    13        6     5
200    21            6      2     2      2            1      4     6     18    18    19    11        6     4 _4
100    2             5      5     1      1     2             1    12    24    27       8      5    5       2
50'∞ .   3 1_  _  . 4      2      1     1      1      1          _13    32  25   __5         4    _4 _34  _1_
10     4  16         1            11 1               2      5    20    36    15       1      2            4      I
6-10



lThe minimum average speed 3.7m/s is in August.
Tab'le 6.3.6 AveraS>c Wjindi SpcCd li-oiri 1 9,9) to 1994 in WVcihai   utit: ru/s
ionith       1   2   3   4 i5  6   7           9 9  I30'1(I)i 12!2'Year
Avcra-C wind   5.4  5.5  5.5 15.6 5.3 4.5 4.1  3.7 A.3'4.3'4.8 5.5i 4.9
Analv/ig hlic dla;ta of sutmmer and witiler li'oiii actual measurement, the Tnormal
wind velocitv contour (increase of windi velocity with their height) of this region takes
81.60o. T'his indicates a noimal regularity between wind velocity and heiglt valiation in
most cascs. Biut wvhcn it has sca wind and land w,%ind, the wind xclocitv contour is
ilTegulaf orfot CxremuM.
2kWi;,ii,iv;,'.   41e  M fni; ao rM l)L aclual   IVclI. il  %:lialidIIti (of %\iIMd Speed wVill
ib. h':i;"h  icl.lITV1se he/low  30(0tm  allitivid  in tlis rerion accords wvitlh ilie power.
exponcrintii l)prpnc-l. Vz:-:Vo((zo4)"'.  lhe mn value in each stabilitw is listed in Table
6.3.7..
T1abhlc 6.3.7 Variation Exponent Value of Wind Spetd willh Ileight
stabilik,           A-C T1
.SummLe              0.0            (0.2(             0.25
\Vinicr        0.08~(           0.20             0.25
,I Ave;rage         0.04             0.20             0.25
G13 valuu         0.10-0.20           0.25             0.30
TIhc lablc inidicales tlhc ni value ol scashorc is smraller thilll (Cl3 value.  TIhis I-esults
riiom the inltluence of the less roughmess of the lower bed ground in seashore region and
the inLfluence of sea area to the temperature layer besides the influence of sea wind and
D. Characteristics of Sca and Land WN'ind
Sca and(l land wind( is a kind of regionial thcrtuodvamic circulationi caused by day
and niiht emipcraturc diflkrence between sea and land whelc the system wind becomes
weak.
a) The Characteristics of Sea and Land Wind in Normal Years
According  to  thc normal meteorological data of Wcihai Micteorological
Observatorv and tlie data of actual measurement tin summer and winter in Hua Neng
Power Plant, there are 82 days with sea and lanid wind in Weihai area.  The 1'requency
of sea and landi wind is 220%. The highcst frequcnc)c 35-47%  appears from June to
September. The sea wind of whole year lasts 682 hours. Its highest frequency 12-20%
also appears fI-om June to Scptember.
b) 'ilthe Characteristics of Sea and Land Windl in Measuring Period
According to the data of ground wind in summer and winter and the data of small
ball measurement, there atrC 12 days having olwious sea and land wind out of the 16 days
of surunner measuring period. The frequency of the sea wind is 23% concerning its
6-11



lasting tline. In the 19 measuring days in winter, there is only four daxs liaving sea and
land wind. The frequenciy is 2100. It is obliously lowcr than that in summcr, but highcr
than that in correspondilig pcriods of lasl veals.
Table 6.3.8 shows ilic inicnsity of sca anTd land winid at each moniitoling place in
sumimnicr. At each place, the sea wind speed is all strongcr than the land witnii speed.
Tablc 6.3.8 The Initensit% of Sea uand Lancd Winid in Summericr
Mon'itoring places    I lua Nietig Ploweri vIetecorological, LiUjiatai
Items                Plant        Observatorn
Sca wind (irvs)              3.1             3.1          5.6
Land wind (mi/s)             2.7              2.5          2.6
Table 6.3.9  The Thickness of Sea WVind of Some Hours at Each Monitoring
1'1ace in Summer and Hua Neng, Power Plant in Winter  unit: m
Sites                         0(X         1        14   1   17
Huaneno  Summer  Average 1  175           228       333       160
I'Powcr          'Maximum!  300   1  450           600      450
Plant    Winter  Average        0       425       450   ,  600
M'aximum      O        800      800       800
lMcteoroloogi!   Average          164       325      469       390
cal Station    Maximum        ,  550       70()      600      750
Average in summer          170       276       351       275
The table shows that the sea w"ind is the thickest al 14 o'clock in summer.  The
average thickncss is 351 meters.  The sea wind is thicker in urban districts than in
suburbs. This results fi-om the thermal island cffect and the roughness of the lower bed
grouni. The frequuncy of sca winid in wintcr is quite low, but it has a quite high altitude
ifthe sea windi aise.s.
The land wind is quite thickl in Weihai area. Ihe average landl wind thickness is
82'6rn in suner ani the mnaximum tihickness is more tiian l000m;  In winter, the
thickness is normally more than 1000m.
C. 1Ilic Impacts of Sca anid Lind Winid Cirictilationi lo Atmospheric Pollution
The impacts of sea and land wind circulation to atmospheric pollution are generally
caused bv circulatory function and go--and-back function, which means the sea wind
brings baick the pollutant that has been carried to the sca to the tliermal power plant and
seashore area during the sca and land wind transformation period.  By analyzing the
data of actual mcasurement, the included angle of upper and lower layer circulation is
less than 1 I00.  'lhcrc is lcss possibilitv tllat thec circulation biitngs the pollutant back to
thermnal power plant, but the possiblility of bringing thc pollutant to thc seashore area
exists.
3v analyzing tlihe ground data, the frequency of SE, ESE and E wind in this region
6-12



is 1 0.70o. Duc to the influence of sea wind riellux, Ihc urban (listricts have a p)ossibility of
10.7∞o of bcing inllucnced by air pollutant from CIll' plant.
6.3.2.1.2 Te1m peratuUrc Field Characteristics iif IBoundaryv Laver
A. Characteristics of Inversion Laver
nAial'iing tilC data of actual measurement ofl I lua Ncnig 1>ower I'lant, the structure
of tc;mpcrature laycr of this region is coml)aratively siltl)le.  In most cases there is only
onc inversion layer. Thc charactcristics of invcrsion laver is shown in Tablc 6.3.1(0. The
table suggcsts soic features of temperature  inversion:
a) A-vcrage top limit of cacli hours in summer is 285m. 'lfc arising fiequency is
47.0%(. Owing to the influence of sca wind, Ihc irequency of awvay-from-ground
tempuraturc inversion from 11 to 14 o'clock is 38%o.
1)) Aecrage top limnit of each hour in wvintcr is 236m. Thc arising irequencv is
45.0%. Because of the low frequencv of sea windl, the frequcncy of away-fiom-ground
temperature inversionl liom 11 to 14 o'clock is 9.0%, lower thialn that in summer. The
avcragc thickness of ground temperature invcrsion in summeir is 204m, and 168m in
winter.
Table 6.3.1 0 The Characteristics of Temperature Iniversion in Power Plant
Scason.              0?   05 , X    11   14    17 1 2(0   23  Aver.
SumlelnCr,  1eigh] .lit -4)G 286  324  2227  222  378  344 :261  285
Frcquency   56   75   44   38   38   31   44   50    47
;Den Ity __ 0.1 6  0. 16 0.14 0.03 0.()(  0.1 5 0. 09)  0.13 0.12
I Winter   Ileiglht   133  153  232  575  30(   116  184  199  236
Frequency   62  62    50   12   ',   44   62   62   45
Density   0.23. 0.32  0.22: 0.02' (1 1t)  0. l7 0.3() 0.27  0.2()
'I'he chimnen  height of W\7eihai Thenral lPower Plant is 1 20m. T he ellective height
ol Iuic (gas goes beyond the inversion laver, wlhich prevents the ilue gas scatlcring to the
lround. It is favorable for scatterincg the air pollutant lurtlhcr andc protccting the ground
atn()sphere enviOronnent.
B3. Fcaturcs ol Ilcat Iiincr louunjidar Laycr
Ileat inner boundary laver is a special feature ol meteorological pollution existed in
seaslhloC area. Wlhcn the flue ga,s mliects [le heal boundarv layer, rumre pollution would
affect the area continuouslv.
Duting the nieasurement peliod for Hlua Neng flower Plant. the emergence of
scashor-c iime scaletling has lower irccluciy. In summer, it iS only 9%, and it docs not
occui. in winter. Il'hc average ficquency is 4.50,%.
6.3.2.1.3 The TFhiclaness of Mixed Layer
6-13



A.ccording to thc data of Ilua Neng Power Plant, the thlickncss of mixcd layer in
diffcrent stability is listed in Table 6.3.11..
TIahIc 6.3. 1 1  Thiekncss of Xfixed I avcr in lD)iffclcit siabilit'
Stabilitv         Unstable         Neutral           Stable
Tlickness of           462             317               50
Mixed LaYcr (On)
Tlhe table indicates that the average heiglt of mixed layer in diilferent stability in this
region is relatively low. Tlis is the common feature of scashore area. In lhc connected
area of sea and land, the height of niixed layer is restrained because of the conditioning
function of the sea area to temperature layer and the influence of sea and latid wind.
6.3.2.1.4 Atmosphere Stability
Atmosphere stability is an essential feature in rieflecting the intensity of turbulent air
ilow. This assessment uses the P.S stability classification described in G13/T 13201-91.
A\nalyzing the meteorological data of thc last six years from Wcihai Meteorological
Observatorv, the stability frequenc  ol cach season and whole year is listed in Table
6.3.12. Atmosphere stability of last consecutive years and thle comnbined frequency of
wind direction and *vind speed are shown in Table 6.3.13.
Table 6.3.12      Emerged Frequency of DilTerent Stabilily (%)
Time    Winter       Spring     - Summner    Autlumn     Y ear
Stabilit .
A-B                    0.1          1.1         0.1        0.3
B         0.2.        4.3         3.3          2.7        2.6
B-C         .1         4 .5        6.2          2.4        3.3
(___  C ___:3.2       6.0         8.1         27.5        6.
C -D)       0.3         1.3          2.3         1.5        1.3
1)        75.6       67.8         60.6        65.1       67.2
__ gE          12.6        9.0         10.)         12.4       11.0
F         7.9         7.1         8.5          8.6        8.0
'1'liC table showvs that the ncutral weather (Class D) has a leading position wvith a
frcqucncy of 67.2∞o. Stable weather (Class lF.F) takes a frequency of 19.00)%. Ihe
unstable weatlhcr has a lowvcr frequency of 13.7∞o.
0.3.2.2 Iimpact Assessmient and Prediction of Atmospheric
Environimicnt
6.3.2.2.1 Predliction Model
6-14



Scc Annex 1.
6.3.2.2.2 Parameter-s of Pollution Sources
5.3.2.4 Pollutant Sourc Parameters
'llc paramcters of Weihai No.3 TIhennal Power Plant is listed in Table 6.3.14.
Tablc 6.3.14      Pollutant Source Paramctcrs of Thermal Power Plant
Chimney   inner    Releasing      Outlet    Volune of Quantity of
Item   lheight(m) Adkameter oil rate of flue temperature I flue gas and! 802 (mgs)
outlet (m)  gas (m3ls)    of fluc     (mg/s)
____________________________ ;_________   gas(k)
3x75       120!        3         74.2        423         16150     68888.9
tons/hour,
boiler'      ;        
6.3.2.2.3 Atmospliere DilTusion Parameters
Thc selection of dilThsion parameters is stricily according to thc rqcuirement of
niationial standard (G133840-83) and G(uidie;line for I,A  (iiJrr2.2-93).
6.3.2.2.4 Prediction Results and Assessment
A. Axial Concentration
Thc S02 and TSP discharged by No.3 CI1D Plant are( 0.0550 mg'm3
and ( 0.0128 mgij3, whichi accounts foir I 1%> aind 2.561∞o o tlhe Ccorresponding slandar'ds,
in the case of B type stability. Tlhc distaice of niaxim)umii landing conlceiitration is 1527m.
D. Axial Conccntration under Unfavorable MNleteorological Condition
for Diffiusioni
Choose the seashore fume type difftusion as the unlavorable condition bor the
diffuLsion of flue gas from  the plant. Wlhen the wind speed is 1m/s, the landing
conicentration is the maximum, S02 is 0.1694 mg'nm3, 33% of Grade H standard. TSP is
0.0397 mg/rn3, 8%,-o of Grade I .standard. The axal concentration of SO2 and TSiP are
botl svi1ihin the standard.
C. Daily Average Conc:nlration of a Typical Day
In summer, the maximum dailv mcan den-4sity ol S(). is 0.0110 I l 0 .
1j



Table 6.3.13   The Joint Frequency of Uind Speed, Wind Direction and StabilitY (1989-1994)
-    N   NINE  NE  ENTE  E   ESE  SE  SSE   S  SSW  SW  A-SW[ W XV  NW  NNV I NNXV   C
<  B   0.14  0.11 0.21  0.24 0.16 0.11  0.34 0.21  0.05 0.07 0.01  0.02 0.07  0.02  0.20  0.06  0.76
1.9 D .0.14  0.10 0.14 0.12 0.12 0.14 0.22 0.08 0.12 0.04 0.04 0.03          0.06  0.12  0.09  1.62
E.F  0.13  0.15 0.10 0.18 0.17 0.31  0.37 0.55 0.69 0.33 0.36 0.38 0.31  0.39  0.46  0.38  1.60
..._.____._   _  .-   .   _  _ .-  .   _-  _    _   _   _   _   _   - .  _~    _  .   _~  _   .  _    _   _- -  _ .  _   _
B   0.03  0.11 0.14 0.11 0.12  0.17 0.08 0.06 0.02 0.02                  0.01  0.06  0.01
2-  C   0.10 0.06 0.28 0.22 0.20 0.18 0.31 0.17 0.07 0.03 0.01  0.02 0.04  0.06  0.14  0.10
2.9 D   0.08  0.17 0.26 0.23 0.22 0.26 0.32 0.26 0.22 0.09 0.11  0.04 0.07  0.14  0.20  0.17
E.F  0.13  0.10 0.10 0.04 0.10  0.26  0.48 0.72 0.80 0.52 0.30 0.11  0.40  0.60  0.80  0.24
3-  C  0.26 0.43  1.61 0.39 0.74 0.26 0.47 0.62 0.35 0.18 0.21  0.13 0.20  0.65  0.68  0.39
4.9 D   0.58  0.38 0.59 0.32 0.36  0.50 0.88  1.44 0.94 0.46 0.38 0.18 0.34  1.00  1.00  0.50
E  0.17 0.10 0.10 0.04 0.12  0.14 0.38 0.86 0.80 0.52 0.32 0.22 0.49  0.92  0.24  0.34
5-  D   0.70 0.58 0.71 0.20 0.41 0.29 0.41T 1.11  1.06 0.92 0.72  0.20 0.59  1.53  1.80  1.09
>G. D   3.36  1.64 0.78 0.33 0.40 0.36 0.76 i 1.53 3.82 2.92 2.12 0.68  1.90  4.40  7.10  6.26
& 16



7.33∞o of Gradc II standard. The maximum dailv mcan dcnsity of floating dust is 0.0041
mg/rn3. 2.73∞% of Grade II standard.
In winter, the maximum daily mcan density of S02 is 0.0090 mg/m3, 6.00% of
Gradc 1I siandardi. The maximutnm daily mncan density of floating dust is 0.0021 mg/m3,
1.40% of Grade 11 standard.
D. Annual daily Average Concentration of SO2
The annual daily average concentration of SO2 is rclatively low. maximum annual
daily average concentration is 0.0020 mg/m3, about 3.330io of Grade II standard, lower
than the standard.
E. Substitution Benefits
Explain the necessity of constructing the No. 3 CHP Plant through comparing and
analyzing the following plans: i) existing environmunital conditions in Wcihai; ii) with
building up No.3 CUP Plant; iii) without building up) No.3 CIIP Plant in Year 2000.
a) Existing Pollution Sources in Southern District
The industrial and domestic pollution sources are listed in Table 6.3.15. Most of the
pollution sources vill be replaced by completion of No.3 CHP Plant.
b) Coal Consump)tion and Discharge Amount of Pollutants in 2000 without CHP Plant
If tlhci is no pian to construct the No. 3 ClII' llant, the heat necdcd by
newly increased building, will be supplied by stoves and small boilers, the
Table 6.3.15  Stlatisical Results of Fxisling Pollution Sources
13oilcr       Small     Coal        S02   i_1_SP_
Number.Capaciav(t h)? Boiler Consumption Discharge  Discharge
Producingt   29     129      L172,133            !5366
H e t n     431                _  __   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . . . _. .   _ _   _ _ _
Heating          46, 1               9,031         289    ] 288
Heating                      15,000 f11,300(       361        486
Livingo                            f 9 0           64         86
Total,        ,           l       ,194,464     6,080      2,811
industrial and lomcstic coal consutnplion am<ount will be up to 263,019 tons and 2,000
tons in year 2000. See Table 6.3.16
Table 6.3.16  Coal Consumption and Pollutants Emission without CHP
Plant in Year 2000  (ton/tt'.)
Coal consumption', S02 Emission    TSP Eniission
Produticing      263,019          8,273            3,504
Hcating         28,180            902              972
Living          2,000             64              86
Total          293,199          9,239            4,562
c) Coal Consumption and Discharge Amount of Pollutants in 2000 with C1III Plant
The annual coal consumption amounit ot No. 3 CI-ll Plant is 198,696 tons with
dust rcnoval efliciency of 99% and desulfurization rate of 80%. The annual emission
6-17



ainount of S02 anid TSP are 1,488 tons anid 349 tons. Therc will be 15,000 stoves
rcplaccd wvith thc savc of coal consuimiption amounit of 153.511 tons and 24,775 tons of
increased in thle future. See Table 6.3.17 for pollutants emission amount and coal
consumptioll.
T able 6.3.17 Coal Consumption and Pollutants Emission with CHP
Plant in Ycar 2000  (lon/ir.)
I'olltition Sources    Coal Consumption  S02 E'mission '[81' Emission
Fengji heating stationl   19,953            465          123
Towngas Plant          19,000            638      '  192
Living      1       2,000       i    64      1    86
No. 3 CHP Plant        198,696       !   1,488        349
Total             239,649           2,646        750
d) Coal Consumption Amount and Pollutants Emission Changes with and
without No.3 Cl-IP Plant
See Table 6.3.18.
Table 6.3.18 Coal Consumption Amount and Pollutants Emission
Changes with and without No.3 CHP Plant ( compared with 1994)
Contents       Coal Amount   S02 Emission   TSP Emission
Changes        C.hangcs        Changes
Witl NO.3 CI-IP .    98,735          3,159           1,751
Without NO.3 CIHP     45,185          -3,434         -2,061
From the Table, we know that the increase of coal consumption amount and
emission amount of S02 and TSP will be 98,735, 3,159 and 1,751 tons respectively
wilhout the No3 CIPII Plant. If the No.3 CI1P '1lant compicctd in Year 2000, tlhough the
increase of coal consumption amount will be 45,185 tons, the reduction of emission
amount of S02 and TSP will be 3,434 and 2,061 tons annually, which will be greatly
improved ambient air quality.
e) Prediction and Assessment of Ambient Air Quality in 2000
* Prediction Model
Sec Anncx 1.
ï P'rediction Method
The urban area is divided into 19 grids with 2000 x 2000 m. The boilers for
industrial andl hcating use are classified as heating boiler area sources with the effective
height of 45 m. Domestic stoves, boilers with capacity of 1 t/h and smaller are classified
as heating boiler area sources with the effective height of 30 m. The density of pollution
soutces were listed in Table 5-37 to Table 5-45 of the EIA Rcport of No. 3 CHP Plant.
* Prediction Results
1) Model Verification
Wc sclcctcd thlrce routinc monitoring spots in assessmctt arca and calculated daily
and montlhly avcrage concentration, then compared with monitoring rcsults. See Table
6-18



*   ,  ~~~ _, r 
.~~~~~~~~ _                                                      -_ -. ;a,^:  :L~_,o^--.-g-,
'- ~    ~        ~        \ -^ /s .--
"N'~~~~~'
~~. v..              uaIa.~ 
\ ,1 hS;6CS
..   _   ---.  
"--    <   '   ~  
':   'i ,  l. . ,   .  I.
~~~~~~~~~~U il >
-,ß7~~ i- ,. U]     l ''I 
,~   ~ ,.ss-r.L- 
-  /~~1       /  \
Scale 1 84000



6.3.19.
From thc Tablc, we scc that the rang,c of calculatcd daily avcragc concentration of
S02 basically coincides witlli t  ranlg  1 moalitoflg rosultos s with he miaxitiiumii en'or
about I10%O. Thi samne circiumi.slaiice occurs iii tlc monthlh cases. So the iniodcl is suitable
16OV protection.
The calculated results of TSP arc relatively dillir-ei wvith [lie innitoring
Tabli 0.3.19  CalculatC(l alid Moiiitorini,,g Rsulls of Pololutants (ing'1;n)
l'c.,ioii l0111tants    l)ailv ,AvCraoc             NitOullV 
1\,.C(, foil,tN                                  Mon     ulvAvting Ci r~
-               ,    _____onitorin_   Calculating -vMoniloring.  Calculating; Ellor%i
| Urblan   S02    0.003-0.202 0.003-0.222    0.046          0.043       6.5
TSIP   0.078-0.253  0.003-0.188   (0.139          0.037
Shinan.  S02    0.030-0.033, 0.003-0.041    0.018           0.020
TSP   '0.091-0.112' 0.010-0.069    0.101          0.028
ones. T hc reason is that it is affceted bv dust raise, tail gas of cars and dusts produced in
industrial proccss. Bv comparison, within the (daivx averagc conlcenltrationi, therc is about
0.065 nginm3 of natural dust antd about 0. 1 rng/rn3 of nalural dust wit hin the monthly
average concentration. lhouglh thlc difference nmay not be accurate, due to 15 days
successive monitoring, it -may havc ccilain representative. So tilcsc tlvo values cani be
used inI prtojectionl lOl- COITCCtiOIl.
2) \'Ia.xinum Daily and Mlonthly Con;cntratllioni iti 2000 with and
without No. 3 CHIJ Plant
Thlle maximumn dailv and nmonthly concentration ol lp)oulanis in 200(0 with and
without No. 3 CID" Plant arc fisted in Table 6.3.20 and (i6.3.21.
Table 6.3.20 Mharximum Daily and MX1onthlly Concentirationi of .02 in 20(0(0
wilhl and without No. 3 CIIP Plant (n1m;,in3)
Region         Concenlration      I)ailv Average   Monthly Average
1994              0.202            0(.046
Urban          AVith Project         0.274              0.059
-    ____  Wilhout Proicct  0.219    _    _   (1.035
.      1994              0.033              0.(18
S.inan          With Project  j       0.109             0.028
W iWiothut lXoJect     0 .(17             0.007
From the tablc, we know th1at if therC is no No.3 CIlII I'lant in 2000. tle ambicnt
air clualitv of urban area will be worsen, (lhe dailv avcra.e Concentration ol ')2 in urban
andi Shiinan will incrc-asu 0.072 and 0.076 gnig3/ni3. ]3ut alter teic compliction olf tIhC plant,
the ambient air quality in year 2000 wvill bc impro-vcd. The rcduction of S02 and TSP
dlaily averaoc concentration will bC 0.() 16 al1d 0.04() mgn'n3.
3) Pollutants I)isiribution with and witlhout No.3 C IP P'lant
ThI pollulants' concentration in Labor SCrvice C'enter spots (in center of urban
area) was tihC hiehest under Ihe meteorological cond(iltion of Jan. 1. 1994. so this day
6-19



Table 6.3.21 NMaximum Daily and Monthly Concentration of TSP in 2000
with and without No. 3 CIP Plant (mg/m3)
Region    7 Concentration    Daily Average  ! Monthly Average
1994           0.253           0.139
Urban     I With Project        0.326           0.152
Without Project     0.231           0.126
1994           0.112           0.101
Shinan   -   With Project  1    0.143           0.131
_  Without Project |    0.072   1    0.062
was scelcted as rcpresentative day to forecast. The distribution of pollutants'
concentration of existing situation, 2000 with the project and without the project are
shown in Fig. 6.3.3 to 6.3.8. From the tables and Figures, the heavy populated area is
the heavily polluted area. The maximum daily concentration of S02 under existing
situation is 0.202 mg/m3 with the exceeding standard area of 4,000,000 m2. The
maximum daily concentration of S02 in 2000 without the project is 0.274 mg/m3 with
the exceeding standard area of 8,000,000 m2. The maximum daily concentration of S02
in 2000 with the project is 0.219 mg/m3 with the exceeding standard area of 3,000,000
m2.
The daily average concentration in distribution figures is from industrial production
and heating, excluding from the natural dust. The distribution is same as that of S02.
From the above analysis, the construction of No.3 CHP Plant is neccssary. The
environmcntal benefits will be obviously after the completion of the No.3 CHP Plant.
6.4 Existing, Environmental Quality ain( Iml)acts
Analysis of Groundwater
6.4.1 Monitorinig and Assessrniet of Existing
Groundwater Quality
6.4.1.1 Layout of Monitoring Spots
One monitoring point is at Songjiawa in upper reaches of groundwater of the depot
and two points at Zhongjicun in lower reaches of groundwater.
6.4.1.2 Monitoring Itents and Analysis Methods
According to the Outline of Assessment, the monitoring items include: PH value,
total hardness, sulfate, fluoride, chloride, volatile phenol, As,Se, six-valence chromium,
nine items in all. Implement "Methods for Monitoring and Analyzing Water and Waste
WXTater".
6-20



"-'1   2             =       wexceeding class I > exceeding class I
\~~ ra'k-gr,  
_==i s -N==- S--
~~~~~~~~~~
\ .--,-}/^ 
-~~~ ~ - *\h -%L=
\~~~~~~~~~   it c"  I pun , Ia SoittLit 7mll  * . -
_    ! 
Scal1:, _ 400
Fig.6.3.3 Thc Present Situationl of the Distribution of
SO2 Daily Average Concentrationl     5UD 
Scale 1:84000



-  \                \ ',N       .        ;-
~~~~  -~~~~i
___\X _  ..;a  :t::.  ---- 
0.10
\\i i   "' 
\    ..      ~~~,- ,;  .\ \.   
*  .         \~~~~~~~~* 1,l    ,, ,      . -
\ ~ ~~~~~~ +1 | ;   ;   1     
-I,    i  ipn 'spot
\- -   --- ,.~. ~
~~~~  1lScital ss ne 1--00
\\'--~    ___
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- '~;*; ,''
Fig.6.3.4 The Prcsent Situlation of the Distribultion of
TSP Daily Average Concenltration            ' 6 a n
Scale 1:84000



exceeding class I exceeding class
_4-
-~
* ~~~~~_ 
~~~~~~~
M     I-    =  \  f\   = 
- --'s7
%  , >   _  -5-     ,
Witti~~~~~~~~~~~bt Costucin Ni.IIt zoCHP   Plant
Scale.1 0, ' 'I , _'
;  . .   '    Zi''  \. A
: - a=:lrtr~~'\\ \
'>'~~~~~J'
Fig.6.3.5 Thec Distrib)ution of SO2 Dail~ Average ConlCentrationl
With Constructing Ni. . 3 CHP  Plant          6 8 r      X
Scale  1 :8X1000



X~~ '5 a                         o -'     -= =1  1
> ~~ > vQQ& --_ \ X ~~exteediing cluss I iexce0ding c1ase
/,.
-@ s. . ;                       \                              '-'
.>,,,//'~ Ii
*1              .
1.                1 -:
\ ~Y\9l9.
-.,J''fMI 
Fig,.6.3 .7 Tlhe Distributionl of SO2 Daily Averag,c Conlcentrationl
Without Constructing No.3 CHP  Plant         16du        3  
Scale  1:84000



6.4.1.3 Mlonitoring Timiie and Results
Sample once on May 20, 1996. The results are shown in Table 6.4. 1.
T'able 6.4.1  Monitorcd Results of Existing Groun(lwaltr
Unit: mg/l (except PH value)
llcmnsl'i-I |Total ~SuLfatel  Fluoride 'Chlorid c!Volatilc As   1Sc  ,,Crl6
dcnsity !valu1hard-                i        phcnol i
Monitoring  le  iness
points
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I .t
1#       16.72i 64.4  11.00 i 0.11      41.5  j< 0.002 K0.00iO.00041 <0.00
I,   t  5       |       i       1 ~~~~~~~~~~7   7   4
2#       i6.801 168 f  24      0.14     77.2  j<0.002! -.00!0.0006  <0.00
_ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _   ~~  ~   ~~7  1  4
3        ;6.32196.8.21 13.90 1 0.43  1 402.72 <0.002 <0.00!0.0006  <0.00
I            ~~~~~7~ 8    4
,   I   I       I        t        ,       X  7  |  g   !-'4
6.4.1.4 Assessment of Existinig Environmiienital Quality of Groundwater
lmplement "Drinking Water Standard" (GB 5749-85). Single-lactor-index methods
is selected as assessment method. All the monitoring items are assessment factors. See
Tabic 6.4.2
Songjiawa village locates in upper rcaches of groundwaler. Its pollution factors do
not exceed the standard. Zhonglicun locates in lower reaches of groutidwater and near
lhc sea. At the 2# monitoring point in the west of Zhonglicun, the water has an acid
nature for lower PH value. The acid
Table 6.4.2  Assessment Results of Existing (Crtiro idwvater- .nvironment
Item    PH      Total  I Sulfate Fluoride Chloiide   As    Se  Cf'+
Index             hardness i
Mniitoring                                               i
points                         ,
111     , 0.56      0 ().14  j (30.04    0.11_L  .17   <O. 14  0.05 <0.08
211        1.84;i  0.37       0.09  j0.14  1 0.31 y<0.141' 0.06 }<0.08
3#1        1.36      2.15  1 0.06  1 0.43    1.61   <0.14! 0.07  <0.08
nature is because of the background factors. At the 3# moritoring point in the north of
the village, the total hardness, chloride and PH value exceed the standard. This point has
thc indicationi of sea water transgressioni caused by over-exploitation of groundwater.
The geological structurc of this area is river Dlood land deposition witlh thinner buried
base rock (only about 10 meters). The base rock has a large drop of rising and falling
(th1C range of variation of buried depth is bctweccn 3 and 18 meters). The sea watcr
transpgession is also affected by the nising and falling of base rock. Thus although thcre is
6-21



only 500 meters between 2# anid 3# monitoring points, the 2# monilonn,i point has no
transgression indication.
Following the clevelopment of Weihai south district, its urbaanized lunction would
be  improvcd gradually. The local rcsidenls would use thc tap waler inistcad of exploiting
groutndwater. Tile groundwater in lower rcaches and( around tlie plant site will not be
used as drinking water. The groundwater level will gradually return to normal. The
drainiagc of ground(walci to sca area will inicreasc. 'h'lic inipacts ol sea water tranisgression
oln groutndwatet would be alleviated.
6.4.2 Impacts Analysis of Groundwater Environment
6.2.2.1 Analvsis of PoJluting Factors (of Groundwater
In the three wastes released froni the CIII ' Pllant, the, impacts Iactors to
groundwvater quality are penreation of released eluvial water from the cinder depoL and
[tic coal-polluted water from coal field. The waste water released 1mroin CIII' Plant are
boiler circulating waste water, pail of intdustrial waste water at(i little domestic sewage,
whiclh do not contain poisonous and harnnilul inaterials. So lotig as ilc work of anti-
sccpag,c of channels is properly carried oti in the relcasing process, the vasic water will
niot cause functional damage to the groundwater quality. Some permeated waste water
can b e purified through the air saturation soil.
The coal polluted water comes from tilC spray water for ldustlall anid rainfall eluvial
water. Spray wvater for dustfall produccs littlc polluted water and can be utilized
cvclicallv'. The large amount of coal polluted water is caused 1b heavy rain. Accor-ding to
tlh ievestigation and analysis of 1thc coal pollulcd water (quality of othlcr power p)lant, the
miain pollutants arc SS, 2 .  Because the rain  waler remaiLs in thc coal iickI lor a short
time and only acts onthe surface of coal field. Thie pollutants dissolved in the polluted
water arc (quite limited( andl not enouhLl produeinig %iolafing psollutlioni. 'Itlc coal yard
slhouil(l have collecting- lank ol coal polluted waler in ordel to prevent it directly dirainiing
out to pollute the surface water. Enough retention peiio(d (usually 24 hours) can
precipitale over 9()o of SS, reduce the SS pollution eflectivelv.
6.4.2.2 IJnmpacts ol Cinder Eluvial Water oii (Gr-ouid water Quality
\Vcihai No.3  elcrmal lPowcr Plant adolpls eecitrostati; preeipitation an(i dry ashi
disposal sy stem. 'Ihe ash water mainly comes liomn tlc raintall eluOialion on cinder depot.
Thie water used in slag r emoval system can b e utilized cyclically. Its pollution to surface
water- and ground water is not serious. If the cinder is kept in the .depot for a long termn,
the rainfall eluviation and permeation would cause lharilul pollution. Ihrough the
3nalogical analYsis of the cinder eluvial water quality itn Nanding thermal I'ower Illant,
the main lpollutaints in the cinder eluvial water are listed in Table 6.4.3.
The main comp ositions of cinder eluvial water that probiably cause functional
daml1age 10 groundwatel are PI1, tolal hardness, F, As.
fi-22



Table 6.4.3  Main Pollutants in the Cindel Efluvial Walcr
Unil: mlg/I (except   I value)
r                           ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~2-  C- 6-±
Pollutants   PH  | Total hardness    S    -            Ci     A
(CaCO3)                              I
Numerical  9.3001   555.100   i 0.022 1 1.78 I 0.006 1 0.095
value   ,                              l
As above meniioned, the main tactor of groundwater pollution in CHIP Plant is the
permeation of cindet eluvial water. In the circulating cinder depot, the residue wil not
remain for a long time and usually necd spraying watcr for dustfall. In general cases, the
dustfall water can not cause drain and permeation of eluvial water. Cinder eluviation
timc in heavv rain weathcr is quite sholt. The density of polutants in eluvi water is
lowcr. But the cinder-washiing rain has lots of suspended materials which need
precipilating.   Tlue method can bc horizontal sedimentation. lThe volume of
sedimentation tanL is not less than 150 mi'. The capacity of circulating cinder depot
should not less than the quantity of half vear's cinder residue of the plant. In order to
prevcnt the cinder cluvial water polluting ilc groundwater, the floor of cinder depot
should have the anti-seepage function. And the sedimentation tank should also adopt the
concrete structure. After taking these measures, the cluvial water would not bring
functional damage to thC surountding groundwater.
The reserve depot of Weihai No.3 Thermal Power Plant locates in a small gully on
north slope of Baohu I-Ell, 1.5 km southwest of plant site. INs lotal occupied area is
42000m2 with a storing capacity of 150 thousand tons, which satisfy the requirements of
storing adjustment when the way of comprehensive utilization is blocked. The depot is
mainly farmland at present.
Thirough the analysis of the hydrogeological conditions of the reserve cinder depot,
the thickness of weathered elurium in the depot is less than 3 meters, which belongs to
the penneable stratum. Base rock is granite paragneiss which has bad watery and water
permeability. The depot groundwater has no close connection with the groundwater of
neighboring hydrogeological units, but locates at the upper reaches of groundwater
collection area of Xiqufu in northeast.
The belt-like cinder depot is set up along the slope gully, with a high supcrelevation
in longitudinal direction (the average falling gradient is 8%). The cinder should be
stored in steps from the top. When starl using the upper gDid, a dam must be constructed
in the lower grid, where the ash water would precipitale. Once a glid is fill-stored, cover
it witl sofl and plant turf. The rain coud rm off on the suiface without much
permcation. If the eluvial water only exists in the storing grid, its inpacts on surface and
ground water can be controlled. li fact, the main impact factors of eluvial water are PH,
total hardness, F and As. So long as taking proper measures, the forning of eluvial
wvater can be prevented. In wet season, the cinder has a short acting limc on the water.
The pollutants in the cluvial water has a comparatively low density.  After the soil
absorption and puriification, it would not bring functional damage to the water quality of
groundwater catchlnent area in its lower reaches. So, the cinder site selected is
practicable if taking necessaiy controlling measures in using time.
6-23



6.5 Impact Assessment of Noise on Environment
6.5.1 Monitoring and Assessment of Existing Noise
Conditioni
6.5.1.1 Layout of Monitoring Spots
According to the requirements of the Outline of Environment Assessment, noise
assessed area is limited from Im outside the plant boundary and in two villages--
Zhonglicun and Songjiawa. Six monitoring sports are set up, Tour in each direction from
the plant boundary, one in the west of Zhonglicun and one in the north of Songiiawa.
See figure 6.5.1. Ng 1 North plant boundary, N∞ 2 East plant boundary, NQ 3 South
plant boundary, Ns 4 West plant boundary, Ns 5 Zhonglicun, Ng 6 Songjiawa.
6.5.1.2 AMonitoring Items and Method
* Monitoriing Items: Measure thc L1O, L50, L90 of each monitoring points.
* Monitoring Method: Measure in accordance with "Technical Regulations
Consceining Environmtnl Monitoting". '1'ake dowIn (he LA"I ol' equivalcnt
continuous noise level A.
6.5.1.3 Monitoring Time anid Frequeucy
Once in daytime (8:00--12:00 or 14:00--18:00), once at night (22:00--05:00) on
Mlay 25, 1996. Thc monitoring coniditions include: nlo rain weather, lower than force 4
wind, microphone with wind-proof cover, using calculation network A as sound level
mneter, slow dynamic characteristics, equivalent noise level A as noise representative
value, using Type NN-1 precision sound level meter.
6.5.1.4 Monitored Results
Table 6.5.1            Monitored Statistics of Noise
Point      Point location     Equivalent Conlinuous Noise Level
,____.,______________               dB(A )
number                       daytime Standard i  night standard
____ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___[60dB(A)j  I  [50dB(A)I
I   1Norlh Plant Boundary         46.4            '36.8
2#1   East Plant Boundary         45.4              36.0
3#  , South Plant Boundary        42.3              37.1
4#   \West Plant Boundary         47.5              38.9
511       Zhohglicun              42.0             32.5
6#i       Songjiawa               44.1              36.3
6-24



Buildings' Eit
/  = tl _  I tlxxbS?arwI Lqst  4l 10 -
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I    5.. c...                                                                   II I, n  il0 c.g-. a. 1.0  .- a1 Md 7t..  . -,.l
I X _ __MI 4-4.fl.4 1I4          30-..,-l 
IS I ftn  1.... -               U I "M   p.. g,.,j..
uXI -=1  4 7                  if I C.*' sm   *le il nd1
. .--
U I f    .. C.. Road4 .1.5 C- e                     15t 0   -
I" 1 XM           ,            U I 0tI~~.j.. C-
13 -  M ..o-p...o -           211o  mTU2:s' rr.''.A     '
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10 _0 _.* _.. Scale 1:t202 00. 
C3       zhonghcun  ~~I 4  _tt  Ch.-.1...          .4d.    20 -P-S* 0I1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NI '. C.  *. .~~
czi . 6S.    I' 1 3"1t -o-a* Noiseft Monitoring P
-  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                0~~~~~~21f.-b"
C), ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~ I                     L                                                                            I.I'5IS'Xt-.                    0IA  I0.,  a
L                                                                 a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s I itV o~.Li, EI Ul:2oJt D     o- o
3,                           ___________________                  I                   -                                 U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I ∂z G..0.  1
Legend
mai~in noISe'source
Feniini Road                                                                                                                                " xsting mOUoflorig point
1                                           ~~~~~~~~~Scale  1:2200
I                                             ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~4-m  0
6w 0~
Fig.6.5.1 Location of Noise Monitoring Points



The statistics of each monitoring points is listed in Table 6.5.1.
6.5.1.5 Assessnment of Existing Situation
According to Grade II standard in "Standard of Environment Noise in Urban
Districts"(GB 3096-93). That is equivalent sound level 6OdB(A) in day time anid
equiValent sound level 5OdB(A) at night.
Comparing the monitored data with standard values, the noise level at each
monitoring point around the plant is lower than standard value al present, and accords
with the requirements of environment noise standard. The reason is that most monitoring
points are in open ficld and onlyv west plant boundary has higher monitored values for the
influence of vehicles on Qingdao Road.
6.5.2 Impact Assessment of Noise on En-vironnicnt
6.5.2.1 Analysis of Noise Sources
The main noise sources of thermal power plant come from aerodynamic noise,
mechanical noise, electromagnetic noise, etc. Such as blower, turbogenerator set, coal
crusher, air compressor, cooling tower and other mechanic equipment. Table 6.5.2 lists
the noise source intensity of main equipment.
6.5.2.2 Forecasting Model
See Annex 2.
Table 6.5.2    Noise Source Intensity of lain Equipment
Number            Equipment             Sound Level dB(A)
I         Turbogenerator set                   90
2            Coal crusher                      95
3              Blower                          90
4          Air Compressor                      85
5           Cooling tower                      70
6.5.2.3 Forecasting Results
According to above mentioned models and parameters. the predicte(d value of
assessing point is got from adding the newly increascd noise value that calculated at tIhe
predicting point to its original value. See Table 6.5.3.
The Table 6.5.3 shows that al the predicted values of each noise monitoring point
satisfv the requirements of Grade I1 standard in "Standard of En;ironment Noise in
Urban Districts" (GB3096-93). Thus, after the plant being put into operationL it would
have a less influence on the sound environment of Zhonglicun, Songiiawa and the area
6-25



Table 6.5.3   Results of Each Predicting Point     unit: dB(A)
Monitoring          1#        1    2# t              3#
Monitoringtime I daytime  nihight I dve night  daytime I night
Existingvalue   46.4   36.8   45.4  ∂ 36.0   42.3  1 37.1
Predicting value    46.6   38.5   47.2   43.4   43.9_ _    41.0
Increase value  0.2    1.7    1.8    7.4    1.6         3.9
Table 6.5.3    (continued)
Monitoring point E_4#         1      5#       1       6#
Monitoring time  daytimej ngh   dayht me  night  daytume L night
Existing value  47.5  1 _38.9  _42.0   325    44.1    36.3
1   38.9    42.0   _____32 _  44___1   36_ _
Predicting value 1 50.7   48.4 t 43.0   37.8 I 44.6    38.6
Increase value   3.2  J 9.5  l  1.0  j 5.3    0.5  1 2.3
around the plant, so long as a proper arrangement of plant area and an effective control
of noise.
6.5.2.5 Prevention and Control Measures of Noise Pollution
Considering the characteristics of equipment that installed in Weihai NQ 3 CIIP
Plant and its noise features. We put forward the following suggestions:
*  Pay great attention to the noise sources. At the equipment ordering time, require the
manufacturer supply equipment with the noise value not higher than design standard.
To some special equipment with higher noise level, such as coal crusher,
turbogenerator set, blower. Their installation needs to put anti-vibrator, dig anti-
vibration ditch, cover the turbogenerator with blimp, put celotex board around coal
crusher, cover the air compressor with blimp and install it in isolated room. Cooling
tower is also put up isolatedly. Put silencer on the air inlet and outlet of blower,
turbine and air compressor.
* Take sound insulation measures on the windows and doors of plant buildings which
should be airfight.
* In the architectural design, the main work and rest places should be away from noise
sources. And some necessary maintenance rooms should be put up to isolate the
worker from noise.
*  In the general plan of plant area, stress on proper arrangements and noise proof
spacing. Set up afforested belt in plant area, and inside, outside of plant boundary to
reduce the impacts of noise on the surrounding environment.
6.6 Impact Analysis of Ash and Cinder and Coal
Dust on Environment
6.6.1 Ash and Cinder Removing System
626



The ash removed hydraulically and the cinder manually in Weihai CHP Plant
amount to 70,800 tla every year and are dclivered to cement plant, construction
material plant and units for capital construction, paving roads and agricultural
construction to be used comprehensively. These units and plmnts have becn identified.
There is a transfer depot within the plant and an urgent depot in a gully 1.5 km
southwest of the plant to store the ash and cinder delayed in the process to be used
comprehensively.
6.6.2 Treatment of the Ash and Cinder
The pollution degree of the dust is related to the amount of water in the ash and
the weather conditions. That the ash is kept wet in a certain degree will keep the dust
and ash from floating everywhere. The following measures are taken to prevent the
second pollution of the floating dust:
*  Certain amount of water is shed regularly on the cinder-transfer spot to keep it
wet;
*  The urgent cinder storage depot is di%ided into several parts;
i  An afforested belt is built outside the walls of the urgent cinder storage depot to
decrease the amount of the floating dust and to improve the environment;
*  When one part is filled with dust, it is covered with earth to mak-e arable fields and
grass and trees are planted there;
*  The power plant will assign experts to manage the cinder spot and condtuct
regular measurement of the atmosphere around every cinder spot so that
problms will be timely spotted and fimely resohled.
6.6.3 Impact of Coal Dust on Environment and the
Treatment Measures
Ineffective treatment measures and the coal dust pollution in the coal storage
depot are problems polluted in power plant, so prevention and control measures must
be taken in the design. The following measures will be taken with emphasis at this
phrase:
*  Large number of trees will be planted around the cinder depot to forn a
protective belt to decrease the impact of the dust upon the atmosphere.
* Sprinkling system will be installed at the coal depot to shield water regularly and
there will be a sprinkler head every 25 meters so that the whole pile of the coal
can be covered. 21/m3 of water will be shed every time to keep certain humidity
(water>7%) and decrease the amount of the floating dust.
* Hydraulic clearing facilities are installed at the coal delivering bridge, all the
transferring stations and on the tube shaped silo to remove coal dust and prevent
the second pollution of coal dust. The investment in environmental protection will
result in good environmental and social efficicncy, enabling the discharged
pollution of the power plant meet the requirement, decreasing the negative impact
of the discharged pollution upon the environment and improving environmental
6-27



conditions. Power plant project is an environmental protection project and it is
better to build a power plant in terms of improving the living quality of the people.
*  Big duster or electrostatic duster is installed at the transferring station with great
drop height or at the place where coal breaker is set.
*  Drainage and coal depositing reservoir are dug around the coal storage depot to
collect the coal water that is shed or comes from the hydraulic cleaning system
and recollect the mud coal in the coal depositing reservoir.
*  After the coal depot is put into use the power plant will conduct strict
management over it and the sprinklin  hydraulic cleaning and dust removing
facilities will be put into operation in compliance with the demand of the design.
6.7 Environmental Impacts Analysis in Construction
Period
The construction of the project includes plant site and pipe network construction.
The poluting impacts come from the blowing dust and noise of operating equipment.
6.7.1 Impacts of Blowing Dust on Environment and the
Treatment and Control Measures
6.7.1.1 lmpacts Analysis orBlowing Dust on Environment in the Plant
Construction Period
The blowing dust mainly comes from the earthwork phase (the beginning period).
Blowing dust sources are excavator, bulldozer, loading conveyer and other
transportation equipment. The blowing dust includes the dust from earth drop of
excavator, dust caused by catcrpillers and tyres, transportation dust and wind blowing
dust. Because of the short period of earthwork phase (1-2 month) and 1-2 meters high
walLs around the construction site. And the blowing dust has a lower height in operating
time, and a near landing distance, its impacts on the villagers of Songiiawa (0.5 km south
of plant site ) and Zhonglicun (1 km south of plant site ) are quite less.
6.7.1.2 Impacts Analysis of Blowing Dust on Environnment in Pipe
Network Construction Period
The pipe of this project is mostly installed underground. Ihe pipe netvork
construction period includes digging phase, installment phase and covering phase. The
blowing dust in construction period comes from the digging phase, the mound, the
excavator and spade used in digging the pipe ditch. The width and depth of the ditch is
usuallv within 1-2 meters. Lower drop of earth makes little dust, and the landing distance
is also quite near. The dust would not influence the life of the residents in the less
populated south district. After the installment of pipe netwvork;, it must be tesled for
airtight performance. In this period, the mound would be piled along the road for a long
6-28



time. The blowing dust caused by wind probably influence the residenis life. Some
measures should be taken to reduce the dust.
6.7.1.3 Dust Controlling Measures
During the construction period, build up walls of 1 or 2 meters high arounid the
plant site in order to reduce the scattering of flowing dust; Improve the digging speed;
Avoid working in strong wind weather; Lower the drop of earth in operating process;
Take the digged earth to fill pits and make fields. In transportation process, cover the
truck with dust proof sheet. Spray water regularly on the mound along the road. If
these measures are carnied on, the influence of dust to environment would be reduced to
minimum.
6.7.2 Environmental Impacts Analysis of Noise in
Construction Period and thle T'reatment and Control
Measures
6.7.2.1 Impacts Analysis and Assessment of Construction Noise on
Environment in Plant Area
For the purpose of analvzing and controlling noise, thie construcfion period of
thermal power plant is divided into four phases: earthwortk phase. foundation plhase.
structure phase and trim phase.
A. Analysis of Noise Impacts on Environment in Earthwork- Phase
Main noise sources in earthwork phasc are excavator, bulldozer, loadino conveyer,
tip truck and other transportation vehicles. The sound level of the main sources are from
80 to 90 dB(A).
Through the projection. the range of noise impacts on Songijiawa in this phase is
55.4-66.4 dB(A). The range of impacts on Zhonglicin is 50.3-60.3 d13(A). Noise
impacts on Songiawa village do not exceed the standard in day lime in this construction
phase, but exceed the standard by 11.4 dB(A) at night. Noise impacts on 7.honglicun do
not exceed the standard in dav time, but exceed the standard by 5.3 dB(A) at nighlt. 'Ihe
noise limit value at different phrase are listed in Table 6.7.1.
B. Analysis of Noise Source Impacts on Environment in Foundation
Construction Phase
The main noise sources in this phase are differenit kinds of pile driver. road grader
and crane. Although their operating time takes little of the whole construction period,
their noise is quite strong. By estimation. the range of maximum noise impacts on
Songjiawa in daytime construction is 64.5-74.5 dl3(,X). l'he range of miaximiiunm noise
impacts on Zhonglicun is 58.5-68.5 dB(A). Night construction is prohibited.
6-29



Table 6.7.1  Operation Noise Limit Value at Different Construction Phase
1 Tnit: I, dB3
Operation          Main Noise Sources                 Noise
Pharse                                        DaNIime    Night
Earthwork i   Excavator, Bulldozer, Loading    '   75        55
______                   conveyer
Foundation!             Pile dmiver               85      Forbi(dcde
Structure  Concrete mixer, Vibrator. Cutting -off    70     55
i_________    machine
Trimn   !              Crane                    65        55
C. Analysis of Noise Source Impacts on Entironnient in Structure
Construction Phase
Structure phase is the longest one in the building construction perio(l. MIany kinids
of machines are used in this phase. Ihe noise sources have concrete nirxer, 'ibrator,
crane and transportation vehicles. The range of maximum noise impacts on Songjiaiwa is
51.1-61.2 dB(A). The range of maximum noise impacts oni Zhoniglicun is 45-55.2
dB(A).
D. Analysis of Noisc Sourcc Impacts on 1hnsii(3oniiiciit in Iinnl'i PIhase
Trim phase takes a long period in the construction. But it has a fiev noise solUces
and fewer strong noise sources. Mlain noise sources include grinder, electric drill, crane.
cutting-off machine. Mlost noise sources have low sound power level about 90 dlB(A).
Even if some noise sources have strona power level, their operating time is shoil and
some are used onlv in the room. Thus, the distribution range of equivalenit soutd level
LA") is 45-60 dB(A), generall) lower than 55 dB(A). The noise impacts on Songjiawa
and Zhonglicun can be neglected in this phase.
6.7.2.2 Analysis of Noise Impacts on Environnent. in Pipe Netvork
Construction
The noise of pipe network construction mainl comes fi-omn the digogi1g period.
Main noise source is excavator. The noise belongs to low frequenc sound source with a
sound pressure level of (80-85)dB(A). Its impact range is 5Ghi outsi(le of thc road. Tlhe
cquivalent sound lcvcl is in 46-51 dl3(, ) atlter distance attenuatiotn. lihe pipe nietwo;k
construction is in less populated south district of 'Weihai City. It will not lbing harmfil
impacts to the residents.



7 Environmental Benefits and Losses of
Shandong Environmental Projects
Shandong Environmental Projects includes four projects: Yantai 500 Hlcaating
Network, Weihai No.3 CHP Plant, Jinan Yellow River Water Supply Pondage Reservoir
and Jinan Waste Water Networl. AfRer the implement of these four projects, it will
greatly improve the local environmental quality, push the development and open-up of
the cities forward, bzing about positive impacts on local social and economic
development
Following are the analysis of these projects from the point of Oiew of economic,
social and envirornental benefits.
7.1 Jinan Yellow River Water Suppluy Pondage Reservoir
Project
7.1.1 Economic Benefits
The investment of the project is 499.46 million yuan, including 23 million dollars
(197.80 million yuan) from World Bank, 100 million yuan from Banks in China, 50
million yuan from Shandong Government, 151.66 million yuan from Water Supply
Fund. The water supply volume afler normal operation is 154.51 million cubic meter per
year. So the annual income of the project is 115.88 million vuan. The benefits in the first
year afler operation will be up to 7.767 million yuan.
The eamning ratio of total investment is 12.12∞O, which is larger than the reference
ratio of the line. The payoff period is 8.78 years.
From the analysis above, the earning of this project is relatively high.
7.1.2 Social and Environmental Benefits
Jinan is a historic city famous for its springs. But in the past few years with the
development of the economic reform and construction, water has fallen into shorter
supply. Groundwater resources have been overused. Reservoirs' guarantee rate is only
85%o. Although the Yellow river water resources was put in use in 1988, its watcr supp4y
was always in a low efficiency due to the lack of a pondage reservoir, especially in the
past two years when the Yellow River's drv-up period elongated ( The drv-up period in
1995 was 85 days). That caused the obsolescence of the No. 2 Yellow River Water Plant
(water purification plant ) which already has water supply capacitv of 400.000 tons per
day. It is estimated that in 2000 the highest daily water demand wvilI hit 1.3 million tons
and there will be 300.000 tons short every day.
In this urgent situation, if there are not any pondage reservoiis or new water
resources put in use in 1997, 20-309o of the whole city will be in short in water supply
during the Yellow River's dry-up period. By that time, water supplv will he a chief
7-1



factor hindering the city's social and economirc development. Not only wvoi't thelre be
any chance to restore or retain the natural scenery characteristic of the springs. but also
the economic development and improvement of pcople's living standaird vill lbe greatly
hampered. The implement of this proiect will mitigate the crisis of water supply in Jinan
and satisfy the need of water supphl arouid ycar 2000. which will be helpful to
coordinated development of social economics and environnent. In onc halnd. it will
satisfv the demand of domestic and industrial use. In the other hand. it wilU reduce the
extraction of groundwater, make the water level of grounidwater rise anid tlowinig of
springs, which will also lay the foundation of developing the tourist industries.
7.2 Jinan Waste Water Nethorik Project
7.2.1 Economic Benefits
The investment of the project is 256.95 million yuan, if the inflation is taken into
consideration as required by World Bank, the investment wil be 282.65 million uan.
The earning ratio of total investment is 22.34%o. The payoff period is 1 1.29 years.
From the analysis above, the eaniing of this project is rclative-l high andi the risk is
low.
Jinan Wa*stewater Treatment Plant had becn finished the lirst stage enginleering wilt
the investment of 0.305 billion Xuan (capacity: 0.22 million m3 d). But, it can not be put
into use due to lack of pipeline network. The annual salar cost of the plant will hit 9.6
million yuan (160 persons, average salarm: 500 vuanrmonth per cipita). If the discount
rate of fixed assets is 4.5%, the discount fee is 13.7 million yuan per year. so the annual
loss of the treatment plant will hit 20 million yuan added by interests of loans. After the
implement of the project, this kind of losses can he avoided.
7.2.2 Environmental Benefits
At present, most of industrial and domestic wastewatcr are discharged without aniv
treatment process and bring about severe pollution to Xiaotling Riiver and tle rivcr
channels in urban area. Daming Lake already shows the eutrophic charactelistics
polluted by domestic sewage. After the completion of' the network, the operation of
WN'astewater Treatment Plant will greatly re(duce-d the pollutiotn to water body. improve
the landscape anid portable water quality, lromote relbrtm and open-up.
The capacity of the wastewater trcatment plant is 0.22 millioni m3.  After its
operation. 32.120 tons of COD, 19.345 tons of 13(-)D and 29,565 tons ol SS will be
reduced ainually.
7.2.3 Social Benefits
At present, due to the pollution of industrial auid doinestic waslewalcr. Ith health of
people along the banks of Xiaoqing River atc hcaily af1ecte(l. Accorditing to staliqticil



data, the morbidity of cancer, exogenous febrile disease, hepatitis, enteropathy and skin
disease are obviously higher than other regions. In addition, groundwater is the main
water supply source in Jinan, if the present situation goes on, the groundwater will be
polluted in the future. So construction of wastewater collecting system is pressing. It has
immeasurable social benefits:
*  Strengthen the overall function of the city, provide good base for developing of the
city.
*  Inprove portable water quality, reduce the disease caused by water pollution
0  Effectivelv control water pollution, improve investment environment of Jinan,
promote development of economy.
*  Change the appearance of the city, create good city's landscape.
Through the analysis above, the construction of Jinan Waste Water Collecting
Network as parts of the infrastructure will bring about inuneasurable indirect benefits. In
a word, the project is feasible.
7.3 Yantai 500 Heating Network Project
7.3.1 Economic Benefits
7.3.1.1 Direct Economic Benefits
The total investment on the project is $46,190,000 US dollar, including 23 million
US dollar from World Bank.
After completion of the project, the heat supply each year will be 3.82X106 GJ.
The ordinarv sell volume will be $19,830.000 US dollar each vear.
Investment profit rate = 10.73% (before tax); investment profit rate = 7.18∞o (alter
tax); investment profits tax rate = 15.45 0o; investmnent payoff period is 8.6 year;
economic internal rate of return is 16.6%; economic nct prescnt valuc is $S8.940,000)(t S
dollar.
7.3.1.2 lndfirect Economic Profits
This projcct vill save standard coal of 216.200 ton each ycar. equal to 8.864.20(
US dollar; electric power of 5.42X104 million KWVh eachi yea. equal to 287,210() US
dollar; water 1.6X105 ton each year, which is equal to S40,000 US dollar. It will save the
land used b) dispersed boiler houses and chimneys land area 73)00m2, and the
compensation cost of the land token over for use 790,000 US. dollar. Total indirect
economic profit is 998.14 US dolLar.
It can be shown from the above economic analysis, that except the cost of the
project, there are some surplus in addition to social profit on thc basis of the cullelt
price. Thus this project is creditable.
? -3



7.3.2 Environment Bcnefits
The main impacts on the environment during the project's constructioni phase arc
the noise and the heavy traffic. From above analvsis. we know that the two impacts arc
recoverable. They wvill not exist as the completion of lthe project.
In the operating phase, the newly added pollution sources are the peak load heating
boiler house, 42 substations and the noise polluters of thic two booster pump stations.
They replace the old pollution sources of 280 boilers and 63,000 coal stoves.
It is estimated that in the running time, the noise intensitv inter-puml) is 80-90
dB(A), for the measure of sound-proof and muffling, the noise intensity extra-pumnp
decreases to 70-80 dB(A), the noise intensity in the attendance office is below 70 dfl(A).
They all can meet the requirements of the ´< Designing Regulation of the Industrial
Enferprise Noise Control >> (GBJ 87-85). For the long distance and the muflling effect
of the buildings, the noise intensitv in the resident area is 35 (dB1(A). lhat mliects thie
requirement of the <<c Noise Standard in Urban Area Envirotinent >> (GB 3096-93).
There is little influence on the neighborhood residenis.
T he newly added boiler house will use coal 22, 180 ton. discharging So,( 2 14.5 town
fly ash 31.68 ton every year. They  replace the most of the dispersed civil coal stoves
vhich is of low heat efficiency, low height of discharge. The coal used decreases by
216,200 ton each year; S02 discharged dIcrcases      68Xt) t(on each year; liv asht
decreases bv 4403 ton each v'ear. Thc atmospheric quality of this area is much improved.
It is calculated, that in heating period. the ground level concentration of SO;, will
decrease by 600%o, fly ash will decrease by 40qo: and the average intensity of SO,2 will
decrease by 0.0877 mg'm3, fly ash wNill decrease by 0.0599 mg'ni3. The enironental
benefit is obvious.
For the coal used dccreases bv 216.200 ton, the sludge decreases by 65.000 toni
each year. so the transportation volume decreases by 281.200 ton cach . car. If thc
transportation volume of each sct of vehiicle is 4 ton. there mutst lie 70.3(0) sets ol vehiclc
saved for the decrtcasecd translol-tation volulic. If tlle heating pleriodl is 13') days;.. therce
must be 505 sets of transportation vehicle saved each day. Aller- tic completion of' tht'
project, it will not onlv diminish dust's secondary pollution. but also save great (leai of
transportation fiuel, and thus decreases thc amotunit of tail -as discharoedl.
In Yantai City. the main kind of ciNil used coal is the honeycomb briquette. Tlhe
honevcomb briquette plant arc all located in the city arca. TIhle dust duc to thle Coal laid ill
the open air have big impact on the neighborhood residents. In rain days. black water
flows evervwhere, which causes great economic loss. and makes serious environmental
pollution. There are many complaints form  the residents near to the honeycomb
briquette producing Factorv which is of noise intensity higher thatn 10 (lB(A). and
working day and night. This project wvll settle above problem forever. and is miucl
wvelcome by the public.
7.3.3 Social Benefits



With the completion and running of this project, the municipal infrastructure of
Yantai City will be perfected, its service function will be strengthened and its investment
climate will be improved. This will motivate the city's development and its open
economy.
With the executive of the project, the local atmospheric qualitv is improvedl. Thus
the health leveL the living standard and the sanitation state of the target people are
improved. The residents are relieved from the heavy homework. They have more easy
time to get more rest and entertainment. They can concentrate their efforts to work and
study and to make more wealth for the society.
Because large and small coal supply plants in the city area will be removed, it will
not only save the city land, but also relieve the work-ers in the those plants from heavy
and dirty labor of loading-unloading coals and honeycomb briquette producing. Most of
them become the workem of heat exchange stations. Their labor strength is lightened,
and their income increased.
For the district heating of this projcct, coal can be decreased bv 210,0M) ton each
year (1555 ton each day); sludge transported can be decreased by 65,000 ton each year
(467 ton each day), vehicles used for the transportation decreased by 505 each year.
There are some effects on lightening the city's heavy traffic, diminish the noise and the
prevent the second time dust pollution.
7.4 Wcihai No. 3 CHP Plant
7.4.1 Economic Benefits
The total investment of this project is up to 300.2 million yuan, including 144.9
million yuan (17.25 million US dollar) from World Bank. Its annual is 2 ' 12MWA7. All the
economic indexes of this project can meet the relative national standards. The pay back
period is 8.77 years, which is shorter than the standard (10 vears). The eamino ralio of
total investment is 20.03∞,o (15 years) and 21.36∞%, (20 years), larger thani basic caninig
ratio (120%). Afler operation, the annual income of the plant will hit 144.99 million yuan.
So the economic benefits of the project is high.
7.4.2 Environmental and Social Benefits
Weihai is a newly built coastal city. Along with the development ol the city aild
raise of living standard, the boilers for heating increase greatly. Due to the small capacity,
low heat efficiency, none or low efficiency of dust removal, no desulfirization facilities,
low emission heights it will bring about hcavy pollution.
To improve the ambient air quality in Weihai, the No. 3 CHP Plant is urgently
needed. The operation of the project will not onlv bring about economic bencfits.
increase employment opportunities, but also improve air quualitv and raise thi living
standards of the people. By comparing the circumstances with and without the project,
we know that the construction of No. 3 CHP Plant will further improving the ambient air
quality in Shinan District of Weihai. Shinan District is the industrial zone in Weihai, in
7_c



the following years, all the newly built projects will be constructed in this area, so the
CHP Plant is necessary.
7.5 Environmental Investment and Benefits Analysis
All the four projects are belonging to environmental projects. Their impacts on
environment is positive. During the construction and operation period, there will be
some unfavorable impacts on environment, so the environmental investment is necessary.
The environmental investments will bring about good environmental and social benefits
and'greatly reduce the unfavorable inpacts caused by construction of the projects.
7-6



8 Environmental Administration an(d
Monitoring Plan
8.1 Envirommental Administration
The Shandong Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau and local EPB are
in charge of the environmental administration to construction units. The
administrative job vill be in accordance with the relative national regulations.
The construction units should havc internal environmental institutions, whose
job are in clarge of environmental administration and monitoring, five to eight
persons needed.
8.2 Monitoring Program
8.2.1 Monitoring Program  for Jinan Ycllow Riv er Water
Suppl) Pondage Reservoir Prolject
8.2.2.1 NMonitoring Spots and(  Items
To assure the watcr quality can meet the Portable WNatcr (Quality Standard.
there are five spots set up in the project. The monitoring items in every spots are
listed as follows:
A. Abstraction Site in Dawangniao
Sand amount, PH, As, Hfg. Crf, volatile phcnol, total nitrogen, total
phosphorus, permanganate index are selected as monitoring factors.
B. Outfall Site of Sedimentation Basin
Sand amount, As, Hg, volatile phenol. total nitrogen, total phosphorus.
permanganate index are selected as monitoring factors.
C. Pump House in the Inflow Site of the Reservoir
As, Hg, Cr+6, volatile phenoL petroleum are selected as monitoring factors.
D. Reservoir
PH1, DO, As, Hg Crf6, volatile phenol. petroleum, total nitrogen, total
phosphorus, permanganate index. coli-group and total bacteiia are selected as
monitoring factors.
E. Pump Houses in Outflow Site of the Reservoir
P1I, DO, As, 11g. Cr+6, volatile phenol. petroleum, total tlitrogct. total
phosphortLs. permanganate index. coli-group and total hacteiia are selected as
monitoring factors.
8-1



8.2.1.2 Frequency of MIonitoring
The frequcncy of all ihe five spots arc listcd as iolloWs:
In the abstraction site, outfall site of sediuneltationi basin. pump house in the
inflow site and pump houses in outflow site of the reservoir. the firequency is once
a day.'In the rescrvoir, according to the dircction of water Dlow, once a week.
8.2.1.3 Analysis .Methods
All the analysis methods are strictly according to the Recotnmended methods
for Surface water Qualitv Standard and Analysis methods for Portable Water
Quality Standard.
8.2.2 Monitoring Program  for Yantai 500 Hleating Network
8.2.2.1 Construction Phase
In the construction phase, tIhe monitoring task .Nill be camred out at sight
according to the requirement of the construction program by the members from
the environment protection section of the General Hieat Plower Company. and
construction units. Mlain monitoring items are:
*  The construction time, It should not be in the residents rest time, that is
8:00-12:00 Am.. 14:00 - 22:00 PM.
*  Tlie construction road mark, including light mark. one-way inark. detour
mark, as wvell as temperate underground passway and bnidges.
3  Environment sanitation state of the construction field. Wk^hether garbage
properly treated, sand and material properly laid, as not to cause
inconvenience to the passerby. Mlaintain the buildings, trees and grass to thcir
original state.
*  Spray water to the constructiotn field at certain time, (mornting. noon,
evening) in order to depress the dust.
*   NWhether noise of construction machinern be effectivelv controllcd.
*   W'hether material from the construction unit be appropriately tratnsported and
stored.
*   Whether workers get necessary labor protection and effective managemnient.
*   Whether non-motor car transportation and manual excavation be used in the
narrow road(e.g. in city street).
*   Whether the dug roads in construction field be replaired fimely.
*  Public opinions in the construction.
In a wordl. by wavs of' the construction p1rocedule moniiloiine. it is to inspcct itic
enforcemenlt of thc environment prolection policies on olle lianid. and to inspect
the impact of the project and to take measures to alleiate this impact on the othler
hand.
8-2



8.2.2.2 Operating Phase
In the project's operating phase, MuIunicipal Environiment Mlouiloiino Station
and the Environment Protection Section of the General Hleat Powcr Company are
responsible for the environment monitoring accordling to relalted standards and
laws. It includes the environnient quality monitolinig and thie pollution source
monitoring specified as following:
*  Making routine monitoring on the environment air quality of Zhiivu Distlict
of Yantai Citv determining this heat supply projectfs impact on the district's
air quality, provide basis for improving the air quality of Yantai city.
*   WYhether the replaced boilers be removed or its combusted coal quantity be
cut down
*  Whether the waste gas from the peak load heat boiler housc he properly
treated
*  The impact of various kinds of noise and its control.
*  'Whether the slug be properl) treated according to requirement. as not to
cause environment pollution.
In the operating phase, the monitoring site, item, frequenc) and unit are
shown in Table 8-4 of EIA report of Yantai 500 Heatin  Neltwork, the
methods are based on the national standards and related regulalions.
8.2.3 Monitoring Program  for Weihai No. 3 CHP Plant
8.2.3.1 Monitoring Items and Frequency
The choice of monitoring items, location of mnioitoting points a;nd (leti iti(onI of
monitoring period should comply vith Environmental Monitoring Itegulations ol
Thermal Power Plant and Technical Regulations of Environmental Mlonitoring of
Thermal Powver Plant (DL414-91). Monitoring and anahlzing methods comiiply
with standard and concemed regulations issued bv nation or conumitlee.
A. Flue Gas Nlonitoring
'Monitor annually the concentration an(d (juantlit of pollutants. such as (dst.
SO2, NO9N, that expelled from thc flue. Monitor the c1licicncy of dust remover at
its outlet after the overhlaul.
B. Atmospheric Quality Monitoring
The main items of atmosphere environment are So)2. 1 5p  Chosen items aie
NO, and landing dust quantity. The monitoring period and fi'cquency arc listed in
Table 8.1. Set up two mortitonng poinlts in plant area and living area to malke the
regular monitoring. T'he chosen points should rcpresent thc average standard of
atmospheric emironlment quality in, the plant and living area. Thc location of
monitoring point sihould be in open field. away trom ixelor Chliniuilvs,
construction site, coal field and road. Its distance to surrounding buildinm should
8-3



be not less than two times of the building's height. Its location should concern the
characteristics of plant staff and workers' life, layout of buildings, terrain and
meteorological conditions.
Table 8.1 Monitoring Period and Frequency of Atmospheric Enviromnent in
Plant
Items    Sampling method |  Monitoring             Frequency
_____________  ______________    period  !
discontinuous      once a year    5-7 consecuuivc days
TSP          sampling                       I one time, sampling 4
____________   t________________  !_________ _  fim es  everyday
,continuous samplin   once a yeart      half month one time,
sa n    o e      ampng erey other dav
SO2        discontinuous   I once a year      5-7 conesecutive days
sampling      I                 one time, sampling 4
_____________  _____ __  _               times  evervdy
NOx   !continuous sampling' once a y ear  I half month one time,
4 j             banmpling ery other day
Landing!continuous samplingj  once a year  i3O+/-2 consecutive days
dust                                                onc time
quantity)                    __ _  _ __ _  _ _  __ __I__     _ _  _
Note: Monitoinng period is in summer (June-Sept.) in odd number years. and in
winter (Nov.-Dec.) in even number years.
C. Water Monitoring
Monitoring objects are industrial waste water (includes oiled waste water),
c;hemical waste water and domestic sewage. Urgent monitoring objects are coal
field waste water, chemical clean water and waste water of overhaul protection.
The sampling period of plant drainage is shown in Table 8.2.
Table 8.2       Period for Waste Water Monito        unit: times/month
Waste    PH  iSuspend                         ; _     sulfilri 1volatil I BOD
Water          l ed mattel COD  7Oi         d Fluo dArseni   de  |  e   lmonlths
______ t________________           e  ±   c          phen o1l
In cnder 1ilodaysi !1/Odays7     J I       1/1   1/1  1I12   1112
Industrial 1/lOdays 1/10days 1/1day   2/1 1J 1    111   lll T       I
From
neutaizer                                !
poolof   1Ill           i        ti1                                I
cherrcal                                 |    
acid-base|       ,       I        I      ;                    j      i
Domestic I   /l    Il . 1/1 i                        1/1                1
water 9                         !      !      I       
czoal yrard                                
Note: * Monittoring at drainiing time.
Monitorintg sampling pointts of above mentioned waste wvaters is fitsed in table
8.3.
8-4



Table 8.3     Sampling Points of Drain Monitoring
Numbern         Waste water classilication;     Sanipling point
1               Water in cinder            dust water in cinder
depot
2           Industrial waste -water in       drain outlet ofi
plant area               inlustrial waste
water of plantt
3          drain in ncutralizcr pool of      (alial oullc ol
chemical acid-base   ,      neutrallizer- pool ol'
;_____________                         chemical acid-base
4            Domestic waste water           general outlet of
_____________                           domestic sewage
5  '        Waste wvater from open         drain outlet ot open
coal field                  coal hieldl
D. MIonitoring ol IEnvir-onnicntial Noise
The objects of noise monitoring are plant area and liing area. T he period is
once a year. Monitoring time is divided into daytime andi niglit whei the plant
reaches its average power generation loading. Daytime monitloing usually from
08:00 to 12:00, night time from 22:00 to 05:00.
W'hen choosing the monitoling points, the plant area and lixing area are divided
into isometric mesh (lOO1m*100m). The monitoincg point shotld be at the centel
of mesh. To stationarv noise value, each monitoring point gets ollC measuICd
result. To unsteady noise value, each monitorincg point gets an instantaneous
sound level A every other 5 seconds. then choose the average value of I 0() data.
8-5



9. Public Participation
9.1 The Pattern of Public Participation
Based on the environmental and construction characteristics of cach sub-project,
the investigation table was made to collect the suggestions and attitudes of people who
would be influenced by these projects. Participants were mainly divided into several part
as below: workers, peasants, soldiers, merchants. students, teachers etc.
9.2 Investigation Result
120-500 investigation tables were distributed in each sub-project and over 80∞o
tables were returned. According to the insligationi results, 83∞o-(9So parficipatils thought
it's necessary for these projects to use the W 'orld Banl loans. Mlost of them agreed that
the atnospheric and water environment would be improved in the area near the project,
however, they gave some suggestions to the projects, wlhich the methiods to prcvent anid
control the pollution should be considered by the unit in charge of construction during
the process of building, especially the influcnces of construction oll the residents. The
investigation details of each sub-project see Table 9.1-9.4.
9-1



Table 9.1                 Slatistical Results ol Public Participation of Jiao Yelloxv River Water Supply Pondage Rcservoir
tern                                         Prot.ssion    .     ~     'atcr s_pplng   _     IThe impoilauce lo       vitn building of the resernvir
\   l   APtolcssion    situation of Jinan      maintain Sprn       r and improve the  ccnomic  Tbc Project
f                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~landscape of Jinan   an npocteconstniction    Cl8
d(istributiont                                                                               dcvltopmcnt of linan City?
1 S   3 C)      u       I                     Is)              -                     -C
Place                    /  9q3                                    !                               _             -1
35   6 17 .O16
>                             7-~~~~~~~~~~~-
_ ___ __ _ __ _
'UianshttiIitt~é  1741   I..16100                                0         31 2                211 1  2 41   5  OS8  2S71
(h wcmun                L oI 
13  2  9              5    11 00    2   2  531   2  5  61017    4   0                                                             3  3  13
154ss.lllzlllli:lo  8 t.,  il    S    3    G   100 ∞  32' |  1  4   10     0  0 3   12  0   O   O   11 13    1    1  |1
Wallgjia tlicn        26   O    24   2   251   O   O   O   O |                 1   25  0   O |       2 4                                      0 O   O 0  O  25    0    1     6
01tcSlt,:tn,[icc     } 50   13   23    4 a1  19  216C   4  11            4      37  11   2   0∞        46   4   0 0     0    46    4      0    0   30    0    0   49
,,I.   citv  tl'till    3oJ1.99           2                               0  14   9  2   217   010   24 510   0    27    3                 0 049 1              0    6
Totl             4151  47   90   114  71  33 11  19  13  6           S     46  75 21  3   3  103 31 13  1   3  124   17    0   10  125  14   12  125
-re It Ufimher ol dept tics to iic  N PC. aned mebers  t fC.P. P.C.C.



Table 9.2   The investigation table of public opinion to the sewage
network in Jiiiani city (200 copics)
Items                          Classification . Participants   %
_ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _   1 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1 N um ber  '  _  !
:Water pollution  situation rivers in linan  presently  I   Very serious    94        47
Selious            70        35
A litle serious       36        181
Good              0         o
Better       j     0         0
*, ______________________________              _   l  N o    opinion  1     0         0
C1Changes of water quality between this year and the   More worse tendency,    168    184
,past few years                                         Constant            19       9.5
Better or worse        9        4.5
Better tendency        0      I
!________________________________ i                    Noopi'ion            4      1  2
Constructioni of sewage network will improve the          Yes              176       88
:,urban landscape of Jinan city                         Uncertain           22        11
No               0 oO
No opinion           2      |
!~~~~ ~~~~~~ Ye                                                192     I_ 
Coistruction of sewage network will improve               Yes              1         96
'groundwater ecological environment anid residents   I  Uncertain     i     8      1 
!health level                                              No               0 O
, _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   t N o    opinion  0  0
i Is it necessary of the sewage network construction?  Very necessary       188       94
Necessary           12         6
No opinion           0         0
I   Not necessary    j    0         0
9-3



Table 9.3  Public participate anid inivcstigation statistic data
TotallHigher  rankiCadre  IWorker !Student ;Others*
'Contents of survcy I(pcoplc) cadre (pcoplc) f(pcoplc) (peotAe) j(pcopJc)  (people)
IYCs INo !Yes   No   IYes INo lYes No iYes No Iyes No
I                        1102   42  11  '1001I 
2*       ;386 163  14    0     140 12  190 24 142  !19 ;O0 J18
2*       t423 j26 214    0          0  1202 io12  5     1113 '5
3*       '116 '333 2     14    5  37 138  174 12  49  59  41
4*       1391 158  3     Ill   130  12 1200 14  56  5   102  16
5*       '288 161 2      12    28  14 15( 62 140  21  68  150
_ _ _ _ _,_          ,   _   .                    ._.
6*      1333 1116 14   1∞      42  0  126 88 '40  !21  111 !7
Approval    ! 427  |14               31      190   1 42    1  78
Acceptable     22                      9   I1                    13
Disapproval   F  o                  _        _        I
Others        0      _ ,
Note: * Others including: teachers, doctors, business man etc.
1. Do you know the 500 heat power network project?
2. Do you know what is the advantage of thc concentrated heat supply?
3. Does the fly ash coming from the new added peak load boiler room have any effect
on you?
4. Is thecr inconveniciece on your work and life due to thc wrecked road during its
conistuction?
5. If construction in days and nights, is the noise influence your life?
6. In the operatin g phase, the heat power station will worker day and night, is
there influence of the noise on you?
9-4



Table 9.4 The investigation table of public participation of Wcihai third
election plaiit project
Items                 I  Classificalion  1 Participants          1 %
_     _   _   _   _    _   _   _   _     _    _   _    _     number
|Atmosphere pollution situation of urban I  Very serious   '     6           6.3
districts in Wciiai city                     Serious             9          9.5
A little sexious  j   23       f 24.2
Good              52      1 54.7
i _________________________          _  9  N o  opinioln         5          5.3
!Changes of atmosphere quality between   Worse tendency          57       r  60
'this year and the past few years         Better tendency  !      9       1  9.5   1
Worse or better |      15         15.8
!                                      t   No changes            15      ! 15.8
! _________________________           _  !  N o   opitnion  i     5          5.2
,The sky3 is the same blue as several years'!  Blucr              9      I  9.5
ago in Weiliai city                    i  Become p-ay           60          63.2
No clange            18         18.9
No opinion           8 __       ,1
'The rainfall does harm to the grass and        Yes              2 25       26.3
flower                                 i       No         ,     51       . 53.7
N .)pillioll         19         20.0
!The influence of atrnosphere environnientl   Serious             7          7.4
.on living and liealth level of urban  |  A liltle seiious       22         23.2  1
'rcsidents                                    General     I     49       I 51.6  I
No influenice   I     14      j  14.7
________________________              _  |  No  opmion     !      3          3.1
Loweringc aitmiosplhere pollution will         Yes        1      87 - I 91.6 1
.iniprove the investment enviroiunenit amd j   Little impact      7          7.4
advance economical development of    |         No                 I          1.0
Wdciai city                                 No opimuon           0            0 I
Is tlhis project necessary?                    Yes               92         96.8
1 l     No                0           0
General             2          2.1
No opinion           I       a  1.1
!Centralized heating will increase family  I    Yes              68       1 71.6  1
texpenses, could you accept it                Barely       1     24          25.2
No               3           3.3
9-5



10 ASsessment Conclusions and Sugoestions
10.1 Assessment C          dnclusions and Suggestions in Jinan
Project Area
10.1.1 Jinan Yellow River Water Supply Pondage Reservoir
Proj'ect
10.1.1.1  ,ssessnment Conclusions
A. Project's Impact on Environment
a) Thc lands wlhiclh will be tentiative occupation by the prOjcCt arc faimlanids. The
impact of land occupation will be dclermined by thc pcriod of constiuctioni. TIhis kind of
land occupation widl be re-cultivated alter consttuction. So its impacts on ecology and
agriculture are tentative. The noise and raise dust caused by transportation and
construction  will bc eliminated aficr tihC completion ol thc project.
b) Analvsis Results of Project's Impact on E,nvironniont alter Construction
Tlhcrc will nio  brinn  about th carthirfiquae by consirtuoin- Ilte iescrvoir and
sedinientalion basin bccatusc the plroJct area belongs to stable region of geological
structure. But project area belongs to ihc arca which is casily suffcringi fromn salinization.
Due to thc lowv-lying of thc topography, vi(c distribultion of sandy loatn laycr, espccially
tilt distribution of sill in nivCe clianncl, it will casilv cause tlie inundation and( secondary
saliniz7ation of the lands around the reservoir. Ihl sand volume of this project is about
1 .1 91 miillion cubic meter. The area occupied by scdiimcntation basin and sand heap is
large and tlhc hicighlt of sand lhcap is higlh. 'lTC lifetimle of sedimentation basin is 25 years
with the area of 1.4 squarc kilometer. The total arca of the scdimentation basin will be up
to 3 square kilometer after the completion of the second stage. The stop use of sand
basin in thle hicad of 1tced canal and sanid hcal) area is the m;iain rcason for salinizalion.
After implement of thic projcCt, it vill have big impact on rcgional drainagc system of
dischargingo loo(d ddle to the occupation of escape canal and Dawu hloo(d dischargc gate
by the project.
B. Environmnent's Impact on Project
The river scgimlenit in project area is one of tilc narrowcst segmetits in yellow Rivcr.
The lcft intcrtidal zone of Luokou will be inundated under thc normal hlow of 5000 m3/s.
But it will not do harm to the bank. Afler completion of stretclh zonc, there is no
catastrophic flood till now. According to relative data, if therc is a catastrolhic flood witlh
a flow of 22.000 to 46,000 m31s in the Yellow River. the stretch zonc should undertake
the capacity of diversion wvilh the flow of 2,(0() m3/s. Ilic watel depth nearby the
reservoir is 0.9 mcter. If the scale of Iloo(i like 1hait ofin 1958 oir 1982, after Ihe retarding
flood of Xiaolangdi, the flood will not exceed the safe limit of river channel in lower
reaches. If ther-e is a catastropliic flood once every ten tlousands years. after r eduction of
I 0-1



Xiaolangdi and reservoirs in its upper reaches, thc Ilow in the site of I luayuankou wil be
reduced from 41,700 to 27,350 m3/s, then by means of'diversion of retarding basin, the
flow in Aislian will not exceed 10,000 m31s. Due to the iise of river bed in recent years,
conlinuin, increase of the water level under the same Ilow comparcd with prcevious years,
the capacity of flood disclharge will decrease. Thouglh (he completion of Xiaolangdi
rescrvoir has the function of retaining flood, the flow wiil probably exceed t}lC safe limit.
So the possibility using stretch zone for flood diversion will still exist if there is a
extraordinary flood. So we can draw the conclusion that the normal flood will not have
great impact on the Queshan reservoir. if there is a extraordinaiy flood, the using of
stretclh zone for flood discharge will have certain impact on the reservoir.
Aftcr the operation of the reservoir, the main factors all'ecting the water quality are
water quality in Yellow River, rainfall and dust fall. The amount of lotal nitrogen and
total phosplhorus brouglht about by rainfall and dust fall are 0.83% and 18.14% of that
caused by Yellow River, respectively. The using of agricultural and chemical fertilizers
vill not affect the water qualitv in the reservoir. With respect to the impact of digestion
from reseivoir's bed, after three or four times of water circulation, it can be omitted. So
if we take measures li-ke washing before operation of the reservoir, tlhere will be no
impact fi omn tlh digestion fiom reservoir's bed.
C. Forecast of Project's Impact on Env-irounent
lle Iol-ecasllmg resulls of seconldary saliniaIlioii atnid deserlification of soil alter
constructioni of the project show that prevcnlioni mcasures taken by thc projcct is
effective. In addition, according to about twenty year's experiences and Research on
Copniprhciciesive Treatment of Salt I.ick, tihc scepage prieventioin gtuliv can cilctaivcly
control thlC water level' s rise of giroundwater around sedimentation and reservoir. The
watcr le-vel of groundwater can be controllcd from one to tvo mtcrs.
After operation of sedimentationi and sand heal) basini, it cani be second ploughing
byn mcans of covering of sludge,. If comprehensive m}eaIsures laken ailer coveting the
sludge, it will be outstanding in enhancing the production of cr ops.
The analysis of pollution trcnd ol' watcr quality show thlat the water quality in
Yellow river is in stable state. The first Yellow River's. water just after dry-up is not
suitable for abstraction.
Wre selected the anallogous reservoir to forecast the cutrophica ion level duc to the
samc water source, geological coniitioin a ndt pollution sources. 'I[lc rcsult is as following:
in analogous reservoirj after five years operation, it will be in middle-eutrophication level..
So thc Queshan RcsCervoir wilU maintain in a stable slate after five years operation by the
analogy. After calculation, the control objective of itr-oge,n and phosphorus are 0.6 and
0.04 mg/., rcspectively.
10.1. 1.2 Em.-wironniuent.l Protectiotn andl Pollution Pireveniitll Mea9ures
By the procct's analvsis andl environmcntal impact forecast and assessment as well
as the maini  envirounental problems of the project, following suggestion should be
coilsidlercd:
1 0-2



A. Reservoir's Seepage Control Measures
There is a compound soil film on the box dam of the reservoir and a seepage
control soil film vertically under the ground. There is a seepage prevention film formed
by connecting the dam slope with the dam foundation.
B. The Seepage Prevention Measures in Box Dam of Reservoir and Sedimentation
There is a escape canal close to the dam foundation in the lower reaches of the box
dam, which is used to collect the vadose water, which will be discharged into seepage
control ditch. The distance between its center and outside adge of.discharging ditch is 37
m. The width and depth of escape canal are 2 and 3 m repectively. The proportion of its
height to its slope is 1:2, while that of width to slope is 1/10000.There is a transverse
escape canal cvcry 200 meters between the escape canal and seepage control ditch, with
the wvidth of onc mcetr and dcpth of two mcetrs. 'I'hc proportion of its hcight to its slope
is 1:1.5, while that of width to slope is 1/5000. By means of using the escape canal, the
water level in the ditch should be kept two meters below the ground. The transverse
escape canal which connected the seepage control ditch with flood discharge gully in the
stretch zone wvill discharge the vadose water to Dawu flood discharge gate, finally to Dasi
River. Three directions except in south of the sedimentation also has the seepage control
ditch, ftllcen meters away from the dam willt Ihc widdt of thrce meters. The average
height of the foundation is twenty three meters. The proportion of its height to its slope is
1:2.5, while that of width to slopc is 1/5000.
C. Rational Planning of Irrigation and Drainage System of Farmlands in Project Area
The irrigation system should be redesigned. The former sand basin of irrigation
IIIovCs nortlivest nearby the new delivery pipcline.
To assure the discharge of vadose water, a new escape canal will be constructed
along the Dawu flood discharge gate northward to stretch zone and finally, all the vadose
watcr vill be dischargcd into Dasi River.
After all the measures taken, the secondary salinization caused by water level rise of
groundwater around the reservoir and sedimentation basin will be alleviated.
D. Strengthen Agricultural and Biological Measures
The using of organiic fertilizer and strawvs will increase the fertility of soil as well as
prevcntion of salinization. As confirmed by China's Agricultural Scientific Institutc, if
the contents of organic matter in the soil is up to 1.5%, it will control the sanlinization.
The higher the content of organic matters, the stronger the function of controlling the
sanlinizationi. If the leveling of farmlands, intensive and mcticulous farming and scientific
cultivation can be combined, the effects will be better.
E. Second Ploughing Timcly, Preventing the Desertification after Stop Use of
Sedimentation and Sand Heap Basin
The second ploughing after stop use of sedimentation and sand heap basin is a
successful experience. It will reduce the occupation of the land as well as prevent the
desertification trend.
10-3



F. Flood Protection Measures
The relative flood protection measures must be executed according to the
regulations of Yellow Rivcr Committee of Ministry of Water Conservancy.
G. Prevention Measures for Water Pollution and Eutrophication in the Reservoir
1. Build good comprehensive planning. The control objective of nitrogen and
phosphorus are 0.6 and 0.04 mg/I, respectively. Irnplement total discharge amount
control. The main task of Queshan Reservoir is to assure the water supply to
industrial and domestic use. Hence, the building of comprehensive treatment
planning is very important. Implement total discharge amount control to main
pollutants. Assure the nutrition level of the reservoir keeping in the state of middle-
cutrophication.
2. Practical measures should be taken to control the over input of nitrogen and
phosphorus.
a) Increase the height of inner of the reservoir to prevent surface run-off from
entering into the reservoir. All diversion holes in the buildings in project area should
lower than water level of the reservoir to prevent the cntry of pollutants.
b) Before the operation of the reservoir, the measures such as washing and
discharging all the water after fifteen days of pondage should be taken to reduce the
content of nitrogen and phosphorus.
c) According to the design, after operation of the reservoir, it is estimated that there
is still 89,000 tons sand entering the reservoir cvciy year. The sand has the function
of absorption of nitrogen and phosphorus. So cleaning the deposits regularly will
reduce the deposit of pollutants and prevent the reservoir from marsh swamp.
d) All the watcr delivery pipeline are laid underground.
c) To assurc the water quality, if thc water level of the reservoir is lower than twenty
four meters, the water will not be used.
f) In the outer of the reservoir, Bushes and gra.sses should be planted.
3. Remove the planktonic alga. When in high temperature season, the removing
measures should be taken to prevent breeding of the alga.
4. The abstraction should avoid the period just after Yellow River's dry-up.
5. The environmental management institutions should assure the monitoring of water
quality proceeding in nonnal and effective way. Nitrogen and pho.sphorus should be
strictly controlled.
10.1.1.3 Conclusioiis of Comprehenisive Assessment
After operation of Qucshan Reservoir, the annual capability of water supply to
ll-4



Jinani will hit 156 million tons, which will alleviatc the sholl situation of water supply in
dry years. It has important meanings to speed up the development of local economics,
maintain social order and recover the landscape of springs.
The project is made up of abstraction, sedimentation, water delivery and reservoir.
The project will have disadvantageous inpacts o surrounding environment both in
pcriod under construction and after operation. The activities during the period under
construction wgil inevitably occupy the lands. The machincry, trahsportation, storage of
construction matenialds and other activities will do harmn to the vegetation. The solid waste,
dusts and noises produced in the process of construction will affect the surrounding
cnvironment but havc littlc impacts on regional ccological environmcnt. During the
period under construction, it should cut down the occupation of lands and the destroy of
vegctation. All the lands occupied by the engineering should be reused within two years
except Ihic pits. After implemcnt of the cnginecring, duc to the change of water level of
surface water and groundwater, it may bring about the inundation and secondary
salinization of lands nearby the reservoir. The engineering wil take corresponding
measures such as prevention of penetration, desertification and reuse of the lands, etc.
All the measures are not only feasible in technology but also reasonable in economy.
These measurcs will reduce the unfavorable impacts on enviromnent to the lowest limit.
So the project is also feasible in enviromnent.
The factors which will affect the water quality in the reservoir after operation are
Yellow River's water quality, rainfall and dust fall. If thc practical measures like
controlling the input amounts of pollutants are taken, the pollution of the reservoir will
be certainly avoided. The nutrition type of the reservoir will maintain in middle-
eutrophication level.
10.1.2 Jinan Waste Water Network Project
10.1.2.1 Assessniiiet Contclusions
A. Comprehensive Analysis ConclusionLs of the project
a) This project belongs to World Bank Loaned project. The total length of the pipe
is 50.9 km with the land occupation 235.37 mu. The area of removal is 58,725 m2. The
length of inverted siphon is 1500 m. There is one pump station. The total investment of
the project is 282.65 million yuan.
b) The existing wastewater network is consist of main and branch pipes, pump
station and inverted siphon. The existing length of pipeline is 145.1 km. There are four
pump stations and seven inverted siphons owned by Jiluolu and Daming system. though
the first stage engineering of Jinan Waste Water Treatment Plant and pipeline network
had been finished, there is no main pipes connected with the plant. So, all the industrial
and domestic wastcwater are dircctly discharged into Xiaoqing River by the adjacent
river channel or sewage ditches.
10-s5



The plan for Jinan wastewater network was designcd in 1989 according to the Main
Pipeline System Planning of Gaijiagou Waste Water treatment Plant. The design
pricinpls are listed as following: fully use the landforn of Jinan and existing pipcline
network;; reduce the buried depth and diameter of pipes; reduce the number of pump
statons and investments on the premise of rational flow speed, distribution and direction
of pipelines. The length of newly built invelted siphon is 1,500 m. One pump station is
belonging to newly built.
c) This engineering belongs to large scale infiastructure project. After the operation
of network, the water environment in the service area will be imnproyed. The pollution
cauXsed bzy seepage of wastewater will be mitigated. But, the seepage of wastewater
during the process of collecting and transportation will be the main source of polluton
So, somc mitigation measures like quality control should bc taken to reduce this kind of
poliuoiI.
Due to the large amount of machines in the construction period, the noise and raise
dust are main pollutiop factors. T'o mitigate the impacts caused by noise and raise dust,
such micasurcs as spraying water and coveling , rational arTangeiiient of constructing
time will be taklen.
There are 1,460 persons of 310 households need resettlement. The area of
occupied land is 235.37 mu. The removal house area is up to 31,280 m2. Eighty three
enterprises and one school will be affected. The total cost for resenlement is 64.7945
million yuan. Because of the warrant of a seriCs of laws, regulations, policics, mitigation
measures for resetlacment and land occupation, the living standards of migration persons
will be improved.
After the bu-y of pipes, thC greenbelt along both sides. of tlec roads will be
allorcsted again.
There are four roads will be aifected during the construction period. Step by step
construction according to rational planning will reduce its impacts on transportation.
Several invcrted siphons will be laid ovcrhcadly across the river, so it will not affect
the function of flood discharging of the river.
B. Conclusions of Surface Water Assessment
a) Conclusions of Existing Situation Assessnment
M  By analysis of three-year's monitoring data of main and branch of Xiaoqing River,
we know thal organic matter is the main pollutant in thc rivcr. lhe water quality can
not meet the Grade I1`' level of waterbody function. Due to the large discharging
amount of industrial and domestic wastewater, the river's self purification capability
is vciry low.
v  From the three-year's monitoring data of DaIning Lake, its water quality has been
heavily lpolluted bv domestic sewage, which can not meet the Grade IV level of
water-bodv function. The water in the lake shows thle characteristics of
eutrophication.
1)) Impacts Prediction and Assessmcnt Conclusions of Water Quality
10-6



The forecasting results of water quality shows that after the operation of the project,
the water quality will be greatly improved. But the indexes such as COD and BOD can
not meet the corresponding standards yet.
C. Impacts Analysis of Groundwater
a) Conclusions of Existing Groundwater Quality
From the three-year's monitoning data, we can draw the conclusion that the karst
water quality is better than pore's. All the twelve monitoring spots except one of karst
water can meet the standard. Among the three monitoring spots of pore water along the
Xiaoqing River, all exceed the standard except the monitoring results in dry season of
one spot.
In a word, the overall groundwater quality is good and water quality of karst is
better than that of pore. But, due to many indexes emerged in the samples, it is clear that
the klarst water has been polluted. The high contents of factors are distributed in
southeast, which means the groundwater in this scction should be paid great attention.
b) Impacts Analysis of Groundwater
*  Positivc Impacts on Groundwatcr after Operation of Project
Afier operation, the seepage of wastewater will be avoided, which will do good to
groundwater's quality, especially to the pore water.
3  Unfavorable Impacts on Groundwater after Operation of Project
Leak-age caused by breaking of pipes and inverted siphons is the main reason of
pollution. If the seepage occurs in the region wliich does not have sewage ditches
fornerly, it *will .cause new pollution, especially in the region which the rock has
good penetration function.
D. Inpacts Analysis, of Noise
a) Existing Situation and Assessment of Noise
*  In the four construction regions, the noisc cxceeds the standard. In region having the
fumction of Category 0, the exceeding value in daytime and night are 6.3 and 8.3
dB(A), respectively.
0  All the nine roads except in Daweier Road and Lisian Road, the noise exceeds the
standards, especially in Gongyebei Road and Minghu Road.
b) Impacts Analysis of Noise
*  After operation, the pipeline network} will not alfect the environment. Six pump
stations will not affect the enviromnent either after buried in 10 m under the ground.
*  In construction period, the machines is the main pollution source.
E. Conclusions of Land Occupation and Resettlement's Social Impacts
Thc main impacts lies in the migration, to most of the persons, this kind of impact is
unfavorable in short tlerm and favorable in long teln. The pe-rsons who are affected by
the project will be given compensation from government. After resettlement, their living
quality will be improved comparing with their former situation. Most of persons who are
affrcted by the project are in favor of the implement of the project.
1 -7



F. Conclusions of Economic Benefits Analysis
The project has obvious social, environmental and econonic benclits. After
operation, there is 220,000 tons wastewater will be treated cvcrv day, wllich wvill reduce
8S tons of COD, 53 tonIs of BOD, 81 tons of SS per day. This will grcatly change the
situation in Xiaoqing River. After 11.29 years, the investments will be paid back. Also,
ieC operItion of the wastewater treatment plant wil save 20 million yuan annually. There
are many social benefits which is difficultly measured by monetary, including the
improvement of the ovCrall function of the city, people's living standards and city's
appearance, etc.
G. Comprehensive Conclusions
As analyzcd above, alicr operation of the plroect, thc water qjuality of rivers and
lak}es in Jinan will be obviously improved. Thc pollutants discharged into Xaioqing River
will be grcatly reduced.
There are some impacts on the society duiling the construction period, but, on the
preiise of corTect mitigation measures, it will bring about favorable sociaL economic
and environmental impacts.
10.1.2.2 Suggestion
A. Implencit as soon as possible so that the waste watel treatment plant can be put into
use earlier.
13. Aftet tlec operation of nctwoi-k, tle indusliial i   md d,iie:stic wastcwatcr arc
transported to tIic plant. As for tic wastcwatcr that can not be accepted by thc plant
shouldl be discharged into Xiaoqing, Rivei- by the network. Do not directly discharge into
wvatei courses in tlec city.
C. To assure the water quality of Xiaoqing River in accordance with Category IV
standard, total disclhargc amount control methlod slhould be adoplcd. Enforcement of
Three Synchronization-system, Change industrial structure, Close the enterprises which
havc severe pollution and no effective treatment measure, reform industrial process,
raise the utilization rate of water.
D. Folloving measures should be taken to mitigate the adverse impacts caused by
construction:
O Rational construction of the project, step by step according to the planninig, reduce
the traffic pressure.
c  Reduce the noise's impact to minimum level by adopting advanced construction
mietlods, low-noise machines; rational arrangement of construction period.
O  Adopt strict quality control to prevent the leakage from pipcline.
E. To assure the project's capability of repaying loans, the establishment of Jinan
Discharging Water Service Company is recommended. The company should adopt
A o-8



advanicd managcment technologies and experienccs from abroad, emulatc the relative
systcm for management. The company is in chargc of the construction, management,
monitoring and renovation of thc pipeline nctwork.
10.2 Assessment Conclusions and Suggestions of Yantai
500 Heating Network
10.2.1 Conclusions
10.2.1. 1 Conclusions from the Project Analysis
In thiis project, the surplus heat of the Huang-Bo-H-ai Heat-Power Company is used
as basic heat source, three existed boiler houses and one peakload heating boiler house to
be built are used as peak load heat sources to meet the demand of peak load heat-
supply. This proposal is made out on the basis of thoroughly proving, compromising and
balancing among the Municipal Govermnent, Municipal Planning Bureau, Municipal
Heat-Power Development Office and related specialists.
D Encrgy Utilization
Now, in Huang-Bo-Hai Heat-Power Company, there are two generating sets of
power 100MW, which is used only to generating electricity, its energy efficiency is about
40%. After the completion of this project, the energy utilization ratio will be over 80%,
increased by more than one time.
* Heating Media
Thc heating media is hot water. Lots ol practices inside and outside the counity
show that the district heating system is reasonable from both the technical and economic
xiews, but in the cases steam draw pressure of the basic heat source is 2047MPa, the
temperature of thc hcating engine is 121'C, the heat can not be sent to consumors in a
distance of 8 km. Thus, in this project, the optimal choicc of th heat media is hot water.
* Supplementary Heat Sources
Considering the reformation of the steam reception engine, and the economical
reasonability, a peak load heating boiler house will be setup outside the ILuang-Bo-ILai
Heat and Power Company. In this prcject, there are two kinds of the peak load boiler
house, onc is the pcak- load heating boiler house, the other is the three existed regional
boiler houses. Compared with the proposal of combined basic heat source and the
regional boiler house, this project has following advantages: high eti ciency, fuel saving,
high dedusting and desulfuning ef iciency, low cost of operation, and stable operation
due to the adjustable water-amount in the primary circuit.
* Network Establishment
In this project, total heat pipe line is 30 Km long. Two thirds of them directly
buried underground. In this way, the heat pipe line are mainly laid on the well built road
in order to cut down the length of the pipeline, be convenient to the connection of the
sccondary circuit, avert the removing of the resident lhouses. But duting the construction
phase, traffic will be influenced due to the road wrecked. So in the designing of the
project, Ihe principles are: the least possible pipe line will be used, the least road be
1U-9



wrcckcd, anid main road of business and main lines of conmunication should be averted
in order that no traffic block be caused. Thus lhcrc will be no senrous traffic problem in
the construction phase of the pipeline network.
Pipeline built on stilts is about 5 Km long distributed in the suburb. The pipeline
will be built over such a height that vehicles, people livestock can communicate freely.
*  The Newly Added Pollution Sources.
i) Air
In this project, the newly added air pollution source is the 80 meter high chimney of
the peak load heating boiler house, whose coal consumption is 22,180 t/y, SO2 emitted
is 111.79 ton, ily ash cmittcd is 17.54 ton cachi year. Tshe cniissions are within the limits
Class 1 of <<Air Pollution Emission Standards for Boilers> (GB13271-91) and <<
Shandong Provincial Waste Gas Pollutant Emission Standards>> (DB371006-91).
ii) Waste Water
The waste water in this project comes mainly from the newly added heating boiler
house, slag-scouring water and daily life waste water.
The largest amount of waste water from the boiler house is 15 ton per day, which is
not discharged, but led to the dust-precipitation tank and used as slag-scouring
supplementary water.
The largest amount of the dust-wash-out sludge is 40 ton per hour, which is not
discharged, but is circulated after filtering and sediment.
The largest amount of daily life waste water is 36 ton each day, 2000 ton each year,
whlich is dischatged to the urbane sewage network system, and be in the centrally
treated plant of the city.
iii) Waste Residue
The waste residue is only produced from the tiewly added boilcr by 4.13 ton per
hour, which is transported to the Yantai Light Building MateriaLs Factory for
comprehensive use.
iv) Noise
a. During Construction Phase
The main source of noise is construction machine, which meet the requirement
of ´thc Noisc Standard Limit in the  Boundary of Construction Sites>>. (GB12523-
90). To make less disturbance to the residents, the construction time is arranged in the
day tinme.
b. During Operation Phase
The main source of noise is the blast engine, air draw engine of the new added
boiler and the newly built 42 heat consumers heat stations, which meet the requirement
of the c Regulations for Controlling Noise in Industrial Enterprise Designing >>
(GBJ87-85).
10.2.1.2 Find(ls of rle Pollution Source Investigation
A. Number of Boilers
In the assessment area, there are 448 boilers in enterpriscs wilh a lotal tonnagc of
3,036t/h, whiich used cyclone dust-remover for dedusting and no desulfunizing devices.
l 0J-1 0



There are 2,353 cooking boilers, 63,000 civ-used stoves, no dedustirng and
desulfutizing measures were taken in them.
B. Coal Consumption
hn the asgessmcent area, coal consumption ly cutclcmpise is 1 ,340,50() ton each ycar,
includiig 132,100 tOii for space heating. hlie coal consumption for civil-used stoves is
158,900 ton each year, including 84,100 ton for heating. The coal for heating to be cut
216.200 ton per year.
C. Emissions of Air Pollution
In thc assessmcnt area, yearly emission of S02 from the enterprises' boilers is
28,615 ton, Dly ash 4835 ton. Whilc the civil-used stoves and cooking boilers to be
replaced give off SO2 by 5,085 ton/y, and dust by 6,356 ton/v. During space heating
period in Winter, the emitted SO2 is 6,920 ton, and fly ash is 4,421 ton.
D. Pollution Sources to be Replaced by the Proqcct
After the completion of the project, 290 industrial boilers *vill be removed, the
cutting r atio is 64.730%6, 289 civil-uscd small boilers will be dismantlcd, and all the civil-
used stoves will be demolished. The industrial coal used will be decreased by 132,100
ton per year, reduction ratio is 9.66%, the civil-used coal-consumnption be decreased by
84,100 ton, the reduction ratio is 52.92%.
E. Pollution Reduction by the Project
After the completion of the project, the S02 emission will decrease by 6,808 ton,
Ily ash cmission will decreasc by 4,403 ton, the reduction ratio is 20.20% and 34.14%
rcsp)c ctively .
10.2.1.3 Forecast on Impact of the Proposed Project on the Air Quality
A. Conclusions of thc Assessmcnt on the P1rcscnt Air Quality
In tllc assessmcnt area, the concentrations of SO2 and TSp in space heating period
dilYer greatly with Sliat in the non-hcating period, and the conccnlrations al any times
exceed the Standard Limits in the measured sites. The maximum of exceeding standard
lirnits for SO2 is 12%. The maximum of the concentrations is 0.889 mg/m3, occurring in
IlIarbor Site. TI'he maximum of cxcecding the limits in the New Bridge is 8.3%, second to
the I-larbor, its maximum of the concentration for SO, is 0.734 mg/M3 . The maximum
concentration of S02 at any times in Spring is within the Standard Limits. For the daily
averagc concentration, it exceeds the Standard Limils, in Winter and Spring, espccially
in Winter, the maximum of SO2 exceeds the Standard limit by 80∞,o, occurning in New
Bridge (maxnimum, 0.335 mg/m3) and New World (maximum, 0.335 mg/m3). SO2 in
Spring . exceeds the Standard limit by 60%/o the most, occurring in the New Bridge, and
the concentration is 0.259 mng/n3.
B. Forecast oni the Impact of the Newly Added Pollution SOUt-CeS on Air Quality.
In this assessment, the Class 2 of <<Ambicnt Air Quality Standards>>
(DB37/006-91) is adopted, and under various conditions, S02 and ISP are all within
the standard lirnits.
10(-11I



The maximum of the  calculated ground lowel concentration of S02 an(d TSP is
0.0530 mg/m3 and 0.0083 mg/m3 respectively, occurring in 1,287 m from the pollution
source. 'I'le niaximum of calculated daily average concentration Ibr S02 and 'I'SI' are
0.0179 mg/rn  and 0.0028 mg/e3 respectively, taking- place in the Site of No. 107
Hospital. The calculated long time average concentrations of SO2 and TSP in all
directions are lov, an(d tlicrc is more influcnce onl the area of the East and the Northeast
to the Pollution Sources.
in every assessment site, the cumulative values of the  naximum concentrations,
(laily averane concentrations of SC)2 arc beyond the Standards Limits during winter time,
whiich is due to the high background pollution of S02 in winter. The cumulative values
of the maximum concentrations, daily average concentrations of.TSP are not over the
Standard Llimits during winter and sprino time. Ilie contribution coc licierlis ol the
newly added boiler house to the environmental pollution are all quite  small.
The newvly added pollution source in this project has little influence on the air
qualitv around the plant. Hlowever, the on-spot monitoring data shows, in the assessment
scope, present air pollution is verly severC du-ing winiter timc, S02 is over the standard
linit bv 46.8%o in suburb site (New Bridge); and in urban site (New World) SO2 exceeds
tIie slanidlard limit bv 23.2%. There is tiO envirtonmcnt tolerance any more. II tile lotal
discharge quantity-control regulation is not enforced, any new pollution sources can not
bie added.
C. Forecast on Impact of Pollutioni of the Pollution Sources to be Replaced on
Enironment.
13v thie calculation of sevcral rcIprcselntativc (Grids, the largest cut ratio of thc
ground Iclevl concentration of S02 is ovcr 60%, that of fly ash is ovler 50%. By
conscrvely estimation, The confidentiality on the pollution-cut ratio of 20% is  over
60%∞. The environeient benefit is quite considerable. The project mcet the policy ofn
National Regulations on Enforcing the Total Quantity Contro}ling of Discharge in
Economically  Developed Region, Heavily Polluted Region and Environment Sensitive
Region". It also leave out considerable enviromiient tolerance to the area. T'hus this
project is conducive for improving the air quality.
10.2.1.4 Fiinds in Analysis of Noise
The construction machinery such as pneumatic tools can yield high noise to the
environment, so to lesson the effect of noise from the construction machinery on the
environtnent, the constr uction time should be arranged in 8:00-12:00 and 14:00-18:00 in
a day, and thlc pneumatic tools should be strictly forbidden in night. To protect the
workers fiom the noise' effect, it's suggcsted that thc workers should be cluipped with
pr otcctolrs.
Our calculation shows that the operation of the proposed project will has great
elcect on the rcgion whose background noise is low, such as the Sites of 28   29 and 34
in Class ! and 11 Functional Zones, the noise value added is ca. 1dB(A). Therefore, the
silencer and sound insulator systems in the pump stations in these zones should be
tO-12



improved to mininize the noise efiect on the environment.
10.2.1.5 Finids in Analysis of Social Econloimly Impacts
Therc are about 240,000 pcoplc influenced by the project, and thosc peoplc are the
direct beneficiary for getting district heating.
Therc arc 525m' firimland, 30000m2 villagc-owned enterprise land 12,600m2 urban
state-owned enterprise land in urban are taken over for use. The total land to be
occupied is 43,1125m2. There are no civil house to be removed, only 800 ni2 vilLage-
owvned briquettc workshop will be rcmovcd and 1650nm2 of fivc Coai Shops of Municipal
Fuel Company be removed. There are 115 people involved in the resettlement, who will
be proprietary compensated and rearranged. The compensation standard is so setup as to
maintain the aimcd people to its original living standard. All those people will be
compensated. According to the public survey, the ratio of accepting the compensating
standards is 100%.
Traffic inconvenience, noise influence and fly ash pollution exist during the
construction phase. IHowever, such influences occur in short time and can disappear
upon project completion.. There will be no noise influence on the people nearby the 42
conisumer's licat stationis due to appropriate dcvice and mcasure be taken.
10.2.1.6 Conclusions on the Environmental Economily Gains and Losses
Thc total investment on the project is $46.19 million US dollar. Sale volume is
$ 19.83 million each ordinary year. Mature period is 8.6 year. Economic entrant ratio of
retLiui iS 16.6%. Econoiomi presenlt ntc value is $8.94 million US dollar. C'oal savcd is
216,200 ton each year, clectric power saved is 5.42X106 KWh each year, water saved is
1.6X105 ton each year. The land-requisition compensation cost is saved by $790,000
US dollar, 73000xm land originally occupied by disperscd small boiler house and stoves
is left out. Total indirect economic benefits is $9,981,400 US dollar.
There are surplus after paying off the cost in addition to the social surplus due to
the prcsent value conversion. Thus this project is feasible on economy.
After completion of the prcject, the small dispersed boilers and civil-used stoves,
which havc low hcat efficiency, low height-emissions, will be replaced. Coal used for
space hcaling will be decrcased by 216,200 ton, sludge decreased by 650,000 ton, S02
decreased by 6920 ton, fly ash decreased by 4421 ton. The ground level concentration
of SO, will be decreased maximally by more than 60%, and the fly ash concentration
will be cut down maximally by more than 50%. The confidentiality of over 20%
pollution-cut ratio is over 60%. The situation that air pollution in Yantai City's
continuously exceeds the standard limits will be changed, which is obviously beneficial to
the environment.
The total transportation tonnage decreased is 281,200 ton each year, which not
only decreased the dust's secondary pollution, but also saved fuel used for the
transpolIation, and(l thus decrease the tail gas pollilion.
10-13



For the concealment of the honeycomb briquette plants, the environment pollution
due to load and unload of coal, and working noise from the Plant can be diminished,
which will settle the long concerned problem of the residents. Thus the project is much
wclcomc by the residents.
10.2.1.7 Comprelhesive Conclusionis
From above discussions, We can get the following conclusions: the Demonstration
Project of Yantai 500 Heating Network is a good project, which have much social,
economical and(I environmncntal bcncfits. Following arc scvcral proposals on the profject.
10.2.2 Suggestions
10.2.2.1 Dedusting and Desulfurizing Efficiency of Large Boiler are
to be Improved
From the pollution source investigation, we know that 290 industrial boilers, 63,000
civil-used stoves and cooking boilers will be rcplaced by the project. Thc boiler's
replacemcnt ratio is 64.73%. The cuL ratios of SO2 and fly ash are 19.89% and
34.03% respectively. This reductioh ratio is not so high due to the low cut ratio coal-
consumption ( total cut ratio of coal is 14.21%). Alter implementation ol the project, the
total coal-consumption by industrial boilers is still 1,233,200 ton per year. S02 and fly
ash discharged are respectively 26,998 ton and 6802 ton each year. In this investigation,
we noticed that most of industrial boilers had been provided with circulated blast
dedusting devices, its efficiency is about 80%, but there are no desulfurizing measures. It
is estimated that if the dedusting and desulfurizing efficiency increased by 20% and 15%
respectively in the boilers not to bc replaced, the emissions of SO and fly ash will
respectively be decrcase by 5,400 ton and 1,020 ton each year, equal to the amount of
S02 and TSP cut by this proposed project. ( In the project, SO, and fly ash of boilers
can be decreased by 4428 ton and 1050 ton each year respectively). The environmental
bencfits is sizable. The well operated watcr-flLm dedusting device with 0.8% lime
granulate for desulfurizing has this efficiency. We suggest that related Govenmmental
Departments pay attention to taking the desulfrizing measures in large industrial boilers.
In case necessary, the government should make clear regulations on desulfurizing, and
enforce the laws powerffilly.
10.2.2.2 The Desulfurizing and Dedusting Efriciency in the Huang-Bo-Tl-ai Heat
and Power Company Plays a Decisive Role in Improving the Air Quality
in Yantai City
The yearly coal consumption in Huang-Bo-Hai Heat and Power Station is 820,548t,
accountitino for 62.68% of the total coal consumption of D)istrict Zhifu after
iniplemcntalioin of the proposcd project. Its ycarly emissions of SO2 and ISP are
14,860t and 2076 t, accounting for 55.04∞z% and 24.40% of these in District Zhifu
10-14



respectively. Now hi thc conipany, (hc coal wili low sull ur conlctit is coinhusted. and
static electrostatic dust precipitator is adopled. no desulfurizinog mcasurcs arc taken. If the
emission of SO2 is cutidown by 20%, and S0 can bc reduced by 2972t1y, equal to 420
of thlc 502 cmission cut by the proposc(l project. Its cnvironmental benclit is sizable. It's
said that there is lioiistandar'd-designed large-sized desulfllnzing device fUr Ilue gas. lhc
wNet limcstone-containiiing desulfurizing dexice is used in Japanese large power stations,
ihC desulfhrizing cilicicilCy is UI) to 80% . IIowvcvcI, the picec of'tihC equipment is quite
lhigh (10% of aie conistruction investment), anid (he operational fee is also expensive
(adding a fcwfen (Yuan 0.01f=en 1) per kwhh) . The device is now also tried in China.
Now, the national cnvironmental protection policics r cquire to install desullfurizing
device in Large-scale coal-combustion boilers. Iherefore, it is recommended that the
leaders in thle company make great mind install desulfurli7ing device with the support of
the related departments, so as to contributc to imnprovement of air quality in Yaantai City.
10.2.2.3 More Hot-water Boilers and Public Coal Stoves should be Removed
The investigation into pollution sources reveals that there are some hot-water
boilers and public cooking stoves, about 2,325 sets in all, which swill be still remained in
some enterplises. Thesc boilers and stoves will be the  main pollution sources, because
they have low heat efficicncy and emits pollution at low height. NIow, the ratio of using
liqtuefied petrolcum gas in Yantai City is 97%. Il tilese pollution sources can be rTeplaced
furilier by electricity and liquefied petroleum gas boilers, the environment quality will be
iml)roved further.
10.2.2.4 The Efriciency of Mlaking use ot Einer-gy in the Iluanig-Bo-ilai Comlipany
Is to be Raised
llIe proposed project will maike use of tlhe exhausted heait liom I luang-Bo-IIai
Heat and Power Company reasonabvly, and improve the local air quality greatly.
Howcvcr. the exhausted heat is only used in Winter, while pov.er is generated in the
Company all the year. If the exhausted heat can be utilized in olhcr three seasons, then
more in(lustrial production boilers will be replaced, and the air quality in Yantai City can
be furtller improved, the efficiency of making use of cncrg;y and. the economic profits
will be fuither raised.
10.3 Assessment Conclusions an(l Suggestions of Wctiai
No. 3 CHP Plant
10.3.1 Coliclusionis
10.3. 1. 1 Weihai No. 3 CI fl) Plant has a capacity of 2 x] 2M1W with threc sets of high-
pressure cycling boilcrs. The constructioni project includes construction of' the plant,
steam pipes, hot-wvater pipcs and healing station.
'u-is



Thc 17.2 km long pipe will supply steam for 24 enterprises and for refiigeration
with an area of 226,000 m2; the hot water pipe with a length of 12.9 km can supply heat
for an area of 1,098,000 m2. The total investment for this project is 300,200,000 yuan,
and thc area of the plant is 120,000 m2.
10.3.1.2 After dust removal of electrostatic prccipitator, the smoke from high-pressure
sweetcning boilcrs gocs out of a chimncy of 120 meter-high with an internal diameter of
3 meters. Whose wastes meet the requirement of Shandong Emission Standard of
Exhaust Pollutants, Grade II (DB37/006-91) and Emission Standard of Air Pollutants
for Coal-burning Power Plant (GB13223-91).
10.3.1.3 According to atmospheric monitoring data in May, 1996 in Weiha, the air
quality in its southerii area mects the rcquircment of Ambient Air Quality Standard,
Grade II (GB3095-82). The ambient air quality is relatively good.
10.3.1.4 Under the stability of B, C, D, the maximum landing concentration of S02 and
floating dust can meet the corresponding national standards. In winter, the maximum
daily concentration of S02 is 0.0090 mg/m3, accounting for 6% of the standard; the
maximum daily conccntration of floating dust is 0.0021 mg/m3, accounting lor 1.4% of
the standard; In summer, the maximum daily concentration of S02 is 0.0080 mg/m3,
accounting for 5.33%∞ of the standard; the maximum daily conccntration of floating dust
is 0.0020 mg/m3, accounting for 1.33% of the standard
The axial concentration of S02 and floating dust under the adverse meteorological
conditions can meet the corresponding standards.
The annual daily average concentration of S02 is very low, accounting lor 3.33∞b
of the standard.
10.3.1.5 The ANcilhai No. 3 ClIP Plant will supply heiat lo all indlusltial crlterprises in the
southern area of the city. It will replacc 75 sets of boilers and 15,000 small domestic
stoves which bring a lot of wastes into the air; therefore, the plant will help to improve
amilbicit air (quality in Wcihai after its opcration. Cooperation amonig No. 1, No. 2 and
No. 3 CUP Plants will begin soon and a network of heating is expected to be built which
helps to solve the problems of air pollution.
10.3.1.6 Thlrce spots for groundwater quality monitoring will be set up. The first spot
lies in the south of the plant, where its pollutants accord with the limits. While the second
is in the north, all the monitoring factors mect the requirement except PH. Total
hardness, Chloride and PH in groundwater in spot 3 exceed the requirement which
results from pertneation of sea water.
10.3.1.7 Usually, the inpact factors on groundwater in CHP plant is from three aspects:
leakage water from wvastewater, permeation water fiom cinder stockyard and coal yard.
TlhCrC arc n1o hanrful substances in the water discharged from CI-II' plant, so it win
not dcstroy the watcr quality of groundwater if the mitigation measures are taken
I U-1 6



correctly .
The volume of wastewater from coal yard is limited and will not be harmful to
groundwatcr.
The cinidcr slockyard lor accident usc is about to construct on the wcatlicting layer
of Quaternary Period which has a good penetralion trend. Due to the step by step use of
cinder stockyard which prevents the forming of run-off of rains, the damage to
groundwater quality can be avoided.
10.3.1.8 According to the noise monitoiing data, all the noise levels in the plant can meet
the national stanldard. If the well measures can be taken in the whole course of
construction, the noise's impact on environment can bc avoided.
10.3.1.9 During the construction period, the main polluting factors are noise and raise
(lust. Altel thle mitigation measures such as constructing sound-prool wall, spraying
water and planting trees after earth works, the impacts on surrounding environment will
be reduced.
In a word, the construction of WVeihai No. 3 CIIP Plant is welcomed andl feasible.
10.3.2 Suggestions
10.3.2.1 The plant should be equipped witll low-noisc inachincs anid vwith mlodern dust
removal facilities. The desulfurization facilities in the plant should be designed and
constructed and operated together with the construction of the main body engineering.
10.3.2.2 Ilic turnover ground f'o waste should be lhardened, daminted up) into divisions
for use. ANfter divisions filled up with wastes, trees should be planted upon them.
10.3.2.3 While in construction, noise andl raisc dust slhould be reduced to minimum level
by taking mitigalion measures.
10.3.2.4 Thc plant should monitor and perfect its enidronment and cooperate with other
local departments to solve the problems timely.
10.4 Gencral .Conclusions for Shandong lnvironmental
Projects
lf the Thrce Synchronization Principles can be strictly enforced and the mitigation
measur-es can be implemented as the EIA reports requir-ed. all the projects are feasible in
thc point of vicw of einironmcntal proteclion.
10-1 7



