Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4237 CHA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Shandong Environment Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 4, 1998 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4237 CHA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 4, 1998, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank 
to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
Shandong Province (Shandong) shall carry out the Project, or cause the 
Project to be carried out, with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to Shandong the proceeds of the Loan as provided in 
this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Shandong; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions)  constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
Section 6.03 is modified to read: 
 
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with respect to any 
amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or 
(c) at any time, the Bank determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or 
Page  3
-
2
-
the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent 
with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank 
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount 
of the Loan shall be cancelled.”  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms, whenever used in this Agreement, have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Basic Documents” means the charters and business licenses referred to 
in paragraphs (f), (g), (ii) and (mm) of this Section. 
 
(b) 
“Category” means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
“Environmental Action Plans”, means, collectively, the Shandong 
Environmental Assessment, the Xiaoqing Environmental Action Plan, the Main Polluter 
EAPs and the Sub-project EAPs. 
 
(d) 
“Financial Agency Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between Shandong and a financial institution pursuant to Part F.3 (b) of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
(e) 
“Jinan” means Jinan Municipality in Shandong. 
 
(f) 
“Jinan Drainage Company” means the Jinan Municipal Drainage 
Company, a state-owned company established and operating pursuant to its Charter 
approved on September 10, 1996 by Jinan Urban Construction Administration and to 
Business License No. 26435727-3, dated September 10, 1996, issued by Jinan Municipal 
Industrial and Commerce Administration Bureau. 
 
(g) 
“Jinan Water Company” means the Jinan Municipal Water Supply 
Company, a state-owned company established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated 
December 1989 and to Business License No. 16315746-7, dated July 1, 1996 issued by 
Jinan Municipal Industrial and Commerce Administration Bureau. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(h) 
“Jinan Wastewater RAP” means Jinan’s ‘Wastewater Collection System 
Project Land Acquisition, Removal and Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)-1997.02,” as 
received by the Bank on February 19, 1997, which is Jinan’s land acquisition, removal 
and resettlement plan for Part A.2 of the Project, and includes the procedures governing 
land acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as the reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with the said, as the same may be revised from time 
to time in agreement with the Bank. 
 
(i) 
“Jinan Water RAP” means Jinan’s “Yellow River Water Supply Project 
(Queshan Reservoir) Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan” which is Jinan’s 
land acquisition, removal and resettlement plan for Part A.1 of the Project, dated March 
1997, as received by the Bank on March 18, 1997, and includes the procedures governing 
land acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as the reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with the said plan, as the same may be revised from 
time to time in agreement with the Bank.  
 
(j) 
“Main Polluter EAP 1” means Shandong’s environmental action plan 
dated February 5, 1997 to reduce pollution caused by Jinan Iron and Steel Group 
Corporation, and which includes environmental mitigation measures and as well as the 
administrative and monitoring arrangements ensuring the implementation of said 
measures, as the same may be revised from time to time in agreement with the Bank 
 
(k) 
“Main Polluter EAP 2” means the environmental action plan dated 
February 10, 1997 to reduce pollution caused by Qingzhou Paper Making Company, Ltd., 
and which includes environmental mitigation measures and as well as the administrative 
and monitoring arrangements ensuring the implementation of said measures, as the same 
may be revised from time to time in agreement with the Bank. 
 
(l) 
“Main Polluter EAP 3” means the environmental action plan dated 
February 15, 1997 to reduce pollution caused by Shonguang Yongli Pulp Making 
Company, and which includes environmental mitigation measures and as well as the 
administrative and monitoring arrangements ensuring the implementation of said 
measures, as the same may be revised from time to time in agreement with the Bank. 
 
(m) 
“Main Polluter EAPs” means collectively, Main Polluter EAP 1, Main 
Polluter EAP 2 and Main Polluter EAP 3.  
 
(n) 
“Operational Regulations” means the manual referred to in Part F.2 (a) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
 
(o) 
“Participating Enterprise” means an enterprise to which Shandong 
proposes to make, or has made, a Sub-loan.  
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(p) 
“PPO” means Shandong’s provincial project office responsible for the 
overall coordination and supervision of Project implementation, as referred to in Part A.1 
of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
 
(q) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement among the Bank and 
Shandong of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
 
(r) 
“Project Municipalities” means, collectively, Jinan, Weihai and Yantai; 
and "Project Municipality" means any of the Project Municipalities. 
 
(s) 
“Renminbi” means the currency of the Borrower. 
 
(t) 
“Resettlement Action Plans” means, collectively, the Jinan Wastewater 
RAP, Jinan  Water RAP, Weihai RAP, Yantai RAP and the Sub-project RAPs. 
 
(u) 
“Respective Part of the Project” means, the part of the Project specified 
below: 
 
(i) 
for Shandong: Parts D, E.1(e) and (f), and E.2; 
 
(ii) 
for Jinan Water Company: Parts A.1 and E.1(a); 
 
(iii) 
for Jinan Drainage Company: Parts A.2 and E.1(b); 
 
(iv)  
for Weihai Company: Parts B and E.1 (c) and 
 
(v) 
for Yantai Company: Parts C and E.1. (d). 
(v) 
“Respective RAP” means: 
 
(i) 
for Jinan Water Company:  Jinan Wastewater RAP; 
 
(ii) 
for Jinan Drainage Company:  Jinan Water RAP; 
 
(iii) 
for Weihai Company:  Weihai RAP; and 
 
(iv) 
for Yantai Company:  Yantai RAP. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(w) 
“SEPB” means Shandong’s bureau responsible for environmental 
protection. 
 
(x) 
“SFB” means Shandong’s bureau responsible for finance. 
 
(y) 
“Shandong” means Shandong Province, a political subdivision of the 
Borrower. 
 
(z) 
 
“Shandong Environmental Assessment” means the environmental 
assessment for the Project dated December 17, 1996, and includes environmental 
mitigation measures and as well as the administrative and monitoring arrangements 
ensuring the implementation of said measures, as the same may be revised from time to 
time in agreement with the Bank. 
 
(aa) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.  
 
(bb) 
“Sub-loan” means a loan made, or proposed to be made by Shandong, 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, to a Participating Enterprise for a Sub-project. 
 
(cc) 
“Sub-project” means a specific development project under Part D of the 
Project to be carried out by a Participating Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-
loan. 
 
(dd) 
“Sub-project EAPs” means, collectively, the environmental action plans 
prepared pursuant to paragraph 2 (c) of Part B of Schedule 4 to the Project Agreement; 
and “Sub-project EPA” means, individually, any of the Sub-project EAPs. 
 
(ee) 
“Sub-project RAPs” means, collectively, the resettlement action plans 
prepared pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of Part B of Schedule 4 to the Project Agreement; 
and “Sub-project RAP” means, individually, any of the Sub-project RAPs. 
 
(ff) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, the agreements to be 
entered into between each Project Municipality and its Utility Company pursuant to Part 
D.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes any schedules to said agreements; and "Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement" means, individually, any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements. 
 
(gg) 
“Utility Company” means, in respect of: 
 
(i) 
Jinan: the Jinan Water Company and the Jinan Drainage 
Company; 
(ii) 
Weihai:  the Weihai Company; and 
Page  7
-
6
-
(iii) 
Yantai:  the Yantai Company. 
 (hh) 
“Weihai” means Weihai Municipality in Shandong.  
 
(ii) 
“Weihai Company” means the Weihai Botong Heat and Power 
Company, Ltd., a state-owned limited liability company established and operating 
pursuant to its Charter dated September 1996 and to Business License No. 26636001-1, 
dated September 8, 1996, issued by Weihai Municipal Industrial and Commerce 
Administration Bureau.  
 
(jj) 
“Weihai RAP” means Weihai’s ‘No.3 Heat and Power Plant 
Resettlement Action Plan - 6th draft October 1996’, as received by the Bank on February 
19, 1997, which is Weihai’s land acquisition, removal and resettlement plan for Part B of 
the Project, and includes the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and 
compensation, as well as the reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
compliance with the said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time in 
agreement with the Bank. 
 
(kk) 
“Xiaoqing Environmental Action Plan” means the ‘Comprehensive 
Water Pollution Prevention and Control Plan for Xiaoqing River Basin’, dated September 
1994, as approved by Shandong Provincial People’s Congress on June 14, 1995, and 
designed to address the significant point sources of pollution in the Xiaoqing River Basin, 
as the same may be revised from time to time in agreement with the Bank. 
 
(ll) 
“Yantai” means Yantai Municipality in Shandong.  
 
(mm) 
“Yantai Company” means the Yantai Heat Supply Company, a state-
owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its Charter 
approved on September 11, 1996, by Yantai Municipal People’s Government and to 
Business License No. 26564401-2, dated January 16, 1997, issued by Municipal 
Industrial and Commerce Administration Bureau.  
 
(nn) 
“Yantai RAP” means Yantai’s ‘Demonstration Project of Yantai 500 
Heating Network Resettlement Action Plan - September 1996 Revision’, as received by 
the Bank on February 17, 1997, which is Yantai’s land acquisition, removal and 
resettlement plan for Part C of the Project, and includes the procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as the reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with the said plan, as the same may be revised from 
time to time in agreement with the Bank. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to ninety five 
million Dollars  ($95,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower  of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London  
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
Page  9
-
8
-
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.  
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one 
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-
month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings 
or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable January 15 and July 15 
in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III  
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall 
cause Shandong to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all the obligations of Shandong therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable Shandong to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
Page  10
-
9
-
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to 
Shandong on the following principal terms: 
 
(i) 
the principal amount so made available to Shandong shall be the 
amount in Dollars (on the respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn;  
(ii) 
Shandong shall repay such principal amount over a period of 
twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years; 
(iii) 
the Borrower shall charge interest on such principal amount 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to 
the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the Loan 
pursuant to Section 2.05 of  this Agreement; and 
(iv) 
the Borrower shall charge a commitment charge on such 
principal amount not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal 
to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services  required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03 The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried 
out by Shandong pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE IV  
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
(iii) 
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records. 
 (b) 
The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii) 
Furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE V  
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
(a) 
Shandong shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Shandong will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Any of the parties to the Financial Agency Agreement or any of the 
parties to any of the  Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have failed to perform any of its 
respective obligations thereunder. 
 
(d) 
Any of the Basic Documents shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
respective Utility Companies to perform any of its obligations under its respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
 
(e) 
The Borrower, Shandong or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall 
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the Utility 
Companies or for the suspension of such entity's operations. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
any event specified in paragraph (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
any event specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on 
behalf of the Project Municipalities and each of their respective Utility Companies. 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duty authorized or ratified by 
Shandong, and is legally binding upon Shandong in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
that each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been duly authorized or 
ratified by each of the parties thereto and is legally binding upon said parties in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.  
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People's Republic of China 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
 
FINANMIN 
   22486 
MFPRC 
CN 
 
Beijing 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
   248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By  /s/ Zhou Wenzhong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/  Yukon Huang 
 
Acting Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1  
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
(Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category 
Expressed in Dollars
)
to be Financed 
(1) 
Works 
30,000,000 
40% of  
 
expenditures 
 
(2)  
Goods 
50,000,000 
100% of foreign 
 
(other than for                                        
 
expenditures, 
 
Sub-projects) 
 
100 % of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 75% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(3)  
Goods under                                      5,000,000  
100% of foreign 
 Sub-projects 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 75% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
(4) 
Consultants'                                       5,000,000   
100% 
 
services and training 
 
(5)  
Unallocated                                       5,000,000 
 
_________ 
 
95,000,000
TOTAL 
   ======== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:  
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of :  
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
US$1,500,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (4), set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payment for expenditures before that 
date but after September 30, 1996; 
 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Category 3, until the Bank shall 
have: 
 
(i) 
approved the Operational Regulations; and 
(ii) 
notified the Borrower of its acceptance of evidence that the 
Financial Agency Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
parties thereto and is legally binding upon said parties in 
accordance with its terms; and 
 
(c) 
payments made for expenditures under Category 1, until Shandong shall 
have entered into agreements, acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with Section II 
of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, with consultancy firms for the provision of: (i) 
institutional and financial technical assistance services under Parts E.1 (a) through (d) of 
the Project; and (ii) construction supervision services under parts E.1(a) through (e) of the 
Project. 
 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures:  
 
(a) 
for works under contracts costing less than $2,500,000 equivalent each;  
 
(b) 
for goods under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent each; 
 
(c) 
for consulting services under contracts awarded to consulting firms and 
costing less than $100,000 each;  
 
(d) 
for consulting services under contracts awarded to individuals and 
costing less than $50,000 each; and 
 
(e) 
for training regardless of the cost thereof;  
 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist Shandong to: (a) strengthen its policies, 
regulations and institutional arrangements for municipal water, wastewater, and district 
heating management and environmental pollution control; (b) improve water resource 
quality and management in the Xiaoqing river basin to allow for the optimal use of water 
resources for potable supply, industry and agriculture; (c) expand surface water supply to 
Jinan to prevent further depletion of groundwater aquifers; (d) facilitate sustainable 
management of investments in pollution control and municipally-provided urban 
environmental services. 
 
The Project constitutes part of Shandong’s long term environmental 
improvement program and consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Jinan 
 
1. 
Water Supply Management 
 
Improvement of the long-term reliability of Jinan’s water supply system and 
protection of its groundwater resources, through the construction and equipping of: 
 
(a) 
a settlement basin, comprising grit channels of about 700 meters wide 
and about 3.2 kilometers long, including earth embankments, access bridges, inlet/outlet 
gates, channels and pump stations of about 900,000 cubic meters per day capacity, and an 
outlet pipeline of about 2,000 millimeters diameter and 1.25 kilometers in length; 
 
(b) 
a regulating reservoir, comprising an earth embanked storage of about 46 
million cubic meters capacity, of about 7.2 meters average depth, with about 12 
kilometers of embankments, ancillary equipment and facilities; 
 
(c) 
transmission pipelines of about 1,200 to 2,000 millimeters diameter and 
about 16.2 kilometers in length, as well as a pumpstation of about 400,000 cubic meters 
per day capacity and ancillary facilities including distribution pipelines and related plant 
and equipment; 
 
(d) 
a crossing of the Yellow River, and 
 
(e)  
a highway diversion comprising upgrading of existing roads and 
construction of new roads of about 4.8 kilometers length. 
 
2. Wastewater 
Management 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
Protection of the Xiaoqing river water quality and improved utilization of 
existing treatment facilities, through:  
 
(a) 
construction and equipping of about 19 kilometers of trunk sewers and 
force mains with diameters of about 600 to 2,000 millimeters, siphons and ancillary 
facilities; 
 
(b) 
construction and equipping of about 19 kilometers of secondary and link 
sewers with diameters of about 500 to 1,600 millimeters, siphons and ancillary facilities; 
 
(c) 
construction and equipping of a pumpstation of about 100,000 cubic 
meters per day capacity for wastewater and about 81,000 cubic meters per day capacity 
for storm drainage, including screens, pumping equipment and ancillary facilities; 
 
(d) 
construction and equipping of property connections in sizes to 300 
millimeters diameter and about 11 kilometers in length and including local pumping 
wastewater management facilities; and 
 
(e)  
provision of sewer cleaning and safety equipment as well as utility 
vehicles. 
 
Part B:  Weihai 
 
Strengthening of Weihai’s district heating system, through construction and equipping of: 
 
1. 
a combined heat and power plant of about 24 megawatt electricity and about 120 
megawatt heat capacity; 
 
2. 
heat and steam networks, comprising about 13.7 kilometers of steam network of 
about 75 tons per hour capacity and hot water networks of about 14.2 kilometers of about 
68 megawatt capacity; and 
 
3. 
about 10 heat exchanger stations of varying capacity averaging about 6 
megawatt.  
 
Part C:  Yantai  
 
Strengthening of Yantai’s district heating system, through construction and equipping of: 
 
1. 
a boiler plant comprising boilers and associated equipment and facilities of about 
112 megawatt capacity; 
 
2. 
a heat network, comprising about 30 kilometers of heat network of about 500 
megawatt capacity; and 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
3. 
about 42 heat exchanger stations of varying capacity averaging about 10 
megawatt.  
 
Part D: Industrial Pollution Control 
 
The carrying out of sub-projects to upgrade in-plant technology processes of 
enterprises designed to reduce polluting discharges by said enterprises in order to comply 
with environmental regulations. 
 
Part E:  Institutional Development and Training 
 
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of:  (a) Jinan Water Company, (b) Jinan 
Drainage Company, (c) Weihai Company, (d) Yantai Company, (e) PPO, and (f) SEPB 
and SFB, in financial and institutional management, construction supervision, 
environmental protection, information management through the provision of equipment, 
consultants’ services and training. 
 
2. 
Carrying out an environmental data collection update with respect to 
water quality and management in the Xiaoqing river basin with a view to improving long-
term environmental protection in the basin.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002 
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3  
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
Expressed in Dollars*
July 15, 2003 
2,015,000 
January 15, 2004 
2,075,000 
July 15, 2004 
2,135,000 
January 15, 2005 
2,200,000 
July 15, 2005 
2,265,000 
January 15, 2006 
2,330,000 
July 15, 2006 
2,400,000 
January 15, 2007 
2,470,000 
July 15, 2007 
2,540,000 
January 15, 2008 
2,615,000 
July 15, 2008 
2,695,000 
January 15, 2009 
2,775,000 
July 15, 2009 
2,855,000 
January 15, 2010 
2,940,000 
July 15, 2010 
3,025,000 
January 15, 2011 
3,115,000 
July 15, 2011 
3,205,000 
January 15, 2012 
3,300,000 
July 15, 2012 
3,395,000 
January 15, 2013 
3,495,000 
July 15, 2013 
3,600,000 
January 15, 2014 
3,705,000 
July 15, 2014 
3,815,000 
January 15, 2015 
3,925,000 
July 15, 2015 
4,040,000 
January 15, 2016 
4,160,000 
July 15, 2016 
4,285,000 
January 15, 2017 
4,410,000 
July 15, 2017 
4,540,000 
January 15, 2018 
4,675,000 
________________________ 
*The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided for in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.  
 
Page  23
-
22 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 through 4 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $3,000,000 the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $25,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
Page  24
-
23 - 
 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.  
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  25
-
24 - 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
