Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4237 CHA
Project Agreement
(Shandong Environment Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SHANDONG PROVINCE
Dated February 4, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4237 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 4 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SHANDONG PROVINCE (Shandong).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount of ninety five million dollars ($95,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Shandong agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Shandong, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Page  2
Section 2.01. (a) Shandong declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
(i)
carry out, or cause to be carried out, Parts D, E.1 (e) and (f), 
and E.2 of 
the Project; 
(ii)
cause Jinan to carry out Part A of the Project, of which Parts A.1  
and E.1 
(a) shall be carried out through the Jinan Water Company, 
and Parts A.2  and 
E.1 (b) through the Jinan Drainage Company;
(iii)
cause Weihai to carry out Parts B and E.1 (c) of the Project 
through the 
Weihai Company; and 
(iv)
cause Yantai to carry out Parts C and E.1 (d) of the Project, 
through the 
Yantai Company; 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, public utility and environmental standards and 
practices, and Shandong shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Shandong shall otherwise agree, Shandong shall carry out 
the Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Shandong shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitation thereto, Shandong shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan 
for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower 
on said plan. 
Section 2.04. (a) Shandong shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
Shandong shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Shandong of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Shandong shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Shandong as well as the Project Municipalities responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  3
(b)
Shandong shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Shandong 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance 
with its 
terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before the 
date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly notify 
Shandong of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
 Telex:
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI), or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  4
For Shandong:
Shandong Project Management Office
46 Jingwu Xiaoweisi Road
Jinan, China 250001
Cable address:
4102
JINANCHA
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Shandong may 
be taken or executed by the Vice-Governor responsible for the environment or such 
other person or persons as said Vice-Governor shall designate in writing, and Shandong 
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Acting Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SHANDONG PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: 
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following, provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
 International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
Page  5
To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $6,000,000 or more each, and contracts 
for goods shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C: 
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $6,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $38,100,000 equivalent, and goods (other than goods 
required for a Sub-project) estimated to cost $50,000 or more but less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
(a)
Goods (other than goods required for a Sub-project), estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods required for a Sub-project may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,500,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  6
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services to be provided under the Project estimated 
to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part E of the Project which are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services under Part E of the Project for tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
Page  7
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program shall consist of the provisions set forth or referred to below.
A.
Project Management
1.
Shandong shall continue to maintain a provincial project office (PPO), with 
functions satisfactory to the Bank, staffed by qualified staff in adequate numbers, to 
be responsible for the overall coordination and supervision of Project execution, the 
supervision of the procurement of goods and services thereunder, the overall 
assessment of quality and impact of the Project and the preparation and furnishing to 
the Bank of reports and other information thereon. 
2.
Shandong shall ensure that each of the Project Municipalities shall continue to 
maintain its municipal project office with functions satisfactory to the Bank, staffed 
by qualified staff in adequate numbers, to be responsible for: the coordination and 
supervision of the execution of its and its Utility Company’s Respective Part of the 
Project; the supervision of the procurement of goods and services under its and its 
Utility Company’s Respective Part of the Project; and the preparation and furnishing 
to PPO of reports and other information thereon.
B.
Resettlement and Environmental Action Plans
1.
Shandong shall take, and shall cause the Project Municipalities, each Utility 
Company and Participating Enterprise to take, all measures necessary to ensure that 
the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plans and 
the Environmental Action Plans.
2.
Shandong shall carry out, or cause to be carried out the Xiaoqing Environmental 
Action Plan and the Main Polluter EAPs. 
3.
Shandong shall ensure that any proposed revision of the Resettlement Action 
Plans or the Environmental Action Plans (except for the Xiaoqing Environmental Action 
Plan) shall be furnished to the Bank for prior approval.
C.
Financial Arrangements
Shandong shall allocate to each Project Municipality an amount out of the 
proceeds of the Loan under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, 
without limitation, the following principal terms:
(a)
the principal amount so made available to each Project Municipality shall 
be the amount in Dollars (on the respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account) 
of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on account of said Project 
Municipality's Utility Company's Respective Part of the Project;
(b)
Each Project Municipality shall repay such principal amount over a period 
of seventeen (17) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years;
(c)
Shandong shall charge interest on such principal amount, withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from 
time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement, plus a spread 
of not less than one-half percent (0.5%) per annum; and
(d)
Shandong shall charge a commitment charge on such principal amount, not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%) per annum.
Page  8
D.
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
1.
Shandong shall cause each Project Municipality to relend the portion of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated to it pursuant to Part C of this Schedule for the 
purpose of carrying out its Utility Company's Respective Part of the Project, to its 
Utility Company, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between said 
Project Municipality and its Utility Company, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include, without limitation, those set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.
(a)
Shandong shall ensure that each Project Municipality shall cause its 
Utility Company to:
(i)
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement to 
which said Utility Company is a party, all of the 
obligations of said Utility 
Company therein set forth;
(ii)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable 
said Utility Company to perform such 
obligations; and
(iii)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere 
with such performance; and
(b)
 Shandong shall, and shall cause each Project Municipality to exercise 
its rights under each Subsidiary Loan Agreement to which it is a party in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, Shandong and said Project 
Municipality and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement to 
which Shandong or said Project Municipality is a party or any provision thereof.
E.
Institutional Development and Training
1.
Shandong shall carry out Part E of the Project in accordance with a program 
acceptable to the Bank, and shall ensure that each of the Project Municipalities fully 
cooperates in the carrying out of said Part of the Project. Any proposed revision to 
the aforementioned program shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior approval.
2.
Without prejudice to Part E.1 above, Shandong shall: (i) carry out the update 
referred to in Part E.2 of the Project  in accordance with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank not later than June 30, 1998; and (ii) review the 
recommendations resulting from the update with the Bank.
F.
Sub-loans under Part D of the Project 
1.
Shandong shall make Sub-loans on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.
Shandong shall:
(a)
adopt a manual (the Operational Regulations) governing the implementation 
of Part D of the Project and acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)
implement Part D of the Project in accordance with the said manual.
3.
Shandong shall:
(a)
appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the carrying 
out of Sub-projects, in accordance with the Operational Regulations;
(b)
to this end, enter into an agreement (the Financial Agency Agreement) 
with a financial institution acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, whereby said financial institution shall act as agent for 
Shandong for the purposes of carrying out of the financial and technical appraisal of 
Sub-projects and for the disbursement of the proceeds of Sub-loans as well as the 
collection of amounts thereunder;
Page  9
(c)
utilize all amounts repaid on Sub-loans, to the extent they are not yet 
required to meet Shandong's repayment obligations to the Borrower, to finance 
additional Sub-projects consistent with the Operational Regulations;
(d)
exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower and achieve the purposes of the 
Project;
(e)
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for 
Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without the prior approval of the Bank; and
(f)
furnish any proposed amendment to the Financial Agency Agreement or the 
Operational Regulations to the Bank for its prior approval.
4.
Shandong shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, make available for 
the purpose of funding Sub-projects under Part D of the Project, at least the 
following amounts: 
(a)
Renminbi 16,500,000 not later than June 30, 1997;
(b)
Renminbi 12,500,000 not later than June 30, 1998; and
(c)
Renminbi 12,500,000 not later than June 30, 1999.
G.
Monitoring and Reporting 
1.
Monitoring
Shandong shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Bank, the carrying out of the Project, including the Resettlement Action Plans and the 
Environmental Action Plans, as well as the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
Reporting
Shandong shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank, the following reports:  (a)  reports not later than February 28, 
April 30, July 31 and October 31 in each year, integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 above and based 
on quarterly progress reports prepared by the municipal project offices referred to in 
Part A.2 of this Schedule, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the immediately preceding calendar year quarter and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the then current calendar quarter, the February 28 
report shall include the latest Project cost estimate and financial plan (including a 
draft budget for local counterpart funds) for the following calendar year; and (b) a 
mid-term report not later than September 30, 2000, integrating the results of the 
monitoring and reporting activities performed pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 (a) 
above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
3.
Consultation
After furnishing each report referred to in paragraph 2 above, Shandong shall 
review said report with the Bank, and promptly take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project (including, when applicable, the carrying out 
of the Resettlement Action Plans and the Environmental Action Plans) and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms and Conditions of 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
Page  10
The principal terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Schedule 3 
shall apply for the purposes of Part D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
A.
Terms
1.
The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan made by a Project Municipality to 
its Utility Company, shall be the amount in Dollars (on the respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn on account of said Utility Company's Respective Part of the Project.
2.
Each Utility Company shall repay such principal amount over a period of fifteen 
(15) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years. 
3.
Each Subsidiary Loan shall bear interest on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan 
Agreement, plus, a spread of not less than one percent (1.0%), per annum.
4.
The Project Municipality concerned shall charge a commitment charge on such 
principal amount, not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three-fourths of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
B.
Conditions
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include the following principal conditions.
1.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out its Respective Part of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with:
(i)
appropriate technical, financial, engineering and public utility 
practices; and
(ii)
appropriate health, safety and environmental standards acceptable 
to the Bank, 
and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and 
other resources 
required for the purpose; and 
(b)
without limitation on the foregoing take all measures necessary to ensure 
that its Respective Part of the Project shall be implemented in accordance with its 
Respective RAP and the Shandong Environmental Assessment.
2.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to procure the goods and services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement, and utilize such goods and services exclusively in the carrying 
out of its Respective Part of the Project. 
3.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to enable the Bank, Shandong and the 
Project Municipality concerned to inspect such goods and the sites and works included 
in its Respective Part of the Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records 
and documents.
4.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be 
consistent with sound business practice, including, without limitation, such insurance 
to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any 
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Utility 
Company to replace or repair such goods.
5.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to:
(a)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition;
Page  11
(b)
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank and the Project Municipality concerned; 
(c)
furnish to Shandong, the Project Municipality concerned, and to the Bank, 
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year:
(i)
certified copies of said financial statements and accounts for 
such year as so 
audited; and 
(ii)
the report of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail 
as 
Shandong, the Bank and/or said Project Municipality shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(d)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, Shandong, and the Project Municipality 
concerned all such other information concerning said records, accounts and financial 
statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank, Shandong, and/or said Project 
Municipality shall reasonably request.
6.
The Jinan Drainage Company, Jinan Water Company and Yantai Company shall for 
each fiscal year as of 1997, and the Weihai Company shall for each fiscal year as of 
1998, undertake to produce:
(a)
total revenues, equivalent to not less than the sum of:
(i)
its total operating expenses;
(ii)
for Jinan Drainage Company, Weihai Company and Yantai Company 
only, the amount 
by which debt service requirements exceeds the 
provision for depreciation; and
(iii)
for Jinan Water Company only, increases in working capital other 
than cash, 
debt service requirements and 20% of the annual average of 
its capital 
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, 
for the current year, the 
previous fiscal year and the next following 
fiscal year;
(b)
review, before September 30 in each fiscal year as of fiscal 1998, and on 
the basis of forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the Bank, whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof, in respect of such year 
and the next following fiscal year and furnish to the Bank the results of such review 
upon its completion; and
(c)
if any such review shows that it would not meet the requirements set 
forth in subparagraph (a) hereof for the fiscal years covered by such review, promptly 
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the 
structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
7.
Each Utility Company shall undertake not to incur any debt unless a reasonable 
forecast of its revenues and expenditures shows that its estimated net revenues for 
each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 
times its estimated debt service requirements in such year on all of its debt 
including the debt to be incurred.
8.
For the Jinan Subsidiary Loan Agreement only, Jinan Water Company shall, by not 
later than December 31, 2000, strengthen its distribution system to handle an 
increased supply of about 400,000 cubic meters of fully treated water to Jinan.
9.
Each Project Municipality shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right 
of each Utility Company to which it has made a Subsidiary Loan to the use of the 
proceeds of such Subsidiary Loan upon failure by said Utility Company to perform its 
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
C.
Definitions
Page  12
1.
For purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term “total revenues” means the terms of total operating revenues and 
net non-operating income.
(b)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all sources 
related to operations.
(c)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, and (except for Jinan Water Company) provision for depreciation on a 
straight line basis at a rate of not less than 3.3% per annum of the average current 
gross value of the Utility Company's fixed assets in operation, or other basis 
acceptable to the Bank, but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(d)
The average current gross value of the Utility Company's fixed assets in 
operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross value of its fixed 
assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from 
time to time in accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation 
satisfactory to the Bank.
(e)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other 
charges on, debt.
(f)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Utility Company maturing by 
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(g)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: 
(i)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument providing 
for such debt 
or for the modification of its terms of payment on 
the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and
(ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing 
for such 
guarantee has been entered into.
(h)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(i)
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; 
and
(ii)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred 
in the 
generation of revenues in (i) above.
(i)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by the Utility 
Company not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both the Bank and said Utility Company accept as reasonable and as to 
which the Bank has notified said Utility Company of its acceptability, provided that 
no event has occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably be expected 
in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial condition or future 
operating results of said Utility Company.
(j)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference between 
current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
(k)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of business be converted into cash within twelve 
months, including accounts receivable, marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(l)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will become 
due and payable or could under circumstances then existing be called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(m)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on account of 
Page  13
fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, related to operations. 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, 
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Whenever, for the purposes of this Schedule, it shall be necessary to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 4
Sub-loans
A.
Terms
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan financed:
(a)
shall be the amount in Dollars (determined as of the date, or respective 
dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies 
so withdrawn on account of the Sub-project for which said Sub-loan has been made; and
(b)
shall be repaid within a period not exceeding 5 years, inclusive of a 
grace period not exceeding 2 years.
2.
Each Sub-loan shall:
(a)
bear interest, on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time, at a rate equal to the rate applicable from time to time to the 
Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement, plus a spread of not less than 
one and one-half percent (1.5%), per annum;
(b)
carry a commitment fee on the principal amount of said loan not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum;
3.
The total estimated cost of each Sub-project (excluding the cost of land) shall 
not exceed $1,000,000. The aggregate amount of all Sub-loans made to any one 
Participating Enterprise shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000. The amount of 
any one Sub-loan and the aggregate amount of all Sub-loans made for any one 
Sub-project shall not exceed 50% of the total estimated cost (excluding the cost of 
land) of such Sub-project.
B.
Eligibility and Appraisal
1.
Each Sub-loan shall be made only to a Participating Enterprise which:
(a)
is an enterprise legal person duly established and operating under the 
laws of the Borrower; and
(b)
shall have established on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the 
Bank, that it is creditworthy and has a sound financial structure and the 
organization, management, staff and other resources required for the efficient 
carrying out of its operations, including the Sub-project.
2.
Sub-projects shall be appraised and selected on the basis of technical, 
financial, environmental and resettlement criteria acceptable to the Bank. Such 
criteria shall include, without limitation:
(a)
 Financial: the Participating Enterprise needs to demonstrate that it can 
maintain a debt service coverage ratio (as defined in Parts B.7 and C of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement) of not less than 1.4 times after the proposed Sub-project has reached 
full production capacity;
Page  14
(b)
Technical: Sub-projects shall be technically viable based on an 
assessment of:
(i)
the Sub-project's impact on the ambient environment;
(ii)
the Sub-project's investment and operating cost per unit pollution 
load reduction;
(iii)
the efforts made by the Participating Enterprise on pollution 
prevention;
(iv)
the Participating Enterprise's record regarding compliance with 
environmental 
regulations and standards; and
(v)
the Sub-project's technical feasibility and least-cost option.
(c)
Environmental:  for each Sub-project the Participating Enterprise shall 
prepare an environmental action plan satisfactory to the Bank, including an assessment 
of the Participating Enterprise's and the Sub-project's adverse impact on the 
environment and appropriate mitigation measures to be carried out to remedy such 
impact.
(d)
Resettlement: for each Sub-project involving the involuntary resettlement 
of any persons in connection therewith, the Participating Enterprise shall prepare, on 
the basis of procedures and principles acceptable to the Bank, a resettlement action 
plan satisfactory to the Bank.  Resettlement action plans shall be prepared in 
consultation with the affected persons on the basis of policies, planning principles 
and institutional arrangements designed to improve the living standards of the said 
persons, together with satisfactory operational procedures adequate to enable the 
monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the said resettlement plan.
C.
Utilization of Sub-loan proceeds
The proceeds of Sub-loans shall be withdrawn only to finance expenditures for 
materials, equipment and services, required for a Sub-project, net of taxes.
D.
Other conditions
1.
 No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures 
shall have been made not earlier than 90 days prior to the date on which the Bank 
shall have received the application and information required under Section (a) of this 
Part in respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has 
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been 
made not earlier than 90 days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received 
the request and information required under Section 2 (b) of this Part in respect of 
such free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this Schedule, a free-limit Sub-loan 
shall be a Sub-loan (other than the first three (3) Sub-loans made) in an amount to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $300,000 
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any other loan, provided for in any 
outstanding agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, the proceeds of which have 
been or are being used for financing goods and services directly and materially 
related to such Sub-project, the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time 
to time as determined b
y the Bank.
2.
(a)
Each application for approval by the Bank of a Sub-loan (other than a 
free-limit Sub-loan) shall be in form satisfactory to the Bank, and shall include:
(i)
a description of the Participating Enterprise and an appraisal of 
the 
Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures 
Page  15
proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(ii)
the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the 
schedule of 
amortization thereof; and
(iii)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan Account 
in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain:
(i)
a summary description of the Participating Enterprise and the 
Sub-project, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; and
(ii)
the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule 
of amortization 
thereof.
3.
Each Sub-loan shall be made on further conditions whereby Shandong shall obtain, 
by written contract with the Participating Enterprise, rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Bank and Shandong, including:
(a)
that the Participating Enterprise shall undertake to:
(i)
carry out and operate the Sub-project (including completion of 
abatement 
measures, the Sub-project EAP and, if applicable, the 
Sub-project RAP), with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with sound technical, financial 
and managerial standards and appropriate 
safety, health and environmental 
standards satisfactory to the 
Bank, maintain adequate records and provide, 
promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities and other resources required for the 
purpose;
(ii)
procure the goods and services required for the  Sub-project in 
accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
and utilize such goods 
and services exclusively in the carrying out 
of its Sub-project;
(iii)
enable the Bank and Shandong to inspect such goods and the sites 
and works 
included in its Sub-project the operation thereof, 
and any relevant records 
and documents;
(iv)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers  such insurance 
against such 
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound 
business 
practice, including, without limitation, such 
insurance to cover hazards 
incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods required for 
the Sub-project to 
the place of use or on, any indemnity thereunder to be made 
payable in a currency freely usable by the Participating Enterprise to replace 
or repair such goods; and
(v)
prepare and furnish to Shandong, as the case may be, for 
forwarding to the 
Bank, if it shall so request, all such 
information as the Bank or Shandong 
shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and 
financial condition of the Participating Enterprise and to the 
benefits to be derived from the Sub-project; and 
(b)
provisions to ensure the right of Shandong to suspend or terminate the 
right of the Participating Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon 
failure by such Participating Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract 
providing for the Sub-loan. 
