Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No 21309-BO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
POWER SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2790 BO)
March 5, 2001
Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru Country Unit
Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure Sector Department
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATE
(As of December 31. 2000)
Currency Unit = Boliviano (Bs)
US$1.00=Bs 6.38
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ENDE        Empresa Nacional de Electricidad S.A.(National Electricity Corporation)
ENDE-T    ENDE's Transmission Unit
ESMAP       Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GOB         Government of Bolivia
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
MOC         Ministry of Capitalization
MOED        Ministry of Economic Development
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
NLDC        National Load Dispatch Committee
NSE         National Secretariat of Energy
PPIAF       Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
PRONER    National Rural Electrification Program
SE          Superintendency of Electricity
SETAR       Servicios Electricos de Tarifa (Electricity Tariff Services)
SIRESE      System of Sectoral Regulation
SOE         State Owned Enterprise
TG          Power Sector Reform and Capitalization Technical Group
Vice President: David De Ferranti
Country Manager Director: Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager Director: Danny Leipziger
Task Manager: Chakib Khelil



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART 1 - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.                  Background ........................................1I
B.                  Project Objectives and Components ...........................................2
C.                  Achievement of Objectives ........................................3
D.                  Major Factors Affecting the Project ........................................6
E.                  Project Sustainability  ........................................7
F.                  IDA Performance .........................................7
G.                  Borrower Performance .........................................8
H.                  Assessment of Outcome .........................................8
I.                  Future Operation ........................................9
J.                  Key Lessons Learned .........................................9
PART II- STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:            Summary of Assessments .........................................11
Table 2:            Related IDA Loans/Credits ........................................                                                     12
Table 3:            Project Timetable ........................................                                                             12
Table 4:            Cumulative Estimated and Actual Credit Disbursements ........................................                          13
Table 5:            Key Indicators for Project Implementation ........................................                                     13
Table 6:            Key Indicators for Project Operation ........................................                                          13
Table 7:            Studies Included in Project ........................................    ................... 14
Table 8A:    Project Costs ........................................                                                                        19
Table 8B:    Project Financing ........................................                                                                    20
Table 9:            Economic Costs and Benefits ........................................                                                   20
Table 10:           Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........................................                                 20
Table 11:           Status of Legal Covenants ........................................                                                     20
Table 12:           Use of IDA  Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................                                           22
Table 13:           Use of IDA  Resources: Major Missions ........................................                                         22
Annex A - Borrower's Contribution ..........................3...............                                                 ...          .... 23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
POWER SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2790 BO)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Power 'Sector Reform
Technical Assistance Project in Bolivia, for which Credit 2790-BO in the amount of
SDR3.5 million (US$5.1 million equivalent) to the Government of Bolivia was approved
on November 30, 1995 and made effective on January 23, 1997.
The Credit closed on June 30, 1999 after one six-month extension. Final
disbursement took place on January 19, 2000, at which time a balance of SDR1 81,487
(US$231,136) yemained to be recovered from the project's Special Account.
After the departure of Chakib Khelil, the project's task manager, from the World
Bank in October 1999, a draft ICR was prepared by his team member, Hannachi Morsli
(Principal Petroleum Engineer, COCPO) during May-August 2000. This draft was
substantially rewritten by Stephen Ettinger (Consultant) during September-October 2000.
It was reviewed by Susan Goldmark (Sector Manager, LCSFE), Andrea Silverman
(Sector Leader, LCSFP), Tonci Bakovic (CPW) and Maria Victoria Lister, (Sr.
Operations Officer, LCSFP). It was sent to the Government of Bolivia for comments in
November 2000 which were received in late February 2001.
The ICR is based on material in the project file retrieved from the management
information system, and on discussions with and information provided by GOB and the
implementing agencies. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
preparing its own project evaluation (Annex A) and by commenting on the I'DA's draft
ICR.



ii
BOLIVIA
POWER SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2790 - BO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Background. In 1993, the Governnent of Bolivia (GOB) began the process of
restructuring and privatizing the public utility sectors of electricity, hydrocarbons,
telecommunications, water and transport. It established the independent System of
Sectoral Regulation (SIRESE), covering the above five sectors, passed new laws for those
sectors (except for transport, where the law is under preparation), and privatized most of
the main state-owned enterprises (SOEs). SIRESE is headed by a General Superintendent,
and includes the power sector regulatory agency, the Superintendency of Electricity (SE).
2.    The December 1994 Electricity Law called for the vertical separation of the sector
into generation, transmnission and distribution companies. Generation would become a
competitive activity and the others would be regulated monopolies. The Empresa
Nacional de Electricidad S.A. (ENDE), Bolivia's national power generation and
transmission company, was one of the first public enterprises to be restructured and
largely privatized. In 1995, its generation operations were split into three companies,
which were then "capitalized." (In this Bolivian form of privatization, private firms obtain
50% of a company's shares plus management control in exchange for investing new capital
directly into the cornpany. The remaining 50% of the shares -- except for a small portion
purchased at book value by employees -- is transferred from the state to the Bolivian
people, and managed in trust by private pension funds). The largest electricity distribution
SOE, Cochabamba's ELFEC (in which ENDE held a majority of shares), was also
privatized in 1995. To further consolidate these electricity sector reforms, GOB obtained
IDA support through the Power Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project (Credit
2790-BO).
3.    Project Objectives and Components. The project's listed objectives were to
assist Bolivia's power sector in (a) fine-tuning the regulations under the Electricity Law,
(b) carrying out key transition activities, and (c) completing the restructuring and
privatization of remaining government-owned assets, especially ENDE transmission
(ENDE-T), the main isolated systems, and the distribution companies in the smaller cities.
A fourth objective, although not specified as such in the documents, was to design a
sustainable system for rural electrification.
4.    To achieve these objectives, the project provided resources to the Ministries of
Capitalization (MOC) and Economic Development (MOED) for: (a) strengthening the
National Secretariat of Energy (NSE) within MOED, and the Technical Group (TG)
coordinating the project within MOC; (b) fine-tuning regulations under the Electricity
Law; (c) carrying out pricing studies to determine the economic costs of generation,



iii
transmission and distribution, and updating the power tariff structure accordingly; (d)
improving system dispatch by the National Load Dispatch Committee (NLDC); (e)
mitigating environmental impacts; (f) developing a rural energy program, and (g)
evaluating and implementing options for restructuring and privatizing ENDE-T, the
isolated systems, and the smaller cities' distribution companies.
5.    Evaluation of Objectives and Components. The project's objectives were
consistent with the government's sector priorities and in line with the Bolivia Country
Assistance Strategy. The objectives were appropriately modest, because the central part
of the reforms had already been carried out. The components lacked cohesiveness, as they
covered all the main matters which had not yet been adequately attended to, but were
reasonable in scope and in line with the objectives.
6.    Credit Amendment. The Credit was amended in July 1997, following the
dissolution of MOC, to reflect the transfer of its activities to SE and NSE, an1d a six month
Closing Date extension (to December 30, 1999) was granted.
7.    Achievement of Objectives. Credit effectiveness took fourteen moniths from
IDA Board approval, primarily because of delays in getting the credit approved by the
Bolivian Congress, due to the higher priority GOB was giving at the time to capitalization
of the hydrocarbons sector. The impact of this delay, however, was minimized by the
Project Preparation Facility advance, which was granted soon after appraisal. There was a
second delay due to the change in administration. The new government that assumed
office in August 1997 was initially skeptical about the reforms in general ancl SIRESE in
particular, but soon came to accept them. In spite of these delays, the project was by and
large implemented on schedule.
8.    Significant progress towards attaining the project's main objectives was achieved,
but there still remains a substantial unfinished agenda in the sector. While the
Superintendency of Electricity (SE) has become a strong and capable institu'ion, the NSE
is seriously under-staffed and under-funded. Some fine-tuning regulations were drafted by
SE, but several still await NSE action. The tariff system was defined, but the 8-year
period for ending cross-subsidization of residential consumption only began in early 2000,
so it remains to be seen whether its full implementation will be politically possible. The
electricity dispatch system is operating satisfactorily, but some outstanding issues remain.
An environmental assessment system has been established in the sector, but
implementation capacity is very limited. A national rural electrification program
(PRONER) was designed, but the fiscal austerity measures of recent years have
contributed to staffing its implementation. ENDE-T was privatized successfully, although
only one bid was received (at the minimurn price). On the other hand, GOB has failed so
far to privatize the isolated systems and smaller distribution systems, due to [ocal
opposition and the fact that the only bids received were far below the compEalies' book
values.
9.    Major Factors Affecting the Project. When project preparation was initiated in
1993, it was intended to support, in addition to the above components, the capitalization



iv
of ENDE's power generation units in the national interconnected system. But because of
slow project preparation, that component had to be carried out with support instead from
the Regulatory Reform and Capitalization Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2647-BO),
which was identified at the same time as this project, but prepared much faster. This, in
turn, required reducing the scope of Cr. 2790, resulting in the smaller project being given
lower priority, thereby contributing to the delay in effectiveness of the Credit. Soon after
effectiveness, members of the new administration publicly questioned the regulatory
framework, so implementation slowed down until the new administration decided to back
the new system. Strong local resistance has so far blocked privatization in the smaller
cities.
10.   Project Sustainability.  The project's achievements, which are part of a broader
reform program, are likely to be sustainable. The current administration, after questioning
some of the bases of the reform, publicly reaffirmed its commitment to preserving and
continuing the process. The critical regulatory functions, including tariff regulation and
enforcement of service quality, are now well accepted by the operators, and to a certain
extent by the general public. Privatization has proven almost impossible to reverse in
Latin America during the past decade. However, achieving the full potential project
benefits may be hampered by (a) the lack of budget and staff in NSE to continue
formulation and monitoring of sector policies, (b) potential popular resistance to increases
in residential tariffs (as has already been shown in the water sector), (c) general political
and social strife in Bolivia, and (d) the ability of influential companies to obtain special
benefits by by-passing SE and NSE. Thus, while a major reversal of the already
implemented reforms is unlikely, further progress remains uncertain.
11.   IDA Performance. Overall, IDA performance was marginally satisfactory.
Project preparation was much too slow, as it took aimost four years from identification to
Board approval. The project documentation was not particularly lucid in explainring the
objectives, components and institutional arrangements, or how they fit together. During
implementation, IDA gave effective support to GOB. Project supervision was satisfactory
in quality but timesheet data indicate that it may have been rather limited in quantity,
averaging only seven staff-weeks per year. However, a mitigating factor is that the project
was able to benefit from regulatory and power sector specialists (including this project's
task managers) working on related adjustment and technical assistance projects as well as
a large ESMAP grant program for this sector. Most supervision missions comprised only
one person and no formal mid-term review was undertaken. The supervision reports were
overly optimistic, and did not fully reflect the difficulties faced in privatizing the smaller
systems, implementing PRONER, or strengthening the NSE.
12.   Borrower Performance. GOB's overall performance was also marginally
satisfactory. It shares responsibility with IDA for the slowness of project preparation, and
was the main source of the subsequent delay in effectiveness. Inter-agency rivalries,
especially between SE and NSE, impeded progress. On the positive side, starting even
before the Credit became effective, GOB initiated some of the necessary actions. It
appointed the regulator for the electricity sector, mobilized the consultants needed for the
project, privatized ENDE-T and issued revised regulations. After a period of uncertainty



v
early in the new administration, the GOB performance again became satisfactory, except
in terms of privatizing the smaller systems, implementing PRONER and strengthening the
NSE.
13.   Assessment of Outcome. The power sector divestitures and associated legal and
regulatory improvements have by and large been successful, and the project contributed to
the latter stages of this process. In particular, new private sector investment has resulted in
rapid growth of generation capacity, eliminating the risk of shortages, keeping prices
down, and enabling expansion in under-served areas. The SE is operating well, the
process of adjusting tariffs to match economic costs has begun, and the overall system is
generally functioning smoothly. The main problem areas which have emerged are: (a)
slow progress in implementing PRONER; (b) failure to privatize the systems in the smaller
cities; (c) the weakness of the NSE; (d) several technical disputes related primnarily to the
order of dispatch and the payments due to the generation companies; and (e) lack of
popular understanding and support for the reforms. These problem areas inclicate that
much remains to be done. The project as a whole is rated 'marginally satisfactory.'
14.   Future Operation. While a TA project does not have an "operational plan" per
se, the power sector reform process is continuing, with IDA support under t.he ongoing
Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project and the related
Regulatory Reform Sector Adjustment Credit. An Environmental Management Learning
and Innovation Credit, due to become effective in March 200 1, has been designed to
enhance the capacity of the NSE to carry out its environmental responsibilities as well as
involve local communities and non governmental agencies in environmental monitoring. In
addition, IDA is beginning to prepare a project that would promote rural electrification
and communications infrastructure and the application of modern information and
communications technologies to a wide range of poverty alleviation efforts. (i.e. distance
learning, telemedicine, agricultural information systems, e-commerce for smaller
enterprises, etc.)
15.   Key Lessons Learned. The lessons learned include: (a) a well-defined legal and
regulatory framework, and transparency throughout the reform process, are prerequisites
for successful privatization; (b) in smaller cities, privatization is likely to be harder to
accomplish than in major centers; (c) policy design and implementation are best carried
out by a strong local core of permanent government professionals with a dependable
administrative budget; (d) reform of the power sector is a long-term process that requires
continuous adjustments; (e) when project implementation spans a change in
administration, allowance should be made for at least several months' delay while the new
administration reviews the situation and determines its approach; (f) when preparation of a
loan or credit is delayed, it is important to have access to other resources, such as a PPF
or a related loan or credit, so that the processing delay does not lead to delay on the
ground; and (g) with the shift to E-mail, assembling all the necessary documents for an
ICR is becoming harder.






I
BOLIVIA
POWER SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PIROJECT
(Credit 2790 - BO)
Part I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENiT
A.   Background
1.    Overall Reform Program. In the mid-1980s, Bolivia initiated a successful economic
stabilization program which controlled inflation and promoted economic growth. By the early
1990s, the foundations of a stable economy had been established and political consensus grew on the
need for reforms to improve efficiency in key sectors of the economy and lessen the government's
financial burden. Starting in 1993, GOB began restructuring and privatizing the public utility sectors
of electricity, hydrocarbons, telecommunications, water and transport. It established the independent
System of Sectoral Regulation (SIRESE), covering the above five sectors, passed new laws for those
sectors (except for transport, where the law is under preparation), and privatized the main state-
owned enterprises (SOEs). SIRESE is headed by a General Superintendency, with appellate as well
as general supervisory responsibilities, and includes five independent regulatory agencies, one of
which is the Superintendency of Electricity (SE). While SE has regulatory authority, the normative
role (establishing policies and issuing regulations) lies with the National Secretariat of Energy (NSE).
The privatization was carried out successfully, transparently and quite rapidly through international
bidding, which brought significant investments (about US$4 billion, exceeding 60 percent of GDP) in
telecommunications, hydrocarbons, electricity, railways, airlines, airports and water. The process
generated a great deal of interest from international investors in Bolivia's economy, particularly the
energy sector. At the same time, however, many issues in these sectors have nol: been resolved, and
popular support for the reforms and privatization remains thin.
2.    Power Sector Restructuring. The December 1994 Electricity Law cafled for the vertical
separation of the sector into generation, transrnission and distribution companies . Generation would
become a competitive activity while the others would be regulated monopolies. The Empresa
Nacional de Electricidad S.A. (ENDE), Bolivia's national power generation and transmission
company, was one of the first public enterprises to be reformed. Although ENDE, was considered
the best major SOE in Bolivia, it was restructured and privatized as a means of (a) attracting
investment, since ENDE lacked the funds itself to expand, and its traditional financiers (the IDA and
IDB) were no longer willing to keep investing in SOEs, (b) introducing competition in generation,
and (c) improving operational efficiency. In 1995, its generation operations werz split into three
companies, which were then "capitalized." (In this Bolivian form of privatizationi, private firms
obtain 50% of a company's shares plus management control in exchange for investing new capital
directly into the company. The remaining 50% of the shares -- except for a small portion purchased
at book value by employees -- is transferred from the state to the Bolivian people, and managed in
trust by private pension funds). The largest distribution SOE, Cochabamba's ELFEC (in which
ENDE held a majority of shares), was also privatized in 1995.
3.    Remaining Agenda. However, much remained to be done to complete the reform and
privatization of the power sector. The tariff system needed to be overhauled to match the new



2
sectoral structure. In the interconnected system, which supplied over 90% of the power, GOB
wanted to privatize ENDE transmission (ENDE-T), and needed to ensure that the dispatch system
was appropriate for competitive generation. In the smaller cities, both those within the
interconnected system (Potosi and Sucre) and those with their own isolated systems (Tarija, Cobija
and Trinidad), the reforms had hardly begun. And in the rural areas, where access to electricity was
only about 14%, GOB wanted to design an efficient and sustainable system for expansion. GOB also
needed to strengthen both the regulatory capacity of the SE and the policy-making activities
entrusted to NSE, within the Ministry of Economic Development (MOED). To help implement
these follow-up reforms, GOB obtained IDA support through this Power Sector Reform Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 2790-BO).
B. Project Objectives and Components
4.    Objectives. The project's listed objectives were to assist Bolivia's power sector in (a) fine-
tuning the regulations under the Electricity Law, (b) carrying out key transition activities, and (c)
completing the restructuring and privatization of remaining government-owned assets, especially
ENDE-T, the main isolated systems, and the distribution companies in the smaller cities. A fourth
objective, although not specified as such in the documents, was to design a rural energy strategy.
The presentation in the project documents was not particularly lucid, as objective (b) above is
exceptionally broad, and objectives (a) and (c) are really subsumed under it.
5.    Components. To achieve its objectives, the project provided resources for:
(a) institutional strengthening of (i) the Technical Group (TG), within the Ministry of
Capitalization (MOC), to enable it to coordinate implementation of the project and (ii) the
National Secretariat of Energy (NSE), within the Ministry of Economic Development's
(MOED), to enable it to further develop the power sector policy objectives, promote a
new direct private investment environment; plan for an adequate energy balance (supply
and demand), establish guidelines for mitigation of social and environmental impacts, and
develop a rural energy strategy;
(b) fine-tuning the regulations under the Electricity Law;
(c) pricing studies to determine the economic costs of generation and distribution and update
the power tariff structure accordingly;
(d) system dispatch improvements including (i) studies to upgrade regional load dispatch and
transmission systems, (ii) establishment of the organization of the National Load Dispatch
Committee (NLDC), including operational and administrative regulations, staffing,
training, and budget and, (iii) specification of the equipment needed for metering and
communications systems;
(e) mitigating environmental impacts by (i) identifying possible environmental and social
issues associated with ENDE-T privatization; (ii) updating the environmental legal
framework; and (iii) implementing the environmental assessment mitigation measures;
(f) rural electrification option studies to design a strategy, including pilot investments, for
efficient and sustainable energy development and supply to rural areas;



3
(g) financial, technical and legal audits and restructuring option studies to: (i) complete the
unbundling of ENDE-T, (ii) corporatize the isolated systems and smaller distribution
entities; and (iii) privatize the above units.
6.    Evaluation of Objectives and Components. The project's objectives were: (a) relevant to
the government's own sector priorities of providing economic and reliable service to the greatest
number of consumers, with the minimum government intervention, and due regard to the
environment; and (b) consistent with IDA's Bolivia country assistance strategy, which viewed the: (i)
need for effective economic reforms and the restructuring of the SOEs to involve private sector
participation, in particular, as essential to greater economic development; and (ii) power supply as a
service best delivered by competitive markets. The objectives were appropriately modest, because
the central part of the reforms had already been carried out. Design of the ruralL energy program
should have been specified as a separate objective, as it was not covered by the listed ones. This too
was a worthwhile and feasible objective.
7.    The components lacked cohesiveness, as they covered all the main matters which had not yet
been adequately attended to, but were reasonable in scope and in line with the objectives. They were
modeled after those of preceding projects in Bolivia and in the region, and emphasized the transition
period requirements in order to maintain the momentum of the reform process. The time-frame was
somewhat optimistic, given the forthcoming change of administration (as the President of Bolivia
cannot run for immediate re-election), but reflected the desire to move ahead as rapidly as possible.
8.    Credit Amendment. The Credit was amended in July 1997 (just before the new
administration took power) following the dissolution of MOC, which was formed specifically for the
privatization through capitalization of the six major SOEs (electricity, telecommunications, mining,
hydrocarbons, railway and airline), and was therefore dismantled at the end of the capitalization
process. Under the amendments, the project's implementation responsibilities Ihat were under MOC,
consisting largely of the restructuring and privatization strategy studies, were transferred to SE, and
a limited number of activities that were under MOC were transferred to NSE. In addition, the
Credit's Closing Date was extended by six months, from December 31, 1998 to June 30, 1999, at the
request of SE, in order for it to review and implement the action plan originally agreed with MOC.
Finally, the amendment provided the opportunity for some fine-tuning text adjustments to enhance
the focus of the technical assistance components in light of the project implementation progress.
C. Achievement of Objectives
Project Implementation.
9.    The project was identified in 1993, but due to slow processing, it was not appraised until
June 1995. Because project preparation took so long, another project, the Regulatory Reform and
Capitalization Technical Assistance Project, Credit 2647-BO, which was prepared faster, had to be
used to finance the restructuring and capitalization of ENDE's generation facilities in the
interconnected system. The IDA Board approved the power reform project on November 30, 1995,
but Credit effectiveness was delayed until January 23, 1997, after the Bolivian Congress had
approved the credit. The main reason for this delay was that the relevant GOB officials were
focussing instead on the privatization of the hydrocarbons sector, and this relatively small credit
(which had been cut in half from the originally-anticipated US$10 million) did not have high priority,



4
especially since the main actions for sector reform and privatization had already been taken.
However, the impact of this delay was minimized by a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance,
which was approved soon after appraisal. Implementation was then satisfactory until the dissolution
of MOC in July 1997, followed the next month by the inauguration of the new administration.
Because the winning coalition had campaigned against both capitalization and the regulatory system,
they needed several months not only to become familiar with the project, but also to decide to
proceed with all of its components. In spite of these delays, the project was by and large
implemented on schedule, with only a six-month extension of the closing date necessary.
10.   Of the US$5.1 million credit, US$4.9 million was disbursed. The largest amount, US$1.5
million, was spent on studies, with slightly over half of this related to tariffs. Other studies covered
technical standards, dispatch arrangements, adherence of the capitalized generation companies to
their investment commitments, the information systems of the companies, limitations on cross
ownership (between generation, transmission and distribution companies), and the strengthening of
the SE (see Table 7 for details). The second largest amount, US$1.2 million, went for consultants on
the restructuring and privatization of ENDE-T. A further US$0.9 million was spent for the design of
the rural electrification program. About US$0.3 million went for institutional costs of the TG,
US$0.1 million for environmental assessments, and US$0.9 million for refinancing the PPF (see
Tables 8A and 8B).
Project Achievements.
11.   Overall. Becaus-, the project financed a potpourri of activities across the sector, it is difficult
to separate fully the project's contribution from the overall progress of the power sector. In general,
the sector is performing satisfactorily, and the project made a limited but positive contribution to
this. However, in each of the main areas in which the project was active, there were failures as well
as successes. Thus, while significant progress was made towards the project's main objectives, there
remains a substantial udinished agenda in the sector.
12.   Institutional. SE's operations and performance standards have been significantly enhanced.
SE's "code of conduct" and staffing benchmarks have been strengthened using international best
practices and guidelines, promoting responsibility and accountability. The project helped the SE to
develop its information and communications systems, and its method of dealing with consumer
complaints. But while the SE has become a strong and capable institution, with independent funding
(from a service charge of 1% on electricity revenues), the project failed to meet its objective of
strengthening NSE, which is now seriously under-staffed and under-funded. Although there were
consultants under the project at NSE working on particular tasks, no overall strategy for institutional
strengthening was provided, and little capacity was left after the consultants finished. Thus the NSE
has been slow at making progress in key areas for which it has responsibility, such as implementation
of the rural energy strategy, fine-tuning of the regulations, and enforcement of environmental
standards. The imbalance of capability between SE and NSE is also unhealthy, because by giving SE
(by default) too much power, it can set the stage for clashes later on.
13.   Privatization. ENDE-T, which is the backbone of the country's power sector with some
1,818 km. of high voltage power transmission lines, became a separate transmission company and
was then successfully privatized through a competitive bidding process on July 17, 1997. Although
six firms had been prequalified, eventually only one, Uni6n Fenosa Desarrollo y Acci6n Exterior S.A.
of Spain, bid, and its offer was the US$40 million minimum (and substantially below the US$54



5
million book value). Apparently, other potential bidders were discouraged by the stated skepticism
of the incoming administration (which had been elected in June 1997) about the regulatory system,
and by its stated intention to review all privatizations undertaken by the outgoing administration.
Still, the process was carried out transparently and efficiently.
14.   Privatization was attempted in April 1997 for the largest isolated system, SETAR in Tarija,
which includes generation, transmission and distribution, and for the distribution company SEPSA in
Potosi (part of the integrated system). In the case of SETAR, the only bid received, from Union
Fenosa, was for US$7 million, far below the book value of US$28 million. Similarly, Union
Fenosa's US$1.5 million bid for SEPSA was well below its US$5 million book value. (No minimum
prices had been set in these bids, because of uncertainty about the market values.)  There had already
been strong political opposition to these privatizations from the employees' unions and local political
leaders. The low prices offered, and the absence of competition, greatly strengthened the arguments
of those opposed to the sales, leading GOB to cancel both privatizations. GOB chose not to use
project funds for the restructuring and privatization efforts of these companies. Privatization of the
smaller isolated system in Trinidad has been held up pending a decision on whether to connect it to
the national grid. ENDE remains the majority shareholder in these enterprises. I[n the Sucre
distribution company, CESSA, ENDE is a minority shareholder (most shares are: owned by
consumers, as this was formerly a cooperative), and GOB is still considering howv to proceed,
especially given the opposition of the municipality (another minority shareholder) to privatization.
15.   Tariffs. Eight individual studies financed under the project contributed to calculation of the
generation, transmission and distribution elements of the tariff, and resultant fine-tuning of the
relevant regulations. Average retail tariffs have not changed much in real terms since the reforms
began, and are still at reasonable levels, while the wholesale tariff structure has been adjusted to
increase efficiency and reflect the break-up of ENDE. However, there remain two major problems
with the tariff system. The first is the substantial cross-subsidization of residential consumption,
mainly from industrial users. This has the effect of harming Bolivia's industrial c.ompetitiveness,
while at the same time subsidizing well-off consumers. The 8-year period for gradually ending this
cross-subsidization only began earlier this year, so it remains to be seen whether full implementation
will be possible politically. As residential tariffs rise, it may be desirable to introduce a life-line tariff
for poorer consumers. Second, the regulated price for generation, which the distributors can pass
through to the consumers, has consistently and increasingly been below the spot price at which the
generators sell to the distributors. For three years, while the difference was not too great, consumers
were charged a "factor z" (for which there appears to be no provision in the Electricity Law) to
offset this, but this ended in early 2000. Since then the distributors have been losing money. An
effort to resolve this is underway.
16.   Dispatch. The project had a small but positive impact on the electricity dispatch system,
which was already in operation and generally working well. The diagnostic finaniced by the loan
helped the NLDC to optimize the functioning of its load dispatch center. The curTent system is
centered on an economic order of discharge, based on marginal costs, intended to maximize
efficiency in production. Most elements of marginal cost are monitored to ensure that this efficiency
objective is achieved. However, one major exception is the price of the fuel (mostly natural gas),
because fuel contracts are considered confidential (and, in some cases, the generators are linked to
the hydrocarbons producers). Generators have been known to quote unrealistic fuel prices so as to
obtain a more desirable position in the order of dispatch.



6
17.   Environment. An environmental assessment system has been established in the sector, but
implementation capacity remains limited. NSE's environmental responsibilities, including field
monitoring and clearance of impact assessments and mitigation action plans, have not been properly
performed due to the shortage and turnover of adequately trained technical specialists. The problem
is exacerbated by the environmental standards, which are based on those of North America and
Europe, and often extremely difficult to comply within the context of Bolivia. In addition to
requiring substantial quantitative improvements in certain parameters, environmental regulations
require significant monitoring, reporting and planning activities, which are seldom carried out due to
the lack of qualified personnel and resources. The project did not adequately address these issues.
18.   Rural Electrification. A national rural electrification program, known as PRONER, was
designed under the project, with the objective of doubling the rural availability of power from 14% to
28% over about five years, at a cost of about US$ 100 million. Design of PRONER was a major
achievement, and the manuals produced are being disseminated in other countries as well, as
examples of best practice. PRONER has three components: (a) grid extensions, by local distribution
companies; (b) low-density off-grid areas, where commercial firms might be interested in providing
photovoltaic units; and (c) higher-density off-grid areas, where NGOs would take the lead in setting
up small isolated systems (using mini-hydro or small thermal generation, for example). The project
was supplemented by resources from the ESMAP program which has continued after credit closing.
The basic approaches are to maximize use of the private sector and to minimize subsidization,
through competition whenever feasible. Subsidies would be limited to investment costs, with the
private firms expected to cover at least all operating costs. Although PRONER was very well
designed, little progress to date towards its implementation has occurred for two basic reasons. First,
unlike some other countries, Bolivia has not assigned significant resources, either from the sector or
from general revenue, to rural electrification. And second, rural electrification is the responsibility of
local governments (originally at the department level, but now primarily at the municipal level),
which have not always felt compelled to follow PRONER guidelines, especially when bilateral
donors or commercial interests were pressing in other directions. Nevertheless, there has been
steady expansion of rural electrification coverage (by about 1% of the rural population per annum),
primarily with external financing, although often with greater subsidies, less consistency and a lower
assurance of sustainability that would be the case with PRONER.
19.   Regulatory Fine-Tuning. Several project studies led to the preparation by both NSE and
SE of draft regulatory changes, but a number of these have been held up because of rivalry and
disagreement between the two agencies. A supreme decree was issued to correct the calculation of
the transmission tariffs. However, draft regulations dealing with matters such as integrated
information systems, distribution service quality in rural areas, and relations between consumers and
utilities, including the handling of consumer claims and complaints, are still pending, as is fine-tuning
of the operation of the wholesale (spot) market.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
20.   Slow Project Preparation. A slower project preparation than anticipated during project
identification resulted in a reduction of the project's scope. The restructuring and privatization of
ENDE's generation facilities within the national interconnected systern, initially earnarked for this
project, had to be transferred to the Regulatory Reform and Capitalization Technical Assistance
Project, Credit 2647-BO. This required reduction in the project's scope, further slowing down



7
project preparation while reducing the project's importance in the eyes of GOB, which in turn led to
the delay in credit effectiveness.
21.   New Administration's Approach to Reform. Soon after credit effectiveness, members of
the incoming administration publicly questioned both the independent regulatory system (SIRESE)
and the privatizations. Fortunately, after a few months in office the new administration concluded
that the privatization process had been proper, and also that SIRESE should remain in effect.
However, tensions have remained between GOB and SIRESE. There was some justifiable concern
in the new administration that too much of MOC's sector reform activities under the project had been
transferred to SE, whose role should normally be only to monitor and enforce, rather than make
policy. In addition, the administration has taken certain steps towards reducing the financial
independence of SIRESE, such as by applying GOB salary scales to SIRESE, and requiring funds
paid by the utilities for the operating costs of their respective superintendencies to pass through the
GOB Treasury.
22.   Poor Inter-Agency Coordination. Lack of coordination among the various central and
local government agencies adversely affected the project in several ways. First, some of the initial
delays were exacerbated by disputes between MOC and MOED. Second, in the new administration,
conflicts between NSE and SE were a continuing problem during project impleinentation. However,
relations have improved since the issuance of a ministerial resolution requiring consultation among
NSE, SE and other interested parties prior to the promulgation of new regulatic,ns. And third,
strong local resistance by local governments has so far blocked privatizations in the smaller cities.
E. Project Sustainability
23.   The project's achievements, which are part of a broader reform prograrrm, are likely to be
sustainable. The current administration, after questioning some of the bases of ilhe reform, publicly
reaffirmed its commitment to preserving and continuing the process. The fact that the reforms'
survived this critical review ended up improving the prospects for long-term sustainability, especially
as all of the major political parties have now endorsed the reforms. The critical regulatory functions,
including tariff setting and enforcement of service quality, are now well accepted by the operators,
and to a certain extent by the general public. SIRESE's sustainability is also increased by its financial
independence. Privatization has proven almost impossible to reverse in Latin America during the
past decade, and there appears to be no major threat in this direction, especially given the legal,
economic and international implications of any such effort.
24.   However, there are three areas of concern. First, any new electricity system needs
continuous monitoring and adjustment, particularly in traditionally weak areas such as rural
electrification and environmental protection. However, due to the lack of budget and permanent
qualified staff, NSE has weak capacity which is delaying implementation of some of the project
consultants' recommendations. Second, the approach of gradual increases in residential tariffs over
eight years may eventually encounter popular resistance; the potential for utility price increases to
trigger widespread disturbances has already been shown in the water sector in ('ochabamnba. This is
thus linked to the third problem area: the political and social strife currently prevalent in Bolivia.
And finally, influential companies have been able to use the political system at tines to circumvent
the responsible agencies (NSE and SE) and obtain supreme decrees giving thenm special rights or
benefits. Thus, while a major reversal of the already-implemented reforms is urdikely, further
progress remains uncertain.



8
F. IDA Performance
25.   Overall, IDA performance was marginally satisfactory. Project preparation was much too
slow, which resulted in the project's scope having to be scaled down prior to negotiations. It appears
that the task manager spent much of this time reviewing policy recommendations by numerous
studies carried out under earlier and ongoing IDA-financed projects, rather than in moving ahead
with project processing. The project documentation was not particularly lucid in explaining the
objectives, the components, the institutional arrangements, or how everything fit together.
Inadequate attention was paid to building capacity in NSE, including for environmental reviews.
26.   Once project implementation started, IDA provided effective support to the project units.
After the task manager was changed at GOB's request, the collaborative working relationship
improved. When the new administration questioned central aspects of the project, IDA played an
important role in convincing it of the importance of maintaining the reforms and completing the
project. Project supervision was satisfactory in quality but timesheet data indicate that it may have
been rather limited in quantity, averaging only seven staff-weeks per year. However, a mitigating
factor is that the project was able to benefit from regulatory and power sector specialists (including
this project's task managers) working on related adjustment and technical assistance projects as well
as a large ESMAP grant program for this sector. Supervision missions were frequent enough but
consisted usually of only one person, spending less than a week on the project, and seldom travelling
outside of La Paz and Cochabamba. No formal mid-term review took place. Thus, while there was
good dialogue on the implementation of the project, in general, it appears from reports that less
strategic discussions abc ut the overall development of the sector occurred. In addition, the
supervision reports were overly optimistic, and did not fully reflect the difficulties faced in privatizing
the smaller systems, implementing PRONER, or strengthening the NSE. Because of these
shortcomings, management was not alerted to the continuing problems in the sector, and hence was
not in a position to engrge in a serious dialogue with GOB on the sector.
G. Borrower Performance
27.   GOB's overall performance was also marginally satisfactory. It shares responsibility with
IDA for the slowness of project preparation. The interest shown in the project during identification
soon dissipated, especially after the project was reduced in size. As a result, project negotiations
were carried out two years after identification, and the Credit became effective 14 months after IDA
Board approval. On the positive side, starting even before the Credit became effective, GOB
initiated some of the necessary actions, using funds from the PPF. It appointed the regulator for the
electricity sector, mobilized the consultants needed for the project, restructured and privatized
ENDE-T and issued revised regulations. After a period of uncertainty early in the new
administration, the GOB performance became again satisfactory in terms of implementing the
project. It handed a large number of consultant contracts and managed IDA' s procurement,
disbursement and accounting requirements well.
28.   The lack of adequate budget has made it difficult for NSE to hire and retain qualified staff for
sector policy formulation, regulatory fine-tuning, implementation of PRONER, and carrying out its
enviromnental responsibilities. Inadequate coordination between the project agencies, particularly
NSE and SE, persisted throughout project implementation, though relations have since improved.



9
H. Assessment of Outcome
29.   The power-sector divestitures and associated legal and regulatory improvements have by and
large been successful, and the project contributed to the latter stages of this process. In particular,
new private-sector investment has resulted in rapid growth of generation capacily, eliminating the
risk of shortages, keeping prices down, and enabling service expansion in under- served areas. The
SE is operating well, is adequately financed from automatic payments charged to operators, and has
gained credibility. The process of adjusting retail tariffs to match economic costs has begun, and the
first small increases in residential prices have been accepted. The dispatch system, including the spot
prices on which almost all generation transactions are based, is generally functioning smoothly. The
main problem areas which have emerged are: (a) slow progress in implementing a rational rural
electrification system, to serve the 45% of Bolivia's population without access to electricity; (b)
failure, due to political resistance and the economic unattractiveness of the companies, to privatize
the systems in the smaller cities; (c) the weakness of the NSE, which has responsibility for sector
policy, regulatory changes, environmental assessments and rural electrification; (d) several technical
disputes related primarily to the order of dispatch and the payments due to the generation companies;
and (e) lack of popular understanding and support for the reforms. These problem areas indicate that
the project has been only partially successful in meeting its objectives, and there is still much to be
done. The project as a whole is rated 'marginally satisfactory.'
1. Future Operations
30.   While a TA project does not have an "operational plan" per se, the power sector reform
process is continuing, with IDA support under the ongoing Regulatory Reform and Privatization TA
Project and the related Regulatory Reform Sector Adjustment Credit. An Environmental
Management Learning and Innovation Credit, due to become effective in March 2001, has been
designed to enhance the capacity of the NSE to carry out its environmental responsibilities as well as
involve local communities and non governmental agencies in environmental moritoring. In addition,
IDA is beginning to prepare a project that would promote rural electrification anid communications
infrastructure and the application of modern information and communications technologies to a wide
range of poverty alleviation efforts. (i.e. distance learning, telemedicine, agricultural information
systems, e-commerce for smaller enterprises, etc.) A Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
(PPIAF) study is assessing the remaining reform needs of the sector. Sector regulations will
continue to need to be refined as experience is acquired under the competitive system. GOB is
continuing its efforts to implement the PRONER rural electrification program, and is seeking
solutions to the problems of the power companies in the smaller cities, as the failure of the initial
privatization efforts has left those companies in legal and financial limbo.
J. Key Lessons Learned
31.   The project implementation review identified a number of lessons learned, of which the most
important are:
(a) a well-defined legal and regulatory framework, and transparency throughout the reform
process, are prerequisites for successful privatization, and for maintaining the credibility
of the approach through changes in government administration;



10
(b) in smaller cities, privatization is likely to be harder to accomplish than in major centers,
both because of strong local pride and interests that resist the sale, and because of lower
attractiveness to foreign bidders;
(c) policy design and implementation are best carried out by a strong local core of permanent
government professionals with a dependable administrative budget. Especially when
negotiating with highly-paid private-sector managers, it is important that the government
team be well-qualified. Budgets that depend excessively on external project financing are
vulnerable when those projects end, especially when the financing of consultants was
really a back-door way of giving direct recurrent budgetary support. In this regard, SE,
having an independent budget, was able to train and retain staff that made it a strong focal
point during project implementation, while NSE, because of lack of budget, was unable to
perform as consistently or effectively;
(d) reform of the power sector is a long-term process that requires continuous adjustments;
even with sound sectoral and regulatory laws, as is the case in Bolivia, there can be
tension between the executive power and the regulatory agencies, and conflicts with the
private utilities. Regulatory systems will have to be continuously adapted based on both
the lessons of experience and technological progress.
(e) whenever project implementation spans a change in administration, allowance should be
made for at least several months' delay while the new administration reviews the situation
and determines its approach. This delay is normally longer and more problematical when
there is a change in ruling political parties, as the previous opposition is likely to have
been critical of the outgoing administration's policies;
(f) when preparation of a loan or credit is delayed, it is important to have access to other
resources, such as a PPF or a related loan or credit, so that the processing delay does not
lead to delays on the ground; and
(g) with the shift to E-mail and the division of responsibility between IDA headquarters and
resident missions, assembling all the necessary documents for an ICR is becoming harder.
Neither resident mission nor regional files (in the IRIS system) tend to be comprehensive,
and unless the task manager has kept a good set of personal hard-copy files, it is
becoming increasingly difficult to follow the paper trail. Since both task managers
involved in this project from conception to end had left the World Bank prior to drafting
this ICR, it was a challenge to reconstruct the project's history.



11
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
POWER SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2790 - BO)
Part II - Statistical Tables
A. Achievements of Objectives     Substantial      Partial     Negligible        Not
Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                           O3            13
Sector Policies                   1                            13 0             ]
Financial Objectives                             E ]           13
Institutional Development          03                           3 0            1
Physical Objectives                O             L             03
Poverty Reduction                  13            [             03
Gender Concerns                   1              O             [1             12
Other Social Objectives           13             131           0
Public Sector Management           0                           0               213
Private Sector Development         F1                           3 01
Environmental Objectives           0                           [] [l3
B. Project Sustainabilitv           Likely                    Unlikelv         Uncertain
El                          1 03
C. Bank Performance                 Highly                   Marginally        Deficient
Satisfactory
Satisfactory
Identification                    13                                           1
Appraisal                          1                           03
Supervision                        1                                          13
D. Overall Borrower
Performance
Preparation                         1                                          -13
Implementation                     13                                         13
Covenant Compliance                13                                         13
Operation                          M1                                         13
E. Assessment of Outcome            Hihly       Marginally   Marginallv         Hihlv
Satisfactory    Satisfactorv  Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
C1                          13            10
Source: Bank staff estimates.



12
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                    Purpose             Approval    Status
Preceding Operations
Power Sector                         Power Sector Rehabilitation      1988      Closed
SAC                                  Structural Adjustment Credit    1992       Closed
Regulatory Reform & Capitalization   Technical Assistance             1994      Closed
SAC                                  Structural Adjustment Credit    1995       Closed
Hydrocarbon Sector Reform & Cap.     Technical Assistance            1995       Closed
Following Operations:
Regulatory Reform & Privatization    Technical Assistance             1998      Ongoing
Regulatory Reform                    Sector Adjustment Credit        1998       Ongoing
Hydrocarbon Environment Mgmt.        LIL                             2000       Pending
Decentralized Energy, Information and   Investment Credit                     Preparation
Communications Technology for Rural
Transformation
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned                    Actual Date
Identification                                                          July 1993
Appraisal                                                             May 26, 1995
Negotiations                           October 1995                  October 25, 1995
Board Presentation                    November 1995                November 30, 1995
Signing                                                              March 28, 1996
Effectiveness                            June 1996                  January 23, 1997
Project completion                     June 30, 1998                  June 30, 1999
Loan closing                         December 31, 1998                June 30, 1999
Source: Project files and SAP



13
* hble4 t$_|Eto:(~$S mlfieu)illl
FY   FY    FY   FY   FY
1996   1997    1998   1999   2000
Appraisal
Estimate                2.8    4.7      5.1    5.1    5.1
Actual                 ----     1.8     2.6    3.9    4.9
Actual as %             0%     38%      51%     77%    96%
of estimate
Date of Final Disbursement: 19 January 2000
Source: Project Appraisal and Borrower
t*=e 5: Key APOW         for Pr_ject_ .48*WWt0
Key Implementation                   Estimated                         Actual
Indicators
Achievement of DO                             HS                               S
Implementation Progress                        S                               S
Counterpart Funds                             HS                              HS
Project Management                            HS                              HS
Procurement                                   HS                              HS
Environment                                   HS                               S
Financial                                     NR                              NR
Other Legal Covenants                          S                               S
Monitoring & Evaluation                        S                               S
Resettlement                                 N/A                              N/A
Environmental Plan                           N/A                              N/A
WID Impact                                   N/A                              N/A
Source: Project Appraisal and Borrower
TatjIe -6:r 9_                                      _
I. Key project operations                            Key Indicators
Investment Operation                                                 N/A
Sector Policy & Institutional Development      Supreme Decrees No. 25283, Jan.30, 1999, No. 25563,
Oct.29, 1999 and No.25592, Nov. 19, 1999 were issued
fine-tuning sector regulations and 4 more decrees were
under preparation by the Credit Closing Date.
Source: Project Files



14
i 'J, ,/Et,0   f,r,0^7771
(SEPTEMBER 1997 TO JUNE 1999)
Total Cost of Studies -- US$1.53 million
PART A
Technical Group and Regulatory Framework
TITLE            COST    OBJECTIVE                       RESULT
1 Analysis,       32 172.-  Definition, analysis and design of Contributed to develop a strategic
Development               the Integrated Information    plan for the Integrated
and Design of             System (IIS) in observance of the  Information System of the SE.
the Integrated            SE functions. Included the
Information               analysis of the existing processes
System of the             and information systems, and the
SE                        determination of additional ones
that will be required for
____________             _subsequent development.
2 Training and     5 540.-  Training of the SE personal in the Helped through training to
Technical                 use of the Ultimus Web Suite    improve the knowledge and
Assistance in             Software.                      management of the Ultimus Web
Ultimus Web                                             Suite Software by the SE staff..
Suite Software
PART B. 1
Tariff Adjustment Program
TITLE            COST   OBJECTIVE                        RESULT
1 Determination    338 743.- To develop the methodology and  The methodology and procedures
of                        procedures to determine the   were subsequently approved by
Methodologies             electricity distribution tariffs,    the SE.
for Electricity           within the framework established
Distribution              by the Electricity Law; and to  All the distribution companies of
Tariffs Calculus          calculate referential economic    the NIS are applying the
prices for the main distribution   methodology in to calculate their
systems of the national       tariff structures and propose
interconnected system (NIS).    them to the SE for its approval.
2 Regulation of the  21 714.-  To determine the procedure for   Contributed to determining the
Capital Cost and          calcula-ting the rate of return on  rate of return on equity, which is
Structure                 equity, that will be used for the   a main input that the NIS
determination of the allowable    distribution companies are taking
profit and consequently used in  in account in order to determine
the base-tariff calculus. To  their tariff structures.
establish the regulation of the
financial cost that will be   Helped the SE to approve a
recognized as part of the     methodology for the treatment of
distribution companies'       financial cost as part of the
exploitation costs (as indicated in determination of the distribution
article 54 of the Electricity Law).  tariffs.
3 Preparation of   20 400.-  To produce the final version of   Supported the SE in developing a
the Regulation           the Regulation on Power Supply  final version of the Regulation
for Power                 Project, through a systematic  Project on Electricity Supply,
Supply Project            process beginning with the    which rules the relations between
analysis and revision of the initial consumers and distribution
I version of the project.      companies. The regulation project



15
was presented by the SE to the
VMEH and currently is being
_____________________________    review    by  thai: entity.
4 Regulationfor    24 902.-  To establish within the       Contributed to determine a
Demarcation of            framework of the Electricity Law   methodology 1:hat the SE applied
the Concession            and its regulations, the       to determine the geographic
Areas                     observations and methodologies  areas of the concessions of the
required to facilitate the    distribution cDmpanies of the
demarcation of the concession    NIS.
areas, through a respective
___________                 x                                        _regulation.
5 Analysis and    44 451.-  To analyze the dispositions in the Contributed to realize
Application of            Electricity Law and its        modifications to the Regulation
Transmission              regulations related to         on Tariff and Prices, related to
Regulations               transmission, to revise the earlier transmission tolls, that solved the
interpretations and applications,  more controversial problems
and to propose the steps required between SE and the companies.
to obtain proper interpretation    These modifications were
and applications in accordance   approved by t:he Government
with the Electricity Law, verifying through a supreme decree and
its consistency with the principle  are now being applied.
of economic efficiency.
6 Evaluation of    41 463.-  To give the SE a professional and  Contributed tc improve the
the National              qualified opinion about the    supervision cf the NLDC by the
Load Dispatch             organization and operations of   SE.
Center (NLDC)             the NLDC in accordance with the
Performance               Electricity Law and regulations.
7 Analysis and    37 431.-  To analyze the dispositions of the  Supported the SE in the
Application of            Electricity Law and its        preparation cf a new regulation to
Transport                 regulations related to the     determine the electricity
Pricing                   determination of the electricity   transport prices for Generators
Regulations on            transport prices for Generators   and Non Regalated Consumers
Distribution              and Non-Regulated Consumers  that are located in facilities
Facilities                located in facilities owned by  owned by Distribution
Distribution Companies, and to   Companies. The SE presented
propose the steps required in    this draft regulation to the VMEH
order to obtain proper        for its consideration.
interpretation and applications in
accordance with the Electricity
Law, verifying its consistency
with the principle of economic
___________   efficiency.__
2.     PART B.2
Wholesale Power Market
TITLE              COST   OBJECTIVE                     RESULT
1 Evaluation of the  28 900.-  To revise the procedures about Enabled the NLDC members to
proceduresfor              technical and commercial     determine that the procedure
the Transmission           aspects of the transmission  established in the Electricity Law
Tolls Allocation in       tolls allocation methodology in  and its regulations create
the Bolivian               the NIS, and also to make    inconsistencies. The
Wholesale Power           recommendations about how to recommendatons of the study were
Market                     handle any future            adopted in order to be tested
modifications that may become against the results of the
necessary.                   application of the regulations in
I force. This comparison showed the



16
need for a specialized study that
will propose a fundamental change
_________                              in the regulation.
2 Models for       188 571.- To develop, install, and test the Contributed to improve the
Simulation and             functioning of computational   optimization of operation of the
Optimization of the        models for simulation and    NIS, in order to determine the
Operation of the           optimization of operation of the  generation and transmission
Bolivian                   NIS in the short and medium    prices. These models were first
Interconnected             term, under the established  used to determine the prices for the
System                     operational and tariff       period April - October 2000. All the
regulations.                 companies of the Bolivian
Wholesale Power Market have a
copy of the models, so as to ensure
transparency of the price
calculation and determination.
3 Preparation of the  48 514.-  To prepare the TOR for     Served to elaborate the terms of
Termns of                  specialized consultant services  reference for this Study; the
Referencefor the           to study the requirements of   consultant firm that was the
NIS Reliability           the Electricity Law and its   counterpart demonstrated its
and Associated             regulations related to Bolivian   quality and reliability.
Costs Study                Wholesale Power Market
operation.
4 NIS Reliability    131 223.- To carry out the NIS Reliability  Helped the SE and the NLDC to
and Associated             and Associated Costs Study in  approve the minimum performance
Costs Study                order to observe the         levels that the generators and
requirements of the Electricity  transmitter must maintain in the
Law and its regulations related  operation of the power system.
to Bolivian Wholesale Power
Market operation.
5 Functional and    87 010.-  To study the functions and  Helped the NLDC develop a plan
Equipment                  attributes of the Operative Unit that contains the required
Diagnostic of the          of the NLDC in accordance with measures to optimize the
NLDC                       the Electricity Law.         functioning of the Load Dispatch
To make a complete diagnostic  Center in accordance with the
of what is required by the   Electricity Law.
NLDC in order to develop its
supervision and coordination
functions, such as the SCADA
system in its control function
and data collection, and the
EMS functions for the status
estimation, node factors,
________________           demand projections, etc.
6 Evaluation of the   70 511.-  To evaluate the general    Helped the SE present to the VMEH
Functioning of the         performance of the Wholesale   a package of necessary
Bolivian                   Power Market since its       adjustments and additions to the
Wholesale Power            beginning in May 1996,       regulations on prices, tariffs and
Market                     verifying the observance of the  operation of the wholesale power
Electricity Law and its      market.
regulations, and the principles
of economic efficiency, taking
in account the most significant
aspects, and to propose
modifications to improve its
_____________    ________  functioning  in  the future.



17
_  TITLE                 COST   OBJECTIVE                        RESULT
7 Evaluation of the     6 857.-  To evaluate and to propose     Helped the SE to adjust the
Functioning of the             modifications or new procedures structure and procedures of
Claims and                    for the consumer claims and     the system. The major
Complaints Unit of             complaints system of the SE    modifications are in a draft
the SE                         and the distribution companies. supreme decree that is under
consideration in the VMEH,
and woukl be approved at the
same timt as the Regulation
________________    ________                                  on  Power Supply.
8 Audit of the         91 428.-  To establish the procedures that Supported the SE in verifying
Observance of the              will permit the SE to observe the the observance of the legal
Division and                   dispositions established in    dispositions by the
Limitation of                  article 15 of the Electricity Law   generation, transmission and
Ownership by the               and in the respective supreme   distribution companies of the
Electric Companies             decree.                        NIS. Article 15 is considered
of the NIS.                                                   the essence of the new
electric power structure.
9 Evaluation of the    30 000.-  To give the SE a qualified and    Assisted the SE to confirm
Investment                     professional opinion about the   the fulfillment of the
Commitments in the             fulfillment of these investment   investmrent commitment in
Empresa Electrica              commitments                    the Empr-sa Electrica Valle
Valle Hermoso S.A.                                            Hermoso S.A. capitalization
Capitalization                                                contract.
Contract
1 Evaluation of the    45 000.-  To give the SE a qualified and    Assisted t:o the SE to confirm
0 Inuestment                     professional opinion about the   the fulfillment of the
Commitments in the             fulfillment of the investment  investment commitment
Empresa Electnica              commitment established in the   established in the Empresa
Corani S.A. and                Empresa E1lctrica Corani S.A.   Electrica Corani S.A. and
Empresa Eectrica               and Empresa Electrica          Empresa Electrica
Guaracachi S.A.                Guaracachi S.A. capitalization    Guaracachi S.A.
Capitalization                 contracts.                     capitalization contracts.
Contracts
1 Evaluation and       123 428.- To realize a systematic audit of  Helped the SE to instruct the
1 Diagnostic of the              the effectiveness and reliability   main distribution companies
Distribution                   of the data processing related to  of the NI'; (ELECTROPAZ,
Companies'                    the commercial and technical    CRE and ELFEC) to adjust
Information Systems            areas of the distribution      their information systems, by
companies, in accordance with   applying the corrective
the requirements to control the   measures that will solve the
established parameters in the    failures detected by the
regulation on Distribution     study.
_  Quality Control.
1 Analysis and         73 265.-  To make a detailed analysis of   Assisted the SE to respond to
2 Reuiew of                      the investment commitments   the request of COBEE to
Investments, Costs             and maintenance, operational   sharply increase its electricity
and                            an administrative costs of     tariffs. As a result of the
Tariff Revision                COBEE, for 1997 and 1998, and study, SEi ratified the tariffs
Request of the                 forecasted for 1999 to 2001, as  that were already in force.
Compailia Boliviana            part of the regular tariff review
de Energia El&ctricaprcsfo198
_  S.A. (COBEE).                 process for 1998.
1 Preparation of the   39 500.-  To develop a short- (1 year) and  Helped the SE to implement a
3 Communication and              medium-term (4 years),          plan that will improve the
Information Strategic          Communication and Information regulated consumers'
Plan of the SE                 Strategic Plan for the SE.     knowledge of their rights and
obligations, as well as of the
__________________  __________  ______________________________    regulatory     system .



18
%             %    &                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _X_ _ _ _ _ $
Appraisal   Estimate             Actual
Local  Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign
Project Components               Costs   Costs   US$MM   Costs   Costs   Total
A. TG & REGULATORY FRAMEWORK                   0.52    0.07      0.59     0.14    0.88     1.03
1. Reform and Capitalization Technical Group -TG   0.42    0.01  0.43     0.14    0.23    0.38
2. Fine-tuningRegulationstoElectricityLaw      0.10    0.06      0.16     0.00    0.65    0.65
B. TRANSITION REOUIREMENTS                     0.42    1.79      2.21     0.64    2.10    2.74
1. Tariff adjustment program                   0.06    0.34      0.40     0.19    0.27    0.46
2. Wholesale power market                      0.05    0.47      0.52     0.44    0.50    0.94
3. Environment Phase 1: Generation (Done)      0.01    0.04      0.05     0.01    0.04    0.05
Environment Phase 2: EIA rest of sector     0.02    0.09      0.11     0.00    0.05    0.05
4. Strengthen the NSE policy promotion         0.18    0.52      0.70     0.00    0.37    0.37
5. Rural Energy Development                    0.10    0.33      0.43     0.00    0.87    0.87
C. UNBUNDLING AND RESTRUCTURING                0.23    0.32      0.55     0.00    1.22    1.22
1. Isolated Systems                            0.16    0.11      0.27
2. ENDE - Transmission                         0.07    0.21      0.28     0.00    1.22    1.22
D. CAPITALIZATION AND PRIVATIZATION            0.21    0.75      0.96
1. Isolated Systems                            0.11    0.32      0.43
2. ENDE Transmissions                          0.10    0.43      0.53
Base Cost                                      1.38    2.93      4.31     0.78    4.20    4.98
Physical contingencies                         0.04    0.15      0.19
Price contingencies                            0.18    0.16      0.34
Local Taxes (IVA - 15.5%)                      0.74              0.74
Total proiect cost                             2.34    3.24      5.58     0.78    4.20    4.98
Other
Refinancing of PPF 900-00-BO                   0.40     1.02     1.42     0.47    0.95     1.42
Grand Total                                    2.74    4.26      7.00     1.25     5.15    6.40
Source: Project Appraisal and Borrower



19
.____________   _    .Table 8bo   ?-loj;t_ _                                _  _   _  _  _
Appraisal Estimate                        Actual
Local      Foreign                  Local       F7oreign
Source of Financing      Costs       Costs       Total        Costs       Costs       Total
GOB                         1.90        0.00         1.90        1.25        0.28         1.53
IDA                         0.84        4.26         5.10        0.00        4.87         4.87
Total                       2.74        4.26         7.00        1.25        5.15         6.40
Source: SAR and Borrower Finance Department
Production: Not Applicable         Econoniic Rate of Return: Not Applicable
Major Costs:                             (in US$M)
Legal and Regulatory                       1.03
Reform Transition Requirements             2.74
Unbundling and Restructuring               1.22
Refinancing PPF                            1.42                             _-
Total:                                     6.40
Source: Project Files
Statement number and title          l    Describe and comment oni lack of compliance
Complied with all relevant Operational Statements
Source: Project Files



20
Revised
Agreement - Section     Type   Status   Date       date     Description of Covenant
Development Credit
Aereement
DCA 2.02                05     C                            Procurement to be made in accordance with the Credit Agreement's Schedule
DCA 3.01                05     C                            The Ministry of Capitalization (MOC) will carry out project components Al,
A2, B 1, B2, C and D, with administrative, technical auditing and
environmental due diligence.
DCA 3.01                05     C                            The Ministry of Economic Development (MOED) will carry out project
components: B3, B4 and B5 with administrative, technical, auditing and
environmental due diligence.
DCA 3.01(d)             05     C                            The Borrower will maintain and staff implementation units (the GT for the
MOC and the UEP for the MOED) satisfactory to IDA, and consult any
changes with IDA.
DCA 3.01(e)             05     C                            Project will be carried out in accordance with Monitoring targets.
DCA 3.01 (f)            05     C                            To phase tariff studies under B2 to allow timely availability of required
metering equipment.
DCA 3.01(g)             05     C                            Within 30 days of Credit effectiveness Borrower is to establish a Project
Advisory Committee.
DCA 3.04                05     C                            Borrower will not invite bid for ENDE-T unless assessment indicates
suitability of regulations on power market operation and environmental
assessment of ENDE-T.
DCA 4.01                01     C                            Deliver to IDA satisfactory audited statements of project and Special Accounts
audited by external auditors satisfactory to IDA.



21
Revised
Agreement - Section         Type    Status   Date           date       Description of Covenant
Development Credit
Agreement
DCA 5.01                    12       C                                 Remedies pursuant to Section 6.02 of General Conditions will apply in event
that Electricity Law or Privatization Law or SIRESE Law shall have been
revoked, abrogated or amended or not enforced, IF, such event in IDA's
opinion would have adverse effect on Project.
Covenant types:                                                                 Present status:
I =  Accounts/Audits                   8  =  Indigenous People                  C  =  covenant complied with
2  =  Financial performance/revenue     9  =  Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD =  complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries     10 =  Project implementation not        CP =  complied with partially
3  =  Flow and utilization of project         covered by categories 1-9         NC    not complied with
funds                            11 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4  =  Counterpart funding                      budgetary or other resource
5  =  Management aspects of the                allocation
project or executing agency       12 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6  =  Environmental covenants                 regulatory/institutional action
7  =  Involuntary resettlement          13 =  other



22
Stage of                Planned                  Revised                  Actual
Project Cycle        Weeks        US$        Weeks         US$        Weeks        US$
Through appraisal
Board-effectiveness                                                       89.3       288.4
Supervision                                                           63.9        242.3
Completion                                                            11.1         56.3
Total                                                              164.3       587.0
Source: FACT and SAP
AA;-0$;0ab-  Th U^&0fU)A Arn4psT  M4or Projtlt Mi0si.i:s
Performance Rating
Stage of    Month/  Number of  Days in    Specialized Staff    Implementation   Development
Project Cycle   Year    Persons     Field     Skills Represented       Status         Impact
Through
Appraisal    10/95        4                     PR, FA, PE
Supervision    02/96       3                      PE, EN                S              HS
07/96       3                       PE, FA                S             HS
02/97       1          6              FA                  S             HS
07/97       1                         FA                 HS             HS
07/98       1          4              PE                  S             HS
09/98       1          4              PE                  S             HS
12/98       1                         PE                 S              HS
02/99       1                         PE                  S             HS
Source: PSRs (SAP)
Special Staff Skills:
TM - Task Manager                  EC - Economist               PE - Petroleum Engineer
G - Geologist                      EN - Environment Specialist    FA - Financial Analyst
PR - Procurement Specialist        PC - Process Engineer



23
ANNEX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
POWER SECTOR REFORM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2790 BO)
Annex A
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
Introduction
Since 1985, the Bolivian State implanted the denominated New Economic Politics, through a
series of measures that allowed to the Bolivian economy to be unwrapped in an atmosphere of
macroeconomic stability, besides taking out to the country of a hyperinflaciorLary and negative
growth period. One of the fundamnental measures was to promote the intervention of the
market mechanisms in the economy and to reduce the distortions produced by the intervention
of the State. Between the end of the 80 and principles of the 90, the achieved stability allowed
Bolivia to grow, and to begin to design development strategies that will allow to growth the
GDP in order to diminishing the degrees of poverty.
In this sense the Bolivian State began a deep process of structural reforms in according with
the world environment of liberalization of the economy in which the core is the
competitiveness. The structural reform had as one of its fimdamental purposes to redefine the
functions that the State as such should have in order to face the future challenges.
In this context, the central objective was to establish that the State centered its efforts and
resources in: a) gestate political of development of long term; b) to norm and regulate the
involved economic activities; in order to be excluded of the activity of provid&ng those services
that can be supplied by the private initiative.
Consequently it was then indispensable: a) to create the necessary incentives so that the private
initiative participated actively in the provision of those services; b) to establish mechanisms
that guarantee the continuity and appropriate levels of quality of supplying the services; and c)
to institutionalize the normative and regulatory capability of the State in such way that the
operation of the economic sectors will achieve the economic efficiency.
Project Objectives
The objective of the Project was to assist to the Republic of Bolivia in: a) to implement the
reform specified by the laws of Capitalization, Electricity, Privatization and the SIRESE,
including the adjustment of their regulations; b) to carry out key activities that will assure the
sustainability in the long term, of those reforms; c) to complete the restructuring of the assets
of the electric sector and corporatize the smallest companies in the isolated systems; d) to
complete the process of privatization of the assets of the electric sector owned by the State;
and e) to evaluate the impact of the reform of the sector in the competitiveniess, and practical



24
ANNEX A
commercial and investment in the electric market.
Consistent with the objectives of the Project, this was divided in the following parts: a)
Operation of the Technical Group (A. 1) and strengthening of the system regulator (A.2); b)
Requirements of Transition, where they highlighted the studies for determination of prices
(B. 1) and the operation of the wholesale power market (B.2), besides an evaluation of
environmental impact (B.3), the strengthening of the then National Secretary of Energy (B.4)
actually the Viceministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons (VMEH), and the treatment of the rural
areas (B.5); c) Restructuring of the electricity companies that still are owned by the State or
some organisms of the same one; d) Capitalization and privatization.
In a first stage of execution of the Project, until the emission of the first amendment, two
entities beneficiaries and execution units existed, the MOC to which were assigned the parts
A.1, B.1, B.2, C and D, while for the VMEH were granted the parts A.2, B.3, B.4 and B.5.
This initial assignment agreed fully with the institutional objectives of each one of the
beneficiaries, taking in account the process of reform of the State.
Conformed and established the SE in the firsts months of 1996, and the disappearance of the
MOC, a new assignment of beneficiaries and executioners determined an adjustment to the
responsibilities of each entity. This new assigmnent understood the fact that to a year of
administration of the SE, there was evident the necessity of its institutional strengthening, as
well as that the privatization functions and energy policy making should be centered in the
VMEH. In this context the new assignment of execution of the parts of the Project,
determined that the VMEH executed the parts A.2, B.3, B.4, B.5, C and D, while to the SE
they were only assigned the parts A. 1, B. I and B.2.
Additionally, as the capitalization and privatization processes of the main electric companies
had finished in 1995, and that the Law of Electricity and their regulation was effective from
1996, it was evident the necessity to evaluate the impact of the reform. As a consequence in
the amendment of July of 1997, was included inside the part B.2 the corresponding objective
and the reassignment of the respective funds.
Project Implementation
The Project was approved by IDA's Board on 30 November 1995 and made effective more
than a year later, on 23 January 1997. However, there was no signiificant implementation
delay, because the Project was: (i) supported by a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance,
which was approved in June 1995, allowing the Project to start at that date; and (ii) a
continuation of a sectoral reform program initiated a few years earlier with IDA's support
through the Regulatory Reform and Capitalization TA Project (Cr. 2647-BO/ July 94 to
December 98).
The Project's components were implemented satisfactorily, except for the restructuring,
commercialization and privatization of the isolated systems (about 10% of the country's power
system), which required more time than anticipated.



25
ANNEX A
The implementation responsibility of the Project's components related to sector development
policy, including the new regulatory standards, environmental assessment and mnitigation rules,
institutional strengthening and promotion of rural electrification was assumed by VMEH with
the assistance of individual consultants. In addition, VMEH developed operational standards
for the National Interconnected Grid System and operational guidelines Sfor the Isolated
Systems.
The implementation responsibility of the Project's components related to electricity pricing,
system dispatch, restructuring of government-owned power sector assets, and capitalizing and
or privatizing the restructured assets, was assumed by the TG under MOC until July 1997, and
since then, under SE. The TG, has become involved in policy making, including: (a)
completion of capitalization of three generating companies (Empresa Electrica Guaracachi,
Empresa Electrica Corani and Empresa Electrica Valle Hermoso); and (b) privatization of (i)
the country's largest transmission company (ENDE-T); (ii) one distribution company
(Empresa de Luz y Fuerza Electrica de Cochabamba); and (iii) the two largest isolated
systems, which include generation and distribution, (Servicios Electricos SETAR, Tarija and
SEPSA Potosi), these privatizations at the present were not concluded. The restructuring and
privatization of the smaller isolated systems required more time than anticipated and the
preparation for their privatization is still under way.
Achievement of Objectives
The key objectives of the Project were achieved in order to assist the Borrower in: (i) establish
a new regulatory framework that corresponds with the principles of the major State reforms;
(ii) create and establish the regulatory authority, the SE as an autonomous and independent
entity, that will guarantee the correct application of the dispositions of the Electricity Law; (iii)
put in effect a new structure of the power sector through a capitalization and privatization
program that promoted the participation of the private investment, in order to guarantee the
power supply in the long term; (iv) develop pricing methodologies, procedures for granting
concession and licenses, standards for the power supply that were implemented through key
transition schemes and activities that permit the long term sustainability of the reform results;
(v) evaluate the power sector performance as effect of the new regulations application and
refine them in order to enhance competition in generation, promote efficiency in the natural
monopolies and protect the consumer. These objectives were achieved, attaining the results of
different processes and studies that were developed by consultants, also firms and individuals,
foreign and locals, which were financed under the Project categories.
The performance of VMEH, as on of the major sector policy makers for the government, has
been significant improved. During the course of the Project, VEMH's units were able to
refine a sound legal, institutional and regulatory framework, fostering efficient sector policies,
attracting private sector participation and strengthening their efficiency. Sector environmental
assessments have been incorporated as a basis in all sector related action plans.



26
ANNEX A
A number of key transition activities to ensure the long-term sustainability of the reforms were
completed. Consumers and users can now participate directly in the regulatory process of
public utilities services. The sector is no longer subject to political interference and the power
companies are only obliged to comply with the regulatory framework and performance
indicators. The first Indicative Investment Plan to guide private and public investment for the
sector was published in 1999. The procedures for updating and issuing the plan annually were
finalized. A comprehensive sector information system and full sector statistics and business
opportunities were developed and now published yearly since 1998.
With the privatization of ENDE-T (1,818 km of transmission system) the national
interconnected system, consisting of more than 90% of Bolivia's power generation,
transmission and distribution, is now privately owned and operates on market principles. The
sector is divided into three distinct activities, generation, transmission and distribution,
substantially improving the operational performance and reducing commercial and technical
losses. The restructuring and commercialization program for the smaller utilities of the
Isolated Systems (representing less than 10% of the country's power sector) has been under
active implementation with the objective of privatization by the end of 2001.
An energy strategy for private development of sustainable rural electrification, including
policy, regulations and a program (National Rural Electrification Program/ PRONER), has
been developed and approved by the government. PRONER's objectives are to increase the
coverage of rural electrification from 14% now to 28% by 2002, supplying some 110,000
households. Several model projects have been designed for electricity demand-led and not
policy-pushed, including renewable (photovoltaic solar, wind and mini-hydro) and are now
being promoted to private sector development with the assistance of UNDP, German
Government Aid Agency and a local investment bank (Corporation Andina de Fomento). IFC
participation is also being sought by VEMB.
On the regulatory side, the Project provided a fundamental contribution to the consolidation of
the legal and regulatory framework of the power sector.  The operations of SE, the
government's policy implementing agency or the independent regulator, have been
strengthened and its performance standards significantly improved. The appointment of the
Superintendent of Electricity was confirmed in October 1998. The reforms mandated by the
Capitalization, Power Sector, Privatization and the SIRESE Laws were further consolidated.
Regulations related to (i) retail and wholesale pricing of electricity; and, (ii) open-access
operation of the National Grid (spot market) were refined and issued during the course of
Project implementation.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
The factors that affected positively the Project's implementation are the following:
- Political support from high levels of GOB, to the power sector reform program,
especially since the elaboration of the Electricity Law until the privatization of TDE
S.A. passing through the capitalization process.
- One team4 with highly qualified members, dedicated full time to the power reform and
consequently to the Project's implementation.



27
ANNEX A
- Processes of capitalization and privatization, executed with transparency, permitted to
maintain the private interest in the power sector reform program and in. the adjustments
required to the legal framework, as result of the operation of the powe:r market
including the VMEH, SE and NLDC.
- Remarkable ENDE's administration and operation, before the implemerntation of the
capitalization and privatization processes.
- Relatively well organized power sector, was essential in order to focus the activities in
the application of the procedures of the Electricity Law and its regulations, that
permitted to obtain a consistent feedback for the adjustments needed to the power
sector functioning through the Project's implementation.
- Specialized and individual consultants rather than firm consultants produced better
results, because perrnitted that the coordination between the Project's executions units
and the consultants was narrow and consistent.
In the other side, among the factors that attempted against the Project's implementation must
be mentioned the following:
- Slow Project preparation, reduced the Project's scope, because the capitalization
process must be faced with resources transferred from other IDA credits, that also
produced a long delay in the Credit 2790-BO effectiveness.
- Complex concept of capitalization, not well understood by public opinion was a hard
factor to confront, that takes to much time and resources that finally were no sufficient
in order to maintain the public opinion well informed.
- Hard opposition and conflicting attitude of the unions of the smaller companies,
especially of SETAR and SEPSA.
- New administration's approach to the reform, affected in the delay of the Project's
implementation, because the incoming administration must be convinced about the
power sector reform.
Project Sustainability
In 1993, the past government initiated major state reforms following the new economic
principles established since 1986. These reforms were based on concepts of sustainable
development, national income redistribution and administrative decentralization, and require
redefining the role of the state in the main economic sectors. In that way the power sector
reform was implemented in parallel with others that correspond to telecommunications,
hydrocarbon, mining, railway, and aviation sectors. Those sector reforms were implemented in
an integrated way and with strong relations with other kind of reforms like pension funds
reform. Then in a general concept these relations between sector reforms guarantee their
sustainability, because any interest in modify the results of the power reformi must take care
that would affect seriously the other economic sectors.



28
ANNEX A
The new regulatory authority of the power sector, through the results of the studies financed
with the project, has proposed to the government adjustments and modifications to the
regulations, in effect since July 1995, that after their promulgation improved the performance
of the power sector. Also to put in effect the prices and tariffs according with the principles
and methodologies established in the Electricity Law, required transitional schemes that will
avoid social impacts, those transitional schemes were developed and established, and will
permit that in eight years the actual distortions must be surpassed. These are samples that how
in a specific concept, the results of the Project are sustainable, because the studies developed
in the Project have provided to the regulatory authority and power executive with the
necessary mechanisms to evaluate permanently the power sector and most of all the
applications of the Electricity Law and the related legal framework.
The Project's legal and regulatory framework achievements are likely to be sustainable. The
consolidation of the reforms was carried out with the aim of promoting efficiency and
competition. The regulatory system has been operating to the satisfaction of all relevant
parties, the consumers through an appeal process that has been functioning effectively, the
power companies by having a level playing field that foster competition under arms length
regulations, and the government by having its sector policies enforced. SE has been able to
hire and retain well-qualified staff, in addition to the well trained TG it inherited from MOC.
The SIRESE Law provides for sustainable financial self-sufficiency of all superintendencies,
including SE. In this regard, the Electricity Law provides up to 1% surcharge on all sales of
electricity to cover the expenses of SE under yearly budgets. Over the years, the government
has also firmed up its commitment to the reforms and the independent regulatory system. All
of these achievements, which have been in the rnaking since the early 1990s, are not likely to
be reversed.
However, it is unlikely that the institutional development achieved during the course of the
Project by the VMEH' s units will be sustained. Severe budget limitations (about 60%
reduction of the previous year) are seriously constraining the VMEH activities. The Vice-
Ministry is experiencing difficulties not only for hiring the skills it needs, but also for retaining
those formed under the Project. This situation could affect the Project's future operation,
particularly the rural electrification for which the legal and regulatory framework still require
broader development and further strengthening in order to attract private investment. The
coordination between the policy makers and the regulators could also be affected.
IDA Performance
Since the beginning of the power sector reform in March 1993, IDA played a remarkable role,
supporting through ESMAP and other grant funds the initial studies and high level assessments
of foreign consultants needed by the power sector reform. Nevertheless most important was,
the consistent, expertise, continuity and close collaboration provided by the supervision of
IDA. The IDA supports also mined to confer to the Bolivian capitalization and privatization
program a high level of credibility within the international power industry. During the
imnplementation of the reforms IDA indorsed those actions that the Borrower's implemented in
order to apply the principles established in the Electricity and SIRESE laws, and were rejected
by some agents uncomfortable with the reform. Throughout the Project's cycle, from
appraisal to implementation supervision, the performance of IDA was highly satisfactory,
including the difficult period of transition between the past and the actual Bolivia's
government. One of the beneficiaries of the Project, the Superintendence of Electricity was



29
ANNEX A
one of the entities that availed from the IDA performance, because improved its procedures in
selecting and employing consultants.
Borrower Performance
In the evaluation of the Borrower's Performance is necessary to distinguish ilwo aspects; one
related strictly to the preparation of the Project and the other that consist in the execution of
the Project itself that corresponds with the achievements of its objectives.
About the first issue, there has been corresponsibility with IDA about the delay between the
identification and the effectiveness of the Project. Another delay that was important was
related with the effectiveness of the first Credit Agreement Amendment, it takes almost six
months since it was agreed. These delays affected directly to the execution of the Project, in
order to improve its performance. This was due principally to the change cf administration,
and after that, the GOB assumed the measures needed to improve the Project implementation.
One issue that must be mentioned was a lack of high coordination between the entities
responsible of the Project, the SE and the VMEH, nevertheless this problem was resolved as
the different studies were carrying out specially those related with adj ustments to the
regulations of the Electricity Law. If the delays would not take so much time, the coordination
would be highly improved.
They were several difficulties for the VMEH to implement satisfactorily the Project, the
principal was related with the difficulty of this institution to retain qualified staff. The effects of
that problem were observed in the lack of capability for sector policy formulation,
implementation of PRONER and carrying out its power environmental responsibilities.
In relation with the second aspect, the GOB has achieved in general terms with the objectives
of the Project, taking in account the wide spectrum of matters involved in the Project's
objectives, and was focused in the power sector institutional and legal framework
consolidation, trying to benefit from the initial momentum of the power sector reform related
with the capitalization and privatization processes. In that order the strengthen of the SE
beginning with the appointment of the Superintendent and with specific studies related with
the regulatory activities and the capacitating of its personal were essential to the consolidation
of the regulatory entity. In the same trend the decision adopted by the GOB in order to
establish the NLDC was definitely essential to complete the structure of the power sector and
to its functioning according with the provisions of the Electricity Law and its regulations, the
adequate design of the studies needed to improve the NLDC performance was another issue
that was certainly done.
Assessment of Outcome
At the present the power sector has a new and more efficient structure that in the past, the
main problems that it has before were solved, especially those related with the necessity to
attract the private investrcnt in order to guarantee the sustainability, continuity and quality of
the power supply. A new, consistent and well-conceived regulatory frmelTWork was put in
effect, that establish the adequate incentives and protections to the private investments. An
autonomous and independent regulatory agency capable of fulfill its functions established by
the Electricity Law, was implemented.



30
ANNEX A
As result, the SE is obtaining a certain degree of credibility, and is improving through the years
its efficiency and effective parameters. The process of adjusting retail tariff has begun after a
long, but necessary preparation of studies and coordination process with the distribution
companies. The quality of the power supply has followed the stages established in the
regulations in order to aim the final stage were the quality indicators will be enforced; to
achieve this stage was necessary not only a high coordination between the SE and the
distribution companies, also these needed to implement adequate information systems capable
to fufill the regulations requirements. Trough the consolidation of the NLDC, and the
provision of procedures to administrate the wholesale power market, its functioning is in
general terms smoothly.
Nevertheless, there were several problems that were identified before the power sector reform
begun and were not yet solved, even though these were not a primarily objective of the
Project, they were not treated as the others mainly because: there were not prioritized
appropriately and consequently their approach to solve them was inadequate; also the financial
resources and qualified staff were not sufficient. These problems area related with: a)
implementing a rational rural electrification policy; b) privatize the small isolated systems; c)
strengthen the actual VMEH in order to fulfill its responsibilities related with the power sector
policy, regulatory proposals, and environmental assessments; d) anti trust legal frame work;
and e) insufficient diffusion to the consumers about: i) of how is structured the power supply
industry; ii) their rights and obligations established in the Electricity Law; iii) the functions of
the SE; and iv) the rights and obligations of the distribution companies. These problems does
not means that the Project does not achieved its objectives, because these were not the
principals and that yet there is much to be done.
Future Operation
In the future the GOB will be making efforts in order to solve the problems mentioned above,
specially those related with the implementation of the PRONER, the privatization of the small
isolated systems, and with the anti trust legal framework.
As these activities must be aimed by the VMEH, is evident its strengthen, in that sense the
GOB must find the necessary resources.
The SE also must improve the diffusion of information about the power sector in the following
areas: a) legal framework; b) statistics; c) structure; and d) the SIRESE and ODECO systems.



