Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4518-UR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
TO THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$80 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY
FOR THE
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
May 18, 1987
Tlhis document has a rtessrted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their oflkAl duties. Its vontents may not otherwise be disclosed writhout World Bank authorization.



CUMNCY NUIVA"NTS
(February 28, 1987)
US$1 = NUr$195
AJ1-.00  =  US$0.0513
WSIGdTS ANU M*ASURES
I hectare (ha)           -  10,UOO m2   5  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)         =  0.62 miles
I square kilometer (km2) =  100 ha
1 metric ton              =  1,000 kg
1 kilogram               =  2.2 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFE        -  Government Railway Company
ALADL      -  Latin American Integration Association
ANCAP      -  Government Petroleum, Alcohol and Cement Company
ANP        -  Port Authority
ANTEL      -  Government Telecommunications Company
BCU        -  Cential bank of Uruguay
BROU       -  Banco de la Republica
ClAT       -  Interamerican Center for Tax Administration
CINVE      -  Economic Research Center
DGIA       -  General Directorate for Aeronautical Infrastructure
DGSS       -  Social Security General Directorate
GA'f       -  General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GOP        -  Gross Domestic Product
IDB        -  Iateramerican Development Bank
IRF        -  Interrational doneLary Fund
.AY&A      -  Kultiyear Rescheduling Agreement
O?P        -  Office of Planning and Budget
OSE        -  Government Water Company
PLUNA      -  National Airline Company
rAL        -  Technical Assistance Loan
UTE        -  Government Power Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMeST LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMNARY
Borrower:           Republic of Uruguay.
Amount:              USS80 million equivialent.
Terms:              Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Loan Descriptiont  The proposed loan would support the Governmeat's
Structural Adjustment and Recovery Program, a program
designed to increase exports and promote domestlc
savings, so as to permit a recovery of economic growth
and reduce unemployment while strengthening the
country's creditworthinees. The main areas covered by
the Government's program are: (i) strengthening the
public sector's financial position and restructuring
the social security system; (ii) improving public
investment programming and implementation; (iii) taking
measures to improve commercial bank and corporate
finances; and (iv) promoting export growth through
export incentives and import tariff reform. The
foreign exchange provided under the loan would be used
to finance essential imports, excluding luxury goods
and military items. Complementary studies designed to
improve public sector management and finances, export
incentives programs, and capital markets development
will be partially financed through a proposed Technical
Assistance Loan, documentation on which is being
circulated to the Board simultaneously.
Benefits:           The Structural Adjustment Program i. expected to result
in higher levels of economic growth, consumer export
earnings and employment, and to improve the country's
capacity to service its external deb..  This w.ll
strengthen the country's creditworthiness and
facilitate the resumption of voluntary commercial bank
financing.
Risks:              The principal risks relate to:  (i) implementation
difficulties that could hinder progress on the social
security reform, (ii) uncertainties on export
prospects, which could impair economic performance,
linked above all to uncertain access of Uruguayan
exports to the markets of developed countries, and
(iii) availability of commercial bank financing for
1989-90 and following years adequate to sustain a
reasonable rate of economic growth.
This document has a stictd distibution and may be used by cpiats onby In to pefmonna
of theirofeW dutiesL Its ontents my not othewisbe discoed without Wold Bank sutbolation.



- il. -
Estimated           The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed in two
Disbursements:    tranches:  US$40 million equivalent upon effectiveness,
and the remaining US$40 million equivalent after a
performance review to be held within ten months of
effectiveness.
Staff Appraisal
Report:          None.
IBRD 19541



IMSYNRATIORAL   K 10R I UCONSTRRC    AION hSD DITULOPNY
RNPOBT AND RICONFUDATIO F T0   B PRUSIDUBT
T0 THB RIBCUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE DEPUWIC 01 UNUGUAY
F0  A STRUCTURAL           PROGRAM
i*        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
first Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) to the Republic of Uruguay for the
equivalent of US$80 miUlion. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including three years of graoe, with interest at the Bank standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Memorandum on Uruguay (Report No. 6054-UR) was cir-
culated to the Executive Directors on August 26, 1986. A Country Brief was
distributed in April 1987. An appraisal mission for the proposed loan
visited Uruguay in October/November 1986; it also reviewed the economic
situation. A mission in March 1987 reviewed the public investment program
and assessed progress made in finsliuing the structural adjustment program
and recent economic developments. The Government's structural adjustment
program and specific policy actions supported by the proposed Structural
Adjustment Loan are summarized in this report. Basic country data is
attached as Annex 1.
A. ackground
3.        Uruguay was a very prosperous country in the early twentieth
century, on the basis of livestock production; later, import-substitution
during World War II and the immediate post-war period was the major
stimulus for growth. This source of growth, was, however, exhausted by the
mid-1950s. Excessive costs of welfare programs, reluctance of the
population to accept needed austerity, large public sector deficits, and
wage increases in excess of productivity gains produced an environment that
discouraged growth and stifled export production; this led to balance of
payments problems, inflation, and social unrest. These difficulties were
compounded by the adverse economic effects of the oil shock in 1973. The
ensuing crisis forced the Government into a fundamental reappraisal of
'Juguay's basic economic strategy.
4.        Between 1973 and 1984, significant efforts were made to reverse
the historic import-substitution bias of macro-economic policies in favor
of opening the economy and enhancing the role of market forces in resource



allocation. Major structural reforms were introduced in fiscal, monetary,
exchange rate, tariff, and domestic pricing policies. Initial macro-
economic results were generally positive. In 1978, however, the Government
made additional policy changes aimed at controlling inflation, which were
inconsistent with previous reforms, in particular, Uruguay's pre-announced
exchange rate schedule (tablita). These, in combination with an open
capital a-,count, attracted large capital inflows and led to an unsustain-
able speculative boom. As the peso's real effective exchange rate appre-
ciated, Uruguay's efforts to support the exchange rate schedule led to
record-level deficits in the current account balance of payments, which
were financed by massive borrowing abroad. The external debt increased
sharply from US$0.9 billion in 1979 to US$1.7 billion in 1982. Exports
lost competitiveness and import-substitution activities declined owing to
the sharp expansion of imports fueled by the overvaluation of the peso.
The public sector deficit also reached 18.5% of GDP in 1982. This, com-
bined with unfavorable external events (high interest rates in capital
markets, the Mexican debt crisis, deteriorating terms of trade) forced a
sharp devaluation of the peso in November 1982.
5.        The country entered a severe recession in late 1981 in the wake
of these developments. Real GDP declined over one-sixth during 1982-84
with production falling in all sectors, unemployment climbed from 6% in
early 1981 to 13% in 1984, and real wages dropped over one-fourth. Real
exports of goods and services increased by about 1% but the terms of trade
deteriorated by 9% since 1981. The public sector deficit increased from
2.3% of GDP in 1981 to 18.5% in 1982, but then declined to 16.3% and 9.5%
in 1983 and 1984, respectively. Inflation accelerated; prices rose by 52%
in 1983 and 66% in 1984 (December-December). After the November 1982
devaluation, private sector firms were left with a serious debt burden to
comercial banks; these, in turn, were faced with large non-performing loan
portfolios.
6.        Against the backdrop of the serious economic problems facing
Uruguay in recent years, some important assets should be underscored.
Uruguay is small, with a homogenous population, good communications, and a
democratic government committed to achieving structural reform.  Uruguay's
per capita income is high by Latin American standards (about US$1,660 in
1985) and the income distribution compares favorably with that of many
developed countries. Demographic characteristics are similar to those of
developed countries:  an aging population, low gross reproduction rate
(1.2%), and high life expectancy at birth (73 years). Because of
significant emigration, population growth is only 0.5% a year. The
population is mostly urban (85%) and well-educated. The level of social
services (education, health, safe water, social security) is high.
B. Recent Developments
7.        Following elections in November 1984, a new Government took
office on March 1, 1985. The Government's first priority on taking office
was to stabilize the economy. Uruguay was in a deep recession, and the
country faced serious and immediate problems in servicing its external
debt, which undermined efforts to resume growth. The Government thus



approached the IMF and negotiated an 18 month stand-by agreement, which was
approved in September 1985. The results of the stabilization program have
been impressive, and the December 1985, March, June, (and December 19L6)
stand-by quantitative performance criteria were met by comfortable
margins. The Government plans to continue to work with the IMF. The
second major effort was addressed to debt restructuring. There also
Uruguay met considerable success. A multi-year rescheduling agreement
(MYRA) was signed in July 1986. It provides relief of about US$2.1 billion
during 1985-89. In addition, creditor banks provided fresh medium-term
voluntary financing for US$45 million in the framework of a Bank B-Loan
facility, which is part of a package to rehabilitate the power sector.
8.        The combined impact of the stabilization measures and the
external debt restructuring have been very positive, and are reflected in a
reversal of declining growth trends. The decline in real GDP stopped in
the last two quarters of 1985, effectively ending the four-year recession.
The economic recovery continued vigorously in 1986 with a 6.2% growth rate
(with manufacturing increasing 11.2%). Unemployment dropped from 13% in
1984 to 9% at the end of 1986. Merchandise exports increased 27%, partly
as a result of the increase in the Brazilian demand for beef, rice, dairy
and manufactured products. Imports of goods, which remained at low levels
in 1985, increased 24% during 1986. Imports of capital goods grew
rapidly. The trade surplus was over US$200 million an.d the current
account balance of payments became positive.
C. AdJustment Policy Issues
9.        Uruguay's open economy depends heavily on exports to grow. Since
the mid-1970s, Uruguay has made serious efforts to increase exports and the
openness of the economy. The policies of Uruguay's traditional export
markets have hampered these efforts. Beef exports, a main source of
foreign exchange, have been sharply curtailed by import restrictions and
increased competition from EEC's subsidized production, which, in turn, has
also contributed to depressing internatioiLal beef prices. U.S. subsidized
sales of beef and rice to Brazil haye also affected adversely Uruguay's
exports. Promising manufactured exports, such as wool textiles and apparel
and leather products, also confront protectionist polioies that restrict
their access to the markets of developed countries. Even though Uruguay is
producing at competitive prices, these policies seriously impair its
ability to sell in world markets. Uruguay, therefore, confronts a
difficult dilemma in seeking to expand exports, a key element of any growth
strategy: it must diversify away from products where it has a comparative
advantage into new products and new markets.
10.      Two major adjustments are required for Uruguay to develop and
diversify its exports in a sustained manner:
(i) the reduction or elimination of internal imbalances that would
tend to weaken Government export promotion policies and feed
inflation, most notably the fiscal imbalance. This imbalance is
the result of the impact of the changing population
structure-owing to high life expectancy and a low reproduction
r&te--on social security finances; the high level of public
employment; and the need to service the large public external
debt; and



(ii) the expansion of basic infrastructure (roads, telecommunications,
power, etc.) to facilitate increasing production and mobilizing
new exports.
Under these circumstances, the Government recognizes the need to reduce
social security benefits, diminish public employment and other current
expenditures, and rationalize public investments--which have tended to
reflect the interaction between individual Government entities and external
lenders more than a well-coordinated investment program.
11.       Other issues closely linked to the success of the export drive
are:
(i) the success of exchange and monetary policieR in maintaining
export competitiveness;
(ii) the weak financial position of private firms--a constraint in
revitalizing the economy and expanding exports-- since the heavy
debt burden (and associated insolvency) of manufacturing and
other export activities discourages further capital accumulation;
and
(iii) unemployment, high inflation, and low real wages breed an
unstable social environment. Frequent strikes weaken confidence
of the private sector, reduce GDP growth and employment, and
interfere with timely servicing of export orders. The Government
will need to strike a delicate balance between higher savings (to
finance investment and service the country's external debt) and
increasing consumption through higher real wages.
12.       Uruguay's population characteristics (para. 6), in particular the
changing age structure, give rise to some broader long-term development
challenges. Social services, including free education, subsidized medical
care, and a generous social security system, were developed during the
first half of the twentieth century when Uruguay was in a better position
to afford thea. Now, with a much weaker economic base and an urgent need
to reduce fiscal deficits sharply, Uruguay cannot maintain welfare benefits
at current levels. An aging population and the slow growth in the working
force require that either (i) savings, investment and productivity rise
significantly to compensate for the adverse demographic treads, or (ii)
social transfers be reduced. With low national savings rates and small
productivity gains, current levels of social programs are not sustainable.
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S MEDIUM TERM PROGRAM
13.       Since taking office in March 1985, the Uruguayan Government has
embarked on a five-year medium-term program designed to remove structural
barriers to sustained growth in the late 1980s and 1990s. The objectives
of the medium-term program are: first, to stabilize the economy; second,
to maintain fiscal discipline and meet debt service payments; third, to
create conditions for sustained growth. Many of the reforms contemplated
have deep roots, as Uruguay initiated important reforms in the 1970s



which have been underway, albeit with some deviations and failures, since
then. Thus, in its adjustment program Uruguay has a strong base for action
because it has already undertaken many structural reforms to change the
direction of the economy and make it more market-oriented and to spur
growth. These include measures to restructure the tariff regime, reduce
the role of the state, and bring Government finances into balance. The
reform efforts have been renewed and broadened by the current Government
and signs of progress in stabilization and restored growth were already
evident in 1986. Nonetheless, important steps are still needed both to
carry ongoing reforms into effect and to address .'emaining problems.
14.       The medium-term program comprises:  (i) a policy and incentive
framework geared to expanding exports, which includes a competitive
exchange rate, and a reduction of import protection; (ii) actions to
restore private sector confidence and promote growth and diversification of
agriculture and manufacturing, including development programs for epecific
regions of Uruguay; and (iii) measures aimed at revucing inflation and
maintaining fiscal and monetary discipline to promote balance of payments
equilibrium and achieve a better balance in resource allocation between the
private and public sectors as well as among productive sectors. The
Government's reform program constitutes a sound basis for removing
important constraints to economic growth. The program is balanced,
coberent, and well-designed to create the macroeconomic and financial
conditions for sustainable growth and employment creation. The Government
is strongly committed to the program, as evidenced by its strong record on
economic management and forward movement on the planned reforms over the
past 24 months.
15.       The Government's medium-term economic program envisages a growth
rate of about 4% a year during 1987-89. The majar targets are to increase
real exports at about 5% a year, to raise the investment GDP ratio by
increasing investment (mostly private) at 20% to 30% a year in the
triennium, and to turn the overall deficit of the non-financial public
sector into a small surplus. Inflation is expected to be reduced from 70%
in 1986 to 502 in 1987, 40% in 1988, and 30% in 1989. The Government is
also targetting an unemployment rate of 7 to 8% in 1989, which compares
with 9% at the end of 1986. To reach these targets, the Government
programs annual net external debt increases of about US$110 million. The
medium-term program represents a significant effort to improve the overall
policy framework and to achieve self-sustained growth. Defining specific
policies directed to maintaining the growth momentum in the medium-term has
entailed analysis of constraints facing the economy and specific policy
reviews to design the medium-term framework and reform action plans. This
medium-term program is far-ranging and ambitious, addressing the major
constraints which have been identified. The major Government targets are
presented in Table 1 of Annex III, Letter of Development Policy.
16.       The political context has particular significance in designing
the reforms which are part of the medium-term program. In its preparation,
the Government has devoted special efforts to building the political
support necessary for implementing the reforms it contemplates. This is
essential because the ruling Colorado party has a minority in the
Parliament. Parliamentary approval of some program measures necessarily
implies the risk of delays and modification of measures. A major step
forward was taken in March 1986 when the Government reached agreement with
the opposition parties on the basic conceptual elements of the medium-term



-6-
program. Outweighing the risks of delay is the likelihood that reforms
designed and passed with such political participation have good prospects
of being sustained.
PART III - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMDEN PROGRAM
Backpround
17.       The Government reform package is impressive and covers the most
important areas of public policy. The most important structural adjustment
will address the imbalance in public finances, which presents a critical
obstacle to growth. This adjustment will consist of several major
reforms: first and foremost, launching a far-reaching reform of the social
security system; second reducing other current public expenditures and
increasing tax revenues and tariffs/prices of public epterprises; and
third, in-depth restructuring of those public enterprises which are not
profitable. The social security imbalance is the top priority; it
threatens to escalate and thus present still greater problems in the future
in the absence of corrective action now; failure to act would without
question undermine past and current structural reform efforts. However,
the other components are also important, particularly the significant
restructuring of the railway and water companies, which entail large staff
reductions. The second major thrust of the program entails measures to
increase investment and exports, which are crucial for higher growth.
Public investment is to be increased from 3% in 1985 to 5% of GDP in
1987-89 and its effectiveness enhanced through measures to program and
monitor investment more effectively. Public investment will expand needed
public services and infrastructure to support private sector activities.
Private investment will also be stimulated by continuing measures to
restructure the financial sector, notably dealing with the
over-indebtedness affecting many firms, creating a new legal framework to
facilitate the development of a capital market, and strengthening the
financial system. Finally, the program includes several important exchange
and trade measures to promote export growth and reduce ef±.,uwtive protection
and above all diversification, because Uruguay remains critically dependent
on a few exports, which face severe market uncertainties. The Structural
AdJustment Program is mmari.ed in the Statement of Development Policy
(Annex III) and corresponding metrix (Annex IV).
18.       The Government of Uruguay requested Bank support for a SAL
program in June 1985 and preparatory work on that program has been underway
since then. The First SAL is seen as part of the longer-term reform
process, as it will clearly be essential that the program be pursued and
broadened beyond the SAL period. In the SAL program, the Government has
sought to focus on specific issues related to the medium-term program;
other reforme, notably continuing stabilization measures and efforts to
limit public sector wage expenditures, are not formally included but will
be pursued in parallel, either through INF agreements or project
lending (para. 30).
A. Public Financial Management
The Problem
19.       The public sector's size, the share of resources that it
utilizes, and the inadequate financing reflected in the annual deficits,



-7-
all constitute an important impediment to sustained growth. Equilibrium to
public finances must be restored. Thus, actions to reduce the relative size
of the public sector, reorient programs, improve cost-effectiveness sand
bring expenditures in balance with revenues are critical to the success of
the medium-term development program, The Government is taking action to
reduce Government expenditures and establish a sound fiscal position.
Efforts to brin8 expenditures under control and increase revenues have been
underway for several years, and have already achieved results (General
Government expenditures were reduced from a peak of 30X of GDP in 1982 to
23X in 1985; the current deficit, accordingly, declined from 5.6% of GDP in
1982 to 12 in 1985). Preliminary resilts for 1986 indicate that the public
sector continued to improve its performance. Further measures are needed,
however, which will entail structural changes, on both the expenditure and
revenue sides.
20.       The most important and difficult problem is reform of the social
security system. This stems from: (i) a generous and complex social
security system which offers benefits beyond Uruguay's capacity to
finance them; (ii) poorly conceived reforms introduced in 1979 (these
refomsm substantially reduced payroll contributions to change th.e relative
prices of labor and capital but did not provide new revenues to the
Treasury to compensate for this reduction); and (iii) from the combination
of current low retirement ages (60 for men, 55 for women) and high life
expectancy at retirement with an aging population, slow workforce growth,
and low ratio of contributing workers to beneficiaries, which now stands at
about 1.2 to 1. Social security expenditures absorbed about 10 of GDP in
1985. The social security system alone required Central Government
transfers amounting to about 3.8S of GDP and 252 of current revenues in
1985. In sum, the system needs far-ranging, permanent reforms in part to
undo the mistakes of 1979 and in part to reduce benefits to a level
compatible with the country's ability to finance these benefits
21.       Further expenditure problems are financial losses by a few
inefficient public enterprises (airline, railways, water supply companies),
and high personnel expenditures because of excessive public sector
employment, both in the Central Government and in public enterprises. On
the revenue side, the problems are less fundamental, as the tax system has
been the subject of several reforms of its structure since the mid-1970s.
There is, however, scope for increasing tax revenues and thus a tax reform
is part of the adjustment program. Its implementation has increased
revenues by about 1.3 percentage points of GDP in 1986. The tax reforms
essentially broaden the tax base and enhance incentives for exports. This
will be followed by improvements in tax administration and a further
rationalization of the tax system with studies supported by the TAL. With
respect to public enterprises, since April 1985, the Government is
following a policy of increasing tariffs/prices every four months in line
with increases in the cost of living index and the financial needs of each
enterprise. The tariffs/prices adjustment mechanism is overseen by the
Office of Planning and Budget (OPP). The Government is committed under the
SAL program to continue these periodic tariff increases for public
utilities and strengthen the basis for calculating them.
22.       The objective for the program period is to secure and maintain a
large reduction in the public sector deficit and Government borrowing
requirements. Specifically, the targets are to increase Central Government



current savings from -1.3% of GDP in 1985 to 2% of GDP in 1989 and to
eliAinate the overall deficit of the non-financial public sector as a
source of financial pressures in the economy.
Social Security System Reform
23.       The objective of the reform is to have a more affordable social
security system with equitabLe rights for all participants and adequate
protection of these rights. The specific target is to reduce the social
security deficit to no more than 2% of GDP by 1990 and to make the system
self-financing by the year 2000. The Government has decided, at the
highest policy level, on basic changes to be made in the social security
system. The major legislative measure needed to implement the reforms was
presented to Parliament in April 1987. The proposed solutions would
involve above all reducing the benefits provided by the system. The basic
principles of the reform are: (i) increasing normal retirement ages to 65
years for men (75% participation rate in the male labor force) and 60 for
women (44% participation rate in the female labor force); (ii) making
benefits for all current beneficiaries more uniform and reducing their
dispersion; (iii) eliminating privileged regimes based on quality or type
of services rendered; and (iv) limiting the rights of working-age
dependents or those with adequate economic means.
24.       The rationale behind these changes, in Uruguay's pay-as-you-go
system, is to modify the main parameters determining the long-run
equilibrium of the system, i.e., ratio of contributing workers per
beneficiary (r); ratio(s) of per capita benefits of retirees (b) to per
capita earnings of employed workers (W; ratio of per capita benefits of
survivors (g) to per capita benefits of retirees (p) and the payroll
contribution rate (a)I/. The rollback of retirement ages to 65 and 60
years, for example, wTll maintain more workers active while postponing
their retirement, thereby increasing the ratio of contributing workers to
beieficiaries; this entails savings on pension payments for five years for
each individual involved as well as additional payroll contributions for
the same period. As a result of the proposed structural changes, actuarial
calculations for the year 2000 show that with payroll contributions at 27%
and a ratio of active workers to beneficiaries of 1.5, the system will be
in equilibrium without Government transfers.
1/   These factors are linked by the pay-as-you-go equation:
a-s



-9-
25.       Since claims on the system from the current pool of retirees and
their relatives as well as those close to retirement cannot be voided, the
impact of most of these actions would be fully reflected on sociai security
finances only when the current pool of beneficiaries is no longer drawing
benefits. The Government, therefore, is also working on short-term actions
to reduce the deficit in the next few years. These include revisions in
the system of rural contribut. ns (already approved by Parliament) which
will tighten collection mechanisms for agricultural workers and a new
mechanism to reduce the annual adjustment for inflation, notably by
squeezin.g increases in the top pension levels to reduce the dispersion as
well as the total cost of benefits. In addition, administrative actions
are underway to reduce evasion, monitor more effectively social security
contributions, improve social security administration, and provide
statistical information. These include: establishing a single
identification number for social security contributions and taxpayer's
obligationst purchases of new computer equipment, stiff penalties, new
reporting requirements for small enterprises, and reduction of late
payments by public enterprises and municipalities. Substantial technical
assistance is included under the TAL in support of these actions. Recent
analysis of the social security system indicates that these administrative
measures could have a substantial short term financial impact because there
is a high level of evasion (at present it is close to 301) and also
underreporting of wages.
26.       The Government is currently working on an action plan covering
the detailed actions to be undertaken on the areas noted above, namely
i)  long-term structural reforms; (ii) short-term measures to reduce the
deficit; and (iii) administrative actions to improve controls and reduce
evasion. The Government intends to have its social security reform in
place in about one year. The Second Tranche release will be based on
specific indicators of progress based on the long-term structural
parameters (ratio of contributing workers to beneficiaries, i.e., retirees
plus survivors, ratio benefits/wages, and the c'ntributing rate of the
system) in effect at the time performance under the SAL program is
evaluated.
Public Enterprise Policies
27.       Background.  Uruguay has a small number (eight) of public
enterprises and, with a few exceptions, they work reasonably well. The
legal framework for public enterprises is clearly established by law and
there are clear procedures for preparation and review of budgets,
investment programs, and tariff adjustments, as well as for submission and
auditing of accounts. Consolidated current savings have been positive
during most of the last 15 years although in general savings have been
low. Only three enterprises require Central Go:ernment transfers on a
sustained basis: the railways (US$20 million in 1985), the airline (US$5
million) and the water company (US$0.5 million plus debt service for past



- 10 -
10 loans). Some enterprises have made significant tax payments, notably
the petroleum company (US$136 million in 1985) and the telecommunications
company (dS48 million).  Some important financial and management issues,
nonetheless, need to be addressed, essentially geared to increasing
enterprise revenues, efficiency and effective accountability.
Consequently, the Government has decided to (i) continue with and
strengthen the mechanism for periodic tariff/price increases for public
enterprises to improve their financial position and adequately provide for
their expansion; (ii) act specifically to address the problems of the
above-noted entities which require Government transfers, and (iii) define
more clearly the policy framework for management of public enterprises and
follow up procedures during program implementation, specifically
formulating general guidelines to program new investments, reviewing
management responsibilities, changing personnel practices, and improving
cost-accounting.
28.       Public Enterprise Tariffs.  The objective of the tariff/price
policy is to ensure that enterprises can cover operating expenses, debt
service, and at least the domestic cost share of their investments while
reducing inefficiencies. In some cases, notably the petroleum company
(ANCAP), the objective is also to generate adequate revenues to the sole
shareholder: the Government. Financial results for public enterprises are
closely linked to the Governmentts tariff policy. In the early 1980s,
tariff adjustments lag,ed with respect to the rate of inflation. The
finances of public enterprises deteriorated significantly. The new
Government immediately took steps to reverse this situation; it enacted
significant tariff increases in 1985, and, as a result, tariffs/prices of
public services increased in real terms and the financial position of
public enterprises improved. Tariff increases at four-month intervals have
taken plate in 1986, and in early 1987. These tariff increases, however,
reflect inefficiencies which are passed on to users. A number of
enterprise specific programs to strengthen management and enhance
efficiency are underway (several supported by Bank projects). Tne
situation is likely to improve as these efforts yield some positive
results, such as improved operating efficiency and cost accounting, and
better project formulation and evaluation. The Government intends to
continue its efforts to tackle these shortcomings, particularly improving
efficiency and reducing costs.
29.       During 1987-89, the Government under the Structural Adjustment
program, will proceed with regular tariff/price increases, notably for
power, phone, water and railway services, and petroleum products, taking
into account inflation and other ctanges in cost structures. Progress on
tariff adjustments will be reviewed before Second Tranche disbursement to
ensure that the mechanism for regular review and adjustment of tariffs
continues to work well.
Public Enterprise Restructuring
30.       The Government is undertaking action to restructure three public
enterprises (railways, airline, water supply company) with the objective of
improving their efficiency and reducing demands on the budget. To this
end, the program includes specific actions designed to open the door
legally to convert the airline (PLUNA) to a joint venture with a reputed
international airline, to establish a viable financial plan for the



- 11 -
railways, which entails closing of lines, staff reductions, and a
management improvement program, and restructuring the water supply
company. The draft law permitting the conversion of the airline has been
submitted to Parliament. The Bank has, under project loans, financed
studies.for the railways which provide the basis for implementing a
specific action plan over the Structural Adjustment Program period.
Redimensioning the railways (implementation of an action plan to
rationalize installations, reducing the railway network services, and
employment) began in 1986. Passenger and freight tariff rates have been
substantially increased in real terms and actions taken to drop stations
and staff. The action plan includes staff reductions from the current
9,000 to 4,500 or less over the next five years. Satisfactory progress
with the implementation of the action plan is a condition of Second Tranche
disbursement. The action plan for restructuring the water company includes
annual targets for services, annual investments, standards for
administrative improvements, tariff levels, and staff reductions.
Satisfactory progress with the implementation will be also a condition for
Second Tranche disbursement. Further measures affecting public enterprises
are part of a general program by the Planning and Budget Office to enhance
monitoring of performance, including improvements in cost accounting and
efficiency of operations at enterprise level. Both the railways and the
water supply company will enter into performance contracts with the
Government under Bank project lending. Beyond the SAL program itself, we
expect to agree with the Government in the context of planned future
project lending operations on parameters for managerial improvements in
public enterprises and criteria for monitoring performance. These measures
will reinforce actions under the Structural Adjustment Program. The
current and planned lending portfolio includes direct operations with the
major entities concerned: port authority, power, railways, water and
telecommunications companies, and the refinery.
Other Measures to Reduce Public Expenditures
31.       With the major aim of reducing the relative ehare or public
expenditures in the economy, the Government is taking additional measures
to reduce current public expenditures, beyond the priority actions outl4n-d
above. An important candidate for expenditure reduction is the Government
wage bill, pinpointed in 1970 as the main source of the Central Government
deficit. The current Government (and its predecessor) has taken actions to
correct the trend of rising public sector employment, with some success.
Wage expenditures have declined significantly as a percentage of GDP, from
9% in 1970 co 5.3% in 1985. About 10% of budgeted posts have been kept
vacant and real public sector wages declined by 25% during 1981-85. The
Government also decreed a freeze on all public employment in November
1986. The Government program envisages further actions to reduce the
Central Government wage bill, notably a firm wage policy (which is
specifically covered in the IMF current Standby Agreement and is likely to
figure prominently in a future IMF stand-by or enhanced Article IV
surveillance program). We expect to pursue efforts under project
operations to agree, for specific agencies, on appropriate programs to
reduce staff levels and other measures to reduce recurrent expenditures
(railways and the Port Authority under the proposed Transport Sector loan,
the water company under the Water Supply loan, the Municipality of
Montevideo under the Urban Project loan). Further, the restructuring of
the airlines, the railways and the water company, which are part of the SAL
program, entail significant reductions in personnel.



- 12 -
Tax Reform
32.       The aim of the reform is to rationalize the tax burden, mobilize
additional revenues, and improve the tax administration. All components of
the tax reform package were approved during 1985-86. Actions taken
include: (i) revenue Increasing, the expansion of the VAT base to include
agricultural sales and purchases of firms currently exempt, extension of
the scope of the tax on corporations to include service and co_mercial
companies, reintroduction of the sales tax on agriculture and livestock
sales as an advance on the tax on net agricultural Income, and reform of
the social security contributions of the rural sector; (ii) revenue
reducittg, revisions of import tariffs, lowering the export tax on meat and
wool exports, and reduction of the patrimony tax rates. The expected yield
of the tax reform package is about 2 percentage points of GDP.  The net
impact of some of these measures is not measurable yet; nevertheless, tax
collections increased over 1% of GDP in 1986.
33.       With regard to improving tax collections, actions are underway,
with the technical cooperation of IDB/CIAT, to automatize processing of tax
declaratioas and improve supervision and auditing; simplify tax
declarations; centralize taxpayer accounts under a single account; and
rationalize the administration of rural taxes. Autouatization will include
the following taxes: value-added, selective consumption, patrimony and
corporate taxes. Full implementation of the program is expected to take 24
months.
34.       In addition, under the parallel technical assistance loan (TAL),
the Government intends to undertake studies to restructure the tax system
further and increase tax collections. At present, no obvious needed
improvements have been identified but the studies will cover a broad review
of possible options to gear the tax system better to Uruguay's current
economic programs.
B. Public Sector Investment Program
35.       Public investment levels are relatively low in Uruguay and have
declined (from 81 of GDP in 1982 to 32 in 1985), partly as a result of the
completion of two large hydropower plants (Salto Grande and Palmer) but
also because the programming and execution processes for public investment
have some important weaknes8es (slow procurement and contractlig processes,
deficient cost-accounting, and, thus, inadequate information for project
preparation and execution). The Bank has assisted the Government in
developing a public investment program for 1987-89 and has completed its
review. The macroeconomic framework for the public investment program is
appropriate, with the bulk of investments designated for priority,
economically viable projects which are In line with the Government's
overall strategy. However, the programing process is now being
strengthened so as to allow a clearer basis for review and determination of
priorities in formulating future programs and pr'jects. This will make it
possible to address important public investment issues, such as the idea,
under review at a preliminary stage, of a large Investment in a bridge to
Argentina (Colonia-Buenos Aires). The major problems to be addressed under
the current program are Inadequate project screening processes, and the
absence of mechanises for monitoring and supervising systematically project
execution and addressing implementation problems in a timely manner. A
detailed action program covering the framework for decision-making and
investment planning, with emphasis on Institutional and prograiming links
between the Planning Office snd the executing agencies, has been prepared



- 13 -
based on the results of a public sector investment review (Annex III). The
program includes:
(i) definition of the medium-term macroeconomic framework and the
overall and sectoral objectives for the investing agencies;
(ii)  preparation of a three year (1987-89) investment program with
annual updates. In Uruguay, investment programs by law must be
prepared for the period of the President's term in office; no
Government is authorized to plan beyond it. For this reason, the
current program could only be updated up to end-1989. The new
Government elected in 1990 would then prepare a five-year
investment program;
(iii)  introduction of explicit investment selection criteria (rates of
return, technical and financial feasibility) for all projects
above US$2 million and improved coordination in the use of
existing preinvestment funds;
(iv)  establishment of critical path mechanisms (PERT) for following up
physical construction and costs, and for ex-post evaluation of
projects;
(v)   strengthening sectoral planaing units in the entities
responsible for project execution to improve project
identification and formulation and sectoral investment
programming; and
(vi)   introduction of performance contracts between some state-owned
enterprises and the Government covering, inter alia, investment
programing.-
A program of technical assistance and training is included in the TAL to
support the strengthening of the Planning Office and the implementing
agencies to: identify, prepare, select, and follow-up projects, including
the generation of information for monitoring projects under execution, and
prepare new projects. IDB is also providing technical assistance in this
area which will end shortly. Coordination with Bank efforts to strengthen
the Planning Office has been close.
36.       The Government has defined the overall size and composition of
the public investment program for 1987-89. The program was reviewed during
a Bank mission in March 1987 and is satisfactory. The program will be
reviewed, updated and agreed upon, during program implementation. The
program shows large expenditures for economie infrastructure, particularly
for power, telecommunications, and transport. and for an oil refinery
modernization. A small group of public enterprises and the Ministry of
Transport and Public Works will execute the bulk of the investments.
Social investment will be modest and concentrated in improving water supply
in population centers and Montevideo, in housing and urban development, and
health centers. The main impact on the poor will come from employment
creation and from better access to water and health services and improved
garbage collection.
37.       A satisfactory review of the updated public investment program
for 1988-89 is condition of Second Tranche disbursement.



- 14 -
C. Financial Sector Reforms
Private Debt Restructurios
38.        The aims of the Government's reform program for the financial
sector is to reestablish a sound banking system, restore the necessary
safeguards to credit operations, and strengthen the legal framework
regulating corporations, securities, and bankruptcy procedures. The weak
financial position of both private firms and some banks represents a
significant constraint to a revitalization of the economy. In the early
1980s, financial liberalization created conditions which encouraged a
substantial expansion of the banking system. The legalization of foreign
currency deposits attracted a significant volume of non-residents'
deposits. Liquidity increased sharply while Central bank regulations were
practically dismantled. Credit expanded rapidly, both for productive and
speculative purposes. Banks financed purchases of overpriced assets and
overestimated the repayment capacity of debtors. Non performing loans
increased. In addition, exchange, financial, and interest rate policies
encouraged producers to borrow heavily in dollars. With the November 1982
devaluation, debts in pesos increased sharply. Producers were unable to
cope with rising debts and financial costs; many became insolvent. Thus,
private debt restructuring policies are a key element for the economic
recovery because they will permit the rehabilitation of viable enterprises;
this ahould contribute to export growth, particularly in manufacturing,
fishing, and rice production, since the largest portion of the private debt
is in these sectors.
39.       The Government enacted in late 1985 a refinancing law which
provides a mechanism for rescheduling existing debt and establishes the
basis for proceeding to bankruptcy and liquidation in cases of
non-payment. Tbe law Is an important forward step and provides a basis for
moving ahead with resolving the overindebtedness problem. Substantial
progress has been achieved in preparing the information needed to implement
the refinancing law. A data bank was set up in Banco Republica to
consolidate data from all banks on debt owed by companies and individuals
applying for refinancing. The data bank has completed the classification
of all applicants and determined those eligible for refinancing; commercial
banks are working on the refinancing agreements. If the debtor does not
agree with the contract, commercial banks will reinitiate legal
proceedings. If the debtor accepts the contract, the refinancing agreement
enters into effect and, if the debtor is delinquent in servicing the debt
for more than six months, the refinancing agreement becomes null and the
debtor is subject to judicial procedures to liquidate his/her assets.
Furthermore, since the refinancing law lifted the prohibition, which had
been imposed on judicial sales as of March 1985, judicial auctions have
resumed. Commercial banks are encouraged by the progress achieved so far
under the new law. The law is resulting already in several positive
developments: (i) an improvement in debt collections since even viable
firms, which were in a position to pay their debts to the commercial banks,
did not pay awaiting a final resolution of the debt issue (and, of course,
a possible public bail-out); (ii) commercial banks are entering into
agreements with debtors (outside the refinancing scheme) which involve debt
repayments in full after a partial write-off; and (iii) a public bail-out
has been ruled out, losses are being apportioned by the market between
debtors and creditor banks, and bankruptcy procedures are resuming.



- 15 -
40.       The Government's policy is to ensure that debtors settle their
obligations or face bankruptcy proceedings in the courts (essentially
ensuring that there are no further bail-outs and enforcing the resumption
of bankruptcy proceedings against debtors that fail to pay interest on
restructured debt for two quarters). The Government is fully committed to
implement the law and the banking community is cooperating with the
Government.  Before Second Tranche disbursement, the Bank will assess
progress in implementing the law, with particular reference to actions
taken against debtors who do not meet their obligations.
Capital Market Development
41.       The Government is also moving ahead with other important measures
to strengthen the capital market and the financial system. This would pro-
vide a better mechanism for transfer of companies and give reasonable guar-
antees to new partners and shareholders. Planned measures include revision
of corporate and capital market laws to strengthen minority rights, and
broaden the ownership of private corporations; revision of the bankruptcy
law to speed up bankruptcy procedures, and eliminate appeals based on
superficial grounds; and enacting new leasing and investment banking laws.
deasures to address bottlenecks in tne judiciary branch (special judges for
bankruptcy for example) are planned. The objective is to modernize the
legal framework and strengthen creditors' rights.
42.       The leasing and investment banking draft laws were presentel to
the Assembly before negotiations. The Government plans to present to Parl-
iament the changes in the securities, corporation and bankruptcy laws and
procedures before Second Tranche Disbursement. Bank staff will review the
status of the new legislation on leasing and investment banking at that
time. To promote savings, the Government is also committed to the continu-
ation of the present interest rate policy of free market determination of
rates.
Banking System
43.       A sound banking system is a pre-requisite for mobilizing savings
from residents and non-residents; the Government, therefore, considers it
essential to strengthen the regulatory framework of banking services in
order to avoid a recurrence of poor lending practices, which led to the
present banking sector problems. iJnder the Structural Adjustment Program,
the Central Bank (BCU) is strengthening regulatory and supervision proce-
dures for the banking system, including inspection of banks, classification
of uncollectable loans, evaluation of credit applications, reserves for po-
tential losses, minimum capital requirements, and other measures. Expanded
supervision entails an increase in the number of skilled staff and consi-
derable expansion of the training program in the Controller's Department of
BCU; introduction of an early warning system with special signals for sol-
vency and liquidity checks by bank supervisors; and standardized balance
sheets. New accounting procedures and guidelines for credits in arrears,
increases in personnel, and training have been effective since January 1,
1987. The Central Bank has also strengthened its procedures for dealing
with potential bank failures. which have been successfully utilized in the
case# of Banco de Italia and Banco Pan de Azucar in 1985 and Banco
Comercial in 1987, to avoid serious financial repercussions on Uruguay's
role as a financial center. With these improvements, Uruguay's regulatory
system is satisfactory; it also is adequately enforced. Furthermore, the



- 16 -
banking sytem's soundness is improving significantly. Progress will be
reviewed before Second Tranche release.
D. Trate Policies and Export Promotion
44.       Uruguay remains critically dependent on exports as its primary
source for growth. Since 1973, exports have been encouraged with several
instruments, including subsidies. Export transactions are in virtually all
respects free of restrictions. The challenge now is to diversify agricul-
tural and industrial exports, and penetrate new markets because of the poor
price and market prospects for Uruguay's major traditional exports, notably
beef, in their traditional markets. Under the SAL program, export promo-
tion and trade policy adjustment measures would concentrate on the follow-
iog principal areas: export competitiveness policy, the tariff regime,
export taxation, and other incentives and promotion measures.
Export Competitiveness Policy
45.       The Government's policy of maintaining the competitiveness of
exports is vital to the success of the Structural Adjustment Program. The
Government considers the exchange rate a crucial eleoient of the medium-term
strategy of export-led growth and has followed a floating exchange rate
policy, with the rate being determined by market forces. Intervention in
foreign exchange markets is limited to smoothing out seasonal fluctuations
in foreign exchange receipts and outlays. The Government also maintains
freetom of exchange transactions on both current and capital accounts.
This represents a marked change from exchange rate policies followed by
previous governments. Nonetheless, recent experience indicates that the
floating exchange rate policy leads to significant fluctuations in the
nominal exchange rate, induced by short-term foreign private capital
inflows from neighboring countries. This increases the risk of an
unwarranted appreciation of the real exchange rate due to such temporary
increases. In 1986, the monetary authorities tackled this problem by
accumulating international reserves and managing official borrowing rather
than allowing the exchange rate to appreciate. IMF calculations show that
the average real annual effective exchange rate did not appreciate in
1986.2/ More active market interventions, however, may be needed to
maintain export competitiveness if short-term foreign capital inflows
increase significantly. Options for such interventions include: (i) a
managed float that maintains export competitiveness; (ii) a reduction of
the inflow of private capital with lower interest rates or (iii) forcing
co_mercial banks to maintain the deposits parked off-shore. The
alternative to these interventions are to allow market forces to appreciate
the exchange rate while the inflow of foreign funds reduces interest
rates. Imports, credit and the money supply would increase under this
scenario; inflation would accelerate, export competitiveness would decline
and speculation would soon reverse the capital inflows.
46.       Short-term capital movements have diminished, notably in the
first quarter of 1987, as a result of the devaluation of Argentina's
Austral and the slowing down of the repatriation of Uruguayan capital. The
21 IMP, Indicators of Real effective Exchange Rates, March, 1987.



- 17 -
rate of devaluation of the Uruguayan peso has accelerated, commercial banks
are required to park excess deposits off-shore, and declining domestic
interest rates are gradually converging with international rates. In
addition, import tariffs are being reduced. All these developments are in
the right direction.
47.       To maintain export competitiveness, under the Structural
Adjustment Program, the Government li specifically committed in the Letter
of Development Policy to maintain a real effective exchange rate that keeps
exports competitive. The Central Bank of Uruguay (BCU) and Banco
Republica are in charge of implementing this policy. For timely action,
BCU maintains its own up-to-date calculations of the real trade-weighted
effective exchange rate. This exchange rate calculation is based on
individual computations for nine trading partners (United States, Japan,
Argentina, Brazil, France, West Germany, Italy, United Kingdom, and
Benelux). Export competitiveness Aiill be assessed under the SAL in
collaboration with the IMF, by monitoring changes in the real effective
exchange rate and assessing whether these are broadly in line with the
evolution of the fundamental factors that underlie export competitiveness
and medium term balance of payments viability. Where this is judged not to
be the case, we will (with IMF collaboration) agree with the Government,
before Second Tranche disbursement, on a consistent set of measures to
ensure export competitiveness.
Tariff Regime
48.       Import liberalization has been a major objective of Government
policy since the early 1970s. The tariff regime had up to then been the
most important instrument providing protection to domestic manufacturing.
Uruguay has already taken important steps towards tariff reforms, and has
moved far from the trade regiue of the 1950s and 1960s, characterized by
highly protective, inward-oriented policies with an anti-export bias.
Reforms have included elimination of import quotas and the licensing regime
in 1975, termination of controls on capital goods imports in 1977, gradual
reduction of the maximum surcharge rates from 300 in. 1974 to 35X in 1983,
and consolidation of tariffs, surcharges, consular fees, and port charges
into a single overall rate for each item of the tariff schedule. The
current five-rate tariff schedule was introduced in January 1983 with the
following detail: raw materials, 101; intermediates, 202, 35%, 45?, and
55%; and final consumer goods, 55X. The reduction was very significant
since this maximum level also included consular fees and port charges of
about 5X of the CIF value. In 1985, the Government, because of financial
constraints, temporarily increased the tariff level by 5? for the duration
of the July 1985-March 1987 Stand-By program with the IMF. Imported
agricultural inputs were exempted from this additional 5? charge. With
this increase, minimum rates were at 152 and maximum rates at 60%. In
1986, the 102 tariff on agricultural Inputs was eliminated.
49.       Under the SAL, the Government will rationalize import tariffs
further. This should help reduce the local market bias of manufacturing
firms, and encourage local producers to become more competitive. This
program is based on the results of a review of tariffs recently completed.
The study confirms significant progress in reducing the level and
dispersion of effective protection and provides the analytical basis for



^ 18 -
further tariff cuts in a concertina approach (the high tariffs are squeezed
down to a lower level, then both are again squeezed down, and so on). As a
first step under the SAL program, the Goveinment has eliminated the 5X
across-the-board charge it introduced in 1985 and reduced the maximum rate
by an additional 5 percentage points. With this, the maximum rate
(excluding consular fees and port charges) is 45%. For Second Tranche
disbursement, the Government has also agreed to introduce an additional
reduction of 5 percentage points to a maximum tariff rate of 40% (excluding
consular fees and port charges). This wili effectively convert the current
five-rate schedule into a four-rate schedule. The importance of this
reduction must be highlighted; as tariff rates come down, every additional
percentage reduction becomes more significant in effectively decreasing the
utilized rate of protection.
50.       Reference prices apply to a limited number of items of the tariff
nomenclature, namely, a few vegetables and flowers, chewing gum and
candies, textiles and apparel, refrigerators and television sets, cars and
bicycles. The regulations that apply to reference prices conform to GATT
provisions and, for textiles and apparel, to the Multifiber Agreement (MFA
III), under which Uruguay has concluded bilateral agreements with the USA
and EEC. The Government is committed to reduce any protection element in
reference prices before Second Tranche disbursement and to strengthen their
antidumping role. Technical assistance is included in the TAL operation
for this purpose.
Table 2: MAXIMUK IMPORT TARIFF RATES
(in percentages)
As of:
1974     1979   1980   1981   1982    1983  1985   1986  1988
Surcharges         300      90      77     64      49      35    40 1/  30    25
Import Tariffs
or IMADUNI        18      20      20     20      20      15    15      15    15
Subtotal: Tariff
and Surcharges  318      110      97     84      69      50    55      45    40
Port Charges        18        2      2       2      2        1     1      1      }
Consular Fees       10       4       4      4       4       4      4      4      4
Total          346      116      103    90      75       55   60      50    45
11  Includes the 5% temporary additional charge introduced in 1985.
Source: CINVE.



- 19 -
E. Medium-Term Growth Prospects and Financing Needs
Impact of the Structural Adjustment Program
51.       The expected economic effects of the SAL program are reflected in
economic projections (Table 3) prepared based on the implementation of the
adjustment program outlined above. These projections confirm Uruguay's
official estimates under the medium-term program. Annual average growth
rates of 4.5% are forecast during 1986-90; this economic outlook is closely
dependent on the performance of exports, which are expected to expand at
about 11% a year (8% in real terms) (Tables 3 and 4). These projections
are consistent with a moderate annual growth rate for OECD economies, a
moderate improvement in Uruguay's terms of trade, and low real
international interest rates. As noted in para. 8, preliminary results for
1986 indicate a vigorous performance of the Uruguayan economy, which
supports this favorable five-year forecast, To achieve the 1986-90
growth, the rate of investment to GDP will have to recover to at least
13.5% in 1990. The investment recovery will be concentrated on private
activities closely linked to processing of agricultural intermediate and
final goods (meat packing plants, wool processing, textiles and garments,
dairy products, leather goods) and on the expansion of public
infrastructure and services. This expectation is supported by the
favorable private investment climate created by Government policies and the
support provided by external lenders to infrastructure development and the
credit needs of the productive sectors. Private investment is expected to
recover to about 8-8.5% of GDP from the extremely low level of 1985 (4.2%
of GDP). Public investment is also a positive growth factor, increasing to
about 5% of GDP, based largely on projects financed by IDB and the Bank.
Per capita consumption increases over 3% a yea: during 1986-90,
compensating partially for the sharp drop that took place during 1981-85.
52.       Critical domestic factors in achieving these results include
further building up private confidence and maintaining the current momentum
for growth. Since assuming power in March 1985, the Government has taken
actions to eliminate uncertainties about its future policies and to
reinforce public confidence in its management of the economy.
Specifically, as noted earlier, it is taking steps to strengthen export
incentives, restructure private debts, reduce the public sector share in
the economy, and create a climate for vigorous private investments.
53.       External financina is critical for the projected growth of
Uruguay's economy because of the savings and import constraiuts, and the
high debt service payments. Without this support, the economic recovery
now underway most likely will be short-lived and will make little contribu-
tion to restoring Uruguay's capacity to service its debts once the grace
period for the rescheduled US$2.1 billion ends in 1988. During 1986-90,
with the multiyear rescheduling (MYRA) in place, Uruguay needs additional
gross disbursements of about US$1.3 billion. Disbursements from existing
and new IDB and Bank projects are expected to provide about US$0.8
billion. This leaves an unfinanced gap of about US$0.5 billion to be
covered by international and bilateral lenders, and by foreign commercial
banks. Commercial banks financing would begin in 1989-90.



- 20 -
mom 35   FAlD EMU=C  I _.
(aiW i-wW i tw Ms        7 d7W  ratis at 193 pdm)
19O-75 1975-60 19U*0    19. 1985   19   1987  19      1989  1990
C0P rwh Pate                            1.6    4.5  -3.1   -15   0.0   6.2   4.0  4.0   4.0   4.5
Per Cptas WG   thRoe                    1.1    4.0  -3.5   -2.0  4.5   5.7   3.5   3.5   3.5   4.0
(       essmtic  e                      1.1    4.3  -3*8      0.0   0.0   8.4   2.4   4.2   4.6   5.0
4astIn,Qzath Rate                       0.8    3.1   4.0   -0.1   0.3   6.4    1.5   2.0   3.2   4.1
PtieFor C .ta *mth                  0.3    2.6   4.4    4.6  -0.2   5.9   l.0   LS   2.7   3.6
0Gm Damstic SmerJrp   (perdel 
end year)                            9.8    13.3   12.6   11.6  11.4  11.0  13.2  14.9  15.5  1.S8
Gross National SaW4r/G  (Perle
ad year)                             81      08    6.0    4.9   4.8   6.5   8.1  12  11.0  11.6
at1onal )ml Savitu  Roe                4.2      0.3   0.2   -2.6           0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.2
4Os9 luvetmt/Q  (peciod ead year)      10.9   186    7.1    8W    7.1   9.1   10.3  12.4  12.9  13.5
Pub1 Investmt/W (perid e   yewr)        3.9    5.4    2.9   L2    2.9   3.5   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0
&tivae lwstaut/CUR (peri  ad year)      7.0   13.2   4.2    6.0   4.2   5.6    5.3   7.4   7.9   8.5
Cqitltt Rado                            6.3    4.4  -41        Lg   1      1.5   2.6   3.2   3.4   3.0
lo-QIF7SIGW 4lt-d eui year)          19.0   23.7  19.9   2D6  199  23.6  22.1  22.6  23.0  23.3
Rea Upor  (DS, Anua Great Pate        1.4    9.2  -9.4    4p1  -L9  23.9  -24   6*4   5.6   6.2
Borts QS/W (priod end yuawr)         14.6   17.5  22.6   23.6  22.6  24.7  25.1  MI.1  25.7  25.5
R    EalE " QGWS, AMu  anh Pate       6.0    8.4   0.7   -2.1  -2.4  17.1    1.9  4.4   6.3   4.4
Tntevest lddbc tU2 Debt Payw..s/
F   (perod  d year)                 6.2    6.8   2D.4   22.0  23.0  16.8  18.2  16.4  152 13 .9
liq?ot lstcltr                       0Q9      2.0    3.0    2.8   .2 5.2  -1. 1   1.8   1.S   L3
Oinuet Acwwt (pealm assq, armal
udlligm 15$)                      -42.9  -281.0 -275.0  -1290 -1.0  09.0    01/-46 1@  6.02/ 40.(g(
OireAt Acount/WP (fiv-yar awr
or inumi)                          -2.3   -5.1   4.6    -2.4  -2.1   1.4  '0.9  0.7   0.1   0.5
Cera1 Goverant (perod  A yewr)
Ozrent IerasICGP                    16.9   2D.9   19.9   18.4  19.9  21.8  21.8  22.0  22.3  22.5
antet B3re                          2L5    18.3   33.9   2L6  2).9  2L3   21.0  2062  20.3  20.3
Qarrait 5-pl/1;                     4.6      2.6  -1.0   -3.2  -1.0   0.5   0.8   1.8   2.0   2.2
CA     E                             2.0    2.2    1.8    1.8   L8   1.8   2.5   2.5   2.5   1.5
Overall Deficit/W                   -4.6     0.4  -2.8    5.0  -2.8  -1.3  -1.7   0.7  4.5   0.7
Pblc  !tM&P   (eriod e    w)            3.9    5.4   2.9    2.7  2.9   3.9    5.0  5.0   5.0   5.0
EC  Debt  eloA end ]Mg)
Nabic Ihdlzm & law Term
Det servlcDS                                12.9  33.0   32.0  33.0  21.0  23.2  22.9  23.9  29.9
Det/tDP cedo                                15.1   51.4   50.0  51.4  482   47.5  47.3  47.2  47.O
lbbt Service (in flliUon 1$)       J28.5   197.5  410.0  411.0 410.0 324.0  370.0 3180 445.0 601.0
Total NAbUc Debt SenarfSl
(wirades UEF rqzurdan ad interest
an abrt toen p ic 4ebt)                           390    380  39.0  29.1   32.0  33.0  310  36.0
lInkmternlrne; &vbwa (GW Incnmw) Is 0.
B7s! on ths wrrat petoLm prlm projections (I$16 per bal for 196; U5$18 f  198-0, U;325 for
1995). If prices an hwr eac 4deit win tocrae by ebt 18 -tif on pe dei  i          eIn thm  e bd of
ofL  For exIpe, at a pric of IB$23 per barre In 1990, ft   atai t be]        a1d be 0.
3 Us ratio is eqwctd to&di to 3BU in 1995.



- 21 -
54.       The recovery of the Uruguayan economy combined with the t1YRA
agreement with the commercial banks would reduce the projected public debt
service ratio for 1987 from 61% of exports of goods and nonfactor services
to 32%. The public debt service ratio is projected to fall to 31% in 1989
and to increase temporarily to 36% in 1990 (without additional
reschedulinge).  Thereafter, it will gradually dec'ine to 30% in 1995.
55.       The proposed structural adjustment program fits into this
scenario by: (i) supporting reforms that would enhance the country's
balance of payments and, thus, its ability to overcome the present debL
crisis; (ii) supporting preventive actions against threatening imbalances
(worsening of the social security deficit) to prevent higher adjutstment
costs in the future; and (iii) establishing the medium term policy
framework, which could be used to discuss with the commercial banks an
increase in their exposure. The initial Structural Adjustment loan's
primary purpose is thus to support a medium term program of structural
changes needed to reorient the economy and to reduce the current account
balance of payments deficit to a sustainable level. Policy-baaed lending
will assist Urugtay to maintain its growth momentum and strengthen its
import-capacity while undertaking essential reforms. Without these
reforms, the import capacity constraint would force a reduction of the rate
of growth of the economy, which in turn would adversely affect the
country's ability to restore creditworthiness.
Uncertainties
56.       Uruguay's financial needs are subject to important uncertainties
even under the scenario presented above. Uncertainties surrounding future
export performance affect Uruguay's capacity to service its debts; the
level of debt service payments is still large relatively to exports. Apart
from the volatility of oil prices and interest rates, there is an unusual
degree of uncertainty on export performance. First, Uruguay relies heavily
on exports of agricultural products (beef, wool, dairy products, rice),
which are subject to sharp price fluctuations and uncertain markets,
particularly if the international economy weakens. Second, Uruguay's
exports of beef, rice, and dairy products confront increasing competition
from heavily subsidized exports from developed countries. Third, rising
protectionism in developed countries may affect adversely promising export
items. These factors, combined with Uruguay's role as a financial center,
makes it important to keep adequate liquid foreign exchange reserves;
foreign exchange reserve requirements are those of a banker not a trader.
Thus, to maintain creditworthiness, Uruguay must follow a policy of keeping
sizable foreign exchange reserves.
57.       Short-term capital inflows cannot be counted on as a source of
financing in the medium-term as they could easily be reversed. A sizeable
portion of these deposits represent a return of short-term money that left
the country reflecting the uncertainties associated with the elections and
political transition to democracy. Commercial banks experienced large
withdrawals in 1984 and early 1985 which were reversed in the second half



- 22 -
of 1985. For the year as a whole, foreign currency deposits (at US$1,052)
were slightly above those of December 1984. Short-term capital inflows
c- 'tnued in 1986 (Table 5).
Table 5: DOLLAR DEPOSITS: NET BALANCES
(in millions)
1978          1982           1983   1984  1985     1986
Dec    Aug    Nov   Dec      Dec    Dec   Dec  July  Nov.
Commercial Banks  569   2,196  1,811 1,420  1,201  1,028 1,052 1,219 1,329
Social Impact
58.       Besides improving the country's creditworthiness, the benefits
from the structural adjustment program will be widespread throughout the
economy, Expanding manufacturing and agriculture production will bring a
reduction of unemployment and higher real wages, the two main elements
involved in the deterioration of social conditions in Uruguay during the
1981-84 recession. Increased employment associated with sustained growth
will improve the lot not only of the urban poor, whose ranks have increased
with rural migration, but also of the small farmers. The economic crisis
had a particularly negative impact on the small farmer who derives up to
one-fourth of his income from salaried employment. Declining real wages
and lower agricultural prices forced them to look for employment in the
urban centers, particularly Montevideo, thus increasing the number of
street vendors and other marginal jobs. A successful structural adjustment
program will have a significant impact on this problem by increasing
productive employment in the urban centers. This conclusion is supported
by recent developments. As Government programs have improved the economic
situation, unemployment has dropped from 13.2% during March-may 1985 to
8.96% during November 1986-January 1987 and real wages have increased 20%
during the period March 1985-January 1987.
59.       As public finances improve and inflation slows down, it should be
easier to maintain the real level of aggregate social outlays for education
and health. Low-income groups would also benefit from a reduction of
inflation because income of workers in informal activities is not wall
protected against inflation. Unavoidably, some groups will be hurt.
Social security beneficiaries will have to work longer years and receive
lower pensions than they had expected; some relatives will lose their
survivors pension rights. However, social security benefits, although
reduced from the current unsustainable levels, would be placed on a more
solid long-term footing. Ensuring the financial viability of the social
security system will avoid a serious crisis affecting an increasing number
of old people at a time when they are less able to take action to improve
their lot. On balance, given Uruguay's high level of social welfare
programs, the adjustment effort will not impose an undue burden on social
programs while the majority of the population is likely to benefit from
improving economic conditions and rising standards of living.



- 23 -
Economic Prospects without the Program
60.       The importance of Uruguay's structural reform program is high-
lighted by considering economic prospects without the reforms. In the
absence of structural reforms, current policies continue to be implemented
without significant change. This scenario is likely to feed social and
political unrest since per capita consumption would remain almost station-
ary at best. Private sector confidence would not fully recover; private
investment in real terms would be inadequate for maintaining the growth
momentum in the next few years. Beef exports would continue to be low as
the rebuilding of cattle herds takes a longer time; manufactured exports
(excluding apparel) will not grow much. As a resultb real total exports of
goods and services grow at about 2% a year. The driving forces of the
"with reform program" scenario are the much higher private investment and
exports. These elements would be absent from the "without reform"
scenario. GDP would grow at about 2% a year instead of the forecasted 4%,
as exports and investments, the two main engines of growth, remain
sluggish. With the slower growth of GDP and exports, debt service ratios
would increase. Maintaining Uruguay's import capacity would thus require a
rollover of all principal. payments due to commercial banks in 1990 and the
following years.
PART IV-fHE PROPOSED LOAN
61.       The proposed Structural Adjustment Loan would support the
Government's medium-term program of economic recovery and adjustment. The
proposed loan was prepared with the Government during several missions in
1986 and was appraised in October/November 1986. Negotiations took place
in Washington, D.C. during April, 1987. The Uruguayan delegation was led
by _
62.       The proposed loan supports measures already taken by the
Government during the past 18 months as part of its structural adjustment
program, as well as actions to be taken to the end of 1988. The proposed
accompanying Technical Assistance Loan would provide assistance to
implement the program supported by SAL I, and to lay the groundwork for
additional measures to be taken during subsequent phases of the structural
adjustment program which might be supported by further Structural
Adjustment or project lending.
63.       The major reform measures for the SAL and their timing are
summarized in Table 6. The SAL program is presented in more detail in the
matrix attached as Annex IV. The Government's medium term program is
summarized in a draft Statement of Development Policy prepared by the
Government (Annex IV). This statement focuses most sharply on the social
security system reforms, given their critical importance to a lasting
structural reform effort, on the financial sector reform measures, on the
public investment program, and on export incentives.



lA>e 6s  IS ma w mn
Polic *nd0jtcld Iasm .et  ao to be                                                                  )ususe to be dw  De&ve
A.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                          .   ...A
$lo    dd"i
Ad    i   - 1 p6lic swizgs.
1. Reue bdm of weil sowity                -    eps aid *    an silast    adtei pl            -  satis.toty pw  a  s  i
bdefits ble tas  etible  ith               to  it' s qstds  bsw a Use £Oli.iZ                 of  teix pun. Iaitoi*  idAiar
oamssgryte &%&My tO SIMICSe t1m.           PwiwIIaj   (I Iwssl   vtime  ago to                to   leno  fiun.ia etatta of sal
65 hr   s WA 60 fbr  _   (i)                            ty y.
beneits for a1  curest boaeicLs   env
vibe bym rbeyaaciq Owa   dlaporel,4 (Mi)
e      tlmiq pr{ivied  mimes; ad (iv)
Ilitr U  wt ht of Wsig q          etesste
ad Ith   vith edequet somas. Pmen &Wat
le ilt}i   to Parlamet.
-  Prdxw absiistve etis  prm  to
?*ce SwaslOc ad casntoi Cwibti.ms
-  ompt r* s   of acs ontribution                  -    wsplut  dduistrtre actia  to
qtJ busd s lad woaletivit dec.                     n&im sw_ im ad conrol
2. Ims ftm s poitio of pablO                 - tiaj  oUpifl peod-0ic tariffiprice            -  Sacisfty   s         in applyl
asteiprisee.                    _isce  be reft iflation ad Asages in                tariW pric  policy.
cost esrtwe of pslis e_aupie.
_ Initiate restairg of _ailws ea                      Satisfactory Praee  O   ratwutr
sirimi, isaldlap  lpat   srtion.                  Of ailms ad sirta.
3      >_i to qs so action  a hr
s                                              =-   _tie        -
of the  awter c ia, i ecudla
-          reahtion.
3. wwense d.cula of ¢zuz rso              -  fiDnt lathr fia             (natibly            -    rem on specific atiom bused os
a Om of Oml.                               -ssim of va ad caiwat  iam  tot                    rewito of 19U  wei to pq gr
bs).                                                ditiomi ta ubom  to fwharr
rationalism ts  to systq.
-  SO& *      eunts action pun to eirov  tat    -   0tLze  lAplamatiag actlas pun to
ai_ stratlo  Coagnsation. mst", tax              isyrate us abdaistraian.
dectasle_  etni)



- 25 -
T. 6      t I=  iL I ilPM A:eS
Policy A"WO 1jeattvea                         Mheiamwa ?lm or to be                             Sww   to be 74emn Beb"
Sdeb lonre sf%"kWGOO                              eoetA Tra.be Diiburaaun
C. Fiial OW
lb rumvir MORI caditia
to the credit eQuIst aid ecreat a
leal frmm_k for dte 4     eldaeie  of
1. VD fre d&tom to pay or twoe               DIlt rintnirg 1% "MMY                        -  limitr porfouieu; aalafactory
Uqdtbi  jwedies.                          Uquidatice procedures miret dobtom do do         prdm  iehlaiz epecifi ally no
vo p  aid ar   bail-oto.                         hsa-o  of Umqt fimes.
2. StNwtte capital      t-  Prse   iam                     ieg aid iuv,-t;.  %Oki%        -  Dmft of corprate, secwities ai-
legatimo to  eatew r4it of                law to Parlit.                                   bkrutcy legisalatin  uwred to
creditos, ddio  ad daODlders.                                                              Parumat.
3. Stre.tbe renitoty       qwS of        -  bpl_m      t tion  pusr Iwmwed  iupsati       -   atifactoy ps sa.
baride  "St"                              of bei  Wn their laidg practic".
4. b Ioitala mi *t I .wLiti    dwt       -  ibintda inI tr  rate policy bad am            -   iter ad asea perfoamoe.
atsimilata eaia.                          erI detemlmatiui of rtt  ad    ofica
tnter4=ti"n
1 ietv: lb uTetham  Pugh of              -  Apes  etiitaa c etiiw  imSS rate                 Satisfacaiy perfumce in
. sorta.                                 bea  an ea effetiwe eorau   rat.. N-              uintaiuuE  xport couetitiveneaa.
qwe t buctive. (tar  _mptiau, ep
edit.).
i         T lb rehie effeetbe            - _ize inaim  fwrt tariff to 41 ad               -   w lOre  timin IRt triff to 41
protectiomi.                                elte the 51 moes-theloed dur                      (es ludi  comuir fee aid port
ltIdiad in JIaM i9g5. Sliminae tm 1              dusa).
tariff an Lmpott  iyats fwr 4pr_calvi
-  Arm to riade triff sanmtuei _aida.
rat  ad tie amber oI la1ia.



- 26 -
Loan Amount and Tranching
64.       The proposed loan of US$80 million would cover about 5% of
merchandise imports for 1987/88. The loan would be disbursed in two equal
tranches with the first tranche released upon effectiveness, and the second
to be released ten to twelve months later. Tranching will allow: (i) the
Bank to review the progress of the adjustment program; and (ii) the
completion of several studies supported by the Technical Assistance Loan
which will provide a vehicle for strengthening our macroeconomic policy
dialogue at a time when policy actions for 1988 are determined.
Related Bank Projects
65.       The Bank's substantial involvement in supporting structural
changes will be complemented by continued financing for productive and
infrastructure projects which address specific sectoral bottlenecks and
contribute to the success of the structural adjustment program. Our
project lending will have the following objectives: (i) supporting
economic growth through exports and the expansion of production in industry
and agriculture; (ii) improving the balance of payments by supporting
export industries and curtailing the energy sector's reliance on oil
imports; and (iii) improving the fiscal situation of public enterprises by
increasing operational efficiency and streamlining management practices.
In this connection, Bank project lending for FY87-90 includes possible
loans for agriculture (crop diversification loan) and manufacturing produc-
tion (industrial rehabilitation loan); expanding infrastructure and public
sector management (transport, telecommunications, power, refinery, urban
and water loans); and supporting the development of trained manpower and
managers (vocational and management training loan).
Risks
66.       Implementation of the structural adjustment program outlined in
this memorandum is clearly subject to a number of uncertainties and risks.
First, given Uruguay's democratic political framework, including the need
for Parliamentary action on several measures, delays in program
implementation are possible.  Second, the adjustment measures will have a
negative impact on some interest groups, such as retirees, who represent a
sizeable proportion of Uruguay's voters. This further increases the
political risks that portions of the program will not be carried out in a
timely and satisfactory manner; the Government's commitment to the program
will be put to a severe test. The Government is aware of the political
price and intends to proceed with the Structural Adjustment program.
Third, it is not certain how rapidly Uruguay's entrepreneurs will respond
to improved incentives under the SAL program and how trade restrictions and
unfair competition practices will adversely affect exports. Fourth, there
are uncertainties at this juncture as to whether commercial banks will
provide additional fresh financing for 1989-90 and following years in the
context of the medium-term framework. This clouds the picture beyond 1988
and calls for close monitoring of the balance of payments performance. The
preparation process followed for the SAL has been designed to minimize
these risks by helping the Government to define specific programs and to



- 27 -
SAL program. Further, Government actions in many areas give evidence of
its commitment to reform. The risks, while real, are reasonable given the
importance of the program for Uruguay.
Technical Assistance
67.       To assist in implementing the Government's structural adjustment
program, and to help in defining specific actions to be taken during
subsequent phases of the program, the Government has requested Bant support
through a Technical Assistance Loan for US$1 million, details of which are
provided in a separate President's Memorandum being circulated
simultaneously. Assistance will be provided to: (a) strengthen the social
security administration, which is an essential element in ensuring a
reduction in Central Government deficits; (ii) improve the capacity of the
Planning and Budget Office (OPP) to analyze, program, and monitor
investments, which is important in controlling investment expenditures of
autonomous agencies and public enterprises; (iii) support Government
efforts to improve the tax system and its controls to reduce tax evasion;
(iv) strengthen capital markets legislation; (v) update the import tariff
studies; and (vi) initiate a program of administrative reform. The
proposed Technical Assistance Loan would support the development of action
programs to comply with Second Tranche Disbursement conditionality on: (i)
social security; (ii) capital market legislation; and (iii) investment
programming.
Procurement and Disbursement
68.       Procurement will be in accordance with the Bank's procurement
Guidelines of May 1985. Unless otherwise specified by the Bank, all
purchases, except petroleum imports, exceeding US$5 million would be
through international competitive bidding. Purchases not exceeding US$5
million would be through the normal procedures of the Borrower.
69.       The loan would finance the CIF cost of eligible imports, subject
to documentary evidence that they have been paid for on or after loan sign-
ing. Public and private sector imports would be eligible, except for
military equipment and luxury consumer goods. The Central Bank would be
responsible for the coordination and collection of relevant documentation
and prepariug withdrawal applications under the loan. The applications
would be submitted to the Bank using atatements of expenditures. with the
detailed documentation retained by the Government for review by the Bank as
appropriate.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
70.       Bank lending to Uruguay totals US$504.2 million (net of
cancellations), of which US$371.6 million has been disbursed. At present,
eight IBRD-financed projects remain under execution with about US$132.6
million undisbursed. In the past, the Bank has concentrated on traditional
project lending and the provision of medium- and long-term lines of
credit. The only exception was a quick-disbursing operation in the



- 28 -
agricultural sector (S$60 million in FY85). The largest shares of Bank
lending were allocated to power (29Z), agriculture and transport (26Z
each), followed by industrial credits (12X of total). The operations in
power and transport financed primarily infrastructure and concentrated on
building up adequate management practices and planning capability. In the
power sector, emphasis was also placed on reducing operating costs, while
in transport efforts were focused on establishing proper maintenance
procedures. In agriculture and industry, the operations provided mediumr-
and long-term credit facilities, together with institution building (to
prepare and evaluate investment proposals and develop an extension service)
and technical assistance to monitor and supervise subprojects.
71.       Overall project performance of Bank projects has been
satisfactory. For repeater projects in the traditional sectors, execution
has been generally in line with forecasts and there have been no
major issues regarding compliance with loan conditions, including tariff
covenants. However, the industrial and agricultural credit lines came
almost to a standstill in 1984 and 1985 because of the severe recession,
the high level of indebtedness, and low international agricultural prices.
The situation in the agricultural sector improved significantly in 1986
following increased exports to Brazil and steps taken by the Government to
ease the fiscal burden on the agricultural sector. Consequently, demand
for subloans under the Bank'a operation increased substantially. Hiowever,
the status of the industrial operation did not improve, and managerial and
procedural problems continued to affect the institution handling subloan
applications. As a result, it was decided not to continue with thls
operation beyond its closing date and to cancel the remaining balance
(about half of the original loan amount).
72.       Operations in sectors wnere the Bank has recently entered for the
first time, such as education and telecommunications, have experienced
substantial delays mainly because of inexperienced project implementation
units. This was discussed during a Country Implementation leview which was
conducted in November 1986. During this review, the implementation
problems affecting the telecomunications operation were addressed, and a
working group was established to review and recommend revisions to
procurement procedures for public entities in order to speed up project
execution. AMother issue affecting project execution involved the
constitutional requirement that all loans undertaken or guaranteed by the
Government be approved by Parliament. This approval requirement proved a
major stumbling block with significant delays in loan effectiveness. The
issue was resolved in late 1986 when Parliament passed a law declaring that
loans from international organizations do not require case-by-case
Parliamentary action. This law will resolve the outstanding problem.
73.       In FY85 the Bank lent USS60 million for an agricultural sector
loan. The policy-based loan aimed at reducing unnecessary regulations and
increasing export incentives to the sector. The experience with the
measures taken under this loan has been very satisfactory.  Tne return on
farmers' investments has improved, livestock inventories increased, demand
for investment funds has gone up substantially, and land prices have shown
substantial improvements compared to their depressed levels in 1984/85.



-29 -
The increase in land value also improves the ability of farmers to repay
their debt and, in turn, facilicates further lending to the sector by
financial institutions,
74.       The most recent OE) report on an individual Bank project was
carried out in 1983, for the Fifth Livestock Development Project. The
report stressed the smooth relations and open dialogue at the country and
project level but was critical of the level of Bank supervision, frequent
changes in BanK staff supervising the project, and overestimation of the
demand for agricultural credit. In power, the last audit report analyzes
the Fourth Power Project, published in 1978, states that the project made
a worthwhile contribution to the country. It specifically mentions the
lasting improvements in planning, tariff structures, and reorganization of
the planning department. Tne report was critical, however, of the lack of
clear definition of the relative role of the President and Board of the
Power Company (now resolved) and inability to attract quality staff because
of low salaries. The audit report of the First Industrial Credit,
published in 1982, criticized the institutional arrangements, especially
the weak Government agencies and committees dealing with project appraisal
and selection. These difficulties persisted with the Second Industrial
Credit.
75.       Institutional development still requires substantial efforts.
Upper and middle management, in both the public and private sectors, have
to adapt to the contemporary challenges of the ecoromy. Some significant
progress has been made, however, with the help of the Bank. Power,
telecommunications, and port projects are gradually improving operations of
the respective agencies and Bank lending for higaways has Improved
transport planning capability. Nevertheless, institutional capacity and
management training need further strengthening. Future projects in energy,
water supply, transport and urban development, would emphasize management
and planning processes.
76.       The Bank's strategy in Uruguay aims at supporting the
Government's medium-term economic recovery and adjustment program. In
addition to SAL I, it is expected that the Bank's proposed lending
operations will support projects that complement the structural adjustment
Program and reinforce the Government's efforts to achieve its reform
objectives. Other planned bank operations aim at (i) reducing the fiscal
burden on the Government and releasing scarce foreign exchange resources by
improving operations of inefficient state enterprises (refinery
modernization, railways, water supply); (ii) improving management structure
of public enterprises (Water Supply Company, dunicipality of Kontevideo);
(iii) improving outdated infrastructure and improving maintenance practices
(highways, urban); and (iv) encouraging exports of goods and services with
emphasis on exports diversification (transport development, agriculture).
77.       The IDB is a major source of external financing for Uruguay.  It
has been involved in financing road infrastructure, power system expansion,
industrial credit operations and various loans for agricultural
development. The most recent loans were for development of a rice-growing
region and a global agricultural credit program. IDB's planned operations
in 1987 concentrate on the agricultural sector (dairy industry,
agricultural research and animal health) with additional resources for



- 30 -
bighway improvements. Other operationls beyond this fiscal year will focus
on improving infrastructure, including possibly an entry into the health
sector. The IPC has limited operations in Uruguay, with the last one
approved in 1985 for citrus products processing. The small size of the
Uruguayan market has proved an obstacle to identifying projects suitable
for IFO lending. Identification efforts are now concentrated on
export-related industries.
PART VI--COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF
78.       Coordination with the IMF has been close. The Bank has kept the
IMF informed about its overall lending strategy and specific SAL programs.
The Bank and the Fund will continue this close collaboration. Although the
last stand-by program ended in March 1987, the Government of Uruguay is
committed under the MYRA agreement documents signed with the commercial
banks and the recently signed cofinancing operation with the Bank to
maintain a program with the IMF, either a standby or an enhanced Article IV
surveillance program. To this effect, an IMF mission in March 1987
initiated formal discussions on a new program that will be presented to the
Board later this year. In conjuction with the SAL program, the IMF will
monitor exchange rate developments.
PART VII--RECOMMENDATION
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
May 18, 1987



- 31 -
lt:3.0 m10:09                                                               m i   915)n-9    tim w                              W1113 I
ua1  wtb *v     t. isl C* A Stat pria       _
Went                                                                                             ftl  ,Et.        Preioet0
Current Pr't uI
t 9w o           n70    179    1 IVIO     u90       a 092    IS3S    1984    1iS              I9S6    1l97     IS83    19tS    0990    1995
firm  heRtic PylOugt                        5120              5.        .2     0.   .0          -M.     -5.0    -2.?       0.0              6.2     4.0      4.0      4.0     4.5      441
A6r s.#caItve 1)                                                                       4                       4.        5.1              1.0      2.0     Lo:    3.0        1.0     2O0
I"d"tri 31 147                                             9.5       .              -2.8    -3      -11.4      1.0    -2.4               9.4     5.2  S .0         .0  .S.0         5.0
Sruvzeu ti                                2474      S         B.4    64,     5.9      5.7    -7.t.     25  ..1.5         0.0              5.e      4.20    3.9 s     .7     5. 1     4.0
"I47              4.4     6.5      7.t      3.1    40.6     4.. 9    -1.9     0.          2              .2.     2.0  S .2        4.1      3.1
1. "S ID                     $'t 418                  t       4.2    2S.       1.4      *.. 4 -10.2    -5.1,  -23.5 .a 161.5 25.0t                                    .      00.3     0.2
legrts of $ood Sad IFS                      671218     S       J      21.t     1.... 1.0   -113*..... -21.1    -8. 1  .-1.4                23.9    -2t.4     6..   S .t  02S
Eigprts of iaes and  ISS                    12SI              4.3 c    ,S6     3... . t.2   -IO S..... IS.3    -2.1  .-1.-         7       till      1.9     4.4      6..     U.    .  4.1
6roso National Savngsu                       300             19.2    12.3    -0.6       0.2   -29.0   -12.4   -10.7    -2.9                44.2    32.2    30.9    10.0    10.6        4.3
"ICES
SP 8llratmr                                                lo.00   175.40  264.09   45.24  400.45   616.94  985.74  1792.J3             10.U45
EbclU4  rate ()aU posat                                      6.06     7.i5    9.90    10.81     3.00   30.44    56.00   101.4o           1 0.40
lwa, of 6PF tt lrt Primw  (V0                                    hoar    Annul Inorne Iw
Actual 2/                               Froj. 31/                    ktoui              Projected
.. ..  -  -- - -- -   -  ------------------------_                                                             _ _
1970    1975    1980    0003    1904    It         1990    099S           1970-75  1975-80  0909-05 19-90 I99-95
Irorn losestic Product                     060.0   100.0      10.0    100.0     I     00.0   100.0 0    0.t0              0.      4.5   .-11       4.5      4.0
qriculture 1                              11.1    10.t      9.o    10.2    lI.t       9.0      9.1     0.2              -a1      2.t    -1.0      2.0      2.0
Ineostry t1                               23.6    27.4    20.2    24.0      2.'s    29        25.4    26.4              2.3      5.4    -6.4      59       5.0
Seriu,t  1O 30.?    49.2    40.5                                    2.6  40.5    40.2    52.5          04               0.9     4.2    -2.0      4.5     4.0
Coan".t,                                    90.0    90.1    001.3    82.1    967    07,3    14.2    04.7                  0.4      3.0    -2.0      3.       4.1
firn... %,'utot                             11.3    M3.      17.      10.0     9.7      0.2    15.5    15.                 2.2    10.01   -20.0    05.2      6.4
4oWts of O% and IUFS                        13.2    04.9    20.6    21.9    20.2    09.9    23.3    25.1                  1.4      9.2    4.4       7.6      5.7
Euib of Sam  ad UIS                         00.0   1t.l    15.0    23.7    24.0    24.4    25.5    25.9                    6.0     8.4      0.2     6.7      4.4
&ross Mational Snoirp                        9.5     9.1    10.0       7.8     6.7      4.7    11.6    12.9                6.6    23.8    -.3    25.0        4.2
As I of 6oP
P01LIC FONAN                       ---                     --------------------------------
wL!c~~~~~~~~~~~10   0901lt                              000 ti   92  ita3  0904  0905  It'70
(Gum-ni S.vsrou.t,t                                 .- - -- ._-.     ..   .          _._ _. _    _
tCont Notvena                                       20.9    22.4    21.0    21.1    18.4    19.9    22.5
Cwreat !Vdltures                                    1U.3    21.c         26.6    22.   21.6    20.9    2023
Surplus :iM- hlcot 'I                                2.6      1.4    -5.6    -1.6    -3.2    -0.0        2.2
Cipt tzp odottve                                     2.2      2.7      3.0     2.5      1.8      0.0     0.5
Warall lfIcat -i                                     0.4    -0.3      -.       *4.2    -5.0    -2.0      0.7
Foreign Fsoutng                                      0.4      0.7     0.3      6.2      0.9    L20      0..
OM -! I     Ore0 0                                0190-75  1975-E0  0900-10  1905-90  1990-95
U1 frenth Rate                                       1.6      4.5    -3.2      5.0      4.4
SP for tonpti Urotb late                             1.1      4.0    -3.7      4.6      3.5
itL M  smt ltr atr                               4A:         M7:  4:M    N 5 
leert Elesticty                                      O.9     2.0      3.0      1.4     1.7
11 F ctrr ce4t.
2V  At crrnt price.
J/ At coestast pric.



- 32 -
tU Ai300   S.C 2033, 1393)                                                        ___________- U210 4
h~1 2 kgt. Itgltl
IMitator                             10111A . 3300 at                            towuS                                                  Est,         hoect
lirnt Proust
ss im                                                                                                         ig     lung   m-ss0 ---- lra W§ Il t 
~~^JJW  tS                       1ffi~~~~~84      7.3    -8.2    19.2    PA        :ff0    13.2   '14.1    -5.0              2W.       t.1     I. .t              
3985 Ph1    2919    3                     3.9 -81.2   n.  I  I    13.5   -219   1 8.5        50.5     0.7    itO      t71       4.*    its
=0       d  6I11%                         I7              14.7     0.1      4.5   '  4.0i  I   7      . 11            -1.t             12.5     4.3      b        .. LO   LO
Vdrttnhh   larta                            711              26        .       -t.t    -.               5       1.5   -10.5             24.      -4.4     t.2      4.1     6. 
COMMONr food.                              42             20.0    59.      99.2    513  -.5           7)      45    *ll.5              25O      0.0     2.7      1.7     LB
= 0st;     L*nt                           225              9.0      .9   -0.42    I.    -14.2   -2435   *23  t         .70             44.2   -20.0    2I3    3.2 e       .0  L     i
3afm0.a  us                          5               7.5    304       I 09   .18.0   -3.    -09.6    132    -IL                 10.      13.8    23.3      9.0     9.1
captA t &                                  45           "*0.3    33.4    4?    -10.    -31.0   -23  t-2.0    -t:.7                    20.4      7.0     *.       7.1     7.4
F'RIOS 4O 3003
hoyt Price toi                                           100.    1252L.    140.    138.4   127.4   119.5   t#.e    113.7              11t.0   120.2   327.    1322.    131.9 
acrt        lad                                          100.0   130.0   149.0   153.L   15.    341.4  1U.5   Ih4.8                  117.Q    32.4   134.5   130.4   1.3   t17.
1er. of tror tede                                        100.0    91.2    94.l    9e.1 90.)    8L3.  64.4      .      4.3 u00.9    93.0    9 .0    97.3                   .7     .9
Capoiti. of  rwchmadis, trak lb                                                 hvyap dovAu  locrea  13)
t3t etrot gric.)                                                         (Coesteot 1970 gritc
1t9     1915    190    190       11f t1i0          35                             9t15-1o  tUt-Os  MI5-4  1990-1S
IIPOTS                                    te10.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100.    100.0   300.00                                 9.2     0.3      0.2     4.9
tnr)w, frodacts                          82.3    04.t     59.0    04.4   *7.60 4ot.2    04.08                                  0.0     3.0      0.7     4.4
Oaeofdctutra 6"SOa                       17.7    S3.3    41.0   63.0   32.20    373.2    33.92                                 Q.8    -4.7      t.9     0.0
*W6S                                      100.0   100.0   300.0   140.0    1o.0   00.0   100.0                                  10.8   -15.0     0.0      0.3
Euoaer 6oak                              33.       5.2    10.3       .3      .7    10.4    9.1                                  .0   -20.1    12.0      4.5
tr*lt am Lotnritats                      14.6    31.1    24S    3.4    31.6    27           J7.8 '.                                    I -11.5  5.Q     3.3
W     de 6.                              49.4    55.4    44.7    4k.2    510.5      S.      59.I                              715    -33.2      0.9     t.5
CaGOtaI Sa                               24.4    30.4    L02    l2.2        .2    13.5    33.1                                23.2   -15.3    34.5      7.4
OIW   O F MAW                                ow#e of Irdto osat                          are  Trd    itth                             SW# of trade oath
iodtr3tl    Attistfl)                   end"         fflZ                              CAstUon Btock Countrnie
3975    1         980  94  3I 9           39      1900    1904   l                     19n75    t190    l98      1905
*zwt;                                  50.7     0.7    30.9    38.2               29.2    31.3    20.4    27.8                   7.5     7.i      7.9     0.3
itr                                   53.0    29.4    2LI    27.5                20.8    35.9    10.0    35.3                   3.0      3.0     3.9      0.3
3r- 2-r------- --- ------. - --------- - - - ---_



- 33 -
PB.atto: 3 .illiw  II9)                                                                                       I
1  wr Cttat 11531660 115                                                                                pap S f 4
(W .illi.. at Cerut filtm
ktwi                     Frah.                    proutcWt
__..........._.__....... _. _. .................__ .. ...... _.
£982     £983     198      195      £9       1987     l98      198      3990      89
A. E-prts of lio      OS           1        I304  30K   1110   8251     I5s8     1591     169      i8       206      296
1. terch.dzl   aF98)            ton      84        925      Om 815   1e              II  90     £32?     8449     224
2. Ns-factor Swlices             21       25J        25     397       450      43       so       S3       S9       n
L. lewrt of k6r  n  IIFS           IN 15115     £15  1067      1018     1190     130      £414     tl        UI3       28
1. dInWtI u  42 a6              lo8       740      1S2      675      839       W        983     tO5n    114       IB1
2. Nks4attOr Srvic               547      45        3       343       351      407      431      45J       467     70?
C. RBmta a£nca                     -26£      105      223      233       348      282      28       39       37       490
L rt Facter bact                   -197     -7       -362      -352     -210    -35       -33      -356    -350      -39
8. fatte tcigts                  147       63       47       75       76        6        7£       n3       75       77
2. Fattor Paymts                -344    -350      -44       -427     -346    -42        41      429      425      426
iifler0st pymts IOit)         -179     -226    -295      -291     -250     -290     -279    -25        -XS      -m
3 t C rfm   t traotfira              £0       It       10       I1        11       12       12       13       13       17
F. Crriet kctmnt Bile              -4t8     -1tl    -129      -106         9      -e3      -4         t       40 
L. (.-lre Ctital  lebft             560      652       30       82       £71       69     Is        46       30       It
1. Dtrct Inwant                   £4        6        3        a        0        0         a       is       15       40
2. Official Caital Grto            0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0
S. kI U ton (E S bta)            242     3a         39       27      III       £4S      m         3         7      -49
a. Diera nts                  433      502      89       220      24       213      271       1%       330      467
6. bpwmta                     -70      -9      -127     -24       -74      -79      -1N1     -i6      -319     -557
C. otAr (tl                  -121      -27      -23      -9        -1        £5        8        3       -4       4£
4. owr                           304      213      -12       4?        0       -10       to       n         a       20
:. ToteW  thr  tm  (at)            -730     -425       5t      -39      -4         -6    -110       -2         0      -52
1. Ut Shmt-te  Cait t            532     -176      £71      I         94        6      -110      -2        10      -32
2. Er,s ad geieion             -1262    -249      -114     -227    -15B          0        0        0        0        0
1. UM s"ist llt aava                638      -5        42       65    -196         0       -30        0        0      -4
1. flat WM fe        theIMW       96      £41      -15      1n         6      -8       -5       -9      -£ly        0
2. Otlhr Rn v0_.                 542     -197       57      -63     -202       s         29       %       t17     .4
(- idkdncataa 1am)
Ownr of 80 Icenat 0114:)
1.   h     1wc  klan            -3.0      2.0      4.3      4.6      5.6
2. TOW  lot. Paymts IUT          1.9      4.2    5LI        5.7      4.0
3. Crrnt kcoot huin             -5.0    -3.2    -2.5    -2.1         1.4
4. Lt Capital tnflat£lie 8)      6.0     12.1      0.6      1.6      2.7
L    t U iit fro  tbilF          1.0      24      -0.3      2.5      0.1
le (at trrt 0n)                 9259    5         5245     5        6219
Feraip  uhap   ervifw
1. Int l rnwee (9 1141           £16 11            134      174      400
2. 6it (ost. vluatils)            43      403      67       6        678
3. IrO   tee-s KIn. 8.16         559      610      71       822     1078
4. Br. lat la. ia  t 65th
lIPort dofgen                 1.3      3.4      2.2      2.6      5.7
5.6O.  A. (Intl. eid) to
Oths lpert i      peb         6.5      9.9    12.8    13.5        154
L .r. t. UKIt. Pld) av
O2ilar 0- and two
flepdtt                       e.3      0.4      L.6      0.5      0.6
1. 111. Off.Z-Att  (IF1 rhi    13.90    34.54    5.12   101.43    58.9%
2. al Eff.3-gal kwr'I   121.00    72.00    6.00    67.00    66.l
3. 1-ta for W  COMMON   £3.0    34 50    56l2   101.4   151.96



- 34 -
SulMsonz   3.0 IbIl. 115MM1                            IIMUDMl - EITIAMiL  CAPITAL AND MEiT                                                                                     y    I
6 Per Cepitalt 2216bO II4                 -85 1         ---        ---      -------- - .                                                                                     Pae 4 of 4
Actgil                                             Est.           Projected
1978     1979      1980      2981      1982      I983      1984   1985       I298       1987      198B      1989      I990      1995
EXIENkL  CAPItAL AN0  KOE
ts7ill $lUS eurr. PDrics)
0rtie hebureot tse                                 416       191       293       299       433       502       189      225       245       228       279       200      329       513
enenstional Loans                                  0         0         0         0         0        0                   2         7        It        1t        8         a         4
No1i-concess0nae1 loans                         406        191       293       299      433       502       IB9       223       238       217       268      192       324       509
kilittewal                                      15       3S         34        8        30        18         1         3        30        17         7        0         0         0
89                                               5         7        4         6i       21        kI       5         23       60        72        86        t4        79        60
Otker sultileteral                              23        26        21         6        16       14        14        28        44        61        71       75        70        51
private                                        3s        127      234       279       36b       449       115        69       104       67       104        43       175       398
External Public HILT Oebt
MIgt Outstanding and Disbursed                   794       932      1127      1348      1700     2641      2676      2817      2839      1S98      3151     3311      349       3889
Official                                       25b       247      333       325       364       381       409       432       445      52        641       725      7t5        820
Private                                        538       635      7S4      10M3      1336      2260      2267      2385     2394      246       2510      2586      269*      3069
lediboursied Oebt                                455       484       518      583       555       553       706       424
Public M21 Debt Service
Total Sevice Pynutse                             427       126       198       185      22*       304       411       410       324       370      388       445       601       847
interest                                        *1        71      105       124       156       210       284       282      250       290       277       284       280       281
Am ttiiatlon                                   366        55       93        61        T0        94       127       128        74       80       111       161       321       566
Paynt as   of experts ofs ll                      46        11        13        11        17       23        31        33        21        23        23       24        30        28
iith rescbdling 11905-891
IntetretkT as I of enprts of WS                    7         6         7        7        12        26        22        23        17        18      1I         15        14        t0
Total  ebt Service                                                                                             49        49        38        40       40        38        42        35
Total Public Debt Service
(incledinu IIF and shiort-ters)                                                14        21        28        36        3        29        32        33        31        36        30
Private Dbt Service                                                                                          51        t0         a         8         7        7         6         5
Ape-ril n"z,7;E----                      - 28--11-- -  ------------ --------------------  --------------- ----- - - ------------ - ------------             ----     - -
Aril 28, ISB;



- 35 -
ANNlX II
page 1 of 2
URUGUAY
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Section I.      Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by the Country to Prepare Operation:  18 months.
(b)   Operation Prepared by:  Ministry of Economy and Finance,
the Central Bank, and Planning and Budget Office with IBRD
assistance.
(c)   First IBRD mission:  November 1985.
(d)   Departure of Appraisal Mission:  October 1986
(e)   Completion of Negotiations:  April 1987.
(f)   Planned Date for Effectiveness: September 1987.
Section I}.    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None contemplated.
Section III.    Special Conditions
The following condition has been established for the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement: that Bills have been submitted to
Parliament in the fields of investment banking and leasing.
The following condition has been established for the
release of the second tranche: Satisfactory progress by the Borrower in
maintaining and deepening the results of actions already taken under the
Structural Adjustment program, especially those referred to in paras. 2 and
7 of the Letter of Development Policy, as well as in carrying out new
actions under the Program, including:
(i) evidence of progress by the Borrower, which is satisfactory to
the Bank, on the social security reform program and its schedule,
based on the implementation of the Government's action plan to
change the long-term structural parameters of the system, as
presented in the Statement of Development Policy, Part I Section
D.



36 -
page 2 of I
(ii) ovidence of progress in reducing the deficit of the social
security system towards a deficit target of 2X of GDP or leas by
December 31, 1990.
(iii) satisfactory iuvestment program for 1988-89;
(tv)  completion of draft securities, corporate, and bankruptey laws
a*d presenatoion to Parliament;
(v)  reducing the maximum rate level in the borrover's import tariff
to 40X (excluding consular fees and port charges) of the CIf
price, coupled with a parallel reduction of identifiable
protectionist elements in the corresponding reference prices.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
TRANSLATION
Republica Oriental del Uruguay
May   , 1987
Mr. Barber Conable
President
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H 5tr. N.W.
Washington,, D.C. 20433
Dear Nr. Conable:
The Government of Uruguay is implementing a medium-term economic
program described in the attached statement of Economic Policy. The
program is designed to remove important constraints and create the
conditions that will promote sustained growth of income and exports in the
late 1980s and 1990e while strengthening our democratic institutions.
The policy being implemented has already produced very positive
results; the economic crisis was arrested in 1985 and a very significant
recovery took place in 1986, with GDP and exports growing over 6% and 27%,
respectively. A stand-by zrrangement with the Fund for the eighteen months
ending in December 1986 supported the Government stabilisation efforts; it
has been successfully carried out. The Government of Uruguay expects to
conclude soon an enhanced Article IV surveillance arrangement with the
Fund, which will permit Uruguay to return to the market for commercial
borrowing in the near future. Agreement has also been reached with foreign
commercial bank creditors on a rescheduling of payments to those
institutions through 1989.
Although we have made good progress in the last two years, the
Gowerment will undertake additional atructural changs to maintain the
growth somentum, as well as to strengthen our public investment program and
enhanos our ability to respond an effective and timely manner to changes in
the external economic environment. As a result of these structural
changes, Uruguay is likely to face short-term social costs whilo the
expected results of the program (more rapid ecvnomic growth, more job
creation, and higher exports) materialize.
To. minimize these costs and help Uruguay meet its external assistance
needs, the Government of Uruguay is requesting a loan from the World Bank
in support of its medium-term eoonomic program.
With best regards to you Xr. Presideat
/sa Ariel Davrieux
Director Planning and
Budget Office



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 16
- 38 -
STATEMENT ON ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY
OF THE GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAYI/
I. NEDIUMh-TERN PROGRAM, 1986-89
t.        The Government is implementing a broad program of economic
recovery and growth in the medium term with the purpose of laying the
foundations for sustained development in the long term. The overall goal
is to achieve self-sustaining growth in output based on exports and service
industries. The private sector plays an essential role in the dynamization
of the economy that the Government is trying to attain; the State has an
orientation and promotion role.
2.        The medium-term program represents a significant effort to
improve the overall framework of economic policy in order to permiS a more
efficient interplay of market forces. Improvements have been made and
achievements consolidated in freeing capital markets and foreign exchange
transactions; achieving real, slightly positive interest rates; floating
exchange rates; the almost total absence of price controls; and substantial
reductions in tariff protection and export taxes. In this context, the
medium-term program envisages additional structural reforms to improve
market mechanisms.
3.        The medium-term program includes: (a) a framework of policies and
incentives aimed at expanding exports, an exchange rate that maintains the
competitiveness of exports, further rationalization of tariff protection,
access to inputs at international prices, and a tax policy that promotes
exports; (b) actions to restore the confidence of the private sector and
promote growth and diversification of agriculture and manufacturing for
export; and (c) measures intended to slow down inflation and maintain
fiscal and monetary discipline, with the goal of attaining better
allocation of resources between the public and private sectors and among
industries, as well as promoting a balance of payments equilibrium.
Likewise, the Government intends to create an appropriate legal framework
and maintain positive interest rates to encourage the development of the
capital market and the access of companies to new forms of financing.
4.        With respect to agriculture, the medium-term program ia aimed at
creating conditions that generate greater exports and at placing them in
roreign markets. Besides the essential elements of an overall policy
framework that eneourages development of productive activities, as noted
above, and allows market forces to operate freely as an instrument for
resource allocation, the Government's includes specific support programs
for: (a) activities in which the country traditionally has enjoyed a
comparative advantage and with market potential, either as direct exports
abroad or as inputs for the industrial exporting sector; and (b) relatively
new activities that are growing or new items with development potential.
1/     English translation of Spanish text.



;
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 16
- 39 _
5.        The specific agricultural development programs have two focal
points. The first refers to production conditions in the country,
Improvements in production will be sought by means of: (a) technological
improvements to reduce the technology gap, combined with agroinduotrial
eomplexes and modernization of installations to increase the
competitiveness of exports; (b) better land use and soil conservation,
combined with credit support, technical extension and assistance to
encourage production systems that prevent or reduce erosion and maintain
the fertility of the land; (c) strengthening of research services of
experimental stations; (d) expansion of the campaigns to control
foot-and-mouth disease, ticks, and other livestock pests; (e) expansion of
the capacity of silos and market development, including promotion of forms
of association to strengthen marketing facilities; (f) expansion of rural
electrification and access roads; and (g) tax policy concentrating on taxes
on agricultural capital and income, and eliminating the tax on exports and
agricultural inputs.
6.        The second focal point of the program is within the framework of
a regional development plan based on specific programs and projects, It is
intended to complement the substantial regional developments that have
occurred based on crop diversification (Salto, Paysandu, with citrus;
Laguna Merin with rice; Colonia, San Jose, Canelones, Florida with dairy
products; Northwest Corner with fruit and vegetables). The development
program of the rice belt (Uruguayan zone of Laguna Merin and surrounding
regions) contemplates investment of some US$46 million over a period of
four years for access roads and electrification of irrigation with the goal
of lowering production coats and improving the quality of the grain. The
dairy belt expansion and development project foresees investment of US$54
million in four years to reduce production costs by means of producer
electrification, greater technology, and improvement and widening of roads
for transport of milk to processing plants. The Northwest Corner project
and the project for the Northwest of Canelonee, Southern Zone are oriented
toward improving and diversifying production, including emphasis on
production of processed fruit and vegetables destined for foreign markets.
7.        With respect to manufacturing, the medium-term program is
directed toward maintenance of a stable macroeconomic policy framework
based on the above-stated principles. In addition, the program includes
measures to: (a) restructure private debt and strengthen the commercial
banking portfolio; new legislation is being prepared that would speed up
the procedures for carrying out judicial collection actione against debtors
that do not honor their debts, so that credit, a significant recovery and
growth factor, has the necessary safeguards; (b) promote new investments
and the adoption of technologies to satisfy foreign demand requirements by
broadening the application of the system of exempting increments in working
capltai from patrimony taxes, elimination of fiscal discrimination against
self-financing in calculating taxable income, allowing accelerated
depreciation on purchases of fixed assets in export sectors, agreements
with foreing governments on the protection of foreign investments and in
the definition of conditions for carrying out and developing large-scale



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 16
- 40 -
projects with foreign investors; (c) maintain promotional financing for
exports while the time period will be extended to up to 300 days on some
products; and (d) reduce tariff levels and their variability, as well as
eliminate any element of protection in the few reference prices in effect,
so that they will be merely an antidumping mechanism.
8.        The scope of direct industrial activity by the public sector will
not be enlarged. Its partial or total ownership of existing private
companies that will require financial restructuring through the Development
Corporation will be temporary.
9.        The public investment program complements the policies of support
for the productive and business sectors by concentrating on the provision
of essential inputs (electricity, fuels, water), expansion of the
transportation network in productive areas, and essential services
(telecommunications) for the development of production, trade and financial
activities. This means providing support in an adequate amount and at
competitive prices for export goods. As a consequence, program priorities
will be: expansion of electrical transmission lines and distribution of
electric power to improve urban supply and make service accessible to rural
areas with development potential; modernization of the refinery to improve
its efficiency and ensure an appropriate fuel supply; improvement of the
potable water service in Montevideo and other cities of the country;
construction of a number of trunk roads and access roads for production
activities, and road maintenance, combined with streamlining of railroad
services; and expanding the digital telephone network and increasing the
population served. Details of the investment program for 1987-89 are
contained in Section II.
10.       The Government is undertaking modernization of the State
apparatus to encourage cooperation with, and support for, the productive
sectors and creation of a suitable climate for increasing private
investment and obtaining maximum benefits from the productive
infrsstructure. It is also the Government's policy to attain fiscal
equilibrium, to increase efffioiency of public enterprises, and the periodic
restructuring of tariffs, streamlining of social security, improvements in
programming of public investments, and reorientation of public
expenditures.
11.       The medium-term program for 1987-89 is intended to attain a 4%
growth average rate of gross domestic product. The principal goals are to
increase exports in real terms by 5% per year and to increase investment,
mainly private from 20 to 30% a year in the three-year period. Public
investment will be at 5% of GDP. The public sector deficit (including the
Central Bank's losses) will be reduced to 3% by 1989. The goal for
inflation is 50% for 1987, 40% in 1988, and 30% in 1989. Unemployment will
continue to decrease and will be at between 7 and 8%. Table I summarizes
the main targets of the medium-term program.



-41 -
AUI III
Page 4 of 16
Table I.   B DIWI-'N  OO     S POGRA, NACRORCONORC ?ARGSTSg 1987-89
Average
Itea                                                             1965   1966    1987489
tofu-at                                                          Annual Growth Rate (A)
CDP                                                          0.0   6.2        4.0
GD? Per Capita                                              -0.5    5.7       3.5
ODY                                                          0.0    8.4       3.7
Rxports of Goods and Non-oactor Services
a. Volume                                                 -2.4   17.1       5.0
b. Dollar Value                                           -7.1   22.2       8.0
Imports of goods and Non Factor Services                    -1.9   23.9      10.0
Total Consmption                                             0.3    6.4       2.2
Consumption Per Capita                                      -0.2    5.9      1t7
Public Consumption                                          -0.4    ..        1.0
Grogs Investment                                           -10.3  16.0       16.7
Mtbr NaMroeconcuic Variables                                       Averw Ratio or
Capital-output Ratio                                                1.5       3.1
arginals Savings Rate                                         j     0.2       0.3
Public Investment/GaP                                        2.9   3.5        5.0
Private Investment/GDP                                       4.2   5.6        7.0
PubUli Investment/Private Investoent                         0*7    0.6       0.7
National Saving/G]DP                                         4.8   6.5        9.9
Domestic Savings/GDp                                        11.4  11-0       1347
Balance of Paimeats and Debt Service                               Aversa& Ratio or I
Bxports GMY/GDP                                             22.6  24.7       25.S
raports GuPS/GDP                                            19.9  23.6       22.6
Current Aacount/GD?                                         -2.1    1.4      -0.5
DeObt Services/tNs                                          33.0  21.0       23.3
Debt N&T/GDP                                                51.4  48.2       47.3
Average Value
tin dollars)
Current Aceount Balance                                   -108    89           34
Debt Service                                               410    324         401
Average
sulecta¢or                                                         , (
Global Deficit Including Central Dank/GDP                    6.5    5.0      3.5
Global Deficit on-rinancial Public Sector/GDP                3.1    1.3      0.5
Global Deficit Central Government/GDP                        2.8    1.4      1.1
Maumnt and Price                                                       Average
Unemployment rate (Montevideo)                                   12.7   9.2       7.5
infuLtiLo  RaSe (manual)                                        83      70        40
L/ ON growth vas 0.



ANNEX III
Page 5 of 16
- 42 -
A.   External Trade Policies
12.       In order to increase foreign exchange earnings in parallel with
the expansion of the economy, the 1987-89 development program attaches
particular importance to trade policy instruments, especially in the
following areas:
(a) maintaining competitive real effective exchange rates, without
any quantitative restrictions;
(b) rationalizing effective protection;
{c) promoting the development of exports through a support program
that includes the following actions, among others:
credit: access to new forms of financing, credit for working
capital and long-term investments, pre- and post-export credit,
and export credit insurance;
inputs: access to inputs at international prices and to capital
goods at international prices free of customs duties for export
sectors;
taxation: improve the tax structure to avoid exporting taxes, by
introducing accelerated depreciation, and expanding the refunding
of indirect taxes on exports;
production: support to integrated farming/livestock production
processes;
investments and markets: promoting joint ventures to increase
access to external markets, signing bilateral agreements, and
promoting long-term export contracts to increase investments.
B.  Improving the Capital Market and Strengthening the Financial
System
13.       The Government's objective is to ensure an in flow of capitals to
productive activities, specially in priority sectors. To this end, the
Government will aim at:
(a) maintaining real interest rates to stimulate savings;
(b) preserving the fiancial opening of the economy so as to stimulate
the flow of external savings.
14.       To achieve the desired objectives it is regarded as important
that the following legislation be approved:



AN=X III
Page 6 of 16
- 43 -
(a)  leasing law, with appropriate tax treatment,
(b) investment banking law, as an instrument to promote long-term
investment;
(c) corporate law, to create a proper framework for the establishment
of companies which can benefit from the operations of the capital
market; strengthen the rights of minority shareholders, broaden
savers' participation in the ownership of private corporationa
and increase the market's transparency; and
(d) bankruptcy law and judicial procedures for the purpose of
modernizing the legal framework and defending creditors' rights,
so as to reduce the risks and costs involved in lending
operations.
15.       In addition, the Government has created a legal framework
(Law No. 15,786 and its regulations) which establishes, in a permanent
mnner, rules for the renegotiation of existing domestic debts. The
Government will take the necessary steps to accelerate the operation of the
system.
C.  Strenthening the Financial System
16.       The Government also proposes to improve the access of productive
activities to bank credit. To achieve this aim it is proposed:
(a) to strengthen the action plan regarding procedures for
inspections of banks, classification of uncollectable loans,
writing off of capital, monitoring of liquidity, interest rate
practices and deposit risks.
(b) to continue to allow market forces to determine the interest
rate, avoiding official interventions that distort the real cost
of money;
D.  Social Security Policy
17.       The regulations regarding retirement and other pension rights wil
be revised based on principles of universality, equalisation of the nature
and amount of benefits among pension funds and the adequacy, as far as
possible, of said benefits. The establishment of supplementary funds of a
conventional nature will be facilitated under a regulatory framework to
ensure their actuarial soundness   In the short term, revenues will be
increased by revising contribution systems and reducing evasion.
18.       The main elements in the program are:
(a) enact social security measures that will establish uniform
benefits and reduce their dispersion; eliminate privileged
benefit situations based on the quality or kind of services
performed by the employee; establish a benefit ceiling limit
the rights of working-age dependents or those with adequate
economic means; and raise the current normal retirement ages to



ANNEX ItI
Page 7 of 16
- 44 -
65 years for men and 60 for women i,e., the age at which
unreduced retirement benefits are available to workers.
(b) issues the regulations to the social security law that created
complementary social insurance mechanisms in order to establish
guarantees and obligations under these insurance mechanisms, and
control systems;
(c) proceed with administrative actions to reduce evasion, which
include, among other things, greater control over unincorporated
firms and self-employed workers, and computerization of records;
(d) reform of the system of rural contributions using the CONRAT
productivity index, given the supervision and control problems
inherent in the present system;
(e) revise the mechanism for the - mual adjustment of benefits on
account of living (or salary' increases.
19.       The reform will result in important changes in the main
parameters determining the long-run equilibrium of the system. Currently,
these parameters are: ratio r of the number of contributing workers to the
number of beneficiaries (retlrees plus survivors); ratio a of per capita
benefits b to per capita earnings I of contributing workers; and the
payroll contribution rate a. These factors are linked by the pay-as you-go
balance equation (a - e). Under the present system these ratios in 1986
areS                  r
Vl.1, s4.42, and a-.25, which required Central Government transfers for
about 7% of payroll to balance the system's finances. The proposed
raeorms, through their impact on the system's coefficients, would bring
into equilibrium the retirement and survivors system by the year 2000,
while increasing the ratio between average benefits and average wages.
Z.   Fiscal Revenue Policy
20.       The aim of reducing the public sector deficit and domestic
financing needs entails an effort to rationalize the tax burden, mobilize
additional resources and improve the tax administration. To this end, a
program of fiscal reforms is being implemented that includes:
(a) reintroduction of the tax on agriculture and livestook sales as
an advance on the tax on net agricultural income;
(b) expansion of the tax base of VAT to include agricultural sales,
and purchases by firms currently being exempt;



ANmEu III
Page 8 of 16
- 45 -
(a) extension of the tax on company sales to include service and
conmercial companies, with the exeeption of the liberal
professions;
(d) revision of the system of rural contributions for social
security;
(e) elimination of the 5% surcharge on the import tariff introduced
in June 1985;
(e) further rationalization of import tariffs;
(g) elimination or reduction to 2% of the export tax on seat; and
(h) reduction in the rates of the patrimony tax on assets of
companies and individuals.
21*       The taxation admianitration reform program inaludes:
(a) improved supervision and auditing systems through the hiring of
additional qualified staff, training, administrative changes and
mechanization;
(b) simplification of tat declarations;
(c) centralisation of tax payments by taxpayers; and
(d) rationalisation of the administration of agricultural taxes.
F. Public Expenditure Policy
22.       The Goverament will launch a comprehensive program to improve
public administration, which will in¢lude administrative reforms and a
reduction in the sise of the publio sector. This polioy is designed to
ncrease the efficiency and quaslty of public services, especislly those
related to production and the social sectors (education, health), while at
the same time reducing the share of public expenditure in GDP. Public
enterprises will be made more efficient and more attention will be given to
the social profitability of public investments.
23.       Expenditure policy will continue to be directed towards a
gradual reduction of the public sector deficit (including Central Bank
losses) during 1987-89.
G. Policy for Restructuring Public EnterrLises and Adjusting Tariffs
24.       During 1987-89 it will be the Government's policy to contilnue the
process of periodic adjustments in prices/tariffs of public enterprises as
implemented during 1985-86, so as to maintain the profitability of these
enterprises, cover debt service, and ensure the availability of counterpart
funds to execute their investment programs. Certain public enterprises
willbe restructured to enhance their efficieney in the provision of
services and to reduce contributions from the budget.



ANNEX III
Page 9 of 16
- 46 -
25.       The program includes the following concrete actions:
(a) a commitment to continue periodic tariff adjustments by public
enterprises during t987-89;
(b)  preparation and implementation of action plans to improve OSE and
AFE; and
(c) the restructuring of PLUNA in conjunction with an airline of high
technical capacity.
H.  Programming of Public Expenditures
26.       The programming of investments will be strengthened in the years
ahead to improve the analysis of social rates of return, the congruence of
projects within the investment programs, and the monitoring of their
execution. In this context, the Government plans to:
(a) update the public investment program for 1987-89;
(b) determine the needs of the Planning and Budget Office and its
technical requirements for strengthening and institutionalizing
the process of analyzing investment strategies, select public
investment projects on the basis of their rate of return and
ensure that they are compatible with the financial resources
available, and check and monitor the progress made in executing
projects.
II. PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM, 1987-89
A. Public Investment
27.       The Government of Uruguay will carry out during 1987-89 a public
investment program intended to:  (i) provide the infrastructure and
services needed to support development of the production of goods and
services and (ii) expand basic social services. The investment program is
suited to the general conditions of the medium-term economic program and
the possibilities of the various investment agencies to carry it out. The
amount of investment proposed is approximately US$1.02 billion, or 5% of
the gross domestic product, for an annual average of US$340 million (Table
2)* The program financing is ensured with the support of the multinational
banks (see Table 3).
28.       In the transport sector the Government will rehabilitate and
maintain the road system, modernize the port infrastructure, streamline the
railway system, and adapt the air transport system to the country's needs.
The Government's objective, with respect to roadway infrastructure is to
continue, through the National Road System Directorate, the rehabilitation
and maintenance program of the national highway system and to carry out the
needed redesigns to permit smooth and safe traffic for passengers and



- 47                          ~~~~~~~~AN=E  III
Page 10 of 16
Table 2a  URUGUAY - PUBLIC INVE8TUNT PROGRAN 1987-89
(uillion dollars)
Sector                               1987   1988  1989 TOTAL  Investment   GDP
Shares (%)   Share
A. Transport
I * Hiahisis                     77    79    93 _249          24.4.
ginistry of Publi  Vorks     0    6      0    180 7      17.7        0.89
Dairy, Rice Areas             4     6    20     30         2.9        0.15
Others                       13    13    13     39         3.8        0.20
2.  Ports                       _3    14   11        38                   0.19
ANP                           4     2     2      8         0.8        0.04
MTOP                          9    12     9     30         2.9        0.15
3. RailwaYs (AME)                 5    10    10      25        2.5        O.12
4.  Air                          13     5    *L    23          2.3        0.11
PLUNA                         5     -     -       5        0.5        0.02
DGIA (MD)                     8     5     5     18         1.8        0.09
Transport Total             108  tQ8   119-  35           32.9        1.66
B. Eneray
i.  Petroleum (ANCAP)             6    12    24     42         4.1        0.21
2.  Power (UTZ)                  37    45    54    136        13.3        0.68
3. Other Programs (Rural
Electrification, etc)       6     9    20     35         3.4        0.17
Energy Total                 49    66    98    213        20.8        1.06
C.  Telecommunications
(ANTEL)                          59    56    49    164        16.1        0.81
D.  Water and Sewerage
(OSE)                            12    12    12     36         3.5        0.18
S.  Industrial Activities
(ANCAP)                           7     3     3     13         1.3        0.06
P.  Other Activities                  10   11    11       32        3.1        0.16
(MTOP)
G.  Health                            15    27    30      72        7.1        0.36
H.   Education                        13    22    20      55        5.4        0.27
I.   Other (Central Government)       22    17    16      55        5.4        0.27
J.   Municipal Works                   7     7     8      22        2.2        0.11
K.   Other Autonomous Entities         9     7     6      22        2.2        0.11
Total                           311   336   372   1019       1OO.O        5.05



-48-                                   ANRNE  III
Page 11 of 16
Table 3:   URUGUAY - PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM: FINANCING
(million dollars)
Government                       Own
Funds       FIMTOP   External   Resources       Total
Central Government
-  MTOP                           15        164        63         _            242
Health
Ministry of Health          18         -          -        -              18
Others                       I          -        53        _              54
- Education
Ministry of Education       18          -         -        -              t8
Others                       2         -          8       10              20
-  Other sources                  51          -         4         -             55
Sub-Total                     105        164       128        10            407
Autonomous Entities
-  ANCAP                           -          -        15       41              56
- ANP                                         -         2         6              8
- ANTEL                            -          -        93       71             164
(AE                             9          -        16        -              25
OSE                             2          -        12       22              36
-JTE                             -         -        46        90            136
Others                          2          -         -       20              22
Sub-Total                      13          -       184      250             447
Special Programs
- Regional Developments
and VERNO                      34          -        46        -              80
- Municipal Workers                7         13        14        -              34
- Highway Plan                     -         12        13        -              25
-  Educatiou                       3          -        14        -              17
-  Others                          5          -         5        -              10
Sub-Total                      42592                          -             1T66
TOTAL                            167        189       404      260            1019



ANNEX III
Page 12 of 16
- 49 -
cargo, especially on the tourist routes and along the routes that serve
international trade. For this purpose, the Government is planning to
earmark approximately US$180 million, or 18% of public investment. Also,
through special programs, the Government will support development of the
rice and dairy belts which requires inveetments on the order of US$30
million. Moreover, the Government, in cooperation with various
departmental offices, will continue the Municipal Work Plan designed for
rehabilitation and maintenance of urban roadways and the roadway
interconnection plan, reaching the sum of US$39 million. The total of
roadway investment reaches US$249 million, or 24% of public investment.
29.       With respect to port infrastructure, the Government will, through
ANP, make the necessary investments in the Port of Montevideo in order to
adapt its operakion to new international traffic conditions, taking
regional trade development into consideration. The program of ANP
investments will be redesigned on the basis of the results obtained from
the Master Development Plan for the Port of Montevideo. Until the Master
Plan becomes available, only minimal investments will be made to permit
improved operations of the port and to provide better use of its current
facilities, taking into account the preliminary evaluations made by the
consulting firm. For this purpose, the Government is allocating the amount
of US$8 million during 1987-89, which equals 0*8% of public investment.
30.       Likewise, working through the National Hydrography Directorate of
the Ministry of Transportation and Public Works, the Government will make
investments intended to promote development of nautical tourism and to
improve operating conditions at other commercial ports. It is estimated
that development of tourism ports could substantially increase nautical
activities year-round, especially from Argentina, and would in that way
contribute to development of other activities, such as the hotel
industry. The necessary investments will be developed to maintain nautical
access routes in adequate conditions. These programs are expected to
absorb US$30 million. The total amount of port and related investments
will reach US$38 millon, or 3.7% of public investment.
31.       With regard to the railroad system, the Government will
streamline the services provided by AFE, maintaining in operation those
services whose economic contribution is positive, on the basis of the
results of a consulting firm's study. It is the Government's intention to
allocate investment resources to said program in the amount of US$25
million in the three-year period.
32.       With regard to aeronautics, the Government will continue its
actions aimed at bringing a business partner into PLUNA that will offer
better technology and bigger markets, and for this purpose appropriate
draft legislation has been already sent to Parliament. In the meantime,
the investments that will be made are those intended to maintain PLUNA
equipment in optimal operating conditions, for which purpose US$5 million
will be allocated. The Government will also carry out, through the DGIA,



ANEX ITI
Page 13 of 16
- SO -
(airports and equipment) in order to take care of passenger and cargo
traffic.  In the interim, the investments to be made are those needed to
maintain the main commercial airports in adequate and safe conditions; for
this purpose approximately US$18 million will be allocated. The total
amount of investments in the area of aeronauties wiUl reach US$23 million,
or 2.3% of public inveatment.
33.       In the energy sector, the Government is going to modernize the
petroleum refinery with the objective of making the production process more
efficient and flexible in order to adapt the product mix to the demand
profile. Moreover, in accordance with the strategy of minimizing energy
imports, and due to the fact that economically viable hydraulic resources
are practically all in use, the Gabriel Terra power station will be
rehabilitated, extending its useful lifetime and its reliability. The
transmission and distribution systems will also be rehabilitated and
expanded in order to offer more efficient service and increase the use of
the installed generating capacity.  In addition, ANCAP and UTE will make
other investments in smaller amounts intended to improve operating
efficiency. For the investments that ANCAP will make in the petroleum
area, US$42 million will be allocated, equalling US$4.1% of public
investment, and, for the investments to be made by UTE, US$136 million will
be allocated, equalling 13% of public investment. To support special
programs for the dairy and rice belts and the Northwest Corner, UTE will
investing US$35 million in electric works.
34.       In the telecommunications sector, ANTEL will continue its action
plan, which is intended to modernize and expand the coverage of service and
to improve operating and administrative efficiency of AITEL.
Telecommunications services are essential for development of the main
economic activities of the country and for operation of the financial
market and, therefore, have priority within the investment program.
Approximately US$164 million will be allocated for development of this
program.
35.       In the water and sewerage sector, OSE will complete the Paso
Severino works to ensure the water sapply of Montevideo, expand the
coverage of service, and offer necessary support to attain substantial
improvement in administrative and operating efficiency. Approximately
US$36 million, or 3.5% of public investment, has been allocated for this
program.
36.       In the industrial activities of ANCAP, the Government has
allocated resources to permit continuation of normal o;erations. With
respeat to the cement industry, necessary eqa p*ent will be completed for
exploitation of the quarry and various procurevents and onaller works will
be carried out, for all of whioh US$3 million is allocated. With respect
to alcohol and liquor, another US$2 millior. is allocated, and for the
agrodinustrial area, US$0.6 million. MXveover, with the purpose of
improving ANCAP'  administrative effioietcy, approxiattoy US$2 million -
will be devoted to the purchase of equipment and technical assistance,
including computers.



ANNEX III
Page 14 of 16
- 51 -
57.       With respect to other public works, and irrigation and drainagea
which are under the responsibility of MTOP, which includea the program of
agreements with ,ablic and private agencies, the Government will invest
US$32 million, with drainage and irrigation projects representing some
US$10 million and the works carried out under agreements, US$15 million.
38.       In health, the Government will implement a special program for
construction and enlargement of hospitals and specialized health conters
for a sum of US$54 million, in addition to various works in several areas
of the country, in the amount of US$18 million.
39.       In education and culture, the Government will carry out several
special projects for about US$55 million in the three-year period,
or 5.4% of public investment.
40.       In other sectors of central administration (i.e., NAP, NIE, MD,
and MI) investment of US$55 million, or 5.4% of public investment, is
planned. In the case of agriculture, besides the special programs included
in other sectors due to the nature of the works, silos will be constructed
and various types of equipment will be procured for agronomy, veterinary
and miscellaneous research and services. These investments come to US$10
million.
411.      The Municipal Works Plan will receive an allocation of US$22
million, and other autonomous entities, including INC, ILPE, casinos, and
financial institutions, will make investments on the order of US$22
million.
P. Insti.tutional Aspects
43.       The Government will take steps aimed at strengthening
institutional aepects that affect the public investment process. For this
purpose, the following actions are contemplated:
(a)  The public investment programming system will be improved at the
various stages of the public investment process. For this
purpose, the operating role of OPP will be oriented toward
establishiAg the macroeconomic program, general and sectoral
standards and objectives for the various operating entities. OPP
will coordinate the investment process;
(b) The definition of invest.ent programs and projects will be
reexamined especially in the case of autonomous entities, with
the purpose of their being formulated and presented as integral
economic units whose objectives, benefits, costs, economic rates
of return, and financing structure are identifiable, quantifiable
and capable of being evaluated in a uniform fashion;



ANNEX TII
Page 15 of 16
- 52 -
Each project will state its objectives and their compatibility
with overall objectives. In evaluation and hierarchization of
projects, technical-financial feasibility and economic viability
criteria will be used for all the projects that reach significant
amounts (US$2 million), or that may be of strategic importance to
the entity;
{c) A project classification system will be established,
distinguishing between the nature of the investment and the
priority that the investments have for the spending entity;
(d) Projects will be evaluated and prioritized using criteria of
economic profitability (internal rate of return and current
value), targets defined, investment by unit of product and
production unit. An interactive process will be implemented for
allocation of resources to the executive units;
Ce)  Criteria and meehanisms will be established for financial and
physical monitoring of important projects (i.e., critical path)
and for their ex post evaluation, including the effect of delays
in execution on the merits of the project. For this purpose,
modification of the current framework will be promoted with the
purpose of facilitating the actual investment and assignment of
responsibilities (including approval of flexible three-year or
five-year investment plans for companies, standards for
procurement of goods and contracting for services, and for
contracting for credit);
(f)  The establishment and/or strengthening of planning units and
programming and projects units in the various executive units,
which are functionally related to OPP, will be undertaken in
order to improve project identification, study and formulation;
(g) The activities of the various ministries will be oriented toward
sectoral policies, in cooperatiou with OPP, so that they may
guide the activities of the investing entities;
(h)  Operation of OPP will be adapted to the new investment system,
promoting interaction among the various functional units,
training thei- staffs and developing a smooth system of
communications among the investing entities, including the design
of an information system to aid decisioa making. Preinvestment
and technical assistance will be coordinated with the
strengthening and/or establishment of planning units in the
entities to ensure that investment projects comply with the new
conditions;
(i) Delegation of preventive legal control will be sought from the
General Accounting Office (Tribunal de Cuentas) clearly
distinguishing the nature of the agencies, especially the
autanomo-s entities, whose nature requires more dynamic
decision making processes;



ANNEX III
Page 16 of 16
- 53 -
(1) Strengthening of management structures and the administrative
systems in the autonomous entities will be promoted for improved
company management, appropriate decision making, and clear
assignment of responsibitlities. Development of integrated
management information systems will be encouraged in order to
permit establishment of management by results which includes
financial and cost accounting, operating information, and
financial and physical monitoring systems for investments in a
form that is compatible with the information system to be
developed by the OPP;
(k) Strengthening of the units responsible for the formulation and
execution of projects, including the procurement of goods and
contracting for services will be promoted in order to avoid
unnecessary delays in executing the projects;
(1) A mechanism will be designed to permit periodic reconciliation of
accounts between public enterprises and between them and the
Central and local Governments with the purpose of avoiding
non-commercial cross subsidisation or financing;
5m) The Government intends, in the framework of the Rendition of
Accounts, to propose the required measures to adjust the format
of the public investment programming system, and to complete
the implementation of the system shortly afterwards; and
(n) With the obJective of providing a stable framework for carrying
out the activities of the State enterprises that fall within the
medium-term objectives of the Government and those of the
enterprises themselves, the Government, in the first stage, will
establish a programs-contract system to be entered by certain
enterprises with the ministry concerned and with OPP. These
contracts will include overall Government objectives, the
enterprise's operating and investment goals and objectives, the
investment program, operating and technical streamlining
programs, financing and tariff-fixing programs, appropriate
allocation of profits or surpluses, coverage goals, and social
actions,



11                              I;I  IH    v
|[                    tX     llRi}l I
N'                     .  .   
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ir?   rj,6i3IJJJ[ 1' 4 0
d3. 
I              .3 *1IA I5 11fIKI
I-                    'tiP  ~ihiii      2
t  +                 egg   1  2~~~~~~~~~~~~
VSI



Pqe 2 of 8
~~tI.N P*                                                                                 Isyoi Yzes
Action T1o                                                                                      IOa  Pr
Polwyhjkor Im           Policy Objectiv            or Uh*wq                       196 - mid-1967                       July 1987-6                   Perid
S. )sin                3ve fi id             - Prices/tariff,                                             - Sati.faoty prrss in rtiom pun - 1rter
fiFr1cs  in    psitlin of pblic               nreased in Veal te  - Actiam  to aijist water, pwr,         to restrute railwy and wkter         _nswes to
NMl T_  ouiublic entepria.                   in 1985: pmr tariffs    rail       a  telcoinmmcatta        s auply caRpnies.                      increase
for irA}dtri             tariffs, as wll an petroltu                                               efficisy of
awstmus 262,             derivative prices.                - Action to wuntaln Mal phlc           public
residential 40; water                                       enrpries tariffs/prices.              entrriasa and
tariffs l*l Vs prices - Cpleta studies to was rwe                                                 szntor their
34S; gamUui 222;          the raihiy  and agree o action                                           p
railws f&eW  ad          plan.
cattle 16 ad
242. Peridic tariff   - Initiate studies to restrture
lnnerese  in 1986 ad     the watr  coasy.
early 1987 to mintain
or 6mprv pttblic
enterprises finees.
- Gteraist    dtwdto
peiodic tariff
iorss. atn reulr
basis to refleet
Inflation and d
in cost ttrues.
- l4silatio to
aeociate MM
(airline  wit private
carriesr presented to
Pari-amt.
- Ratiwa oprsati
rdofittbl lin   ad
station diacontinued.



AM IV
Mlqhhjir 1mm          S2OkA               todeot U                        19o6 - .1tx19r7  hv 1987                       es P       d     t
2 - 3  (a) k~IS a               - hI    mi-m: sal                              -                t.1     tg
C. bx B_ bw|Xe 4SSalte  - qr1wtals                                                   t~ adr -@adb to weae .1±li* -.    ufu 
pm*8  i 'Ml.   gomemi MOMl tin                                                                          Iii ad
(b) %a adogn to       dmtturui (to                                                                             O&diw  -d-
41womm tin         hiOatimi loom.); W
Iud  by at last   b.m     b    to
2 stmt             Wmaui 4~dadtor
patina CIE owl     sal, aid pwmdna of
oful '1oemft       eot  frn; am win
ti bz    to       andbaums la
W6at last       socAl seaziy bondt
-i bW         "          j*dYt
*) s *~~~~o  (to |tvu
tD   oadl);w
to   uein_ t1)
St lq t taff
t           -
tmtsg isetm ci tim
qstn-II tosemm
i/4Xto 1-1t% tix on
-006 to tinack
9 d ,         a, a d mm_ al
oes et
onitEM7tutaz
wdnifaUmiu S"Of the
tai (AWe*)
la*zrend; ate
puit.  tmm 10A&e
0i1.a VAd 1 for
II&MhmI&) *ale
(c) Tloveo tot      -' ihnr. rist to                                       -  p1e,Imt actIti p2s., iIah      -,t1i
ahzlnAatration.    iqwos tar                                             satIsactory fwdiSz% Uawi for       dfctt. to
.1gaiistratim,                                         tin akinistratiui.                staniUlt m ca
Uatrls ad                                                                                0 I_4; 
eMit. (ddi±iamm                                                                          epa  m.d
atAdastrntiwl duqina
- NIWJN5 to hm411f
amlalM to
; ad
uaatsnsam Pm



omWm            411_ doy3          emp ti  pl                                     1    .                        Lsa6 96 A 98
huIk%mjw                                                                        ; 1  - e  - I D ?  -   pg-
v ~~~~~~~-   s                                        13 -4 n-li                  JUl 1374                P  -erhi-
_~~~~n""                     dd                                              plaina  1904tOf.    X           WNGa
W         ad w     I -X   . 9                                    - to    i S                   - S
amour iwnd by      lmt     iarm  r                                                              pil
of - IPMr SWqSi pt Offd                                                                           W-kl S
-lin -                    I wl _ ft-
of                 ad elati zg ESi
(iwbdIa LA6).
m. s
A_            - X  _ -tm mmti   - IAu1a1w          -Peplt lWtWtMrf%i LIO        VL     W p  in. i, 3oL q _    u s  otiaui
ematiee to de    "p.    r              D*tmw ti  w is fate          _ pontmw* La.               t i
g     etot ai    b.uatwfe la*    7 i4qm  pa X  _4 a.
Ciate a   iOW                        wacdb. II  Iin FAIebmtrbtmIq L.
FrmI for die                         D*to  Ut do 0t ,w lawut
C*ital                               forn.r to. smagIwne qutem to
icd"  biAdb. af r  qt wiig
Amidmt -itrn. rof                             Si ala 1     * o   FintwatCa 1n51.
ld~~~Ob" 913016             I~~~~-, - q*   ad         _FOr
perdIbi fn Lw  Mon to be
Objeft ID pSiaim In don Lw
dwii,a MUl W glow
1~~wtam. a- to
p,-6   e.bqlosp  It
-t -



PAP 5 of a
dioS T*aa                                                                               B       ffqlm
Iollwy1bhor term       Policy Objeetiva        or Thnbriwy                 1966 - mId-196                    July 196746Fe
B.    ~           (aT G*bii            -*   -                  -                                                                             rim    -  p a   a  .  -    w m
~~     dintk ad           Irq   em.1 leaaq                                                                            dumtob
-    -W.        Ad imna*uw   toi*L
corora"e aV.
(b) lb fwilitafe    -wd                                         Pteree  drft l   to P                     i.   -  _tiao
cdital             drft  mtil              a b_m t 1  ad                                                       d tIor
retowi Of    1a.                          paoduros. O.w.s to paid
firm    in                                fw: ammbty purocaa,es for
fim"l                                     illiqWd coqaide; Mt*"                                                                               I
difficstia.                               Spcific conditis, pmetaft
aA tfmtdla for Wtioas to
-           -         dae   tlde
Ia pulbgl  et*ligh r4t ad
dd*or, iathdli atin, to
Rea  up foultia.



- 59 -
i            i                                       IJO



-~~~~~~~~~~rtD Tdo                                                                                                 S: l  l l l 
PMILWH1bOt OA        tc  bwbto  saW18  h*IOO dus                                                                e                   ftrrs
s~~~~~~~~x~~o                                               1UIt v r- u*9S7                 JAy 19-6                  laa
W. Ib                  To mi.tal a  I n  apoet
M"lia"    owati_a
all 1=t
at Lam
L6  EJ_mw                             c      t- o " b     - xbi .ida cupaItititiv                   - red
-miasIzwf             atelv  -         I eeta d
(tot myelu, apsat
16~_
t. Basl 1.19 in
tof tais   aAt 2 
ia 186.
- Urn tM letleetg
NWili tot EmL
we.:                                                          -   _l                         gll
dqml.tia of 
of ihllrm  t_.
Ms aqiatto of ive    - 3wiosution to we dizy
ett.& epsMa  ciwit _n*aft4  -,  ox.. cm
$_ont _b ovmt         "wt. mm tedou.1  1w to
SOON.                aple, 4woU3t of am oe
ar.
- lAhamtla of &Attas
On'1, -I tr
ad  _tI                                                       - l  ta.
-  1~tli 1bel



- 61 -
II~~tl0*S II
..              ff~~~1!i   ;      fj I
|~~                        .1



31'
'e. \'od8 R AZIL
PAvSANf)u           C-       P.4'.iX \ a z  I
tX  \  <   <   v   --   ,       <                     (           <      ,    _                                  .n                             3>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



f ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~o S-W '                                                                                                                pg_., o   .                 
!33 0S XR + t a , ,                                                                                                                                                                      , ............. t > th>^#> FF,.! i 3
;4              LiHnsfO          denoh                       iort,o
ARGENTiNA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,R  ) )Y
;  j   )4A S   ,, W t//         q                 odG.<rsd*gX                     g                           g           ,        .2s<S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J,,paafl
I ' "h ,9't/GiANM^O5ttomH\Ws _t.   AN  QY
:~~~~~~~~~~-pb                                                     JO~='.tr tGNiACIO
<9JOTVIDEO                                 Food    I
-ARGENTINA
____                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~URUGUAY
l                                                                                                                    1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~P.,.d llb o Rood
SC ;J T H                                                                                                                                                                                    Poe.rd St -rdoy RGGG'S
AM E e I C A                                                                                                                                                                                 U P.xd Ro.d,
Tth5 mita has bee" Poet eby The WortM aiSr sta.f exokee& tor tte rouwnno of            .                     k.iroods
tie reador an,d O at* Ir fe tfSerdro rs Of The BatW Benm' and fi 5t1r,nahonas
Fnance Co,oWsaon The derotww4o  used ant Via bdns  d5 oIn 5On  t.o not
D, on tfh tWit of The WOOd Banks and Mt K wibtonal From*  ipotrson any OIPfrwng                              Nos5ow.on Chorel
URUGUAY                                                                          On ftho loe.a tat,s ofyer    ra dom        t o ata of test boxfs                                     I         sroins  A        s
Z  0                   NO0 100      IF§0       290                                                                               ED Dsm.,5s
>                                                                                                                        KiLOMErEGtES                               _                                         So
rfi                                                                                                                                                                                                      D.zersp-'Ct
5 6S                                 50                                  SO
u              .          ^                                                                        I  17



