Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15887-SLO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
INVESTHMENT RECOVERY PROJECT
July 3, 1996
Country Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit= Slovene Tolar (SIT)
April
1992       1993         1994         1995         1996
US$ 1.00                   81.3         113.2       128.8        118.5        135.9
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BoS      -     Bank of Slovenia
BRA      -     Bank Rehabilitation Agency
CAR      -     Capital Adequacy Ratio
CAS      -     Country Assistance Strategy
DM       -     Deutsche Mark
EBRD    -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECU      -     European Currency Unit
EFSAL   -      Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
EIA      -     Environmental Impact Assessment
EU       -     European Union
GDP      -     Gross Domestic Product
ICB      -     International Competitive Bidding
IMF      -     International Monetary Fund
IRP      -     Investment Recovery Project
LBdd    -      Ljubljanska Banka dd
LIB      -     Limited International Bidding
LIBOR   -      London Interbank Offered Rate
KBM      -     Kreditna Banka Maribor
KBNG    -      Kreditna Banka Nova Gorica
LBS      -     Ljubljanska Banka System
MoE      -     Ministry of Environment
MoF      -     Ministry of Finance
MoL      -     Ministry of Labor, Family and Social Affairs
NBY      -     National Bank of Yugoslavia
NKBMdd -       Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor
NLBdd   -      Nova Ljubljanska Banka dd
SCL      -     Single Currency Loan
SDK      -     Social Accounting Service
SIT      -     Slovene Tolar
SOE      -     Statement of Expenditure
TA       -     Technical Assistance
USAID   -      United States Agency for International Development
SLOVENIA-FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
INVESTMENT RECOVERY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Loan and Project Summary  ...................................................  i
I. Economic Developments and Outlook   ........................................   I
A. Economic Background and Recent Performance   ...........................   I
B. Enterprise and Banking Sector Program   .................................   2
C. Medium  Term  Outlook ..............................................   2
D. Bank Assistance Strategy  ...........................................   3
I. Private Sector Development ...............................................   4
A. Background   ....................................................   4
B. Transformation of the Enterprise Sector   ................................   4
C. Investment and Financing Requirements .................................   8
111. The Banking Sector                    ....................................                                         9
A. Banking Sector Restructuring Program  ..................................   9
B. Proposed Borrowers under the IRP   ...................................   12
IV. The Project          ............................                   .............................    14
A. Project Objectives and Description ....................................    14
B. Actions Associated with the Project ....................................  15
C. Project Cost and Financing  .........................................    16
D. Environmental Aspects ............................................   16
E. Project On-lending and Implementation Arrangements  ......................   16
F. Project Benefits and Risks ..........................................   18
G. Agreements and Recommendations  ...................................   18
Annexes
I- List of Documents on File ...................................... 20
2 - Project Implementation Plan  ...................................                                    ..  22
3 - Criteria used in Selecting the Borrowing Banks ...........                     .................  30
4 - Schedule of Disbursements ...................................... 32
5 - Nova Ljubljanska dd   ..............                        .......................  33
6 -SKB Banka dd             ..................                        ...................  37
7 - Banka Celje dd  .....................................  41
8 - Summary of the Demand Study (Table)  . ................................  45
This report was prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission to Slovenia in December 1993. The mission was led by
Mr. Hormoz Aghdaey (EC2CO). Mission members were Messrs/Mmes: Hiran Herat, liham Zurayk (EC2CO); Joaquin
Gutierrez (FSD); and Naushad Khan (EC2DR). The Peer Reviewer is Mr. Charles Woodruff (PSD). The Division
Chief is Mr. Michel Noel (EC2CO) and the Department Director is Mr. Jean-Michel Severino (EC2DR).






SLOVENIA
INVESTMENT RECOVERY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers                  Nova Ljubljanska Banka dd
SKB Banka dd
Banka Celje dd
Guarantor                  Republic of Slovenia
Beneficiaries              Private and newly privatized enterprises
Poverty                    Not applicable
Amount                     DM 35 million to NLBdd (US$ 23.0 million equivalent);
DM 30 million to SKB Banka dd (US$19.7 million equivalent); and
DM 10 million to Banka Celje dd (US$6.6 million equivalent);
aggregating to about US$49.3 million equivalent.
Terms                       LIBOR-based Single Currency loans in Deutsche Marks (DM) repayable
over 15 years with 5 years grace period for level repayment of principal
at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based DM single currency
loans.
Commitment Fee             0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balance, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Relending Terms            The borrowers will on-lend loan proceeds to eligible private enterprises.
Subloans to the final beneficiaries will be denominated in DM at market
rates determined by the borrowers. Subloans will be made for periods no
longer than 10 years with grace periods of up to 3 years. The final
beneficiaries will assume the foreign exchange risk.
Financing Plan             IBRD DM 75 million equivalent
Net Present Value          Not applicable
Project Identification No    8855






The Republic of Slovenia
Investment Recovery Project
I. Economic Developments and Outlook
A.     Economic Background and Recent Performance
1.     Despite inherited structural problems
and  a  difficult external environment  (the                  Box 1: Slovenia - Main Indicators
disruptions in trade with the other former
Yugoslav  republics  and  the  slackening  of    Slovenia has a population of about 2 million, and an economy
economic activity in Western Europe), Slovenia   that has traditionally compared favorably with that of most
has made  substantial progress in achieving    other economies in Cenltral and Eastern Europe. Slovenia's
macroeconomic stability since its independence    gross domestic product (GDP) per capita is estimated at about
in October 1991. A new currency--the Slovene    US$8,060 in 1995. The Slovene economy is very open by
Tl (S)i ntroducedon October  1991. Anewcurrency-intemational standards and is heavily concentrated in industry
Tolar (SlT)--introduced on October 8, 1991,    and services (39 percent and 56 percent of the GDP
allowed Slovenia to establish monetary control   respectively). In 1995, total extemal trade amounted to about
and implement a stabilization program aimed at    US$19 billion, roughly about 114 percent of Slovenia's GDP,
reducing the high rates of inflation inherited    with exports accounting for about 57 percent and imports for
from  the former Yugoslav  Federation, and    about 56 percent of GDP. About 75 percent of extemal trade
increasing the critically low  level of foreign    was with developed countries (EU 68 percent, EFIA 2 percent.
incresing  he crticaly lowlevelof foeign and others 5 percent). Being a small and very open economy,
exchange reserves.  Inflation has fallen from      Slovenia is very vulnerable to adverse extermal conditions.
close to 250 percent p.a. in 1991, to about 9    However, Slovenia's exports are quite diversified in tenns of
percent p.a. for 1995.  Inflation for 1996 is   their product mix.
expected to be slightly above the 1995 level.
Reserve levels at end-1995 were about US$3.5
billion (about 4 months of imports).
2.     The stabilization program resulted in continuing contraction in economic activity in 1992. Real
GDP declined by 5.5 percent during 1992, and industrial output in that year declined to 76 percent of
the 1990 levels. Gross domestic investment declined to an all-time low of 15.2 percent of GDP in 1991.
The contraction of activity was accompanied by a sharp increase in the rate of unemployment, from
around 5 percent in 1990 to more than 14 percent in late 1993. In 1993, however, the economy began
to show signs of recovery as GDP grew by about 1 percent. Since then, real GDP has recovered much
faster than had been anticipated. It grew by 5.5 percent in 1994 and is estimated to have grown by 5
percent in 1995. The recovery of economic activity has been driven primarily by investment, which is
estimated to have increased to 22 percent of GDP in 1995, and to a lesser extent by exports.'
3.     Slovenia had enjoyed the highest standards of living among the former Yugoslav republics. Its
economic performance, however, deteriorated dramatically with the rest of Yugoslavia during the 1980s,
because of the structural weaknesses of the old Yugoslav system of enterprise self-management and of
ownership links between banks and enterprises. The system of self-management2 resulted in excessive
I      Mainly financed by retained earnings and short-term credits from the banks.
2      Social ownership attributed ownership to society at large, but entrusted workers with the responsibility of
utilizing enterprise assets. Absent was an owner interested in the long-run viability of the enterprise.



2
wage pressures, and large enterprise losses. Since the banks were owned by the enterprises, they
financed these losses and could not rely entirely on commercial criteria in their assessments of investment
proposals by the enterprises.
4.    The 1992-1993 macroeconomic improvements, although impressive, were achieved on the same
distorted microeconomic foundations that led to hyperinflation and economic stagnation in the 1980s.
Enterprise accounting losses remained high--17 percent of GDP in 1992--and the continued poor
performance of the enterprise sector led to major difficulties of near crisis proportions in the banking
sector. Economic stability, therefore, could clearly not be sustained without a fundamental reform of the
enterprise and banking sectors.
B.    Enterprise and Bankdng Sector Program
5.     Having established macro-stability, the authorities' focus shifted to addressing the inherited
structural weaknesses of the previous system of self-management. In 1993, the Government of Slovenia,
therefore, launched a comprehensive program to address these structural issues. This program has been
supported by the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL, Loan 3636-SLO) which was
approved by the World Bank's Board of Executive Directors on July 15, 1993.
6.    The Slovene authorities have made significant progress in implementing these reforms including:
(i) privatization of socially-owned enterprises; (ii) conversion of enterprises in public services into state-
owned corporations; (iii) rehabilitation of insolvent banks representing a major share of the banking
system; (iv) reduction of losses in the economy; and (v) establishment of the legal framework for private
sector development, and the regulatory framework for a modern banking system. In view of the overall
progress made in implementing the EFSAL program, the second tranche of this loan was released in
December 1995. Chapters II and III of this report present in more detail the major elements and
objectives of this program and summarize implementation results.
C.    Medium-Term Outlook
7.     Economic management in Slovenia has been very successful as evidenced by the high rate of
growth and the low inflation achieved during the last two years. The likelihood that Slovenia will be able
to sustain its recent recovery and a 5 percent p.a. long-run growth rate is high. Nevertheless, realization
of such performance will continue to depend on continued progress in enterprise and bank privatization,
and initiation of comprehensive social security reform. This should stimulate investments, improve
efficiency, and pave the way for sustained long-run growth led by the private sector. As a result of
expected efficiency gains and recovery in investment, Slovenia should be able to achieve sustainable
growth rates of 5-6 percent in the long-run with an investment ratio of around 23-24 percent of GDP.
8.    The majority of the investment should come from the private sector-- private, recently privatized,
and newly established enterprises--as only a decentralized process can succeed in increasing the efficiency
of the existing capital stock and choosing the appropriate new technologies and the pace of their
incorporation. A well disciplined and regulated private banking system will be essential in intermediating
and effectively allocating available resources to the private sector.



3
D.      Bank Assistance Strategy
9.      The Bank's program of assistance to Slovenia focusses on supporting the central elements of the
Government's structural reform program, with reform of the enterprise and banking sectors at its core.
The principal objective of this project is to provide financing for the investment needs of private
enterprises during this transition period. It also aims to continue and reinforce the principals of the
banking reforms initiated under the EFSAL, through the direct relationship to be established with banks
accounting for more than 50 percent of Slovenia's banking assets. The project will be implemented
following the reforms undertaken under the program supported by the EFSAL (paras 5-6), which have
expanded the universe of private and creditworthy enterprises seeking credit, and substantially improved
the efficiency of banking intermediation. In this way, the project will help meet the reform's ultimate
objective of attaining sustainable long-term growth.
10.     A limited Country Assistance Strategy was included in the EFSAL President's Report dated June
22, 1993. Because of its relatively high per capita income, and growing access to other sources of
international finance, World Bank support to Slovenia is being targetted to a few key areas where the
Slovenes consider our inputs to be particularly helpful.3 Given the stable political and economic situation
in the country risks to our operations and assistance strategy are minimal. At the request of the Slovene
authorities, the Bank will start preparation of a CAS in September 1996, to define the nature of future
collaboration during a phase of preparation for integration into the European Union.
11.    IFC   has   provided   assistance  to
Ljubljanska   Banka   dd   (LBdd)   in  its                  Box 2: Slovenia - World Bank Loans
restructuring  efforts.  It has also provided
assistance  in  the  preparation  of securities    In FY96 there were two active Bank operations in Slovenia
legislation  and  revamping   of  the  Stock    one of which (a US$32 million loan for the Slovene Coast
Exchange.    IFC  has  approved  an  equity    Water Supply and Sewerage project) was approved when the
investment  in  an  international  factoring    Republic was still a member of the Yugoslav federation, and
company in Slovenia together with NLBdd. It   the US$80 million EFSAL which was the first loan granted to
cmany also set up a venture capital fund. IFCis     the Republic of Slovenia, following independence and
has also set up a venture capital fund. IFC is    membership in the Bank. Both loans are now closed. A loan
currently   considering   a   US$35   million    of DM 34.6 million for an Environment Project was approved
subordinated loan to NLBdd (para 50).               by the Board of Executive Directors on May 30, 1996. The
Bank is involved in the phaseout of ozone depleting substances
12.    Slovenia  became  a member of the    financed by the GEF. In addition, the Bank sponsored a
International  Monetary   Fund   (IMF)   in   seminar on Environmental Impact Assessment, which took
December 1992, and a member of the World    place In April, 1994.
Bank Group in February 1993, as a successor to
membership of the former Yugoslavia. The last staff report on Article IV consultations was discussed
at the IMF Board on September 1, 1995. Close cooperation has been maintained with IMF staff.
13.     European agencies such as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and
the European Investment Bank (EIB) are currently supporting the development and integration of
Slovenia's infrastructure with that of Western Europe. EBRD's program in Slovenia, of about ECU 311
Standard and Poor's and Moody's of the US and the European agency IBCA have all placed Slovenia in
the "A" category at the same level or slightly above the Czech Republic, previously the most highly rated
of the transition economies.



4
million in total commitments, benefits both the public and the private sectors. This program includes an
equity shareholding in and a line of credit to SKB Banka dd (para 51), a borrower under the proposed
project, and technical assistance to NLBdd, another borrower under the proposed project. EU-Phare
support has included inter alia support for enterprise restructuring and privatization, and financial sector
reform. This support has been very closely coordinated with our efforts under the EFSAL and the
proposed project. The British Know-How Fund and USAID have also been providing substantial
technical assistance for the enterprise and financial sector reforms in close coordination with the Bank.
II. Private Sector Development
A.    Background
14.    Like most other reforming economies of Central and Eastern Europe, Slovenia has followed a
two track path to private sector development: (i) creation of an increasingly favorable environment to
encourage new entry into the private sector and expansion of existing private sector firms; and (ii)
implementation of an extensive program for privatization of socially owned or State-owned enterprises.
There has been remarkable growth in the private sector in the past few years. However, Slovenia has
only recently begun to make progress in the sale of social property and establishment of joint ventures
with majority private ownership.
15.   On November 11, 1992, Parliament adopted of the "Law on Ownership Transformation," to
govern the ownership transformation of about 1,700 medium and large Slovene enterprises. Privatization
proceeded slowly in its initial phase but accelerated following termination of the period for voluntary
submission of privatization applications on December 31, 1994. One of the most important aims of the
Government is to finalize the privatization process by end-1996.
B.    Transformation of the Enterprise Sector
Private Sector Development in 1992-1995
16.   The share of the private sector in the formal enterprise sector revenues grew from 11.4 percent
in 1992 to 28.5 percent in 1995, while employment in the formal private sector increased by almost 160
percent. Although the data on the informal sector is not reliable due to frequent cases of tax evasion,
it is estimated that, in 1995, the formal and informal private sector accounted for about one third of GDP
and about 25 percent of total non-farm employment. Most of this increase has been due to new entrants,
mainly in trade and financial and business services.



5
17.    The rapid increase in private sector activity is the result of the progress made in establishing an
appropriate regulatory framework for a market economy.' This framnework is becoming closely
compatible with the legislation in EU countries.
Table 1: Formal Enterprise Sector by Type of Ownership
# of Enterprises               J of Employees             percent of total output
Ownership Type        1992    1993    1994    1995   1992    1993    1994    1995  1992  1993  1994  1995
Private Incorporated  16,404  23,907  26,245  28,878  28,457  45,730  73,740  97,859  11.4  18.3  24.4  n.a.
Cooperatve             169    257       41      36   4,040   5,435     181    237   1.6   2.0   0.1  n.a.
Socially Owned        2,484   2,383   2,191   2,032 372,183 313,256 277,106 247,275  57.9  50.5  46.5  n.a.
Mixed                 1,094   1,214   1,192   1,222  60,081  60,561  57,240  70,788  16.3  16.7  17.0  n.a.
State Owned            151     141      141    141  57,968  55,643  55,615  55,615  12.8  12.5  12.0  n.a.
Total Formal Sector  20,302  27,902  29,8 10  32,309 522,729 480,625 463,882 471,774  100.0  100.0 100.0 100.0
Source:   Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Payments, Supervision and Infonnation
Note:     The total number of socially owned enterprises in 1995 is over stated due to double counting of subsidiaries, and the backlog in
courts for registering the privatized enterprises.
18.    The most notable legislation adopted by Parliament includes: (i) a Company Law: "Law  on
Commercial Companies," based on the German model, adopted in May 1993; (ii) a Law on Bankruptcy
and Liquidation, adopted in December 1993. The law most importantly introduces Chapter 11-style
reorganization as an option in parallel with liquidation. The Government also intends to build up the
capacity of the court system to deal with the bankruptcy and liquidation cases; (iii) the Law on Securities
Market, adopted in February 1994; (iv) a Competition Law, adopted in April 1993, covering monopoly
regulation and unfair competition, as well as anti-dumping. The law generally follows international
norms and envisages the creation of the Agency for Protection of Competition for enforcement (anti-
monopoly agency); (v) a Law on Mutual and Investment Funds, adopted in February 1994; (vi) a Patent
Law, adopted in March 1992, which provides patent and trademark protection closely in line with modern
international standards and conventions; the Law on Auditing, adopted in 1993, and Slovene Accounting
Standards, according to "GAAP" of the European Union. The Yugoslav Copyright Law remains valid
in Slovenia, and although the Slovene Government has announced its intention to adopt a new law, the
need is not urgent; and (vii) the 1988 Yugoslav Foreign Investment Law (in force in Slovenia) which
allows for 100 percent foreign ownership of enterprise assets. The law is very favorable to new
investments (both foreign and local) and the company income tax rate of 30 percent is one of the lowest
in Europe.
19.     The Government is in the process of reviewing the current legal framework for secured
transactions and plans to take steps to modernize the system of real estate and mortgage registration in
4       Slovenia has more than 55,000 enterprises, of which about 25,000 are small entrepreneurial firms,
employing close to 55,000 workers, and the balance are classified as "formal" enterprises. The formnal
enterprise sector accounts for about two-thirds of both GDP and total employment. Employment in the
formal enterprise sector dropped sharply in 1992-1993, and was the main cause of the rise in unemployment
rates. Employment levels stabilized in 1994 (at a 14.4 percent unemployment rate) and began recovery in
1995 (a 13.5 percent unemployment rate).



6
order to provide the proper underpinnings for a secure and predictable system of collateral. The
registration of security interests on movables is addressed by the Law on Notarial Services. The
Securities and Exchange Commission has been established as an independent regulatory body, with
considerably enhanced capacity to supervise the capital market, including the activities of the Stock
Exchange.
Privatization Policy and Legislation
20.    The  1992  privatization  law  relied    Box 3:  Privatization under the Law  on Ownership
initially  on  enterprises  to  initiate  their    Transformation
transformation, under guidance and with
monitoring by the Privatization Agency (the    Transformnation under the law results first in the conversion of
Agency). The law decreed that all enterprises    socially-owned enterprises into shareholding companies with a
covered must voluntarily have completed the    revalued capital base. Twenty percent of the shares of each
initial transformation by end-1 994--18 months    enterprise are reserved for acquisition by employees using
after the date of effectiveness of the law--after    ownership certificates. A further 40 percent of the shares are
allocated for sale through employee purchases, public tender,
which  all  transformation   rights  of  the    and public auction and sale. For these shares, employees are
enterprise would be transferred to the Agency.    given the right of first refusal, with a 50 percent discount on
Parliamnent held  firm  to  this deadline and    the price of the shares. The remaining 40 percent are allocated
consequently the transformation rights of those    as follows: 10 percent to the Compensation Fund, 10 percent
enterprises which failed to meet the deadline    to the Pension Fund, and 20 percent to the Development Fund
(the Fund) which will distribute this share among Special
are now  held by the Agency.   Following            Investment Funds. The law explicitly allows the sale of a
Parliarnentary discussions on consolidating the    company in its entirety, or the sale of the controlling interest
acceleration  in  privatization,  it has  been    in a company. The Compensation Fund, Pension Fund, and
decided to adopt amendments to the law, in the    Special Investment Funds are compensated in cash from the
near future, to strengthen  the enforcement    proceeds of such sales. Ownership certificates (equivalent to
powers  of  the  Agency  in  implementing           40 percent of the total social capital of enterprises) have been
powersvatizationissued and freely distributed among all citizens of Slovenia.
privalizations.                                     The non-transferable certificates have a nominal value ranging
from SIT 100,000 to SIT 400,000 and have been distributed
21.    The Government has restricted State    according to age, with those who were under 18 years of age
ownership of enterprises to those in electric    receiving certificates valued at the bottom of the range and
power   generation,   transmission    and    those who were 48 or older receiving certificates valued at the
distribution; gas  distribution; the  railroad    top of the range. Citizens can use their certificates to buy
shares of Special Investment Funds, or the shares of companies
subsector; road construction and maintenance;    offered through public sale. The employees of an enterprise
sea and air ports; telecommunications; postal    have the additional option of using their certificates to
services; and  water distribution  and  other    purchase the shares reserved for them.
municipal  public  services.    A   Law   on
Conmnercial Public Services was adopted on
June 2, 1993, and provided the legal underpinning for conversion of the concerned enterprises to State
ownership, which has already been completed. A law on the Privatization of Legal Entities and Property
Owned by the Republic of Slovenia is under consideration by Parliament. Independent regulatory systems
for the designated subsectors are being established as a means for facilitating eventual private sector
provision of commercial public services.5
These regulatory systems will be established through specific laws for the energy, telecommunications and
railway subsectors, which will, inter-alia, govern the organization and define the regulatory framework for
these subsectors, and identify those activities which will be privatized in the medium term. The law for



7
Private Sector Institutions
22.   The Privatization Agency, the principal institution in charge of implementing privatization, was
established in December 1990, in accordance with a 1989 Yugoslav law. It has since been very
competently managed and has gained valuable experience in privatization.
23.   The Agency has been responsible for approval of the transformation programs submitted by
enterprises and for valuation of the enterprises, where required, and has issued extensive guidelines to
be followed by enterprises in preparing their privatization programs. The Agency is also responsible for
privatizing the enterprises which did not submit programs by the end-1994 deadline. The Agency is
receiving technical assistance from a number of sources including, the EU-Phare program, the British
Know-How Fund and USAID.
24.   The Development Fund is charged with the management and disposal of the shares it acquires
during the process of transformation. It has been substantially self-supporting through revenues acquired
from privatization proceeds. Its mandate also provides for it to support the development of small
businesses. The Development Fund plays an interim role in holding and subsequently transferring 20
percent of the privatized capital of enterprises to the investment funds which were established during
1994. These investment funds are publicly held, and act either as passive or active investors.
25.    The Small Business Development Fund, which has been in operation since 1991, provides credit
subsidies and guarantees to small private businesses. The total annual size of these operations has not
exceeded US$4 million.6 The Ministry of Economic Activities (Industry) and the Slovene Chamber of
Economy also have active programs for promotion of private sector activity. Slovenia has had a tradition
of private small-scale economic activities, and the Govermnent has introduced many measures to
capitalize on this vibrant sector of the economy and to promote its further development. The Small
Business Development Center has been established by the Ministry of Economic Relations and
Development as a non-profit organization. The Center has some 500 regional and local branches and
special networks, dealing with dissemination of information, consulting, training and promotional and
public relations activities for small business. It is expected that the restructured banking sector will also
play a major role in the development of the private sector through its new credit operations, as well as
active participation in the debt work-out of privatizing enterprises. Finally, in addition to the many local
business support organizations and consulting groups, many multinational auditing and management
consulting companies have established offices in Ljubljana.
Privatization Progress
26.    At the outset of the privatization program, the Government's goal was to privatize, under the new
privatization legislation, some 1,700 medium-to-large enterprises (mainly in the industry/ manufacturing
sector) in the course of three years. Privatization of 400 socially-owned enterprises, accounting for 20
percent of the value added contribution of all enterprises subject to the Law on Ownership
the railways subsector was adopted by Parliament in December 1993; the law for telecommunications is
under consideration by Parliament; and the law for the energy subsector will be submitted to Parliament
shortly.
The US$4 million program supports lending by the banks of about US$10-15 million.



8
Transformation, was a second tranche release condition of the EFSAL. The target was met and included
enterprises for which preparations for privatization were initiated even prior to adoption of the new
privatization law. The remaining socially owned enterprises are expected to be privatized by end-1996.
27.    Privatization proceeded slowly in its initial phase, because of the voluntary character of the
process, the delays in resolution of denationalization claims by the local authorities, and the mandated
reviews of post-privatization transactions. This pace, however, changed markedly when the period for
voluntary submnission of privatization applications ended on December 31, 1994.
28.    By end-May 1996 the Privatization Agency had received about 1,490 applications for
privatization, and had approved the privatization of about 1150 enterprises.' This figure includes 600
enterprises which have finished their privatization procedures and are recorded, in the court register, as
private companies, as well as 550 enterprises in the process of implementation of their approved (by the
Privatization Agency) programs.
29.    The Privatization Agency estimates that about 40 percent of the capital of privatized enterprises
was privatized through internal buy-out and distributions, 22 percent was sold through public offerings,
18 percent was transferred to the Development Fund for future sale, and about 18 percent was transferred
to the Pension and the Compensation funds.8 By end-1995, almost 80 percent of the privatization
certificates issued to Slovene citizens had been used either directly to purchase enterprise shares or placed
with investment funds.9 About twenty management companies (principally established by banks) had
established 45 investment funds, which had collected more than SIT 240 billion equivalent of certificates.
The investment funds had used about SIT 27 billion to purchase shares in about 146 companies which
were offered in three auctions organized by the Development Fund. It is becoming evident that the
supply of shares for privatization will need to be augmented, beyond the amount available in enterprises
covered by the privatization law. This is likely to be accomplished by future offerings of shares in large
public services enterprises and commercial banks.
C.    Investment and Financing Requirements
30.    During the initial phase of preparation of this project (in 1993-1994), a demand study was
commissioned to assess the investment and financing needs of the private sector. The study was carried
out through a survey of 20 banks covering more than 90 percent of bank lending in Slovenia, and their
clients. The survey of the banks included questionnaires covering information on recent investment and
lending activities and the banks' projections of future investment by their clients and demand for credit;
direct contacts with general managers of profitable enterprises; and interviews with the Development Fund
management.
The first approval is the key decision taken in privatization of an enterprise. Second approval is awarded
after contracts between the enterprise and buyers are finalized.
About 2 percent of the capital is being held in reserve for denationalization and other purposes.
As all certificates remaining with the citizens will loose their value by January 1, 1997, it is expected that
the remaining 20 percent of certificates would be invested before end-1996.



9
31.   Annex 8 summarizes, in table form, the findings of this initial study which indicated an average
annual investment growth of about 18 percent during the 1994-1996. This figure was substantially in line
with the macroeconomic projections at that time. Investment by private enterprises was expected to
increase from US$273 million in 1994, to US$1,346 million in 1996. New equity financing and internal
cash generation were expected to finance more than 70 percent of these investment needs. Demand for
credit by private enterprises was expected to increase, on this basis, from about US$115 million in 1994
to about US$338 million in 1996. All banks interviewed showed marked interest in utilizing World Bank
resources to meet their clients' needs for long-term credit.'0
32.   These projections were further substantiated in non-quantitative interviews with general managers
of large profitable enterprises. Managers interviewed shared the opinion that, in Slovenia, there exists
a high level of hidden demand for investment loans. Investment in enterprises was initially suppressed
due to the delay in privatization, since investments would increase the value of enterprises and in turn
would make internal privatization more costly. Enterprise managers were confident that new investments
would pick up and grow with the pace of privatization.
33.   This has in fact been the case, as indicated by the actual growth in investment in the last two
years, following progress in the privatization process and in implementation of financial sector reforms.
Gross fixed investment in 1995 is estimated to have amounted to about US$3,900 million or 22.4 percent
of GDP. This is 36 percent higher than projected at the time the demand study was undertaken.
34.   NLBdd, SKB Banka dd, and Banka Celje dd (the three borrowers under this project) have
submitted information, to the Bank, on current outstanding applications by their clients for long-term
loans. These requests amount to about DM 120 million for NLBdd, to about DM 40 million for SKB
Banka dd, and to about DM 10 million for Banka Celje dd.
III. The Banldng Sector
A.    Banldng Sector Restructuring Program
35.   In parallel with its push for private sector development and enterprise sector reforms, the
Government of Slovenia has implemented a comprehensive bank restructuring program, supported by the
EFSAL.
36.   Major elements of this program included: (i) reform of the legal and regulatory framework; and
(ii) restructuring of individual banks and resolution of their problem  portfolios.  Now that the
restructuring process is near completion, the Government is preparing the banks for privatization.
37.   The bank restructuring program has had a major impact on the intermediation spreads of the
banks, and consequently on the interest rates for working capital and long-term investment credits. By
April 1996, average real interest rates on Tolar loans had declined to around 12 percent (from about 24-
'°    To further exanmne the investment and credit demand projections of the commercial banks, the study
undertook a review of the Small Business Development Fund operations and the business plans of 98
enterprises in the Development Fund portfolio. Comnmercial bank loans to small enterprises supported by
the Small Development Fund program amounted to between US$10-15 million during 1992-1994.
I



10
27 percent in 1992). Currently, the larger banks              Box 4: Slovenl - Financlil sector
are lending to their best clients at rates of about 9-                                :
11 percent in real terms. Given the improved credit
standing of Slovenia and specifically of the larger    The Slovene financal system includes 33 banks; 12
commercial banks, these banks have been able to    previous LB System member banks; SKE Bankadd;
start raising funds on European markets on good    Abankaa; and a numnber of small new  banks
terms. For example, recently syndicated loans have    established fo1lowing the removal of barriers to enty
been secured by NLBdd and SKB for rates as low    into the banking sector in 1990.  Eight of these
smaller banks: have foreign partners, and one is 100
as about LIBOR plus 50 basis points for six year    percent foreign owned. The former LB System
money. This has enabled the banks to provide, to    member banks account for about.8& percent of total
their best clients, medium-term DM  loans at about    assets of the banking system, while Abanka and SKB
LIBOR  plus 220-350 basis points.  The rates,    Banka dd account for 5 percent and 12 percent of the
therefore, are now much closer to rates of return on    total respectively. The small banks each represent
less than 0.5 percent of the system's total assets.
capital which can be achieved on attractive projects.    Commercial banks dominate the financial system-and
are the major source of credit to the Slovene
38.    At the same time, the bank restructuring    economy. The financial system also includesabout
program  is having a major impact on resource    I 10 saving and cooperative banks and several non-
allocation by the banks and private sector access to    bank financial institutions.   A  Securities and
credit.   The foundations for this change have           xchange Commission and a Stock Exchange were
already been established by the:  (i) delinkage of    established in 1990.
bank owners and borrowers in the banks under
rehabilitation; (ii) carving-out of seriously impaired loans; (iii) establishment of bank boards charged with
the task of overseeing adoption of new credit policies and systems; and (iv) establishment of regulations
to guide banking activities.
Legal and Regulatory Framework
39.    As part of the initial reform of the legal framework, the Banking and Bank Rehabilitation laws
were amended by Parliament in 1993. This was a first step which did not fully deal with all pending
regulatory issues including those related to lending, bank governance, and the powers of the BoS as bank
supervisor. During implementation of the EFSAL, a major effort was undertaken by the Government,
in consultation with the Bank, to prepare comprehensive new banking legislation. The resulting proposed
new banking law encompasses agreed improvements in the above crucial areas as well as in regulation
of financial conglomerates, bank resolution, and prudential standards. The proposed new law is now
under consideration by Parliament (para 56).
40.    In mid-1993, the BoS adopted regulations on asset classification, provisioning and interest
suspension, and capital adequacy. In addition, as part of its continuing program to improve banking
regulations, the BoS has adopted a detailed plan for preparation and adoption of regulations which will
govern application of the forthcoming banking law.
41.    Moreover, under the program supported by the EFSAL, the BoS adopted a comprehensive plan
to reinforce bank supervision including development of an off-site surveillance and credit risk system,
on-site examination methodologies, and a training and staff development program. It reorganized the
structure of the supervision department, which now includes: (i) a group responsible for designing and
implementing an off-site surveillance system; (ii) a special unit in charge of quick assessments of potential
problem banks; and (iii) two groups in charge of conducting normal inspection work. Because of the
dearth of experienced supervisors in Slovenia, the BoS is utilizing EU-Phare funds to engage external



11
auditors to support its on-site examinations. During preparation of the IRP, the BoS developed, in
consultation with the Bank, supervision programs tailored for the borrowers under the project.
Implementation of Bank Restructuring and Privatization
42.    At the time of the initiation of the bank restructuring program, major banks in the system were
suffering from high operational losses and were insolvent. Two critical financial problems were: (i) the
banks' non-performing loan portfolios and doubtful guarantees; and (ii) the claims of the banks against
NBY, which were largely related to the foreign currency deposits of households and were frozen
following independence from Yugoslavia. Real lending rates had risen to levels much higher than normal
rates of return on capital, substantially hampering investment and growth of viable enterprises. Real rates
on working capital loans and long-term investment loans were about 25 percent and 28 percent
respectively in June 1993. The losses were concentrated in three banks: LBdd, Kreditna Banka Maribor
(KBM), and Kreditna Banka Nova Gorica (KBNG), which together accounted for 74 percent and 87
Table 2: Selected Banking Sector Reforms Supported by the EFSAL
Implementation of Bank Restructuring and Privatization and Debt Recovery
Status in July 1993                               Current Status
Substantial progress in restructuring of LBdd and KBM.   Rehabilitation program of NLBdd and NKBM near completion.
Preparation of a privatization law which defines the pnvatization
process for NLBdd and NKBM and the desired ownership structure
of the banks.
Carve-out of problem debts from the books of banks  Restructuring or other appropriate resolution for at least one third of
under rehabilitation.                       the debtors and one third of the debts carved-out from the banks.
percent of banking system exposure to problem loans and doubtful guarantees, respectively. The three
banks accounted for 53 percent of the total assets of the banking system.
43.    At the time of the EFSAL Board presentation, some progress had already been made in
restructuring LBdd and KBM, which were taken over by the Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) in early-
1993. The measures that had already been implemented included the: (i) write-off of losses against the
banks' existing capital; (ii) BRA acquisition of the remaining net worth of the banks in exchange for
conversion of previous bank owners' equity shares into a subordinated debt of the BRA; (iii) carve-out
of potential losses from the banks in exchange for an equivalent amount of BRA bonds guaranteed by the
State;` and (iv) adoption of restructuring programs aimed at enabling these banks to achieve a Capital
Adequacy Ratio (CAR) of 4 percent and positive operating cash flows by mid-1994, and at strengthening
the banks' governance and risk management policies and systems. All rights of previous owners of the
banks, except the right to participate in possible revenues from the recovery of the impaired assets carved
By end-December 1993, the BRA had completed carving-out DM 1.0 billion of LBdd's and DM 0.4 billion
of KBM's problem assets identified at the time of their takeover.



12
out by the BRA, were eliminated. In a parallel action, the State had exchanged, for the banks in the
system, the frozen claims against NBY with State bonds.
44.   InJuly 1994, the Slovene Parliament adopted constitutional amendments which essentially effected
a second stage restructuring of LBdd and KBM. Each of these banks was separated into a new bank and
an old bank. All branches in other former Yugoslav republics and all assets and liabilities related to
former Yugoslavia remained in the old banks, to be dealt with directly by the BRA and the Government.
The new banks, Nova Ljubljanska Banka (NLBdd) and Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor (NKBM), were
thus cleaned of the remaining major outstanding problem assets and liabilities in preparation for their
future privatization. The authorities' initial efforts to sell KBNG to suitable investors were not successful
and, in early 1994, the BRA took over the bank for rehabilitation. A diagnostic review indicated that
this bank was too small to be an effective independent institution, and it was subsequently merged with
NKBM as of January 1, 1995.
45.   The end-1995 audits of NLBdd and NKBM indicate that (i) both banks have a CAR substantially
exceeding the 4 percent target agreed under the EFSAL, and (ii) the major burden on operational cash
flow of the banks, resulting from their holdings of DM denominated, 30 year BRA and Republic of
Slovenia bonds, was substantially remedied by replacement of the BRA bonds in both banks with 3, 7,
10, and 15 year bonds denominated in SITs. Since their take-over and the appointment of new
management, the two banks have been effectively managed. The supervisory boards of the banks have
been dominated by the staff of the BRA. The Government, BoS, and the BRA are presently taking steps
towards graduating the two banks from rehabilitation in advance of their privatization.
46.   A privatization strategy is currently being formulated by the authorities with a view to privatizing
the two banks by late-1996/early-1997. The legal framework for these privatizations will be established
by the law on Privatization of Legal Entities and Property Owned by the Republic of Slovenia, currently
under consideration by Parliament. As initially expected, the focus of the BRA, as the owner of the
banks, is beginning to shift from rehabilitation to privatization. The BRA was directly in charge of the
negotiations for divestiture of NLBdd's share in daughter banks, and by end-1994 it had sold the shares
in the largest of NLBdd daughter banks (Koper and Novo Mesto, Celje, and Kranj). With the graduation
of NLBdd and NKBM, the BRA will be wrapping up its banking rehabilitation operations.'2 The new
banking law assigns the responsibility for future bank resolutions to the BoS.
B.    Proposed Borrowers under the IRP
47.   In preparation for IRP appraisal, all banks (over 30) were contacted and briefed, by the Ministry
of Finance (MoF), about the objectives of the project as well as participation requirements. Seven banks
(NLBdd, KBM, SKB Banka dd, Banka Celje dd, SIBdd, Abanka, and LB Kranj) applied to MoF to be
considered as potential intermediaries for the line of credit.
48.   During project preparation, the authorities agreed to a three step process leading to their
endorsement of banks as borrowers under the project.  These steps included: (i) thorough
12    The BRA's other major area of focus has been restructuring of the carved-out debt. Significant support
from the British Know-How Fund, USAID, and EU-Phare has been utilized to further develop transaction
experience, policies, procedures, and systems for asset management. The latest available (mid-1995) data
showed that 36 percent of the debts of the enterprises originally transferred to the BRA had been resolved.



13
audits/diagnostics according to agreed terms of reference fully reflected in the auditors' engagement
letters; (ii) conclusion of satisfactory supervisory agreements, as necessary, between the BoS and
participating banks; and (iii) issuance to the Bank of a supervisory comfort letter by the BoS for each
bank.
49.    Following discussions and review of all applicant banks, it was decided to proceed with the
extensive review of three banks, NLBdd, SKB Banka dd, and Banka Celje, which will be the borrowers
under the project. The three banks have all had, in addition to their normal annual statutory audits by
international auditors, an extended diagnostic audit performed on their accounts of 1993 or 1994. They
together account for 46 percent of the banking assets in Slovenia and 53 percent of the banking sector's
claims on the non-banking sectors. The detailed assessment of these banks are available on file, on a
confidential basis, due to the propriety nature of the information.
50.    NlBdd (Annex 5) is a particularly important participant in the IRP because of its skilled staff and
record in investment financing as well as its size and reach in the country. The bank has been
successfully undergoing rehabilitation since 1993 and is, at this time, fully Government owned. The bank
is expected to be privatized by end-1997. The bank has benefitted from assistance from the Bank and
IFC, since the 1980s, and has been the training ground for Slovene experts in the field of investment
evaluation and financial analysis. Previous NLBdd staff are now occupying senior level positions in BoS,
BRA, the Development Fund, the Privatization Agency, as well as in other banks and Government
agencies. NLBdd is the borrower of the Energy Conservation and Substitution Project (Loan 2799-0)
which disbursed US$24 million in FY94. The loan closed on June 30, 1994, and the final disbursement
was made in July 1994. In addition to this proposed loan, NLBdd is in discussions with various financial
institutions to secure subordinated debt for balance sheet strengthening, which will help in privatization
of the bank. The bank has also successfully raised three syndicated loans of US$15 million, DM 120
million, and DM 75 million in Europe to reduce its Slovene interbank borrowings.
Table 4: Slovenia - Banking Sector (end-1995)
total all banks
SIT"   DM   US$  Percent  NLBd   SKBd  Celje
(in billions)    GDP       as % of total banks
Assets          1,552   17.7  12.3   76.3      31.9    11.5   4.4
Claims on non-
banking sectors2'  906   10.3   7.2   44.7     35.1    12.5   5.4
Deposits         872    9.9   6.9   42.8       24.5    14.2   5.3
Notes:
1/ US$ I = 125.9 SIT; DM I = 87.89 SIT (end of month rates for 12/95)
2/ Includes loans, commercial papers and bonds, and shares and participations.
Source: Bank of Slovenia and Commercial Banks
51.    SKB Banka dd (Annex 6) has actively sought dialogue witti the Bank since the initial stages of
EFSAL preparation. SKBdd is one of the youngest and most dynamic banks in Slovenia. Its
management team is competent and reasonably experienced. SKBdd's risk management programs appear



14
better developed than those in other Slovene banks, but require further enhancement. Organizational
changes are needed in order to integrate treasury functions and lending units (international and corporate).
Management is aware of these limitations and is seeking to strengthen these key units. The bank is over
50 percent privately owned, including about 25 percent by foreign investors. EBRD, with a 15 percent
shareholding, is the largest shareholder. The other major owners include, ASH dd Brokerage House (5.6
percent), the City of Ljubljana (5.1 percent), German Investment and Development Company (DEG --
5 percent), and Merril Lynch International (4.3 percent). Management holds close to a 5 percent
participation and also exercises control over 6 percent owned by SKBdd. The bank secured, in 1994,
a line of credit of DM 50 million from EBRD for onlending to its clients (not limited to the private
sector). The line is fully disbursed.'3 In addition, the bank has secured two syndicated loans from
Barclay's Bank and Barclays de Zoete Wedd.
52.    Banka Celje dd (Annex 7) is a well established bank that has its origins in the community savings
bank of the Celje region of Slovenia. It was established in 1894. Since 1993, the bank's market share
has steadily grown from about 4.0 percent to 4.4 percent of the total Slovene banking system.
Management plans to increase this share to at least 8 percent, regarded as the minimum size needed to
achieve medium-term viability. Senior management of the bank intends to achieve this major objective
through mergers and acquisitions, as well as the establishment of new branches. The main focus of
Banka Celje's business remains retail banking and support to the existing local corporate community.
There is growing local competition, but the bank's regional market share has stabilized at around 75
percent of the retail accounts. The bank is over 60 percent privately owned. The ownership is well
diversified with more than I,000 shareholders, only one of which exceeds a significant level of
participation (10 percent). The corporate governance structure in place is effective.
IV. The Project
A.    Project Objectives and Description
53.    The Investment Recovery Project (IRP) complements the Enterprise and Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) by helping to provide long-term finance for the new cycle of private
investments resulting from Slovenia's program of enterprise and financial sector reforms. The project
follows successful stabilization of the Slovene economy, and substantial progress in restructuring major
banks. To this end, it will help maintain the momentum built under the EFSAL in reforming the banking
system, by enforcing the principles of these reforms in three borrowing banks, accounting for about 50
percent of Slovenia banking assets.  The project is timed to coincide with a period of intensive
privatization of enterprises accounting for more than 75 percent of Slovenia's enterprise sector output.
54.   It is proposed that a separate single currency loan (SCL) be made to each of the three borrowing
banks with the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. The loans will be to: (i) Nova Ljubljanska Banka
dd (DM 35 million); SKB Banka dd (DM 30 million); and Banka Celje dd (DM 10 million). The single
The loan is for 8.5 years with 1.5 years of grace at LIBOR plus 125 basis points, and was disbursed in
three tranches. The loan has already been fully utilized by SKB. This is an example of the demand for
term finance in the country, and the dynamism with which Slovene banks intermediate such funds. It
should be noted, however, that EBRD funds could be granted to enterprises prior to their privatization.



15
currency loans will be repayable over 15 years with 5 years of grace for level repayment of principal,
at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based DM single currency loans. During appraisal, Bank
experts met Government officials and commercial bank managers to explain the terms and characteristics
of the loans available under the Single Currency Loan Program (single currency and currency pool loans).
B.    Actions Associated with the Project
55.   The project encompasses three mutually reinforcing sets of actions designed to safeguard project
objectives: first, submission to Parliament of a satisfactory new banking law, prior to IRP Board
presentation; second, commitment by the Bank of Slovenia to supervise the borrowing banks according
to criteria satisfactory to the Bank; and third, inclusion, in the project, of agreements with the banks, as
appropriate, to ensure the application of prudent banking practices.
56.    The proposed banking law, which was approved by Government on June 27, 1996, and has been
submitted for Parliamentary approval, was prepared by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia
in close collaboration with concerned parties including the Slovene Bankers Association. It also reflects
close consultation with the Bank during implementation of the EFSAL and preparation of this project.
The proposed law strengthens the authority of the Bank of Slovenia in bank regulation and supervision.
The Bank of Slovenia will be vested with full powers for implementing the banking law and regulations.
The law clearly delineates the enforcement process, as well as an effective mechanism for temporary
intervention in problem banks, and defines the responsibility for managing bank resolutions.
57.    As part of its collaboration in implementation of the project, the Bank of Slovenia has, inter alia,
committed to perform an extensive on-site examination of SKBdd and Banka Celje in 1996, and of
NLBdd in 1997. These on-site examinations will include a special portfolio review to be carried out by
Bank of Slovenia supervisory staff with the assistance of external advisors, and special audits of the
banks' organizations, procedures and processes to be carried out by international auditing firms financed
by the EU-Phare. The Bank of Slovenia has committed to review with the Bank the results of these
audits and the actions that they will request the banks to undertake to remedy shortcomings. This
collaboration with the Bank of Slovenia on the three banks will be part of the ongoing enhancement of
the supervisory function of the Bank of Slovenia, initiated under the EFSAL. As part of its commitment
to this goal, the Bank of Slovenia has expressed its intent to review with the Bank during the
implementation of the IRP the lessons learned from its supervision activities during 1996-1997, and
accordingly modify its supervisory strategy and plan of activities for 1998-1999.
58.    Moreover, the Bank of Slovenia intends to adopt, during the first year of implementation of the
project, new regulations on risk concentration management standards and large exposure limits, liquidity
risk management standards, and foreign exchange risk management.
59.    The Bank of Slovenia has confirmed the good standing of the borrowers with respect to current
Slovene regulations in letters of comfort sent to the Bank in March 1996. Given the strength of the Bank
of Slovenia program and the positive future impact of the new banking law, specific conditions on the
borrowers, in this project, has focussed on establishing risk management functions independent from the
lending functions. To this end, specific agreements reached with the respective borrowing banks include:
(i) assignment by Banka Celje, prior to effectiveness of the Bank loan, of a qualified consultant or staff
of the bank, based on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to establish and expanded credit risk
management function, independent from the lending function; and (ii) initiation by SKB and Banka Celje,
by end-1996, of implementation of a plan, acceptable to the Bank, to introduce an improved risk



16
management function.4 In addition, agreements have been reached with each of the borrowers to review
with the Bank, by mid-November of each year during project implementation, the proforma letters of
engagement of their respective statutory annual external audits with a view to modifying/expanding the
scope of these audits as necessary.
C.    Project Cost and Financing
60.   The total cost of the line of credit is estimated at about DM 75 million equivalent.
D.    Environmental Aspects
61.   This project has been classified as a "B" project, in conformance with normal practice under O.D.
4.01 regarding intermediary lending. Since subprojects are yet to be determined, specific guidelines
would be established for the environmental screening and analysis/assessment of subprojects, following
subproject selection. Specific environmental requirements for subproject approval would be developed
in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment (MoE) in Slovenia. The preparation of mitigation plans
or environmental assessments as needed would be the responsibility of the MoE. The capacity of the
selected intermediary banks to carry out environmental screening and of local firns to carry out
environmental analyses and assessments was reviewed during appraisal, and were found to be satisfactory.
62.   Specifically, during the appraisal mission, environmental impact assessment (EIA) procedures of
LBdd and SKBdd, MoE, and participating organizations were reviewed. The knowledge of EIA
procedures and the capabilities to undertake EIAs are generally very high in Slovenia, and the number
of individuals and companies capable of doing them is growing. In June 1994, Parliament adopted a law
which made EIAs obligatory on a broad scale.
63.   As in the western countries, the banks themselves are not undertaking any major EIAs but
delegate this task to specialized institutes. In Slovenia, there are currently a number of organizations with
proven ability to undertake satisfactory western-style EIAs. The Bank, in collaboration with the
authorities, made arrangements for a major training course, which took place in April 1994. The MoE
and a number of the Slovene banks including the potential borrowers of IRP loans participated in this
course. The cost for the training course was covered under the Bank's Mediterranean Environmental
Technical Assistance Program (METAP).
E.    Project On-Lending and Implementation Arrangements
64.   The onlending and implementation arrangements were agreed during negotiations. They are
summarized below and discussed in more detail in the Project Implementation Plan (Annex 2).
Onlending Arrangements
65.   The bank subloans for investments will be made to eligible enterprises and would be for periods
no longer than ten years with grace periods of up to three years. All subloans would be made in DM,
at market rates, and the beneficiaries will assume the foreign exchange risk. Subloans will be made
1'    NLBdd has already established separate and independent lending and risk management functions.



17
available on a first-come, first-served basis, without prior allocation to specific types of activity or
categories of enterprises.
Project Implementation arrangements
66.   A project implementation team has been appointed in each bank. The teams will be responsible
for overall implementation of the project. The team will be headed by a team leader assisted by two
other staff members, one for procurement and one for financial/disbursement matters. Team members
will be trained in project implementation, including procurement and disbursement.  Details of
implementation arrangements, including inter alia Accounts and Audits, Training of Staff, Monitoring
and Evaluation and Supervision are included in the Project Implementation Plan (Annex 2).
Eligible Enterprises and Subprojects
67.    Any enterprise duly established under the laws of Slovenia, with at least 51 percent private share-
holding (controlling share), will be eligible to seek financing under the loan. The borrowing banks will
undertake normal financial investigations as part of their credit analysis of potential borrowers. Subloans
over DM 4.5 million equivalent will require prior World Bank review. The first appraisal by each
participating bank will be submitted for prior World Bank review, irrespective of subloan size.
68.   The subloans may finance up to 80 percent of an expansion/modernization project in the case of
an existing enterprise, or up to 50 percent of total investment in the case of a new enterprise.
69.    For all subloans above DM  450,000 equivalent: (i) during the term  of the subloan, the
enterprise's debt:equity ratio should not exceed 60:40, and the debt-service coverage ratio should not fall
below 1.5; and (ii) the proposed investment must have a financial rate of return of at least 12 percent.
For subloans of less than DM 450,000 equivalent, the banks will utilize their own criteria to assess the
viability and financial soundness of the investments and of the enterprise and its capacity to service the
debt. Banks will be expected to include in their credit appraisal a demonstration that the currency and
terms selected for the subloans are appropriate, given the projected foreign exchange revenues of the sub-
borrowers.
70.    The banks will ensure in their on-lending agreements that enterprises which benefit from the
proceeds of the loan are currently in compliance with Slovene environmental regulations, and agree to
build facilities and operate their plants according to these regulations.
Procurement and Disbursement
71.   The loan will finance the procurement of goods and related services, including machinery,
equipment, tools, materials, etc., needed by private enterprises for new plants, upgrading, debottlenecking
and expansion, as well as, associated working capital. All procurement under the loan will be carried
out in accordance with the Bank Procurement Guidelines. Given the nature of the project, involving
support to subprojects which have not been preappraised, detailed estimates for the breakdown of the
project expenditures by procurement method are not available. Accordingly, a procurement table is not
included. Retroactive financing of about 9 percent of the aggregate amount of the three loans (DM 3.5
million and DM 3.0 million for NLBdd and SKB Banka dd, respectively) will be provided for payments
for goods made after June 10, 1996. Details of the procurement and disbursement arrangements are
included in the Project Implementation Plan (Annex 2).



18
F.    Project Benefits and Risks
72.   Investment growth is key to maintaining the impact of the structural reforms and speeding up the
growth of the Slovene economy. Despite its small size, the Investment Recovery Project is expected to
play an important role in supporting investment by the private sector. The funds to be provided are long-
term resources whereas up to now enterprises have utilized revolving short-term credits to cover a major
share of their credit needs. At this point, there is practically no local source of long-term finance in the
country, although the major banks have recently been raising 3-5 year money on the European markets.
The selection of DM for this project will benefit the beneficiaries by making available to them loans in
the currency of their expected export revenues, thereby avoiding possible cross-currency risks.
Furthermore, as the IRP funds will be exclusively targeted to private enterprises, it will help speed up
private sector growth and the privatization process by promising to support the financing needs of the
would-be owners at sustainable costs.
73.   By following substantial progress in restructuring major banks, the project will help maintain the
momentum built under the EFSAL in reforming the banking system. It will help consolidate the
restructuring actions and institutional development in the three borrowing banks. Furthermore, the
availability of Bank Group funds to these banks will help further sharpen their skills in assessing risks
and extending long-term finance to private enterprises and help catalyze larger and more active banking
sector participation in such financing. Because of understandings reached during the preparation of the
project and implementation of the EFSAL, the project will also help engage BoS in in-depth supervision
of these important banks.
74.   The main risks affecting the successful implementation of the project arise from failure in
maintaining macroeconomic stability, completing the banking reform program, and concluding
privatization. However, the reform is proceeding steadfastly with the full backing of the population and
political parties. Another risk arises from the possibility that the banks do not actively seek to lend.
However, this has been minimized by working directly with the banks to determine the appropriate scale
of lending to match their own business plans. In addition, by making the IRP funds directly available
to the banks as borrowers, banks are responsible for the conmnitment fees. This creates an added
incentive to lend the funds in a timely manner for attractive investments.
G.    Agreements and Recommendations
75.   The following agreements were reached during negotiations with individual Borrowers and the
Guarantor:
General Agreements
(i)   terms and conditions of the subloans (paras 65 and 68-70);
(ii)   eligibility criteria for the final beneficiaries (para 67);
(iii)  responsibilities of the implementation teams (para 66);
(iv)   procurement arrangements and procedures (para 71);
(v)    disbursement arrangements (para 71); and



19
(vi)   auditing and reporting requirements (para 71).
Condition of Board Presentation
76.    Submission to Parliament of a new banking law, satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition of Board
presentation (para 56).
Borrower Specific Conditions of Effectiveness and Dated Covenants
77.    During negotiations, with the respective borrowers, it was agreed that:
(i)    prior to effectiveness of its loan, Banka Celje will employ a consultant, or assign a
qualified staff, based on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to establish an
improved credit risk management function, independent from the bank's lending function
(para 59);
(ii)    SKB Banka and Banka Celje will each initiate by end-December 1996, implementation
of a plan, acceptable to the Bank, to introduce an improved risk management function
(para 59); and
(iii)   each borrowing bank will, by November 15 each year during project implementation,
submit to the Bank for its review, proforma engagement letters for its external audits of
that year's accounts prior to entering into agreement with its external auditors (para 59).



- 20 -
Annex I
Page 1
SLOVENIA - Investment Recovery Project
List of Documents on File
A.    Nova Ljubljanska Banka dd
A l.   Slovenia - Investment Recovery Project, Appraisal of the Potential Participating Banks, Final Draft
Report on Nova Ljubljanska Banka dd., AIB International Consultants, August 1995.
A2.   Nova Ljubljanska Banka dd, Annual Report 1995.
A3.   Nova Ljubljanska Banka dd, Annual Report 1994.
A4.   Nova Ljubljanska Banka dd, Opening Balance Sheet & Note as at 28 July 1994.
A5.   Ljubljanska Banka dd, EU Technical Assistance Project Phase I - Final Report Subsequent to
Steering Committee Meeting of 11 July 1994, AIB International Consultants, July 1994.
A6.   Ljubljanska Banka dd, Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 1993.
A7.   Ljubljanska Banka dd, Diagnostic Review for the year ended 31 December 1993, Volumes I &
11, Report and Appendices, Coopers & Lybrand.
Bl    Banka Celije dd
B 1.   Slovenia - Investment Recovery Project, Appraisal of the Potential Participating Banks, Final Draft
Report on Banka Celje dd, AIB International Consultants, August 1995.
B2.   Banka Celje dd, Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 1994, Coopers
& Lybrand.
B3.   Banka Celje, Annual Report, 1995.
B4.   Banka Celje, Annual Report, 1994.
B5.   Banka Celje, Brief Report, 30 June 1995
B6.   BOS Supervisory Comfort Letter, 12 July 1994.
B7.   LB Splosna Banka Celje dd, Credit Review, KPMG Peat-Marwick, 31 December 1993.
B8.   LB Splosna Banka Celje dd, Financial & Diagnostic Review, KPMG-Peat Marwick, 31 March
1994.



- 21 -
Annex I
Page 2
C.    SKB Banka dd
Cl.   SKB Banka dd, Draft Diagnostic Report, Touche Ross & Co, June 1995.
C2.   Slovenia - Investment Recovery Project, Appraisal of the Potential Participating Banks, SKB
Banka dd, Clydell McSpadden, Consultant, August 1995.
C3.   SKB Banka dd, "Matters Arising from the Audit for the year ended 31 December 1994", Coopers
& Lybrand.
C4.   SKB Banka dd, Annual Report, 1995.
C5.   SKB Banka dd, Annual Report, 1994.
C6.   SKB Banka dd, Business Plan & Cash Flow Projections: 1994-1998, October 1994.
C7.   Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of SKB Banka dd for the year ended 31
December 1993, Coopers & Lybrand London & Ljubljana, 20 April 1994.
C8.   SKB Banka dd, Development Strategies of the Bank, September 1992.
C9.   SKB Banka dd, Annual Report, 1991.
CI0.  SKB Banka dd, Report and Financial Statements for year ended 31 December 1991.



- 22 -
Annex 2
Page I
SLOVENLA - Investment Recovery Project
Project Implementation Plan
A.    Project Objectives and Description
1.    The Investment Recovery Project complements the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan (EFSAL) by helping to provide long-term finance for the new cycle of private investments resulting
from Slovenia's program of enterprise and financial sector reforms. The project follows successful
stabilization of the Slovene economy, and substantial progress in restructuring major banks. To this end,
it will help maintain the momentum built under the EFSAL in reforming the banking system, by
enforcing, during the course of the project, the principles of these reforms in three borrowing banks,
accounting to about 50 percent of Slovenia banking assets, The project is timed to coincide with a period
of intensive privatization of enterprises accounting for more than 75 percent of Slovenia's enterprise sector
output
2.    It is proposed that a separate floating single currency loan (SCL) be made to each of the three
borrowing banks with the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. The loans would be made to: (i) Nova
Ljubljanska Banka dd (DM 35 million); SKB Banka dd. (DM 30 million); and Banka Celje dd (DM 10
million). The Single Currency Loans will be LIBOR-based, and repayable over 15 years with 5 years
grace, for level repayment of principal at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based DM single
currency loans.
B.    Onlending and Implementation Arrangements
3.     Onlending Arrangements. The subloans for investments will be for periods no longer than ten
years with grace periods of up to three years. All subloans will be made at market rates in DM and the
beneficiaries will assume the foreign exchange risk. Subloans will be made available on a first-come,
first-served basis, without prior allocation to specific types of activity or categories of enterprises.
4.     The sub-loans will provide financing for investments and associated working capital for start up
and expansion of private enterprises. This will inter alia include financing of licenses or other types of
technology transfer when associated with an investment. The subloans may finance up to 80 percent of
an expansion/modernization project in the case of an existing enterprise, or up to 50 percent of total
investment in the case of a new enterprise.
5.     Eligible Enterprises. Any enterprise duly established under the laws of Slovenia, with a private
share-holding (controlling share) of at least 51 percent, will be eligible to seek financing under the loan.
The borrowing banks will undertake normal financial assessments as part of their credit analysis of
potential borrowers. Subloans over DM 4.5 million equivalent will require prior World Bank review. The
first appraisal by each participating bank will be submitted for prior Bank review, irrespective of subloan
size.
6.     For all subloans above DM 450,000 equivalent: (i) during the term of the subloan, the enterprise's
debt:equity ratio should not exceed 60:40, and the debt-service coverage ratio should not fall below 1.5;



- 23 -
Annex 2
Page 2
and (ii) the proposed investment should have a financial rate of return of at least 12 percent. For subloans
of less than DM 450,000 equivalent, the bank will utilize its own criteria to assess the viability and
financial soundness of the investments and of the enterprise and its capacity to service the debt. Banks
will be expected to include in their credit appraisal a demonstration that the currency and terms selected
for the subloans are appropriate, given the projected foreign exchange revenues of the sub-borrowers.
7.     OrganizationsResponsibleforProjectimplementation. The borrowing banks will be responsible
for the overall implementation and administration of the project. The other entities involved in the
implementation of the project will be private enterprises (sub-borrowers), the Bank of Slovenia, and the
Bank. The following table summarizes respective responsibilities in implementation of the project.
Primary Responsibility
Borrowers    Enterprises      BoS
-Overall project administration                           x
-Project supervision                                      x
-Preparation of subprojects                                             x
-Appraisallassessment of subprojects                      x
-Subproject review and approval                           x
-Procurement                                              x             x
-Disbursements                                            x
-Submission of biannual progress reports                  x             x
-Audit of borrowing enterprise                            x             x
-Audit of Project accounts                                x
-Supervision of borrowers' commercial activities                                     x
8.     Project Implementation Arrangements. A project implementation team will be appointed in
each bank, preferably within the credit department.  The team  will be responsible for overall
implementation of the project. It will be headed by a project coordinator assisted by two other staff
members, one for procurement and one for financial/disbursement matters. Several staff members from
each bank have been trained in disbursement and procurement by Bank staff in July and September 1995.
9.     Each project implementation team will be responsible for:
- Preparing and disseminating information about the credit line to eligible Slovene enterprises;
- Assisting beneficiaries in the application of agreed procurement procedures, including
appropriate packaging of bid items; selection of the most appropriate methods of procurement
for each individual subproject and their step-by-step implementation;
- Administering the use of World Bank resources and ensuring that procurement, disbursement
and environmental procedures are followed, and making arrangements for the audit of accounts;
- Maintaining summary records of the flow of resources;



- 24 -
Annex 2
Page 3
- Maintaining the special account, arranging payments, preparing withdrawal applications,
maintaining project accounts; and
- Preparing and submitting periodic progress reports to the World Bank.
10.   Project Implementation Team. The functional responsibilities of each team member will be as
follows:
(a) Project Administration (Team Leader)
- Overall responsibility for project implementation and supervision;
- Liaison with the World Bank staff and with private enterprise beneficiaries on project
implementation issues;
- Preparation and dissemination of information about the credit line;
- Ensuring that loans are made to eligible beneficiaries in accordance with agreed criteria
and that procurement and other requirements are adhered to by all concerned;
- Financial administration of the loan, i.e., management of the special account, timely
payments to suppliers and withdrawal of funds from the loan account, maintenance of loan
accounts and arrangements for audits in a timely manner; and
- Preparation and submission of semi-annual progress reports to the World Bank.
(1) Procurement
- Under the supervision of the team leader, advise enterprises on agreed procurement
procedures; assist them as necessary in determining the most appropriate method of
procurement within the framework of the Loan Agreement; and provide them with the
necessary procurement documents, such as standard bidding documents;
- Advise and assist enterprises, as necessary, in the process of procurement, e.g., preparation
and publication of advertisements, bidding documents, bid opening and evaluation of bids,
award of contract;
- Review and approve procurement documentation (advertisement, bidding documents,
evaluation report, and final contract) for bid packages subject to post review; and review
and forward procurement documentation for bid packages subject to the World Bank's
prior review;
- Provide training in procurement to the staff of enterprises, as necessary; and
- Collect procurement documents, maintain up to date procurement records in the team's
offices, and compile procurement data for the bi-annual progress report to the World Bank.



- 25 -
Annex 2
Page 4
(c) Disbursement
- Under the supervision of the team leader, manage the special account;
- Work closely to ensure that payments are made to suppliers in a timely manner in
accordance with contract conditions;
- Prepare withdrawal applications for disbursements from the loan;
- Keep up-to-date project accounts and records and monitor disbursements under the loan
and under different subloans; and
- Compile disbursements data for the bi-annual progress report to the World Bank.
11.   The teams will be responsible for ensuring all required eligibility criteria are met before
submission of the applications to the World Bank for review (where necessary), and ensure their
compliance during the implementation of the project.
C.    Procurement and Disbursements
12.   The loan will finance the procurement of goods, including machinery, equipment, tools, materials,
etc., needed by private enterprises for new plants, upgrading, de-bottlenecking and expansion, associated
working capital, civil works and services. All procurement under the loan will be carried out in
accordance with the Bank Procurement Guidelines. Given the nature of the project, involving support to
subprojects which have not been preappraised, detailed estimates for the breakdown of the project
expenditures by procurement method are not available. Accordingly, a procurement table is not included.
A general procurement notice will be published in the Development Business of July 1996.
13.   Each beneficiary would be required to group, to the extent practicable, machinery and equipment
in sizable bid packages in order to enhance competition and gain from economies of scale in bid prices.
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would apply for all contracts with a value greater than DM 4.5
million equivalent. The manufacturing industry in Slovenia is already established and it is expected that
bids would also consist of domestically manufactured goods and materials. Therefore, in the evaluation
and comparison of bids for machinery and equipment to be procured through ICB, domestic manufacturers
would be granted a margin of preference of 15 percent--or the relevant customs duty, whichever is lower--
in accordance with Appendix 2, para I to 4 of the Bank Procurement Guidelines of January 1995. The
borrowers will use the Bank's standard bidding documents wherever available; otherwise, suitable
intemational bidding documents will be submitted to the Bank for prior review and approval.
14.   For contracts for goods with an estimated value above DM 1.5 million equivalent and less than
DM 4.5 million equivalent, beneficiaries may us intemational shopping, based on a comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers in two different countries.
15.   For bid packages for goods with an estimated value of DM 1.5 million equivalent or less per
account, beneficiaries would use their established Commercial Practices which have been found
competitive and acceptable to the Bank. These involve competitive quotations obtained from other



- 26 -
Annex 2
Page 5
countries. The use of the commercial practices is justifiable because the proceeds of the loan would be
used only by privately owned enterprises (51 percent of ownership in private hands) who carry out their
domestic and foreign purchases based on competitive prices. Certain equipment, components, parts and
materials that beneficiaries would need are available locally on a competitive basis. Goods and technical
licenses which the Bank agrees are of proprietary nature, or the quick purchase of which is critical for
efficient project execution, or need to be compatible with other installed equipment, would be procured
through Direct Contracting with Bank prior approval, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. For
equipment and materials which the Bank agrees are supplied through a limited number of suppliers,
procurement would be done following Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines.
16.   Procurement Law and Country ProcurementAssessmentReport. A comprehensive procurement
law is currently under preparation in Slovenia. However, since 1992, the MoF has been including in the
yearly budget law some mandatory procurement provisions for the users of public funds. Since the loan
for the Investment Recovery Project would be used by private enterprises, the procurement provisions of
the budget law would not apply.  A country procurement assessment for Slovenia is not planned.
17.   Procurement Responsibility. The project implementation team in each bank will have the overall
responsibility for ensuring that agreed procurement procedures are followed by the beneficiaries. More
specifically, the team will be responsible for ensuring that beneficiaries are familiar with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines and procedures and have access to the Bank's standard bidding documents. The
team will also provide the necessary general guidance on procurement to beneficiaries as well as
infornation on procurement procedures and different procurement methods agreed with the Bank; will
help beneficiaries deternine which procurement method(s) will be applicable to their investment; will
provide them with the necessary procurement documentation, such as standard bidding documents, etc.,
and will ensure that beneficiaries are adhering to agreed procurement procedures. Beneficiaries will be
responsible for carrying out the procurement activities in accordance with the above procurement
procedures, e.g., preparation of bidding documents, receiving, opening and evaluating bids, awarding
contracts and supervising contract performance. A project start-up workshop in Slovenia is tentatively
scheduled for September 1996.
1 8.   Procurement Monitoring and Supervision. Each borrower would monitor the beneficiaries'
procurement activities and would carry out regular supervision of the procurement process under each
subproject to ensure that procurement actions are being undertaken in a timely manner and in accordance
with agreed methods and procedures. Based on the information collected from the beneficiaries, the
borrowers would prepare and submit to the Bank biannual progress reports in a format agreed with the
Bank. These progress reports would be the basis of regular monitoring of project implementation progress
by the Bank staff. The Bank staff would carry out physical supervision of the project twice a year during
which an ex-post review of the documentation will be carried out. A mid-term review would also be held
in late-1997.
19.   Review of ProcurementActions. Procurement documentation for bid packages estimated to cost
DM  4.5 million equivalent and above will be subject to the Bank's prior review.  Procurement
documentation for all bid packages to be procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB) and Direct
Contracting will also be subject to the Bank's prior review. Selective post reviews will be carried out as
a regular supervision activity.



- 27 -
Annex 2
Page 6
20.    The review limits are summarized in the following table:
Teams      World Bank Review
Prior
Review       Prior       Post
-ICB packages above DM 4.5 million                          x           x
-International Shopping between DM 1.5-4.5 million          x                       x
-Commercial Practices up to DM 1.5 million per contract     x                       x
-Direct Contracting                                         x           x
-LIB                                                        x           x
x     Documents to be retained by the teams be made available t i Bank staff upon request for review.
21.   In order to ensure enterprises' adherence to agreed procurement procedures, the implementation
teams will carry out a review of procurement documentation for all methods of procurement listed above.
They will verify all procurement documentation for ICB above DM 4.5 million per contract (draft
advertisement, draft bidding documents, evaluation report, and final contract), direct contracting documents
(proposal for direct contracting, justification, estimated amount of the contract, etc.), and LIB documents
(list of suppliers to be invited to submit bids, draft bidding documents, evaluation report, final contract),
before submission to the World Bank. The team will be responsible for keeping complete records of
procurement documents (invitation to quote, including technical specifications, offers, evaluation of offers
and contract) for International Shopping and Commercial Practices, and will make these records available
to the Bank supervision missions for review and to auditors for audit.
D.    Disbursements
22.   Proceeds of the proposed Bank loan will finance 100 percent of subloans for goods and related
services. Subloans in tum would finance up to 80 percent of expansion investments and 50 percent of
start-up operations.
23.    Disbursements for contracts valued at less than DM 4.5 million equivalent will be on the basis of
statements of expenditure (SOEs). The documentation to support these expenditures will be retained by
the team, audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and made available for review by Bank
staff upon request. Applications for withdrawals against contracts valued at more than DM 4.5 million
equivalent will be fully documented. The team will be working closely with beneficiaries to ensure timely
payments to suppliers and timely preparation and submission of withdrawal applications to the Bank. A
special account may be established by each bank in DM with a total authorized allocation of up to DM
4.0 million, for NLBdd, DM 3.5 million for SKB Banka dd, and DM 2 million for Banka Celje dd. The
initial authorized allocation for the special account of NLBdd will be DM 1.4 million until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from this account exceeds DM 4.0 million. The initial authorized allocation for
the special account of SKB Banka dd will be DM 1.2 million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from this account exceeds DM 3.5 million. The initial authorized allocation for the special account of
Banka Celje dd will be DM 1.0 million, until the aggregate amount of withdrawal from the special account
is DM 2.0 million.



- 28 -
Annex 2
Page 7
24.    Retroactive financing of DM 3.5 million and DM 3.0 million will be provided for NLBdd and
SKB Banka dd, respectively (about 9 percent of the aggregate amount of the loans) to finance payments
for goods made after June 10, 1996.
25.    Disbursements are expected to be slightly faster than the bank-wide profile since the loan
represents only a small proportion of the expected credit allocated by the borrowing banks over the next
two to three years. The Closing Date of the loan is expected to be June 30, 2000.
E.    Accounts and Audits
26.    The project account, Special Account and Statements of Expenditure will be maintained by each
Borrower and will be audited at the end of each fiscal year in accordance with international standards and
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. These audit reports and the financial statements of each
bank will be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The financial statements
of the beneficiaries will be audited in accordance with the Slovene accounting and auditing practices at
the end of each fiscal year. The teams will forward copies of the audit reports to the Bank within six
months of the end of the reporting period; audit reports from borrowing enterprises will be retained by
the banks, and made available to the Bank on request.
F.    Training of Staff
27.    Representatives of the three borrowing banks, MoF and BoS (representing the guarantor)
participated in a procurement and disbursement training workshops during 1995. It has been agreed with
the borrowers that prior to the effectiveness, the Bank will organize a one-week procurement seminar in
Slovenia for the staff of the banks, as well as, for potential beneficiaries to familiarize them with the
World Bank procurement policies and procedures. This seminar is tentatively scheduled for September
1996, as part of the project startup workshop.
G.    Monitoring and Evaluation
28.    To enable the Bank to monitor the progress of project implementation, and to ensure conformity
with project objectives, the implementation team in each bank will furnish the Bank with semi-annual
progress reports. The team will prepare these reports based on its own information and the information
supplied by beneficiaries. The frequency and format of these reports was agreed during negotiations. In
addition, each borrower will prepare an Implementation Completion Report six months after the
completion of disbursements, covering all related activities during project implementation and describing
the project's costs and benefits.



- 29 -
Annex 2
Page 8
IL     Supervision
29.    The performance of the borrowers will be supervised in close collaboration with the Bank of
Slovenia as part of its normal supervisory activities and requirements. These requirements provide
adequate basis for monitoring and assessing the performance of the borrowers under the project. The
performance of the sub-borrowers will be monitored as part of the normal operating procedures of the
borrowing banks, and will include, inter alia, compliance with the eligibility criteria for the sub-loans
during the course of implementation of the project, as well as the sub-borrowers' record of servicing their
debt.
30.    The borrowers' staff are being trained on Bank procurement and disbursement procedures. Each
team will monitor beneficiaries' project implementation activities in order to ensure timely and efficient
implementation in keeping with agreed procedures. Two supervision missions per year are planned during
the first two years following loan effectiveness. Agreed expanded scope of annual audits as well as BoS'
extended supervision of the banks, based on terms of reference and frequency agreed with the Bank, will
give the Bank the ability to monitor diligently the borrowers overall operations and compliance with the
loan agreements. The task manager, a banking supervision specialist, and a procurement officer will
participate in these missions. About twelve staffweeks per year, including about five weeks of FSD
support are planned for supervision of the project.
e' ll||K  O  WGI  d3.IWJS    \J-W-'. -- -- --- -- '--



- 30 -
Annex 3
Page I
SLOVENIA - Investment Recovery Project
Criteria Used in Selecting the Borrowing Banks
A.    The bank would have deployed, or adopted a plan to deploy:
*     A sound and balanced Credit Risk Management Program, including:
(i)    credit risk identification and risk management policies;
(ii)   credit extension, documentation and collection processes; and
(iii)  credit portfolio monitoring and control procedures.
*      Sound and balanced Management Programs for Liquidity and Foreign Exchange Risk, including:
(i)   liquidity and funding policies;
(ii)   foreign exchange policies, risk limits and risk taking authority; and
(iii)  information systems & procedures to manage & control risks.
*     Effective Intemal Controls and an Independent Internal Audit service with sufficient resources and
an adequate audit program;
B.    The bank would have demonstrated and continue to maintain financial strength appropriate to the
risk profile of its activities, as evidenced by:
*      Retum on assets >0 in real terms after adequate provisioning to maintain capital adequacy ratio
(CAR) at acceptable level;
a      Positive operating cash flow;
a      Full coverage of potential losses in assets;
*     General reserve for loan losses= > 1%;
*      Tier I disbursed capital or retained earnings = > 4%;
*     No single credit risk > 15% of net worth;
*     No group of related borrowers > 25% of net worth;
*      Sum of large exposures (over 10%) < 8 times net worth;
*     Total exposure to bank's group of related parties < 50% of net worth;
*     No single sector concentration > 15% of total credits + off balance sheet risks;
*     Foreign exchange open position: overall + individual < 15% of net worth;



- 31 -
Anex 3
Page 2
e      Total positive liquidity gap at 8-15-30 days;
*      Feasible liquidity contingency plan; and
*     A capital adequacy ratio between 8 to 12% according to profile based on indicators above.
C.    The bank would have a balanced business strategy supported by strengths, weaknesses,
opportunities, threats (SWOT) analysis, linking the plan and the budget through quantifiable
parameters for risk/reward, including identification of sources for additional capital support and
supporting pro-forma financial statements.
D.    Clean supervisory statement following diagnostic examinations commissioned by Bank of Slovenia
or Bank Rehabilitation Agency (for banks under rehabilitation) following pre-agreed terms of
reference indicating supervisory strategy and objectives for maintaining adequate supervision of
each bank.
E.    If necessary, an agreement between the borrowing bank and Bank of Slovenia specifying
individual conditions and requirements for the bank to adapt to, or to maintain conformance with,
Bank of Slovenia's standards and the eligibility criteria.



- 32 -
Annex 4
SLOVENIA - Investment Recovery Project
Schedule of Disbursements
(DM millions)
Fiscal                          Disbursements                       Sector Disbursement              Percentage
l  Profile        Differencc Project
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ over Bankwide
Project     Year       Semester        Periodic    Cumulative        Cumulative as    Regional    Bakwide                    Profile
Year                                                                   °% ofTotal
Year        1997           1                  4               4                5%           3%            3%                  +2%
2                  9              13               17%          10%            10%                  +7%
Year2       1998           I                 12              25               33%          18%           22%o                +11%
2                 15              40               53%          30%           34%                 +19%
Year 3      1999           1                 14              54               72%          3S%           50%                 +22%
2                 10              64               85%          50%            66%                +19%
Year 4'     2000           1                  9              73               97%          66%/          78%                 +19%
2                  2              75              100%          82%            90%                +10%
90%           98%
94%          100%                         l
98%
100%
NOTE:  There are no comparative disbursement profiles for Slovenia.
1/        Closing Date: June 30, 2000.



- 33 -
Annex 5
Page 1
SLOVENIA - Investment Recovery Project
Nova Ljubljanska Banka dd
1.    Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. (NLBdd) was created in July 1994 by a constitutional amendment
transfening parts of the operations of the former Ljubljanska Banka dd (LBdd) to NLBdd. The founder
and sole owner of NLBdd is the BRA. All branches in other former Yugoslav republics and all assets
and liabilities related to former Yugoslavia remained in the old bank, to be dealt with directly by the BRA
and the Government. NLBdd was thus cleaned of the remaining major outstanding problem assets and
liabilities in preparation for its future privatization.
2.     Although substantially downsized compared to its past level of operations, NLBdd (with total
assets of SIT 460 billion) remains the largest universal bank in Slovenia with a staff of about 2500 (about
30 percent reduction since 1993) and a market share in primary banking activities of around 30 percent.
The bank enjoys the major share (around 50 percent) of the international banking business in the country,
and is well placed to serve its customers through its overseas network of subsidiaries, branches and
representative offices, as well as through its extensive correspondent banking arrangements. Through its
treasury department NLBdd is (de facto) the clearer of the Slovene foreign exchange market and a
significant provider of foreign exchange services to its clients. The bank has, in the past, actively and
quite successfully developed its investment banking, trade finance, and loan syndication activities in which
it is still the leader in Slovenia. In addition to its international network, NLBdd holds 22 percent of shares
in Adria Bank Vienna, 46.3 percent of shares in LBH International Handelsbank in Frankfurt, and is a
major share holder (60 percent) in Proteus Finanz in Zurich. The bank is also the sole owner of LBS
Bank in New York.
3.     BRA supervises NLBdd through an appointed supervisory board, composed mainly of BRA staff.
Day-to-day operations are under the control of the management board which include president (and CEO),
and deputy president. The bank operates a divisionalized structure with each of its major three divisions
managed by an experienced executive director. Internal audit, strategic development, and informnation
technology are among the key areas reporting to the management board.
4.     In parallel with extensive financial and internal control diagnostics carried out by Coopers &
Lybrand during the last two years, the present president of the bank launched a comprehensive institutional
development program (IDP), in the fall of 1993, to strengthen the most important risk management and
operational areas of the bank. The bank has been very successful in mobilizing substantial external
technical assistance, from the EU-Phare and other sources, to implement the IDP.' The first phase of the
IDP focused on crucial risk management areas (credit, treasury, finance, and IT), and is expected to
continue with other less priority areas such as branching and human resources in the future. Substantial
overall progress has been achieved with the targets of the first phase. Specifically, the bank is now strong
in credit management, both in policy and in lending practices, with a significant and evident improvement
in the risk management area since the establishment of its independence from credit origination. In
addition, a branching plan for NLBdd including the rationalization of its investments in subsidiaries has
I  AIB International Consultants.



-34 -
Annex 5
Page 2
been adopted by BRA. The above were discussed during negotiations and were found to be satisfactory
to the Bank.
5.    Historical financial performance of the bank has to be assessed keeping in mind the structural
changes that took place in January1993 (initiation of rehabilitation of LBdd) and July 1994 (establishment
of NLBdd). In the process of rehabilitating the bank, credit risk issues have been satisfactorily resolved
and non-perforrning assets have been properly dealt with or provisioned. However, until recently, the
structure and terms of the recapitalization bonds left important market risk exposures in NLBdd which
were outside the control of the senior management of the bank. As a result, between 1993-1995, the
perforrnance of the bank was adversely affected by the impact of these bonds.
6.    From July 28, 1994 to year-end 1994, NLBdd's net income was SIT 1.15 billion and at year-end
1994, the bank had a CAR of 10.2 percent. However, NLBdd suffered from a negative operating cash
flow. Cash flow before changes in operating assets for the period from July 28, to year-end 1994 was
a negative SIT 2.0 billion.
7.    A major drag on operating cash flow was generated from the bank's SIT 115.7 billion2 in holdings
of BRA and Republic of Slovenia bonds at year-end 1994. The cash flow NLBdd received from these
bonds was negative because the bonds generated cash only equal to their stated 8 percent interest rate
(translated from DMs to SIT at the current exchange rate) while they were funded by liabilities which for
the most part paid out cash for both a stated real interest rate and an inflation adjustment. Additionally,
the bonds' DM-denomination caused fluctuations in earnings, cash flow, and asset values and their 30 year
term significantly reduced the bank's liquidity. The bonds were not marketable and would not generate
cash from principal repayments until 2023.
S.    This unfavorable situation has now been substantially addressed. The Ministry of Finance carried
out an evaluation of the impact of altemative structures for the new bonds on the financial results of
NLBdd, taking into account such factors as benefits to the cash-flow resulting from the merger of the
remaining small daughter banks (estimated by the BRA to have combined 8 percent of total deposits) with
NLBdd, and fuirther rationalization of NLBdd's international network. In late-1995, the Government
replaced the old BRA bonds (representing 75 percent of the DM-denominated Government debt held by
NLBdd) with new BRA bonds with substantially more attractive terms. The new bonds are denominated
in SITs and have been issued in series of three, five, seven, ten, and fifteen year maturities. They carry
a blended average interest rate of approximately 6 percent, and are freely tradeable.
9.    The new bonds have eliminated the currency risk and would improve bank liquidity somewhat
through principal repayments at earlier maturity dates than previous bonds. But they also lower cash
interest payments. The Government has remedied this negative cash impact by buying back SIT 2.3
billion of these bonds in early-1996. There is some concern, however, that the new BRA bonds would
be tradable only at a relatively large discount, and would consequently have a negative impact on the
bank's capital. The Government is aware of this possibility and is keeping the situation under review.
In this regard, the Ministry of Finance is committed to buying back more bonds, as necessary, in 1997.
2  BRA bonds totaled SIT 86.9 billion, Republic of Slovenia bonds totaled SIT 26.2 billion and Steel
bonds were SIT 4.1 billion.



- 35 -
Annex 5
Page 3
10.   The bank appears to be fundamentally profitable. It has a good deposit base and all indications
are that the loan portfolio is well provisioned. There are good flows of fee income and costs appear to
be controlled. Furthermore, there are good budgetary systems, management information system structures
are well designed, and the management has very clearly articulated plans for business growth over the next
five years.
11.   NLBdd's net income in 1995 was a healthy SIT 4.9 billion (or about twice that of annualized
1994). This was mainly due to a substantial increase in interest income. At end-December 1995, the bank
had a CAR of 13.5 percent while cash flow before changes in operating assets was SIT 7.2 billion for the
year. At year-end, 93.3 percent of the bank's total risk asset portfolio was categorized as A and B under
the BoS guidelines.
12.   The assessment of NLBdd included detailed analysis of the annual statutory audit of 1994, and
the special diagnostic review of 1993, based on terms of reference prepared by the Bank. This assessment
also included extensive discussions with senior management and review of key risk management issues
and processes. Due to the confidentiality of facts and figures included in the report, these are kept out
of, and are filed separately from, the SAR.3
13.   The Bank of Slovenia has provided written confirmation that NLBdd adheres to prevailing
prudential banking regulations in Slovenia and is in good standing with the supervisory authority. In
addition, the Bank of Slovenia has agreed to undertake a full scope examination of NLBdd in 1997. The
scope and coverage of these examinations have been agreed with the Bank.
14.    During negotiations, NLBdd agreed to:
- Submit, by 15-November of each year, to the Bank and the BoS for their review, the proforma
engagement letter for the external audits for that year's accounts, prior to entering into
agreement with the external auditors. This review will focus on: (i) scope and coverage
proposed for the annual review; (ii) extension to review quality of loan portfolio; (iii) concrete
procedures and questionnaires to be used by auditors in evaluating risk management programs
and internal controls; (iv) concrete program, procedures and tests to be followed to assess
earnings and review the profit and loss account; and (v) special reporting topics/issues for the
year. NLBdd has also agreed to authorize the Bank and BoS representatives to have access
to the working papers of the auditors, and the management letter.
- Submit, by end-June of each-year, to the Bank for information, the auditors report and
management letter for the previous year's activities.
3  Consultants' report containing the relevant financial analysis and institutional assessment as well as their
summary of recommended key development actions are in the Project File (See Annex 1).



- 36 -                                                              Amex S
Page 4
Nova Ljubljansks Banks
Balance Sheet as of 31 December
in millions of tolars
1995        1994      1994 Jul
Assets
Cash in hand and balances with central bank              12,392         9,720       6,552
Placements with, and loans to other banks                81,401       78,783       77,412
Loans to other customers                                156,715       113,703     108,865
Investment securities                                   154,479       139,738     127,688
Securities held for dealing purposes                      9,365        2,550        2,386
Investments in non-associated companies                       -            0            0
Investments in associated companies                       6,151         5,905       5,732
Fixed Assets                                             19,710        18,961      17,173
Own share                                                     -            0            0
Other assets                                             13,679         8,028        9903
Accrued income not yet due                                5,723        2,624        2,059
Total assets                                             459,615     380.012      357.770
Liabilities and funds employed
Deposits from banks                                      30,052       37,248       27,973
Borrowings from banks                                   143,537       117,799     113,772
Deposits from other customers                           199,924       164,459     154,302
Amounts owed to other depositors                          6,737        6,567        3,312
Liabilities evidenced by paper                           14,665        3,504        4,998
Other liabilities                                        10,677         4,819       10,325
Accruals and deferred income                              9,691        10,990       10,846
Provisions for liabilities and charges                   17,818        15,881      18,423
Total liabilities                                        433,101      361,267     343,951
Subscribed capital                                       15,159        12,840       11,938
Reserves                                                 11,355         5,905        1,881
Long term reservations                                        -            0            0
Capital revaluation reserve                                   -            0            0
Unappropriated profit from current year                       -            0            0
Totals funds employed                                     26,514       18,745      13,819
Total liabilities and funds employed                     459,615     380,012      357,770
Profit and Loss Account for the year ending 31 December
28 Jul to
1995    end- 1994
Interest income                                          40,445       16,656      (1)
Interest expenses                                       (27,440)     (15,626)
Net interest income                                      13,005        1,030
Fees and commission income                                7,493        3,074
Fees and commission expenses                               (847)        (473)
Net fees and commission income                            6,646        2,601
Other operating income                                      186       (2,377)
Extraordinary income                                      3,140        1,458
Total income                                             22,977        2,712
Change for bad and doubtful debts & investments             (74)         146
Operating expenses                                      (13,411)      (5,862)
Extraordinary Profit (loss)                              (4,121)       4,199
Profit before taxation                                    5,371        1,195
Tax                                                        (459)        (45)
Net Profit for the Period                                 4,912        1,150
Minority Interest                                          (172)        (13)
Unappropriated net profit                                 4,740        1,137
Note (1): Due to the foffnation of Nave LBdd on July 1994. the Account for 1993 is not comparable



- 37 -
Annex 6
Page I
SLOVENIA - Investment Recovery Project
SKB Banka dd
1.    SKB Banka dd (SKB) was originally established 30 years ago as a specialized mortgage institution
that reached a 60 percent market share in Slovenia. In 1989, SKB became a joint stock holding company
and dramatically changed its strategy in order to become a full service bank, moving away from its
specialized mortgage lending. The development attained since then by the SKB group has been
impressive. The bank is now the second most important bank in Slovenia both by asset size (about 10
percent of Slovenia's total banking assets) and the branch network (43 offices in Slovenia and a
representative office in London), with a total staff of about 900. It has an expanded range of services and
products and is very active in commercial, international, investment and retail banking operations. The
bank has a direct ownership interest in eight subsidiaries focusing mainly on real estate, investment, and
leasing activities. A distinguishing feature of SKB is the fact that it received no type of support from the
Government as part of the bank rehabilitation programn, since its assets were not affected by the general
factors which impacted other banks in the system.
2.    SKB's shares are the most actively traded stock on the Slovene stock exchange. Its 20 largest
shareholders hold 56.5 percent of the capital of the bank. Of them, only EBRD, with a 15 percent
shareholding, has a significant participation in the bank. The other major owners include, ASH dd
Brokerage House (5.6 percent) the City of Ljubljana (5.1 percent), German Investment and Development
Company (DEG - 5 percent), and Merril Lynch International (4.3 percent). The entry of EBRD as a
major shareholder is expected to substantially improve the governance, especially in regards to
strengthening the supervisory board. To this end, EBRD has nominated a reputable banker to oversee its
interests, and reinforce the self-assessment of the bank's strategy, risk management and operations.
3.    Since 1991, SKB has been following a growth strategy with a view to attaining a 20 percent share
of the Slovene market by end- 1996. As a result, between 1992 and end- 1994, SKB pursued an aggressive
commercial expansion, opening new branches and acquiring branches from a failing bank, resulting in
tripling the size of its activities during that period. According to SKB's business plan, its total assets are
expected to double by end-1998, among other means by acquisitions, since the bank's branch network is
already well established and developed. The bank, however, is currently preparing a new three-year
business strategy, which could inter alia moderate its growth strategy.
4.    Much of the success of SKB in achieving its strategy is directly attributable to the powerful
leadership of its CEO who has surrounded himself with a dynamic and cohesive team of 8 senior deputy
directors (serving on the bank's executive board), while retaining much of the decision-making authority.
All the deputy directors have extensive banking experience in other Slovene banks. The senior
management of the bank, however, has recently concluded that the current managerial organizational
structure and centralized decision making would prove inadequate to cope with the growing complexity
and volume of activities of the SKB group. It has, therefore, begun an extensive self-driven restructuring
of the responsibilities, reporting, and decision-making functions within the organization.
5.    In recent years, apart from the standard recommendations by its external auditors (Coopers and
Lybrand), as part of the bank's annual audits, SKB's senior management has benefited from several



- 38 -
Annex 6
Page 2
additional reviews. A full diagnostic review was performed by Deloitte & Touche in 1995.' These
reviews identified the need to strengthen the controls and risk management processes of the bank. These
steps are necessary in order to ensure the continued health of the bank following its rapid growth in the
last few years. In recognition of this need, the bank has undertaken steps to improve its risk management
function and will initiate implementation of a plan, by end-1996, to further strengthen this function.
6.     As mentioned earlier, SKB's business strategy has been driven by the expansion of its activities.
This expansion, however, has been accompanied by a general decline in profitability margins and ratios,
in part induced by external factors such as dis-inflation and liquidity tensions originated by monetary
policy decisions. The bank's return on assets (ROA) dropped by more than 50 percent during 1992-94,
to 0.7 percent in 1994. This was due not only to the accelerated expansion of the business volume, but
also to narrowing margins and the pressure of operating costs associated with it. In parallel, while the
capital adequacy ratio (CAR) was a healthy 15 percent at end-1994, following a capital increase due to
EBRD's participation, the level of CAR could have been lower after considering several adjustments
proposed in the 1995 diagnostic review.
7.     This was remedied in 1995, when SKB increase the level of its loan specific provisions by about
SIT 1.4 billion. In spite of this high level of provisioning during the year, the bank recorded a slight
increase in before tax profits to SIT 1.5 billion. This was mainly due to an increase of more than 50
percent in net interest income. The bank reported a CAR of 14.4 percent at end-1995.
8.     The assessment of SKB included detailed analysis of the annual statutory audit of 1994, and the
special diagnostic review of 1994. This assessment also included extensive discussions with senior
management and review of key risk management issues and processes. Due to the confidentiality of facts
and figures included in the report these are kept out of, and are filed separately from, the SAR (Annex-I,
SKB Executive Summary; Highlights; and Facts and Notes).2
9.     The Bank of Slovenia has provided written confirmation that SKB Banka dd adheres to prevailing
prudential banking regulations in Slovenia and is in good standing with the supervisory authority. In
addition, the Bank of Slovenia has agreed to undertake a full scope examination of SKB in 1996. The
scope and coverage of these examinations have been agreed witil the Bank.
10.    During negotiations, SKB Banka dd agreed to:
- Initiate, by end-December 1996, implementation of a plan, acceptable to the Bank, to introduce
an improved risk management function;
This diagnostic audit was commissioned by the BoS, as part of its supervisory operations. The terms of
reference for the audit were agreed with the Bank as part of the strengthening of the supervision
function supported under the EFSAL. The audit was financed by the EU-Phare.
2   The report containing the relevant financial analysis and institutional assessment as well as summary of
recommended key development actions is in the Project File (See Annex 1).



-39 -
Annex 6
Page 3
Submit to the Bank for review, by November 15 of each year, the proforna engagement letter
for the external audits for that year's accounts, prior to entering into agreement with the
external auditors. This review will focus on: (i) scope and coverage proposed for the annual
review; (ii) extension to review quality of loan portfolio; (iii) concrete procedures and
questionnaires to be used by auditors in evaluating risk management programs and internal
controls; (iv) concrete program, procedures and tests to be followed to assess earnings and
review the profit and loss account; and (v) special reporting topics/issues for the year. SKB
has also agreed to authorize the Bank to have access to the working papers of the auditors, and
the management letter;
Submit, by end-June of each-year, to the Bank for information, the auditors report and
management letter for the previous year's activities.



-40-                                                             Anne
Page 4
SKB
Balance Sheet as of 31 December
in millions of tolars
1995        1994         1993         1992
Assets
Cash in hand and balances with central bank               7,325        4,933         853         1,985
Placements with, and loans to other banks                34,031       33,422       18,128       8,198
Loans to other customers                                 94,520       66,532      43,797       22,396
investment securities                                    12,933        2,778         707          297
Securities held for dealing purposes                      7,172        8,028       2,971        3,170
Investments in non-associated companies                                   0            0            0
Investments in associated companies                           -0                       0            0
Fixed Assets                                             12,236       10,766        7,412       7,053
Own share                                                                 0            0            0
Other assets                                             10,408        7,580        5,238          92
Accrued income not yet due                                    -           0            0          979
Total asau                                              178,625      134,039       79,106      44,170
Liabilitis and funds employed
Deposits from banks                                      26,639       14,173        2,389        1,679
Borrowings from banks                                                     0            0            0
Deposits from other customers                           117,020       90,571      55,338       31,225
Amounts owed to other depositors                              -0                       0            0
Liabilities evidenced by paper                            7,154        7,557        5,316           0
Other liabilities                                         3,674        2,574        1,718           0
Accruals and deferred income                              2,727        3,576        1,870        1,595
Provisions for liabilities and charges                        -           0            0           87
Total liabilities                                       157,214      118,451      66,631       34,586
Subscribed capital                                       13,360        8,269        1,508        1,508
Reserves                                                    429         393          160            0
Long term reservations                                                    0            0            0
Capital revaluation reserve                               3,514        2,938        5,733       8,879
Unappropriated profit from current year                   4,110        3,989        5,074        (803)
Totals funds employed                                    21,413       15,589       12,475       9,584
Total liabilitits and funds employed                    178,627      134,040       79,106      44,170
Profit and Loss Account for the year ending 31 December
in millions of tolars
1995        1994         1993         1992
Interest income                                          18,898       16,211       12,536      12,527
Interest expenses                                       (12,663)     (12,777)      (9,468)     (10,317)
Net interest income                                       6,235        3,434        3,068       2,210
Fees and commission income                                1,718        1,252        1,176         233
Foreign Exchange (lossyprofit (net)                        (456)        (103)        630         1,411
Net fees and comnulsion income                            1,262        1,149        1,806        1,644
Other operating income                                    1,725        2,695         871          617
Extraordinary income                                                      0            0            0
Total income                                              9,222        7,278        5,745       4,471
Change for bad and doubtful debts & investments          (2,001)        (734)       (905)        (876)
Operating expenses                                        (6,276)     (5,767)      (3,582)      (2,236)
Extraordinary Profit (loss)                                   -           0           (50)          0
Profit before taxation                                      945         777         1,208        1,359
Tax                                                        (230)        (14)           0            0
Profit After Tasatlou                                       715         763         1,208        1,359
Transfer to other Fund/Reserves                               -          233          160        1,666
Dividends                                                   421          265          112          91
Retained Prfit for the Year                                 294         265          936         (398)



-41-
Annex 7
Page I
SLOVENIA - Investment Recovery Project
Banka Celje dd
I.    Banka Celje d.d. is a well established bank that has its origins in the community savings bank of
the Celje region of Slovenia, which was created in 1894. After several changes over its 100 years of
existence, the bank was reorganized into a joint stock company in 1990, as a member bank of the LB
System. In December 1994 the bank bought back its preferred shares owned by Nova Ljubljanska Banka
(accounting for 50 percent of the bank's total capital). These shares were reissued to current and new
shareholders. The ownership of the bank is now well diversified with more than 1,000 shareholders, only
one of which has a significant level of participation (10 percent). The bank is over 60 percent privately
owned. In addition to its head office in Celje, the bank's network comprises 31 branches and agencies
and 19 ATMs. It employs 550 people.
2.    Since 1993 the bank's market share has steadily grown from about 4.0 percent to 4.6 percent of
the total Slovene banking system. Management plans to increase this share to at least 8 percent, regarded
as the minimum size needed to achieve medium-term viability. Senior management of the bank intends
to achieve this major objective through mergers and acquisitions, as well as the establishment of new
branches. The main focus of the Banka Celje's business remains retail banking and support to the existing
local corporate community. There is growing local competition, but the bank's regional market share has
stabilized at around 75 percent of the retail accounts.
3.    The corporate governance structure in place is effective. fn practice, the supervisory board
approves the recommendations of the CEO. The CEO heads the executive management committee
comprised of three executive managers and ten sector managers. The committee meets formally once a
week (and informally on a daily basis) and is supported by two subcommittees for credit and liquidity.
4.    The CEO is a strong leader and is fully conversant with all business and other aspects of the bank.
He has led the bank through a period of significant change and appears to enjoy the full support and trust
of his management team. He is particularly conscious of the need to control and monitor the bank during
its course of future expansion; as well as of the need to continuously improve the quality of the staff and
the management information systems to meet future demands. Given the plans to expand the branch
network and increase market share through mergers and acquisitions, it is important that the bank consider
establishing an independent risk management function reporting directly to the CEO.
5.    Banka Celje has comprehensive information on its assets and liabilities, margins and other details
of its income, costs, advances and loan portfolio quality. Good information is also available on bank
customers, and loan administration is adequate for the level and complexity of its lending activities. The
bank follows a very conservative lending practice and 90 percent of all branch credits are insured. Of the
remaining 10 percent of branch lending, 67 percent is secured by collateral mortgages and 33 percent by
State securities.
6.    Trends in key financial performance indicators reflect the steady growth in business and
profitability of the bank with the return on assets (ROA) improving from 0.74 percent in 1992 to 1.28
percent in 1994 (measured in real terms before extraordinary items). After extraordinary charges reflecting



- 42 -
Annex 7
Page 2
the cost of buying back the preferred shares held by NLBdd, the audited ROA for 1994 was 0.47 percent.
The bank's capital adequacy ratio at end-1994 was an impressive 21 percent of weighted risk assets. As
is the case with other banks in Slovenia, a major factor affecting the bank's financial strength and
performance could be the valuation of the existing long-term Government bonds (SIT 13 billion or 25
percent of the bank's assets) which were issued against the frozen foreign currency deposits in the
National Bank of Yugoslavia. However, the bank's very high net worth provides for an acceptable buffer
to absorb a potential mark down of these bonds.
7.     The 1995 results of the bank show a continued improvement in the bank's financial position, with
a reported after tax profit of about SIT 800 million, a CAR in excess of 20 percent, and a well
provisioned portfolio. The bank continues to enjoy a very healthy deposit base of SIT 52 billion (about
75% of its total assets).
8.     The assessmentof Banka Celje dd included detailed analysis of the annual statutory audit of 1994,
and the special diagnostic review of March 1994, based on terms of reference prepared by the Bank' This
assessment also included extensive discussions with senior management and review of key risk
management issues and processes. Due to the confidentiality of facts and figures included in the report,
these are kept out of, and are filed separately from, the SAR.2
9.     The Bank of Slovenia has provided written confirmation that Banka Celje dd adheres to prevailing
prudential banking regulations in Slovenia and is in good standing with the supervisory authority. In
addition, the Bank of Slovenia has agreed to undertake a full scope examination of Banka Celje dd in
1996. The scope and coverage of these examinations have been agreed with the Bank.
i0.    During negotiations, Banka Celje dd agreed to:
- Assign, prior to effectiveness of this loan, a consultant (or a qualified staff of the bank), based
on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to establish an expanded credit risk management
function, independent from the lending function;
- Initiate, by end-December 1996, implementation of a plan, acceptable to the Bank, to
strengthen its risk management function;
- Submit to the Bank and the BoS for their review, by November 15 of each year, the proforna
engagement letter for the external audits for that year's accounts, prior to entering into
agreement with the external auditors. This review will focus on: (i) scope and coverage
proposed for the annual review; (ii) extension to review quality of loan portfolio; (iii) concrete
procedures and questionnaires to be used by auditors in evaluating risk management programs
This diagnostic audit was commissioned by the BoS, as part of its supervisory operations. The terms of
reference for the audit were agreed with the Bank as part of the strengthening of the supervision
function supported under the EFSAL. The audit was financed by the EU-Phare.
2  Consultants' report containing the relevant financial analysis and institutional assessment as well as their
summary of recommended key development actions are in the Project File (Annex 1).



- 43 -
Annex 7
Page 3
and intemal controls; (iv) concrete program, procedures and tests to be followed to assess
earnings and review the profit and loss account; and (v) special reporting topics/issues for the
year. Banka Celje has also agreed to authorize the Bank and BoS representatives to have
access to the working papers of the auditors, and the management letter;
Submit, by end-June of each-year, to the Bank for information, the auditors report and
management letter for the previous year's activities.



-44 -                                          Annex 7
Page 4
Banka Celje
Balance Sheet as of 31 December
in millions of tolars
1995        1994         1993         1992
Assets
Cash in hand and balances with central bank               1,830        1,498         973          327
Placements with, and loans to other banks                12,163       11,880        7,832        7623
Loans to other customers                                29,630        18,270       13,409        7917
Investment securities                                    19,546       13,891       12,073        6552
Securities held for dealing purposes                       404            70         284            0
Investments in non-associated companies                       -          179          30           11
Investments in associated companies                         39            35          88            3
Fixed Assets                                              2,510        2,078        1,633        1233
Own share                                                   15         1,615           7            1
Other assets                                              3,262         1927         893          500
Accrued income not yet due                                    -          271         263          276
Total assets                                             69,399       51,714       37,485      24,443
Liabilities and funds employed
Deposits from banks                                       8,588        3,104        2,887        2566
Amounts owed to other depositors                         43,101       34,679       23,637       14242
Liabilities evidenced by paper                            2,516        1,112        1,338        1095
Other liabilities                                          729           541         707          839
Accruals and deferred income                              2,976        2,257         980          742
Provisions for liabilities and charges                     452           213         225           67
Total liabilities                                        58,362       41,906       29,774       19551
Subscribed capital                                        3,377        3,377         422          422
Reserves                                                  4,485        4,411        6,407        4470
Long term reservations                                     308           308         308            0
Capital revaluation reserve                               2,070        1,247           0            0
Unappropriated profit from current year                    799           465         574            0
Totals funds employed                                    11,039        9,808        7,711        4892
Total liabilities and funds employed                     69,401       51,714       37,485      24,443
Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 31 December
Interest income                                          4,446        3,674        7,905        7,209
Interest expenses                                        (2,187)     (1,633)      (3,720)      (3,730)
Net interest income                                      2,259        2,041        4,185        3,479
Fees and commission income                                1,406       1,056        1,501        2,262
Fees and commission expenses                              (233)        (174)        (669)       (579)
Net fees and commission income                            1,173         882          832        1,683
Other operating income                                     561          365          223          108
Extraordinary income                                      2,757         819            0           0
Total income                                              6,750       4,107        5,240        5,270
Change for bad and doubtful debts                        (2,671)       (860)      (2,109)      (1,802)
Operating expenses                                       (3,278)      (2,758)     (1,861)      (1,216)
Extraordinary Profit (loss)                                   -         (22)           0           0
Profit before taxation                                     801          467        1,270        2,252
Tax                                                          (2)         (2)         (35)        (33)
Unappropriated net profit                                  799          465        1,235        2,219



- 45 -
Anniex 8
SLOVENIA - Investment Recoverv Project
Summarv of the Demand Study
Table: Investment and Demand for Commercial Bank Credit in IJSS Million, 1993-1996
Actiual                               Projected
1993               1994                1995                1996
Invest   Credit   Invest    Credit   Invest   Credit   hivest    Credit
Private                   120        33       123        35       18        36       134         38
Unincorporated
Current Private            73        65       150        8(       30(1      93       470         ()0
Incorporated
Current Mixed&            746       161       836       206       891      238       949        25I
Socially Owned
of wvhich privaltized      -         -          -        -       445      119        60J       20()
Total                     939      260       1109       321      1319      367      1 553       388
of wvhiclh privwte        193       98        273      1/5       8 73     248       1364        338
Comm. Bank Credit                  28%                 29%                280,6                25%
as °  of Total
Investment
Comm. Bank Credit                  5I 1le              420 o              280%o                25% o
as % of Private
Investment
Private Sector
Total Investment 95-96    (US$ millions)                                                       2237
Total Commercial Bank Credit 95-96 (USSS millions)                                              586
Total Commercial Batik Credit as % of Total livestment 95-96                                   260%
Note:  Investment and credit figures are based on surve) ot commercial banks and
macroeconomic projections.









IMAGING
Report No:      15887 SLO
Type: SAR



