                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 27505

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (CPL-38500 SCL-3850A SCPD-3850S)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$400.0 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                                   RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                          FOR A

                                    HOUSING PROJECT




                                      January 12, 2004




Infrastructure & Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective January 8, 2004)

                             Currency Unit = Ruble
                                1.00 Ruble = US$ 0.034
                                  US$ 1.00 = 29.10 Rubles

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1     December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BLOC           -  Building Industry Line of Credit
CAE            -  Country Assistance Evaluation
CAS            -  Country Assistance Strategy
CFLOC          -  Construction Finance Line of Credit
EMLOC          -  Equity Matching Line of Credit
ERR            -  Economic Rate of Return
ESP            -  Enterprise Support Project
FIDP           -  Financial Institutions Development Project
FRR            -  Financial Rate of Return
GC             -  General Consultant
GDP            -  Gross Domestic Product
GOSSTROI       -  Russian Federation/State Committee for Construction & Housing
ICR            -  Implementation Completion Report
IMC            -  Inter-Ministerial Committee
MOF            -  Ministry of Finance
MTR            -  Mid-Term Review
NFHR           -  National Foundation for Housing Reform
NPV            -  Net Present Value
OED            -  Operations Evaluations Department
PIU            -  Project Implementation Unit
QAE            -  Quality at Entry
QAG            -  Quality Assurance Group
RAP            -  Regulatory Action Plan
SAR            -  Staff Appraisal Report
SLA            -  Sub-Loan Agreement
TCA            -  Technical Cooperation Agreement
USAID          -  United States Agency for International Development



                           Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                        Country Director:      Julian F. Schweitzer
                          Sector Director:     Hossein Razavi
                          Sector Manager:      Sumter Lee Travers
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Jan Brzeski

                                  RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                          HOUSING


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                      34

Project ID: P008827                                                  Project Name: HOUSING
Team Leader: Jan Brzeski                                             TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: January 8, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: HOUSING                                                  L/C/TF Number: CPL-38500; SCL-3850A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3850S
   Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                 Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Housing finance and real estate markets (44%); Roads and highways
                            (17%); General energy sector (17%); General water, sanitation and
                            flood protection sector (17%); General public administration sector
                            (5%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); Regulation and
                            competition policy (P); Land management (P); Infrastructure
                            services for private sector development (P); Climate change (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/29/1993                                     Effective: 07/27/1995
     Appraisal: 06/20/1994                                         MTR: 03/23/1998
      Approval: 03/07/1995                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          RUSSIAN FEDERATION/MIN FIN/ECON/MINSTROI
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Julian F. Schweitzer                           Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                 Hossein Razavi                                 Jonathan Brown
Team Leader at ICR:             Jan Brzeski                                    Adrienne Nassau
ICR Primary Author:             Felix A. Jakob; Jan Brzeski


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The SAR dated January 30, 1995 stated that the general goal of the Housing Project was 'to support the
[Federal] Government's efforts to develop housing markets with choice for consumers and competition
among private suppliers' and that more specifically, the objectives of the project were 'to implement
national housing reform policies in receptive cities, especially de-monopolize the supply of land; (b)
demonstrate practical ways that markets can produce housing and generate employment; and
institutionalize new principles and practices, in particular in the construction and building materials
industry'.


3.1.1    Context:

The development of the housing sector provides a vivid illustration of the social and economic
complexities and contradictions of Russia's transition to a market economy. Under the Soviet system,
housing was a public good provided, owned, managed and maintained by the State.               In principle,
housing could be neither bought nor sold, though some informal trading occurred. In 1990, only about
15% of the housing stock in urban areas was privately owned.             Shortage of new housing was a
permanent feature of the Soviet economy. In 1990, about 20% of all households countrywide were on a
waiting list for new apartments. Housing difficulties were aggravated by the poor physical conditions of
many buildings. Soviet-era housing construction was generally of inferior quality, as most State
monopoly construction companies had no incentives to improve the standard of materials or introduce
more innovative construction techniques.

From the onset of the transition, housing was seen a sector with promising prospects for successful
reform.    The new Russian Constitution of 1993 recognized the citizen's right to individual property
ownership. Based on a several laws and other Federal Government legal acts promulgated between
1991 and 1994 housing privatization progressed rapidly (as dwellings were basically given away at no
cost). By 1994, private housing ownership in urban areas had climbed to over 40% (leveling off since
then at about 65%). Housing privatization was not accompanied, however, by similar efforts to privatize
land in urban areas. In keeping with Soviet practices, land continued to be treated as a separate asset
and remained in the ownership of the State. Another important factor in the development of the housing
sector was the transformation which the local administration system was undergoing in the early 1990s.
Genuine local governments had not existed in the Soviet system. With the transition came the creation
of autonomous local governments, to which were devolved number of responsibilities formerly held by
the State. Among other things, these new responsibilities included the ownership and maintenance of all
not yet privatized housing, the operation of local utilities, and the management of urban development
through control of land use and construction activities.

The economic situation of the country deteriorated dramatically over the same period. Hyperinflation was
rampant reaching 1,350% in 1992 and 895% in 1993. GDP contracted by about 50% between 1990 and
1994. The impact on the housing sector was dramatic. Investment in new housing declined steeply and
in 1994 was less than 20% of the level of 1990. Public sector financing for housing virtually stopped and
the incipient private sector investment was grossly inadequate to offset the decline and mitigate its
adverse social effects as almost all of it was concentrated on the top segments of the market.

Bank involvement in the Housing Sector started in 1992 under the Technical Cooperation Agreement
(TCA), which had been signed in December 1991. Findings and conclusions of a broad review of housing
sector issues and proposals for a reform strategy were contained in the Report 'Russia: Housing Reform
and Privatization' which though drafted in 1992 was only formally issued in 1995. In parallel, the Bank,
opened discussions with the Government on a possible lending operation for the sector in Fall 1992 and
started the preparation of a USD 200 million loan, which initially was planned for FY96.

In April 1993, to fend off the threats of an imminent balance of payments crisis, the G-7 prepared `a



                                                    - 2 -

framework for accelerated assistance to Russia' within which the Bank agreed to take a major role in
supporting long-term structural and sectoral reforms and provide up to USD 4 billion in new loans over
the next fifteen months. As part of these commitments, the Bank decided to double the amount of the
proposed housing sector operation from USD 200 million to USD 400 million and to accelerate its
preparation so that it could submitted for Board approval by the end of FY94 and commence
disbursements in fall of 1994. Both the concept of the proposed operation and its scheduling were
explicitly supported by the US Government which, in a highly unusual step, agreed to immediately
mobilize up to USD 10 million of grant funding for the technical assistance required to expedite project
preparation.


3.1.2    Assessment of Project Objectives

The overall goals of the project were highly relevant for Russia at the time of project preparation - and
they remain it today. They fully coincided with the Federal Government's agenda defined in the 1993
State Targeted Program for Housing and enjoyed the support of all authorities involved. The goals also
were in line with the recommendations of the preliminary CAS of May 1993 and the follow up CAS of
April 1994, and consistent with the Bank's general approaches to housing sector reform in transition
economies.

A fundamental question debated at the very start of project preparation was whether the Bank should
support the Federal Government in this sector by concentrating on further strengthening the overall
national policy framework through a policy based operation or, alternatively, develop an investment
operation that would demonstrate to the population the tangible benefits of the policy reforms already
undertaken. As highlighted in the 2002 OED Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE), the debate on the
choice of appropriate Bank lending instruments largely transcended the discussion about this particular
project and touched on the Bank's overall approach to lending to Russia in those years. In the end, the
Bank opted, though without a broad consensus, for the second strategy on the grounds that addressing
national policy conditionality was a lesser priority since critically important legislation on sector reforms
had already been taken in the preceding few years and other remaining issues were addressed under
other Bank projects concurrently under preparation. In keeping with this approach, the project was to be
closely coordinated with the preparation of the FY94 Financial Institutions Development Project - FIDP
(Ln. 3734-RU) and the FY94 Enterprise Support Project - ESP (Ln. 3763-RU), with both of which it would
be linked through appropriate cross-conditionality

The assessment of the overall development problems in the housing sector given in the SAR was largely
correct and backed by extensive research.        The approach adopted by the project to address the
problems, however, rested on basic assumptions which were out of tune with the then existing realities of
Russia's economy, institutional environment, and changing society. The project assumed that the most
immediate and critical obstacle for the emergence of viable housing markets was the absence of an
appropriately operating system of housing supply as a result of unavailability of suitable land, lack of
credit financing for developers, and inadequate local legislations and regulations, as well as the general
shortage of modern construction materials perpetuated by the building industry monopolies inherited
from the Soviet-era. Equally critical issues such as the structure of the housing demand were glossed
over or played down on the basis of analytical work that, in retrospect, lacked the necessary
thoroughness and understanding of local conditions. Because of these basic imbalances, the project
objectives, though internally coherent and logical in terms of proposed outputs, were from the outset
unrealistic and by and large unachievable in terms of development objectives.

The project acknowledged from the beginning that the affordability of housing financed under market
conditions existed only at the upper rungs of the household income ladder and that therefore it could not
pursue specific social objectives. It underlined that its targets were `the lowest possible income groups
that could afford to pay the full price for unsubsidized housing produced under market conditions', and
that the `ideal purchasers would be trend-setting middle-income families who would generate a demand
for alternative types of housing and building techniques that, in turn, would encourage developers to
respond'. In defense of this position it was argued that given the prevailing economic conditions in



                                                    - 3 -

Russia this was the only way to achieve the development goal and that only by focusing on this relatively
narrow segment of potential demand could the actual feasibility of market based supply mechanisms be
tested and the visible demonstration effect sought by the Government produced.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project, whose total cost was estimated at USD 758.0 million - included three components:

(a)     Housing Market Development, consisting of two sub-components (i) Land Development (USD
        404.3 million, of which loan: USD 201.0 million), and (ii) Construction Finance Line of Credit -
        CFLOC, (USD 178.5 million, of which loan: USD 80.0 million);
(b)     Building Material Industry Equity Matching Line of Credit - EMLOC, (USD 140.7 million, of which
        loan: USD 96.0 million); and
 (c)    Technical Cooperation and Training (USD 33.0 million, of which loan: USD 23.0 million).


3.3.1   Housing Market Development

Sub-component I: Land Development.            The sub-component was to finance the construction by
Participating Cities of off- and on-site infrastructure (i.e. roads, water supply, sewerage, electricity, gas
and district heating) for vacant land parcels zoned for residential development, which would be offered to
private developers for sale or long-term lease through auctions. The sub-component was also to finance
the rehabilitation of water supply and sewerage infrastructure for St. Petersburg to support overall urban
development in some of the city's northern neighborhoods.            Infrastructure construction was to be
financed to 20% by the cities themselves while the remaining 80% were to be funded through five-year
maturity sub-loans from the MOF (with the cities bearing the foreign exchange risk, however) under a
Sub-Loan Agreements (SLA) signed with each city. Proceeds from the auctioning of land were to cover
loan repayments. The developers, in turn, could, if they wished, obtain the financial resources necessary
for the implementation of housing projects on the sites from commercial banks participating in the
project's CFLOC component (see Sub-component II, below).

The objective of the sub-component was to de-monopolize and increase the supply of land for the
construction of new housing in the participating cities. Cost-recovery through land auctions was to
provide a development mechanism the cities could replicate elsewhere. Auctions were also to establish
a transparent system of transfer of land ownership from the State to the private sector.
Competition-based land allocation was to result in giving equal access to both small and large home
builders. The introduction of new market oriented planning procedures including feasibility analyses, land
pricing mechanisms, flexible site designs was to allow for greater attention being paid to social,
economic and environmental concerns. As a prerequisite for participation in the project each city had to
prepare and adopt a Regulatory Action Plan (RAP), which detailed the measures the city committed itself
to take in the areas of title registration, land use regulations, housing reform, and competition-based
transfer of land ownership or rights of use to the private sector.

Participating cities were selected through a screening process that involved the examination of a variety
of criteria. Although over twenty cities were assessed, only five were retained: Barnaul, Nizhniy
Novgorod, Novgorod, Tver, and St. Petersburg. (The inclusion of close to forty more cities was explored
during project implementation but only two, Kazan and Krasnoyarsk, were eventually accepted in 2000).

Land development sites were selected by the participating cities with the assistance of the Bank's project
preparation team on the basis of - given the state of the local economy and institutional capacities -
rather elaborate selection criteria and methodologies. To minimize the risk of inadequate selection
decisions by the cities, the project required that all parcels be auctioned off before any infrastructure



                                                     - 4 -

contract could be awarded, (a requirement that soon was lowered to 30%, however).

Project preparation identified a total of sixteen sites in the five cities covering a total of about 575 ha
which were estimated to potentially accommodate 31,500 housing units and provide 43 has of
commercial space as well as to generate around 100,000 person/years of short-term construction
employment.

Sub-component II: Construction Finance Line of Credit (CFLOC): The purpose of the sub-component
was to provide through the intermediary of commercial banks financial resources to private developers
who planned to build housing in the project cities. To be eligible for participation in CFLOC the banks had
also to participate in, and be accredited by, the Bank's Financial Institutions Development Project (FIDP).
Additionally, the terms and conditions of CFLOC sub-loans to developers had to be consistent with those
of the Enterprise Support Project (ESP). Financing was to be made available on the basis of individual
Sub-Loan Agreements (SLA) between MOF and each participating bank (with the bank bearing the
exchange rate risk). CFLOC sub-loans to developers were to finance up to 75% of construction costs of
housing units and 30% of commercial space with maturities varying from 6 months to four years
depending on the type of construction. Although not a participating city in terms of land development,
the City of Moscow was included in the CFLOC sub-component at the Government's insistence on the
grounds that the development of new and advanced housing types and techniques in the capital would
have a high visibility and demonstration effect. Recognizing the risk that the location of the land
development sites selected by the participating cities might only partially reflect actual market
preferences, only half of CFLOC funds were reserved for the financing of projects on these sites while
the other half was allocated to projects on other sites within the territories or the vicinity of the
participating cities.

Aware of the danger that the CFLOC resources be diverted from the project's middle-income housing
targets, strict criteria were set to determine the eligibility of projects in terms of building type, size of
dwellings, construction costs per square meter, and loan amounts. On this basis, it was estimated that
CFLOC would allow the construction of about 3,100 housing units of different types ranging from USD
30,000 to USD 57,000.


3.3.2   Building Material Industry Equity Matching Line of Credit (EMLOC): The purpose of the
sub-component was to promote the introduction of new building materials into the Russian market and, to
that effect, allow commercial banks to lend interested Russian enterprises the equity funding they would
need to engage in joint-ventures with foreign firms.       As in the case of CFLOC, the banks had to
participate in, and be accredited by, the FIDP to be eligible for participation in the project. Likewise, the
terms and conditions of EMLOC loans to enterprises had to be consistent with those of the ESP.
Financing was to be made available through individual Sub-Loan Agreement (SLA) between the MOF
and each participating bank (with the bank bearing the exchange rate risk).

The rationale for preferring the equity matching mechanism over a conventional loan mechanism was
that the former would better protect the loan resources from being diverted to existing but economically
and technically unviable State enterprises which still held a strong influence at various levels of
Government. Based on discussions held in Russia and elsewhere with venture capital funds and other
potential investors, it was concluded that a considerable pipeline of investment proposals of up to USD
85 million ready for immediate implementation existed and that accordingly the credit line would be
drawn down rather rapidly.


3.3.3.  Technical Cooperation and Training (TCT): The component was to finance technical assistance
and other institutional development support for the following four areas: (a) implementation assistance
including funding for the operation of the Project Implementation Unit (initially CPIU, subsequently
National Foundation for Housing Reform - NFHR) and the General Consultant contract, as well as the
provision of technical assistance to participating cities in the implementation of RAPs; (b) development
of housing and construction finance including training for participating banks in underwriting, accounting,
and supervision of real estate lending., assistance to developers and local authorities in the development



                                                    - 5 -

of alternative housing types and construction technologies;             (c) development of land registration
including hardware, software and training for pilot real estate registration systems in participating cities;
and (d) assistance to GOSSTROI in the revision of standards and codes for building materials, as well as
the implementation of studies likely to be required for the preparation of other future Bank projects for
the housing sector.

Under the original implementation arrangements the CPIU was to be only a small unit reporting to
GOSSTROI and the Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) created for the project. Its primary responsibility
was to be limited to implementation oversight and coordination with the Government and the Bank. The
bulk of overall day-to-day management of the project was to be the responsibility of a `General
Consultant', a management entity formed by a group of international consulting firms. On behalf of
NFHR the `General Consultant' was to manage all project implementation supervision, procurement,
financial management, and reporting. A substantial amount of complementary technical assistance and
consulting services was expected to be financed by USAID within the framework of its Housing Sector
Reform Project (which was discontinued in 1996, however).

3.4 Revised Components:

There were no changes in the design of the project components. However, a number of adjustments
were made in the course of the eight years of implementation to adjust the project to changes in the
macro-economic environment of Russia and evolving needs of the housing sector and improve the
prospects for a faster drawdown of the loan.

The most important changes, none of which required Board approval, included the following:

In response to the persisting inactivity of the EMLOC component, it was agreed in April 1997 to convert
the equity matching mechanism into a conventional Building Industry Line of Credit (BLOC), even
though this put the project in direct competition with the ESP project.

A substantial enlargement of the original Land Title Registration Program included in the Technical
Cooperation and Training component was agreed to in June 2000. Discussions about the change in
scope of this program were initiated at the project Mid-Term Review (MTR) in March 1998 but could not
be finalized due to project implementation problems stemming from the August 1998 financial crisis.
The main objective of the land title registration component was to support the implementation of the Law
on State Registration of Title to Land and Immovable Property of 1998. To that effect, the component
was to (a) develop and install registration systems in about twelve to fifteen cities selected countrywide
on a competitive basis; and (b) provide necessary support for the institutional strengthening of services
responsible for, or associated with, title registration, training, and implementation of basic surveys.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no Quality at Entry (QAE) assessment review conducted for the project.

The ICR rates the Quality at Entry as unsatisfactory on the ground of the following considerations:

The decision of Bank management to double the originally contemplated loan amount and complete
project preparation within a period of twelve months as part of its commitment to the G-7 placed the
project from the very beginning on a difficult road.. In the then existing context of Russia, these `project
external' decisions created quality constraints which the project team despite all efforts (including an
unusually intensive use of consultants) had no possibility to overcome satisfactorily. The loan was too
large for a project whose design was more appropriate for a small-scale experimental pilot operation.
Reducing the time of preparation to a bare minimum was more than risky given the still limited
understanding the Bank had at that time of not only the Russian housing sector but the country's
institutional machinery in general.




                                                      - 6 -

Consistency with Bank Strategy: The project fulfilled this factor to a substantial degree.

The Housing Project was in line with the preliminary CAS of May 1993 and the follow up preliminary CAS
of April 1994. Both CASs underlined that `improvements in housing and urban services would be one of
the most direct and effective means for demonstrating to the bulk of the population, [...] some of the
beneficial results of the [transition related] reform program', but recognized that `development of a
modern housing sector based on private sector participation will take a long time to accomplish and
would need to be supported by a series of Bank project'. The May 1993 CAS, in particular, emphasized
that `in order to develop an active private sector housing market, attention needs to be given to the legal
framework for real estate property rights, privatization of the housing construction sector, and the
development of banking services for the housing and real estate markets.'

Government Ownership and Stakeholder Involvement: The project fulfilled this factor to a moderate
degree. A number of Government officials supported the project wholeheartedly and believed it to
provide a potentially powerful tool for leveraging reforms and modernizing the sector. Others were more
hesitant in their commitment to its objectives (and those of sector reforms in general) and possibly saw in
it essentially as a source of external financing that would compensate for the dwindling State resources
and help maintain the status quo. (A view, which, all things considered, was not too different from that of
the G-7). Official statements to the contrary notwithstanding, ownership at the level of the participating
cities was most likely even more uncertain, despite the heavy lobbying by some of them for getting
included in the project. The RAPs were almost exclusively prepared by foreign experts and possibly
reflected more their views than a genuine commitment of local authorities. Deeper involvement of
stakeholders would have entailed a more time-consuming approach, which was incompatible with the
processing timetable and the pressure to complete project preparation within the twelve-months period.


Project Design: The project fulfilled this factor to an insufficient degree. The project concept would have
been appropriate for a modest experimental pilot project. It was not suitable, however, for an operation of
the size that was forced onto it. While in its overall structure the project seemed relatively simple, in its
details it was over-designed and excessively complex. At least in part, the complexity reflected Bank
apprehensions about the actual viability of the operation and resulted in overburdening the project with
requirements and preventive controls in matters of procurement, sub-project eligibility criteria, and
procedures for credit line administration. As a consequence, the implementation was clearly beyond the
then existing capacity of the Government, let alone the participating city governments, and the concept
of the `General Consultant' seemed the most logical and efficient alternative for an implementation
mechanism capable to satisfy the requirements of the project. Equally important, the project was also
likely to overtax the supervision resources and capacities of the Bank itself.

The project's technical design problems were compounded by the debatable validity of some of the key
assumptions on which it rested:

Estimates of the actual market demand for land and new housing development in the price ranges
imposed by the project were highly unrealistic. Use of relatively sophisticated computer models during
project preparation could not compensate for the unreliability of existing data or mask the influence of
other factors driving the decision-making process in the selection of land development sites. Heavy
reliance on credit lines was premature given the state of development of the Russian banking sector and
took insufficiently into account the disincentives created by existing regulations and practices of the
commercial credit market. A real interest of foreign investors in joint ventures with existing Russian
firms turned out not to exist.

Project Administrative Structure: The project fulfilled this factor to a moderate degree. In principle, the
project was to be implemented under the oversight and coordination of an Inter-Ministerial Committee
including the MOF, the Ministry of Economy and GOSSTROI, with the latter taking on the de facto
responsibility for project implementation. Actual oversight of implementation was to be the responsibility
of a project implementation unit (CPIU- subsequently NFHR), which in turn would delegate overall
day-to-day management of the project to the `General Consultant', a management entity formed by a



                                                     - 7 -

group of international consulting firms.

Reducing the role of the project implementation unit to that of a simple oversight mechanism and
outsourcing the bulk of responsibility for project implementation management to a group of international
consulting firms was a solution of debatable efficiency. Interweaving the responsibilities for project
management to the degree done under the project opened the door to possible conflicts of interest, risks
of lack of transparency and impartiality, and confusion in matters of financial management. However, in
defense of the arrangement it can be argued that at the time reasonable alternatives did not exist. The
Government administration was largely in disarray and the complexity of the project required an
expertise that probably was not available at that level. Finally, in the context of Russia reducing the role
of government and increasing the reliance on private sector seemed an appropriate strategy and was not
out of line with the prevailing thinking on this matter in the Bank and elsewhere.

Institutional Analysis: The project fulfilled this factor to a moderate degree.          At the time of project
preparation, Russia had barely started to open up and was still in many respects a terra incognita.
Knowledge of the Soviet system and its internal functioning mechanisms among Bank staff was rather
limited. On the Russian side, the understanding of the Bank's objectives, operating rules and procedures
was equally embryonic at many levels. It existed at that time, and not only in the Bank, a certain climate
of political naivety in which it was believed that the virtues of market economy were self-explanatory and
self-imposing and that only a little push was needed to get reforms into gear. Succumbing to this general
willful optimism the project team was led to underestimate the hurdles for reform at both the Federal and
local level, minimize the importance of existing institutional and regulatory obstacles, especially in the
banking sector, and de-emphasize the severity of risks the operation was likely to face.

Assessment of Risks: The project fulfilled this factor to a substantial degree. The SAR properly identified
most of the factors that eventually caused the project to fail, but emphasized that the necessary
measures had been taken to mitigate or eliminate these risks.

Readiness for Implementation: The project fulfilled this factor to an insufficient degree. The assurances
given to this effect in the SAR notwithstanding, the project's readiness for implementation was debatable.
Although project preparation had taken longer than anticipated and the project went to the Board only in
Spring 1995 instead, as originally planned, in Summer 1994 essential elements for a rapid
implementation start-up were missing. Even though SLAs had been signed with the five participating
cities at the time of Loan Effectiveness, it took a year before the first land auctions was held in Spring
1996 and the first infrastructure contracts did not get signed before April 1996. SLAs with participating
commercial banks for CFLOC and EMLOC were only signed by the MOF in March 1996, and the first
loan to a developer was made by a participating bank in May 1996. No contract was signed under
EMLOC until its conversion into BLOC in Fall 1997.



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The ICR assesses the overall outcome and achievements of the project as unsatisfactory from both the
point of view of output and outcome. The assessment is based on the conclusion that the impact of the
project on the institutional development of the housing sector in Russia over the past ten years has been
marginal and that none of the project's - admittedly ambitious - output objectives could be achieved.
Last but not least, the project also failed to fulfill the primary mission that it had been assigned, namely to
contribute to providing short-term balance of payment support. Disbursements took off only in 1997, one
year before the August 1998 crisis. At loan closing in Summer 2003, ten years after the historical 1993
G-7 meeting, barely about half of the loan had been disbursed

To what extent the project's implementation difficulties were exacerbated by the overall political and
economic developments leading up to the August 1998 crisis is open to debate. The major shortcomings
of the project already appeared soon after project start-up and were fully recognized by the MTR of



                                                         - 8 -

Spring 1998: Attempts to develop local land and housing markets had fallen short of expectations.
CFLOC resources were fully committed, but only after the Bank had agreed to relax on project eligibility
restrictions by lifting the ceilings on dwelling sizes and prizes and opening the credit line to the top end of
the market.. The portfolio of loans to building material industries was building up after EMLOC had been
converted into BLOC, but as noted by the MTR, at that time the component had largely lost its purpose
as the building material market in Russia had in the meantime experienced a rapid development and
availability of modern materials was not an issue any longer. Project impact on the management of
urban development in participating towns was modest at best.             The August 1998 crisis effectively
brought the implementation of the CFLOC and BLOC components to a halt. Implementation of the land
development component continued, though at a reduced scale. The bulk of project activities during the
remaining years concentrated on technical assistance to the Federal Government.

Ironically, it was in this latter area where the project had the largest development impact even though
addressing Federal policy issues was explicitly not one of its original objectives.         The project was
instrumental in helping GOSSTROI prepare various pieces of critically important land and housing
legislation and disseminate title registration procedures on a broad scale countrywide. The project also
allowed to maintain a fruitful policy dialogue with key ministries involved in housing sector issues. This
dialogue laid the basis for the preparation of two new Bank operations in the field of reform of communal
services and the development of housing finance systems, scheduled for Board presentation in FY05.


4.2 Outputs by components:


A.       Housing Market Development:

Sub-component I: Land Development (original loan amount: USD 201.0 million, disbursed loan amount
USD 69.8 million).

Achievements of the area of land development are assessed as unsatisfactory in terms of both outcome
and output.

It could be argued that, from a strictly technical point of view, the component achieved its targets. Land
development projects were carried out and completed in all seven participating cities and a large
proportion (though not all) of the land included in the project was auctioned off to private developers or
individual owners either for sale or long-term leases. This seemingly positive result does not withstand
scrutiny, however, and a closer look suggests a highly debatable outcome of the sub-component both
quantitatively and qualitatively:

The original assumption was that the project would finance the implementation of at least sixteen
projects covering a total area of 575 ha in five participating cities. In the end, the project financed a total
of twelve projects covering a total area of 110 ha (or 19% of the original target) in seven participating
cities at a total cost USD 88.2 million, (or 21% of the original target). Implementation was relatively slow.
First land auctions were completed only in spring 1996 and, for the first five participating cities,
completed in Fall 1997. (Meanwhile, the Bank had agreed in 1996 to reduce the proportion of land to be
auctioned off prior to awarding infrastructure contracts from 100% to 30%). First infrastructure contacts
were awarded in Summer 1996 and in their majority completed by Fall 1997). By early 1998 only USD
55 million (or 30% of the original allocation) were committed. The shortcomings of the sub-component
were recognized by the MTR, which advised the loan amount reserved for land development be reduced
from USD 150 million to USD 100 million, a decision eventually taken and agreed to by the Government
in 2000.

A systematic evaluation of the results of the project in the seven participating cities was not carried out
for the ICR. Impressions from earlier site visits made by Bank staff between 2000 and 2003 support the
conclusion that the results were generally unsatisfactory:




                                                       - 9 -

With the exception of the city of St. Petersburg, housing construction on the sites developed under the
project remained modest and had only little impact on the development of local housing markets. By
end of 2000, the number of housing units either completed or under construction as a percentage of the
original construction programs planned for the sites amounted to 7% in Barnaul, 4% in Nizhniy
Novgorod, 30% in Novgorod, and 16% in Tver, while housing construction in other parts of these cities
reportedly was flourishing.

Whether the project led to a de-monopolization of land supply is debatable. In most cities, the land
and/or the long-term lease rights for it were bought by one or two developers, who happened in several
cases also to be the winners of the infrastructure contracts for the sites. Evidence that auctioning of land
(or long-term lease rights) has become more widely used as an instrument of urban development
planning could be found only in a few cities. Additionally, there are legitimate questions as to the actual
effectiveness of auctions as a new instrument for market development. In all cities, auctions had to be
repeated. Reportedly, there were in many cases only one or two bidders. Final auction prices were in
almost all cases either equal to, or barely above, the cities' original asking prices.

The effects of the project on the finances of the participating cities are open to question. In at least two
cases (Novgorod and Tver), the total auction revenue was insufficient to cover the cost of the
infrastructure contracts.  Moreover, it is said that in some cases developers paid the initial 10%
down-payment required for the conclusion of the sale, but then procrastinated on the payment of the
remainder on grounds of financial difficulties. The devaluation of the national currency in 1998 resulted
in multiplying the debt service on the sub-loans by a factor of four, which was beyond the capacity of
most of the participating cities and led MOF to extend the maturity of the sub-loans from four to ten
years (without prior consultation with the Bank, however).


Sub-Component II: Construction Finance Line of Credit (CFLOC) (original loan amount USD 80.0
million, disbursed loan amount USD 61.8 million).

Achievements in the area of construction finance are assessed as satisfactory in terms of output but
unsatisfactory in terms outcome.

In purely technical terms, the sub-component was implemented satisfactorily.              CFLOC provided
financing for the construction of about 3,200 housing units in excess of the 3,100 units originally
contemplated. About 80% of the original CFLOC allocation was disbursed. The component output would
have been even higher had the August 1998 crisis not led to the bankruptcy of at least one of the
participating banks and the temporary suspension of all Special Accounts and credit line operations in
Bank projects. Following extensive discussions during 1999 and 2000 it was agreed to permit the
completion of some ongoing construction projects but not to authorize the start of any new operation.
Accordingly CFLOC was officially closed in Spring 2001.

Initially, commercial banks displayed only limited interest in financing construction. By spring 1997, only
three banks had signed up for participation in the project. Developers, for their part, found the Bank
requirements on building type, dwelling size, construction costs and loan amounts per unit excessively
restrictive. To improve the attractiveness of CFLOC (and increase disbursements) the Bank, in Summer
1997, agreed to modify the eligibility criteria raising the maximum size of the units and their prices. In the
end, the project financed units at average price of USD 64,000 and an average square meter price of
USD 780, which was about double the originally targeted unit price USD 380. In line with the actual
demand (and payment capacity) for upscale housing most of the CFLOC projects were located in
Moscow (50%) and St. Petersburg (40%), while the remaining 10% went to operations in Nizhniy
Novgorod (4%), Novgorod (5%), and Tver (1%). Only seven out of a potential FIDP pool of thirty-eight
banks eventually participated in the project and one of them went bankrupt in 1998. Only one project
(Novgorod, USD 3.6 million loan) was located on a site developed under the land development
sub-component. All of the projects are said to have been profitable for the developers and reportedly
none of them has defaulted in loan repayments to date. Most credit lines have already been paid back to
the Ministry of Finance by the participating banks.



                                                      - 10 -

The outcome of the CFLOC sub-component must be considered negligible. None of the participating
commercial banks attempted to pursue this type of lending from its own resources after closing of
CFLOC. Reportedly, commercial bank involvement in housing finance through provision of financing to
developers remains in general       a marginal activity, (whereas, on the other hand, banks appear to
develop a strong interest in mortgage financing). Available data do not permit to determine whether any
other of the sub-component's objectives has been achieved (e.g. support the development of small-scale
building enterprises, promote the introduction of new housing designs and construction techniques) and,
if so, whether this could be credited to the project or simply occurred as a result of Russia's opening up
to the outside world..


B.       Building Industry Transformation Component (BLOC, ex-EMLOC) (original loan amount USD
96.0 million, disbursed loan amount USD 27.8 million).

Achievements in the area of building industry transformation are assessed as unsatisfactory in terms of
both output and outcome..

The implementation of the component stalled from the outset as no candidates for joint ventures
materialized. After the first efforts to loosen some of the restrictions attached to EMLOC failed to yield
expected results, the Bank agreed, in 1997, to transform the equity-matching mechanism into BLOC, a
conventional enterprise support credit line open to all Russian enterprises. Following the conversion, the
component eventually financed the construction of plants and supply of equipment for six enterprises in
the Moscow and St. Petersburg regions. Total disbursements reached USD 27.0 million or about 30% of
the original component allocation. All activities under the component were discontinued after the August
1998 crisis and the resulting suspension of the credit line operations in Bank projects. Together with
CFLOC, BLOC was closed officially in Spring 2001.

The component had no discernible developmental impact on the building industry, let alone was
instrumental in its transformation. Over the period of project implementation, the Russian market of
building materials experienced a significant development and saw a large increase in the availability of
modern materials either imported or produced locally. Reportedly, most foreign manufacturers interested
in the Russian market preferred green field operations over joint ventures with existing firms. They also
had no incentive to turn to Russian banks for resources subjected to Government control and Bank
restrictions.


C.       Technical Cooperation and Training (original loan amount USD 23.0 million, disbursed loan
amount USD 19.5 million plus USD 4.0 million for PIU operating expenditure).

Achievements in the area of technical cooperation and training are assessed as satisfactory.

Originally, the primary purpose of the component was to finance the operations of the project
implementation unit and the technical assistance and consulting services provided by the `General
Consultant' for managing the implementation of the project and. The initial value of the GC contract was
USD 7.5 million. After various extensions it reached USD 13.3 million. The contract eventually closed on
December 31, 2001 with NFHR taking over from that point onward the full and exclusive responsibility
for managing the implementation of the project until its completion.

One of the major achievements of the component was the implementation of the Title Registration
Program, which started in February 2000 and was completed in June 2003. Originally targeted at about
twelve to fifteen cities countrywide, the program was able, in the end, to support the development of title
registration systems in thirty-three cities, essentially due to lower than anticipated investment needs in
the cities involved in the program. In addition to the supply of required hard- and software, the program
provided for training of over a thousand civil servants in the use of computer-based registration
techniques.



                                                    - 11 -

The component also supported the preparation of key elements of housing legislation, (see Section 4.5,
below) as well as a series of studies on the development of mortgage markets and reform of communal
services in support if the preparation of two new Bank projects scheduled for Board presentation in FY05.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

No Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated at appraisal. Currently available data do not allow
estimating an ERR for any of the components.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

No Financial Rate of Return (FRR) was calculated at appraisal. Currently available data do not allow
calculating a meaningful FRR or a Net Present Value (NPV) for any of the components. Based on
anecdotal evidence, it must be surmised that the NPV for the land development component in particular
would be highly negative.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The overall institutional development impact is assessed as modest. On the positive side, reforms
carried out by the participating cities through RAPs are said to have had a positive effect on various
aspects of housing sector development. The project also contributed - through its technical cooperation
component - to the preparation of about twenty key pieces of Federal legislation for the housing sector
including inter alia the Law on State Registration of Title to Land and Immovable Property and the Law
On Condominiums of 1996, the Government Resolution on Land Auctions and the Law on Mortgages of
1998 as well as the Federal Urban Planning Code and the Federal Housing Code.

On the negative side, the project was unsuccessful in propagating and institutionalizing new approaches
to land development beyond or even within the participating cities. According to recent surveys, possibly
as much as 95% of all land in larger cities still remains in the ownership of the public sector despite the
adoption of the Federal Land Code in 2001. Because of the prevailing fiscal regime local governments
have    no incentive to dispose of land through sale into private ownership. The project was also
unsuccessful in promoting developer credit as a new business activity of the banking sector and most
construction activities are still financed without the intermediary of commercial banks. Last, the project
played no role in the transformation of the building material industry.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

There were no factors outside the control of the Government

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The years from 1992 to 1998 saw a progressive deterioration in Russia's macro-economic performance.
While the hyperinflation of the early 1990s was gradually brought under control, other forms of fiscal
indiscipline persisted and led to the August 1998 financial crisis when the Government was forced to
devaluate the national currency by about 400%. In connection with the crisis number of banks and
enterprises were forced into bankruptcy. The crisis also led to the temporary suspension of all Bank
projects involving credit lines and/or the use of Special Accounts held in Russian banks.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:




                                                     - 12 -

There were no problems that could be traced to the performance of the implementing agency.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total original project cost of the project was estimated at USD 758.0 million of which Loan No.
3850-RU was to finance USD 400.0 million. The total loan resources disbursed at the Closing Date
amounted to USD 214.0 million while USD 186.0 million (or 46% of the original loan amount) were
cancelled in three successive tranches between November 1999 and November 2002. The original
Closing Date of December 31, 2001 was extended twice and the loan was closed on June 30, 2003.

Availability of counterpart financing was, with a few minor and temporary exceptions, never a problem.

At the request of the Government, the loan was changed in March 1997 from a currency pool loan to
single currency USD loan.

All audits of the Project Accounts were carried out in time and were unqualified.

The original Special Account for the project was opened in the MENATEP Bank. The Bank filed for
bankruptcy in connection with the August 1998 crisis with USD 2.4 million remaining in the account. A
new Special Account was opened in November 1998 in VNESHEKONOMBANK and replenished with
USD 8.0 million with MOF covering the losses associated with the bankruptcy of the previous Special
Account holder.

Management of local project accounts was of unsatisfactory quality. Participating cities were to deposit
the proceeds of land auctions into a local `Special Account' and use the funds exclusively for loan
repayments to MOF (or use the remainder, if any, for the financing of other land development projects).
From 1999 onward the Bank repeatedly requested that audits of these accounts be carried out in
accordance with the Loan and Project Agreements, but found only limited support to this effect in MOF
and GOSSTROI.        Audits in the seven participating cities were finally carried out in 2002. A review of
the audit results by the Bank's FMS team in December 2002 revealed that in only one case an
unqualified opinion was given by the auditors, that three out seven cities had refused to give the auditors
access to data and accounting documents, and that the remaining three cities all had engaged to one
extent or another in inappropriate use of the funds at their disposal.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability of project achievements is assessed as highly unlikely. Providing infrastructure to land
prior to making it available to developers or individual owners on a competitive basis may have seem
attractive a concept, but was and - for the time being remains - beyond the financial capacity of most
local governments in Russia. Moreover, local governments still lack any fiscal incentive to sell land into
private ownership. They prefer, instead, to keep to a regime of long-term leases, as this not only
provides them higher and more stable revenues, but also gives them greater control over land use and
associated zoning issues and/or allows them to obtain `social contributions' from developers.

Provision of credit to developers through the intermediary of commercial banks was a one-time
experiment and had no follow up. Until now, Russian commercial banks have shown little if any interest
in developing construction finance as a business activity, (though they seem keen to develop mortgage
financing).

Recognizing that the development of a viable market based housing sector was necessarily a
cross-sectoral and long-term undertaking, the project envisioned itself as the first in a series of projects
that upon stabilization of the macro-economic environment would address in subsequent years other
issues critical for the sector such as long-term housing finance, inner-city rehabilitation, and urban



                                                    - 13 -

infrastructure and local utility services. In keeping with this goal, the project laid the ground for, and
instigated the preparation of, the FY96 Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project - EHDP (Ln. 4012-RU), the
FY97 St. Petersburg City Center Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 4140-RU), as well as the FY01 Municipal
Water and Sewer Project (Ln. 4593-RU) and the FY01 District Heating Project (Ln. 4601-RU), the
preparation of both of which actually started in 1995.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The Bank is currently preparing two new operations for the housing mortgage finance and the communal
services sectors that will build up on the experience gained under the project and attempt to assist
Government in resolving some of the issues that were not addressed under the project yet remain
critically important for the future of the sector.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance at lending was unsatisfactory. Quality at Entry has been described in detail in Section
3.5 and assessed as unsatisfactory due to the project's deficiencies in design, institutional analysis, and
readiness for implementation.

The project was prepared in a very short time in response to the commitment made by the Bank to the
G-7. The project team made a commendable effort to make up for the lack of time by increasing the
number of staff and consultants involved. The resources made available by USAID through a Trust
Fund (TF024805) allowed the Bank to take charge of most of the preparation work through its Project
Review Unit located in Moscow and staffed with foreign experts. Increasing the number of experts was
not sufficient to overcome the pressure on the quality of preparation work exerted by the time limits of
preparation. Preparation missions in excess of twenty members were common but posed uncommon
challenges in terms of coordination and quality control.

7.2 Supervision:

Project supervision was assessed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) in August 1997 and found
satisfactory (Overall rating 2). However, the ICR rates project supervision as generally unsatisfactory.
As not unusual, the main concern of the project team throughout the life of the project was to keep
procurement and disbursement going at a satisfactory rate. To this end the Bank demonstrated an
exceptionally great flexibility and openness to changes as it agreed to a series of legal amendments and
waivers for the purpose of accelerating procurement and increasing disbursements. The project was
downgraded to `U' in the wake of the August 1998 crisis, but reinstated as `S' in 2000 after the
Government had complied with a series of prior conditions, including the closing of CFLOC and BLOC.
Supervision missions were generally adequately staffed and carried with satisfactory periodicity.
Supervision work concentrated essentially on discussions with the Federal Government or the General
Consultant in Moscow. Interactions with most participating cities were rather limited due to resource and
logistical reasons, (with the exception of St. Petersburg, which, as of 1996, benefited from the
preparation of the St. Petersburg City Center Rehabilitation Project). In line with ECA policies, project
supervision responsibilities were decentralized to the Moscow Country Office at the beginning of 2001.
Indicators to monitor project implementation progress were only established at MTR. However, they
were overly complex and not followed systematically by either NFHR or the Bank.

A MTR was carried out in March 1998. It correctly identified most of the shortcomings of the project and
emphasized the likelihood that the loan might not be disbursed in full and a partial cancellation should be
recommended to the Government as a preferable alternative. The cancellation issue became even
more acute after the August 1998 crisis brought CFLOC and BLOC to a halt. As of October 1998, the



                                                   - 14 -

Bank repeatedly urged the Government, though possibly not forcefully enough, to consider the
cancellation of the amounts unlikely to be spent. Except for a relatively small initial USD 30 million
cancellation in Fall 1999, it was, however, unable to obtain the consent of MOF and GOSSTROI to more
substantial cancellations until 2001.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

In view of the unsatisfactory Quality at Entry and the unsatisfactory supervision, the Bank's overall
performance is assessed as unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance in project preparation is assessed as satisfactory. Borrower participation
was relatively modest though decisive in terms of general oversight and policy advise at federal level.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government implementation performance is assessed as marginally satisfactory

The management of the country's macroeconomic framework by the Borrower up to the August 1998
crisis was not conducive to good project performance. The latter was outside the control of GOSSTROI,
the Federal Government's agency responsible for the project, however. GOSSTROI discharged its
oversight and coordination responsibilities satisfactorily.    The refusal    of MOF and GOSSTROI to
consider as of 1998, an early cancellation of the full amount of the loan funds unlikely to be spent was
costly for the treasury.    MOF repeatedly showed a somewhat cavalier attitude towards Bank loan
covenants as it authorized disbursements from the frozen Special Account for the BLOC component,
extended the maturities on loans to participating cities without prior consultation with the Bank; and failed
subsequently to properly enforce the execution of audits of the local project accounts held by the
participating cities.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agency is difficult to assess. In the early days of               project
implementation the CPIU had a relatively limited role, since most of the project implementation
management was delegated to, carried out, by the General Consultant. After the CPIU was transformed
into NFHR in 1995 it became the agency responsible for the preparation of all Bank projects under the
responsibility of GOSSTROI. For reasons unrelated to the project, the NFHR manager was dismissed in
2000 and GOSSTROI left the position vacant for several months.              It subsequently combined the
management responsibilities for NFHR with those of the Bank's two St. Petersburg projects, a solution
that was sub-optimal and severely strained the agencies human resource capacities.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

On the basis of the above, overall borrower performance is assessed as marginally satisfactory.



8. Lessons Learned


Russia's experience with the transition to a market economy during the 1990s was a unique event that
will not reoccur anytime anywhere else. For this very reason, many of the issues encountered during the
preparation and implementation of this project are so specific to this historical situation that they cannot
provide useful lessons for other projects




                                                    - 15 -

Nevertheless there are some generic lessons:

l   Regular traditional investment projects are inappropriate instruments for achieving short-term
    macroeconomic objectives. Reducing the time needed for careful preparation and increasing the
    size of the loan for project-external political factors was a decision that put the project at risk from the
    outset and was to a large and critical extent responsible for the factors that prevented the operation
    from attaining its objectives in terms of both development outcome and project output.

l   Setting ambitious outcome objectives in a rapidly evolving political and economic context carries a
    substantial risk of potential failure.   As it was, the project was too large and too ambitious in its
    objectives for the then existing context of Russia. A smaller pilot-operation type project with more
    modest objectives and a shorter duration would have had significantly better prospects of successful
    completion and achievement of outcome. It would have allowed to more easily test possible design
    alternatives, explore the actual feasibility of legal and institutional arrangements, and lay the ground
    for the preparation of new better targeted operations.

l   Keeping an operation that has outlived its objectives alive is costly for both the Bank an the
    Borrower. Even though it was clear from an early point onward that the project would achieve
    neither its objectives nor output and disbursement targets, supervision efforts were primarily directed
    at keeping the project going or exploring alternative ways to increase disbursements. The resources
    spent on these efforts could have been more profitably used in the preparation of new operations
    responding to the actual needs of the sector.

l   Focusing exclusively on supply issues was an unrealistic approach to the development of a
    functioning housing market by discounting the problems of demand, especially given the then
    existing social and economic context of Russia, was a serious mistake. While not a foregone
    conclusion in that environment, a more balanced approach would probably have had better
    prospects of having a successful and lasting policy impact.

l   Medium-term suitability of implementation arrangements needs to be assessed carefully from the
    beginning. While attractive, innovative and seemingly the most efficient solution for implementation
    management at the time of project preparation, the `General Consultant' became a costly legacy and
    source of possible conflicts of interest.       Including provisions in the contract to allow an early
    termination or its restructuring in accordance with the actual evolution of technical assistance needs
    would have been advisable.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                      - 16 -

- 17 -

Unofficial translation

            STATE COMMITTEE
  OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION FOR
           CONSTRUCTION AND
 HOUSING AND COMMUNAL COMPLEX

12.31.03, No. 7-457/11


Mr. Wladislav Jan Brzeski,
Senior Urban Specialist,
Infrastructure and Energy Department
Europe and Central Asia Region


Dear Mr. Brzeski,
Thank you for your letter dated 12.18.2003. We reviewed the Draft Implementation Completion Report for
the Housing Project (Loan 3850-RU). The facts presented in the Report reflect the real situation. Please,
find attached herewith the Comments on the Implementation Completion Report for the Housing Project.

Respectfully yours,

                                G.S.Markosov,
                                Member of the Board,
                                Head of the Economy
                                and International Activities Department

Att.: Comments on the Implementation Completion Report for the Housing Project.




                                                  - 18 -

Unofficial translation

                            Comments on the Implementation Completion Report

                                              by the World Bank

                                    for the Housing Project (Loan 3850-RU)

Gosstroi of Russia reviewed the Implementation Completion Report by the World Bank for the Housing
Project (Loan 3850-RU) and prepared the following comments.


Readiness for the Project Implementation (4.0)

We can not agree with the Bank's opinion that the Project was not ready for the implementation. The Loan
Agreement became effective on June 24, 1995. By this date the sub-loan agreements had been signed with
all five participating cities, the bidding documents had been developed for all the cities. Land auctions that
took place in the Project participating cities in 1996 could not have been conducted earlier due to a number
of general economic reasons, including the need to estimate a reserve price. The latter was determined in
the process of the international competitive bidding for construction of infrastructure in the Project
participating cities and identification of a winner.

The opening of the bids (more than 100 companies took part in these tenders) was held on December 1,
1995. To meet the requirements of the Bank the period dedicated for the bids evaluation equaled 120 days.
The first round of land auctions took place in May of 1996. Therefore, the land auctions were conducted in
conformity with the Project implementation schedule.


Outcomes and Fulfillment of Project Tasks (4.1)

Gosstroi of Russia believes that the general outcomes and achievements of the Project may be evaluated as
satisfactory. We can not accede to the Bank's conclusion that the Project did not achieve any of the
established goals. The outcomes of the Project were of great importance for the housing sector reforms.


Land Development Component

1.       Development of Real Estate Title Registration Institution

In the course of implementation of this component, Project participating cities adopted documents
regulating title registration and transactions, which was a mandatory participation condition for the cities.
These regulatory documents were approved by the World Bank. Consequently, for the first time in Russia,
five Project participating cities adopted local regulatory acts and implemented title registration systems
meeting the international requirements.

Under the Housing Project preparation program, in 1994 the World Bank consultants organized a seminar
for the RF executive authorities, representatives of the participating cities administrations and other
stakeholders. Seminar participants were advised on the IBRD consultants' recommendations regarding
organization of the real estate registration data exchange (BTI, land committees, architecture and planning
units, public property management committees) and setting up of a single title registration system.

First Novgorod and then other cities of Russia developed and implemented the "single window" principle
for the title registration. This system served as a basis for preparation of a law on the state registration of
titles that was adopted in 1996.




                                                     - 19 -

2.       Land Auctions

The Land Development component was implemented in the Project participating cities, which took up a
responsibility to implement the Regulatory Action Plan and met the loan effectiveness conditions. Land
auctions to sell land plots provided with engineering infrastructure to private developers were one of the
key participation conditions.

First land auctions were held in five participating cities in 1996 - 1997. Based on this experience
Presidential Decree was prepared and adopted: "On sale to citizens and legal entities of land plots located
on the territories of cities and rural settlements for development, or the rights to lease thereof" (November
26, 1997, No. 1263).

For the first time in the Russian economy sales of land plots to ownership was implemented in conjunction
with transfer of housing to the owner. Thus, successful land auctions held under the Housing Project
facilitated introduction of an important component in the Law on Condominiums adopted in 1997, which
legally stipulates transfer of housing together with the land plot.


3.       Improvement of the Legal Framework

Project participating cities adopted regulatory acts regarding title registration, land auctions for housing
construction and other documents protecting investors' rights, free access to urban land and encouraging
investment to the city economy. Component allowed for achievement of the goals, assisted in development
and adoption of major regulatory acts in the housing and utilities sector.

4.       Simplification of Construction Permits Issue Procedure

Under this component, administrations of the participating cities undertook to provide land plots with
engineering infrastructure. Land lots were put up for auction together with the agreed technical
requirements, which eliminates a problem of lengthy process of obtaining agreements and additional costs
for the developers.


5.       Hands-on Training of Project Participants in the state-of-the-art technologies in the sphere of credit
         facilities management in the housing sector

The Project implementation allowed:

   To train participating cities Administration staff in the use of credit resources for municipal land
    development, progressive methods of arranging land auctions, procurements of works, goods and
    services
   To train local contractors in ICB rules and performance under contracts in conformity with
    international standards.

6.       Reduction in engineering infrastructure cost. Preparation and implementation by the Project
participating cities of the RAPs, market assessment of land development cost, ICB procedures allowed to
reduce the percentage of engineering infrastructure cost in the total cost of future housing by 18 - 22%.
Under the existing practices of land allocation this indicator equals 35-40%.

7.       Creation of new jobs in the process of construction of engineering infrastructure, residential and
commercial buildings on developed sites.

8.       Increase of tax revenues through sale of land, residential and commercial premises, completed
works, additional employment.




                                                       - 20 -

Construction Finance Component

From 1995 to 1999, a total of 22 housing construction projects were financed under the component in five
participating cities: Moscow, St. Petersburg, Nizhniy Novgorod, Novgorod and Tver. The component
provided assistance to construction of 3,232 housing units with a total floor space of 264,259 sq. m (with
commercial space take into account offered space is 331,767 sq. m) worth US$ 206.351 million, including
US$ 61.8 million of the loan proceeds.

Implementation of this component facilitated attraction of commercial banks to crediting the formal sector
of the Russian economy. Due to the IBRD resources, the banks could master methods of project financing,
and private investors could get an access to long-term financial resources for housing construction.

The constructed residential buildings were sold on the free market for the total of about US$ 220 million,
which generated US$ 44 million of sales taxes. Final borrowers paid approximately US$ 4.4 million of
profit taxes. In terms of employment, construction of 22 buildings provided 13,000 man-years of work.
Developers also paid about US$ 11.8 million of pay-roll tax. The total value of income tax paid by workers
amounted to US$ 3.3 million.

Therefore, the indirect economic effect of completed projects amounted to approximately US$ 63.5 million
not taking into account the annual real estate taxes and taxes collected from commercial banks.


Building Materials Industry Component

From 1995 to 1998, total of six projects were financed under this component. The total cost of the projects
made US$ 39.0 million, including US$ 27.8 million of the loan proceeds.

Six building industry enterprises were constructed for manufacturing low-rise residential building
components, window blocks, insulated steel pipes and other materials with the total annual production
capacity of US$ 123 million providing 3,460 job places.

These enterprises produce high quality construction products, which enjoy stable demand in the Russian
market of building materials.


Real Estate Title Registration Component

Under this component, computer and office equipment worth US$ 18.02 million was procured for the
regional and municipal organizations participating in the title registration process in 16 subjects of the
Russian Federation.

Special software was developed and implemented to simplify and streamline the title registration procedure
in the registration chambers, BTIs and cadastre centers of the participating subjects of the Russian
Federation.

Implementation of the component in 16 subjects of the Russia Federation provided for:

   Strengthening of title to real estate;
   Modernization of technical inventory and land cadastre procedures required for title registration and
    development of real estate taxation;
   Improvement of real estate taxation through obtaining more reliable data about real estate and its
    owners;
   Formation of favorable investment climate;
   Filling gaps in records and legal data on real estate, including land plots.



                                                     - 21 -

Based on aggregated estimates, component implementation will produce the following additional revenues
through growth of tax collections resulting from additional registration of real estate, growth of taxes and
fees due to increasing investment, saving time of population: US$ 16.2 million annually to the federal
budget; US$ 8.4 million annually to the regional and municipal budgets; US$ 12.6 million annually to the
non-budgetary funds; and US$ 6.3 million annually to the population.


Technical Assistance Component

In 1995 - 2003, the Housing Project provided important technical assistance services to promote reforms in
the housing and utilities sector of the Russian Federation.

1.      Implementation of the technical assistance facilitated preparation of the following regulatory
documents in the area of construction and housing and utilities sector:

   Decree of the RF President "On sale to citizens and legal entities of land plots located on the territories
    of cities and rural settlements for development, or the rights to lease thereof" of November 26, 1997,
    No. 1263;
   Federal Law "On experiment on taxation of real estate in cities of Novgorod and Tver" of July 20,
    1997, No. 110-FZ
   RF Government Resolution "On approval of bidding procedures (auctions, competitions) to sell to
    citizens and legal entities land plots located on territories of cities and rural settlements, or the rights to
    lease thereof" of January 5, 1998, No. 2;
   RF Law "On Homeowners Partnerships" (No. 72-FZ) adopted by the State Duma on May 24, 1996.
    Approved by the Council of Federation on June 5, 1996. Became effective on June 15, 1996;
   RF Law "On state registration of real estate titles and transactions" (No. 122-FZ) adopted by the State
    Duma on June 17, 1996. Approved by the Council of Federation on July 3, 1996. Became effective on
    July 21, 1996;
   RF Law "On Mortgage (pledge of real estate)" (No. 102-FZ) adopted by the State Duma on June 24,
    1997. Approved by the Council of Federation on July 9, 1998. Became effective on June 16, 1998;
   RF Urban Planning Code (became effective in May 1998);
   RF Law "On introduction of changes and additions to the Housing Code of the RFSR"

2.      Construction norms and standards were developed in compliance with the international standards
to encourage the use of efficient technologies and materials in construction and housing and utilities sector.

3.      Activities were implemented to prepare World Bank financed projects in the area of housing and
urban development.

4.      Experience dissemination activities and training were held for the participants of the reform
process in the housing and utilities sector in Russia. A series of methodological materials was prepared and
published covering current issues of construction, real estate management, urban development planning,
housing and utilities sector.

5.      Social protection measures were taken for the period of transition to full cost recovery tariffs for
housing and utilities.

6.      Recommendations on housing and utilities sector restructuring.

7.      Recommendations were prepared to develop mortgage finance system in Russia. This study is of
high practical value for all participants of the decision-making process in housing finance and real estate
management.



                                                      - 22 -

Borrower's Activity in General (7.7)

Gosstroi of Russia as a body authorized by the Government of Russia for the purposes of the Housing
project implementation conducted strict monitoring of the Project implementation during the whole period
of its implementation and undertook corrective measures, if necessary, while addressing the key issues in
conjunction with other federal bodies and IBRD. Our understanding is that the Borrower's activity may be
evaluated as a satisfactory one.

The loans from the international financial organizations have a number of advantages as compared to the
budget financing and are required for the purposes of overcoming the complicated situation in the housing
and communal complex.

The loans from the international financial organizations are intended to support the implementation of
structural transformations in the economy of the Russian Federation. It is especially important for the
housing and communal economy. Involvement of the above loan proceeds and on-lending them to the
Federation subjects and municipalities on terms and conditions that would encourage the HCE reforms.

Gosstroi of Russia, following the recommendations by Minfin of Russia, suggests that new financing
schemes be used in new loans for the purposes of housing and communal economy reforms and housing
markets development. The loans proceeds as an additional source of financing of the federal targeted
program would be allocated to the Federation subjects and municipalities subject to meeting a number of
requirements for HCE reforming and housing markets development. These requirements comply with the
principal goals of the Sub-program "Reforming and Modernization of the Housing and Communal
Complex of the Russian Federation" of "The Federal Targeted Program "Housing" for 2002-2010" that
was adopted on November 17, 2001.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                   - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                            1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR            Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Percentage of all properties registered in  BAR = 38%
cadastre per participating city                NOV = 100%
                                               NIZ = 100%
                                               SPB = 100%
                                               TVE = 93%
2. Percentage of land in participating city in BAR = 6%
private hands                                  NOV = 9%
                                               NIZ = 5%
                                               SPB = 20%
                                               TVE = 3%
3. Ratio of median free-market price of a      BAR = 7.9
dwelling unit to median annual household       NOV = -
income in comparison to international          NIZ = 6.7
benchmark of 4.7                               SPB = 6.9
                                               TVE = 7.9
4. Number of recorded housing transactions BAR = 9%
as percentage of total housing stock           NOV = 12%
                                               NIZ = 6%
                                               SPB = 15%
                                               TVE = 8%
5. Number of privatized housing units as       BAR = 57%
percentage of all housing units                NOV = 4%
                                               NIZ = 80%
                                               SPB = 34%
                                               TVE = 26%
6. Portion of land on project sites auctioned  BAR = 45%                         BAR = 80%
to private developers as percentage of total   NOV = 35%                         NOV = 99%
area                                           NIZ = 35%                         NIZ = 85%
                                               SPB = 87%                         SPB = 100%
                                               TVE = 38%                         TVE = 81%
                                                                                 KAZ = 54%
                                                                                 KRA = 50%
7. Number of lots or housing units sold by     n/a
developers on land development sites to
other private customers
8. Amount (in USD million) of CFLOC and        CFLOC = USD6.45
BLOC loans signed for projects located         BLOC = USD1.05
outside Moscow and St. Petersburg
9. Number of Subsidiary Loan Agreements        7 banks
signed by participating Banks
10. Number of Housing Units financed by        3,232
CFLOC
11. New construction financed from private     BAR = 94%
sources as percentage of all new               NOV = 98%
construction financed in participating city    NIZ = 67%
                                               SPB = 49%

Abbreviations:
           BAR = Barnaul
           NOV = Novgorod
           NIZ = Nizhniy Novgorod
           SPB = St. Petersburg
           TVE = Tver
           KAZ = Kazan
           KRA = Krasnoyarsk

Note: No monitoring indicators were established at appraisal. The above indicators were set at MTR in
1998, but not monitored by supervision in the subsequent years.




                                                              - 24 -

Output Indicators:
                                                   1
           Indicator/Matrix    Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                     - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                                Component                        US$ million   US$ million
 Housing Market Development
      Land Development                                            339.60          87.30           25.8
      Construction Finance Credit Line                            177.80         206.40           93.8
 Building Material Industry Transformation                        143.30          39.00           24.5
 Technical Cooperation*                                            33.10          78.80          136.6

 Total Baseline Cost                                              693.80         411.50
  Physical Contingencies                                           36.50            0.00
  Price Contingencies                                              28.40            0.00
                                   Total Project Costs            758.70         411.50
                          Total Financing Required                758.70         411.50
(*) includes Title Registration sub-component.
Figures may not add up due to rounding.


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           1
                                                       Procurement Method
      Expenditure Category                     ICB        NCB                2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                      Other
1. Works                                      189.30      6.60          0.00        202.30      398.20
                                            (189.30)      (6.60)      (0.00)         (0.00)    (195.90)
2. Goods                                      3.40        1.10          1.80         1.00        7.30
                                              (3.40)      (1.10)      (1.80)         (0.00)     (6.30)
3. Services                                   0.00        0.00         21.80         10.00      31.80
                                              (0.00)      (0.00)      (21.80)        (0.00)    (21.80)
4. Lines of Credit*                           0.00        0.00        176.00        145.40      321.40
                                              (0.00)      (0.00)     (176.00)        (0.00)    (176.00)
     Total                                    192.70      7.70        199.60        358.70      758.70
                                            (192.70)      (7.70)     (199.60)        (0.00)    (400.00)
(*) includes PIU Operating Expenditure.
Figures may not add up due to rounding.




                                                       - 26 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               25.20             62.10              0.00             0.00             87.30
                                      (20.80)           (49.70)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (70.50)
2. Goods                               0.00              21.60              0.00             0.00             21.60
                                      (0.00)            (18.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (18.00)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00             57.20             0.00             57.20
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)           (32.20)            (0.00)           (32.20)
4. Lines of Credit*                    0.00               0.00            245.40             0.00             245.40
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)           (89.60)            (0.00)           (89.60)
   Total                               25.20             83.70            302.60             0.00             411.50
                                      (20.80)           (67.70)          (121.80)            (0.00)          (210.30)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


No Economic Rate of Return (ERR) or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) was calculated at appraisal.
Currently available data do not allow estimating a meaningful ERR, FRR or NPV for any of the
components.




                                                  - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              September 1992            5    1 Pr. Housing Specialist
                                             1 Sr. Operations Officer
                                             1 Housing Specialist
                                             2 Consultants
              May 1993                14     1 Sr. Operations Officer
                                             2 Pr. Economists
                                             1 Housing Specialist
                                             1 Research Assistant
                                             16 Consultants
              July 1993               23     1 Sr. Operations Officer
                                             2 Pr. Economists
                                             1 Housing Specialist
                                             4 Research Analysts
                                             15 Consultants
              November 1993           24     1 Sr. Operations Officer
                                             2 Pr. Economists
                                             1 Pr. Urban Planner
                                             1 Housing Specialist
                                             4 Research Assistants
                                             17 Consultants
              February 1994           26     1 Sr. Operations Officer
                                             1 Pr. Economist
                                             1 Pr. Financial Analyst
                                             1 Pr. Urban Planner
                                             1 Housing Specialist
                                             4 Research Assistants
                                             17 Consultants

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              July 1994               17     1 Sr. Operations Officer
                                             1 Lawyer
                                             1 Engineer
                                             1 Research Assistant
                                             13 Consultants
              November 1994             3    1 Sr. Operations Officer
                                             1 Urban Specialist
                                             1 Lawyer
              December 1994                  Negotiations Team

 Supervision
              03/31/1995                5    1 Sr. Operations Officer         S               S
                                             1 Urban Specialist
                                             1 Engineer
                                             2 Consultants
              10/07/1995                3    1 Sr. Operations Officer         S               S
                                             1 Sr. Urban Specialist



                                              - 29 -

                                           1 Urban Specialist
               02/1996                 1   1 Urban Specialist                  S    S
               05/1996                 3   1 Sr. Operations Officer            S    S
                                           1 Sr. Urban Specialist
                                           1 Consultant
               07/01/1996              2   1 Sr. Operations Officer            S    S
                                           1 Urban Specialist
               02/1997                 2   1 Sr. Operations Officer            S    S
                                           1 Urban Specialist
               06/1997                 1   1 Sr. Operations Officer            S    S
               09/1997                 3   1 Sr. Operations Officer            S    S
                                           1 Sr. Urban Specialist
                                           1 Consultant
               04/1998                 4   1 Sr. Operations Officer            S    S
                                           1 Urban Specialist
                                           1 Pr. Economist
                                           1 Evaluation Specialist
               10/1998                 6   2 Pr. Urban Planners                U    S
                                           1 Land Management Specialist
                                           1 Financial Analyst
                                           2 Operations Officer
               02/1999                 3   1 Pr. Planner                       U    S
                                           2 Urban Specialists
               02/11/2000              5   1 Pr. Urban Planner                 U    S
                                           3 Urban Specialists
                                           1 Consultant
               06/28/2000              3   1 Pr. Urban Planner                 U    S
                                           2 Urban Specialists
               10/2000                 3   1 Pr. Urban Planner                 U    S
                                           1 Economist
                                           1 Urban Specialist
               06/2001                 1   1 Urban Specialist                  S    S
               10/2001                 1   1 Urban Specialist                  S    S
               04/2002                 1   1 Urban Specialist                  S    S
               11/2002                 1   1 Urban Specialist                  S    S
               04/2003                 1   1 Urban Specialist                  S    S

 ICR
               06/2003                2     2 Urban Specialists



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                               878.7
  Supervision                                                       1,040.0
  ICR
  Total                                                             1,918.7




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


  1. Russia: Housing Reform and Privatization Sector Report, August 1995
  2. Staff Appraisal Report (SAR): Russian Federation: Housing Project, January 30, 1995
  3. Quarterly General Consultant Supervision Reports, 1995-2001
  4. Final General Consultant Progress Report , December 2001
  5. Project Supervision Reports (PSR) #1-#24
  6. Implementation Completion Memorandum (ICM): USAID TF024805, December 15, 1998




                                             - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR




                                         - 34 -

                                                                                    November 28, 2003
Mr. Julian Schweitzer
Country Director for Russia
Resident Representative in Moscow
World Bank

Dear Mr. Schweitzer,

Referring to the World Bank letter  ECC10-N-2003-00252 of April 30, 2003 to Mr. S. I. Kolotoukhin,
        Deputy Minister of Finance of the Russian Federation, we are sending an Implementation
        Completion Report on the Housing Project (Loan  3850-RU of April 25, 1995) prepared by the
        National Foundation for Housing Reform (Mr. A. Vassiliev, Mr. B. Smirnov).


Sincerely,



G. S. Markosov
Member of the Board
Head of the Department for Economics and International Cooperation
Gosstroi




                                                - 35 -

  RUSSIAN FEDERATION HOUSING PROJECT
            (Loan No. 3850-RU)




                PROJECT
          COMPLETION REPORT

               1995 - 2003




     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
NATIONAL FOUNDATION FOR HOUSING REFORM




                 Moscow




                  - 36 -

                              TABLE OF CONTENTS




1. GENERAL INFORMATION
2. LAND DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
3. CONSTRUCTION FINANCE COMPONENT
4. BUILDING MATERIALS LINE OF CREDIT
5. TITLE REGISTRATION COMPONENT
6. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
7. SUB-LOAN AGREEMENTS
8. PROJECT OUTCOMES




                                     - 37 -

1. GENERAL INFORMATION

IBRD Board presentation
Loan 3850-RU was presented to the IBRD Board of Directors on March 7, 1995

Loan Agreement date
The Loan Agreement was signed on April 25, 1995.

Loan effectiveness date
The Loan Agreement became effective on July 27, 1995.

Loan amount
The Loan agreement was signed for an amount of US$ 400 million.
With due account of amendments to the Loan Agreement the final loan amount was US$ 214 274 million

Changing the loan amount
After the Russian banking system crisis of 1998, accreditation of commercial banks for participation in
the World Bank-financed projects was cancelled. An extensive review of the Russian banks sustainability
started to check their capacity to operate international finance organizations funds. Consequently, the
Housing project lines-of-credit provided for housing finance and building materials industry through
participating banks were blocked for an indefinite period of time.

On September 21, 1999, the World Bank held a meeting attended by the RF Ministry of Finance and
Gosstroy of Russia to review the World Bank Projects Portfolio in Russia (CPPR). An agreement was
reached at this meeting to reduce the Loan amount by US$ 30 million.
The RF Ministry of Finance by its letter No. 27-00-09/2011 dated December 07, 1999, requested the
IBRD to reduce the Loan amount by US$ 30 million. The IBRD confirmed respective amendments by its
letter of January 03, 2000. As of December 7, 1999, the Loan amount was US$ 370 million.

The RF Ministry of Economic Development, RF Ministry of Finance, the Gosstroy of Russia by their joint
letter of December 6, 2000, proposed the IBRD to partially cancel the Loan proceeds in the idling lines of
credit.

Following the Eighth CPPR (February 2001) a decision was made to partially reduce the undisbursed
Housing Project funds balance. To this effect the RF Ministry of Finance by its letter of May 04, 2001,
requested the World Bank to reduce the Housing Project funds under three components by a total
amount of US$ 122.14 million. The IBRD agreed to this decision on May 17, 2001. Hence, as of May 4,
2001, the Loan amount was US$ 249.274 million.
Based on the decision of the Joint Working Group of the RF Government and the World Bank (JWG) of
October 25, 2002, the RF Ministry of Finance by its letter No. 26-03-09/2303 requested the IBRD to
cancel undisbursed loan proceeds by US% 35 million. The IBRD confirmed such cancellation on
December 20, 2002, by its letter No. ECC10-N-2002-00904. As of December 20, 2002, the Loan amount
is US$ 214.274.

Financial Covenants
The Loan Agreement was concluded by the IBRD and the RF Government for a term of 17 years with
five-year grace period at the IBRD standard variable interest rate established by the IBRD every six
months, and at a standard annual rate of commitment fee equal to 0.75% of the Loan principal
undisbursed as of the date of payment. The actual commitment fee is established by the IBRD
depending on the general financial status of the World Bank, and throughout the Housing Project
implementation period it was 0.25%.

Project implementation period:
July 1995 - June 2003



                                                   - 38 -

Project closing date
The initial closing date was December 31, 2001.

On December 6, 2000, the RF Ministry of Economic Development, RF Ministry of Finance, the Gosstroy
of Russia by its joint letter made a proposal to the IBRD to postpone the Loan closing date by 18 months
to implement the Title Registration Component.

On January 5, 2001, the RF Government by its Resolution No. 13 decided to use the IBRD-financed
Housing Project funds (Loan No. 3850-RU) for financing activities aimed at development of the title
registration system.

On June 15, 2001, the RF Ministry of Finance sent a letter to the IBRD with a formal request of the
closing date extension till December 31, 2002. The IBRD in its letter of July 30, 2001, expressed its
principle agreement with the above proposal.

Due objective reasons in the process of the Housing Project implementation, in 2002 the IBRD
procurement procedures took longer time then expected. To complete the contracts under the Title
Registration Component, the JWG made a decision on October 25, 2002, to postpone the Project closing
date to June 30, 2003.

Based on the Gosstroy of Russia request and consultations with the World Bank, the RF Ministry of
Finance sent a letter to the Bank dated November 05, 2002, No. 26-03-09/2303 with a request to extend
the Housing Project till June 30, 2003. The Bank by its letter of December 20, 2002, No.
ECC10-N-2002-00904 confirmed the Housing Project extension till June 30, 2003.

Loan repayment
The Loan proceeds are to be repaid by the RF Ministry of Finance from the federal budget and from the
on-lent funds to be repaid by the sub-borrowers in accordance with the established amortization schedule
by 2012 inclusively.

Administrations of the participating cities and banks are to repay the sub-loans from the developed land
sale proceeds and from the repaid funds on-lent to the final borrowers, respectively in accordance with
the established repayment schedules by 2005 (cities) and by 2009 (banks), inclusively.

The RF Government on lent proceeds of Loan No. 3850-RU to the participating local administration and
banks. Project participants include administrations of seven participating cities (St. Petersburg, Nizhniy
Novgorod, Velikiy Novgorod, Tver, Barnaul, Kazan and Krasnoyarsk) and seven banks (Promstroybank
SPb, St. Petersburg; Vozrozhdeniye; NBD-Bank; Petrovskiy; Alfa-Bank and SBS-Agro). Sub-loan
Agreements were concluded with the participating cities for a term of five years with a two-year grace
period against guarantees of the respective administrations of the subjects of the Russian Federation at
the IBRD standard variable interest rate established by the IBRD every six months for the Russian
Federation plus the margin of the RF Ministry of Finance equal to 1.5%, and at a standard commitment
fee established by the IBRD for the Russian Federation.

Sub-loan Agreements were concluded with the participating banks for a term of 12 years with two-year
grace period at the IBRD standard variable interest rate established by the IBRD every six months for the
Russian Federation plus the margin of the RF Ministry of Finance equal to 2.5%, and at a standard
commitment fee established by the IBRD for the Russian Federation. Participating commercial banks
provided loans to the final borrowers (private developers and building material manufacturers) at the
market interest rate with a repayment period of six months to eight years.

On March 31, 1999, following the request of the participating cities, the RF Ministry of Finance made a
decision to change the Housing Loan repayment period from five to 10 years and to extend the grace
period from two to four years (RF Ministry of Finance letter No. 27-00-07/736) dated March 31, 1999.




                                                    - 39 -

In accordance with their obligations taken under the Housing project, sub-borrowers have transferred to
the RF budget US$ 165,99 million.

Loan goals and objectives
The key goal of the Housing Project is to support reforms implemented by the RF Government in the
housing sector, assistance to competitive market development in the field of real estate, housing
construction and building materials manufacturing.

Project objectives:
a.      Implementation of the Government Targeted Program "Housing" in the Project participating
        cities, including provision of land for housing construction to independent developers through
        open competition;
b.      Demonstration of market practices of construction and housing sales, creation of new jobs;
c.      Implementation of progressive organizational principles and methods of housing construction
        and building materials manufacturing.

Loan Structure
The Housing Project of the Russian Federation consists of five main components:
l   Land development
l   Construction finance
l   Building materials line of credit
l   Title registration
l   Technical assistance.

2.      LAND DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT

Background Information
One of the major objectives of the Housing Project is to eliminate the state monopoly on land through
providing assistance to the local governments in accelerated putting of the municipal land on the market
to develop private housing market.

To this end, the land development and land market development component was included in the Project
design to be implemented in the Project participating cities, which committed themselves to implement
the Regulatory Action Plans (RAPs) and met the requirements of the loan effectiveness. The basic
requirements for the cities participation in the Projects were: to adopt regulatory acts on real estate title
registration, conduct land auctions, consistent development and approval of other acts aimed at
development of private housing and land markets. The Housing Loan proceeds intended for municipal
land development were on-lent to the participating cities administrations against guarantees of
appropriate subjects of the Russian Federation.

Based on the assessment of 21 Russian cities - candidates for participation in the Project, five cities
were selected: St. Petersburg, Novgorod, Nizhniy Novgorod, Tver, Barnaul, and Moscow for
demonstration projects.

Requirements for the Component Implementation
Obligatory sale of land into ownership through auctions with an aim of reducing risks was a principally
new requirement for participation of the cities in the Project after 1998.

Taking into account the shortcomings revealed in the process of the Project implementation in Novgorod,
Nizhniy Novgorod, Tver and Barnaul, the Bank upon agreement with the Government modified the
requirements for participation in the Project to be applied in selecting new cities:

l   By the date of entering the Project the city administration should have adopted a regulatory
    framework allowing the sale of municipal land in ownership;
l   Cities - candidates for project participation should thoroughly review the economic situation, land and
    housing markets, including situation on the selected sites. The findings of such a review are to be


                                                     - 40 -

     approved by the Bank;
l    Cities - candidates for project participation should prepare RAPs acceptable for the Bank. The RAPs
     are to be approved by the Bank;
l    Sites should be selected on the basis of feasibility studies, assessment of attractiveness and housing
     market evaluation results. The sites are to be approved by the Bank;
l    Selection of housing types for construction should be demand-driven based on the housing market
     analysis;
l    Land should be auctioned to private developers for their ownership only. Following the auction, the
     developer should immediately pay at least 30% of the purchased land cost. Project participating
     cities should sale to private developers through auctions at least 50% of the auctioned land on
     selected sites.

Measures adopted to improve sustainability of sub-projects in the participating cities allowed to
successfully implement the second stage of land development. Qualified housing market analysis
allowed to select cities and regions with good economic potential and sustainable demand for housing.
Consequently, the Bank and CPIU selected two new Project participating cities: Kazan and Krasnoyarsk.
From the Project start, 12 sub-projects were financed under the component in seven Project participating
cities: St. Petersburg, Novgorod, Nizhniy Novgorod, Tver, Barnaul, Kazan and Krasnoyarsk. Hence,
106.84 ha of land were provided with engineering infrastructure for the housing construction with a total
floor space of 1 350 thousand sq. m. The total cost of infrastructure made US$ 87.3 million, including
US$ 70.51 million worth of the loan-financed facilities.

Novgorod

Subsidiary Loan Agreement                                                 $9.6 million
Project: Infrastructure construction on Site "Pskovskaya"                 10.07 hectares
Contractor: Trust N27, Belarus
Contract Value                                                            $8.0 million
including loan proceeds                                                   $6.0 million
     Total floor space of serviced housing                                134.0 th. sqm


Barnaul

Subsidiary Loan Agreement                                                 $4.0 million
Project: Infrastructure construction on
Site "Solnechnaya Polyana"                                                18.76 hectares
Contractor: "Barnaulstroi"
Contract Value                                                            $3.1 million
including loan funds                                                      $2.2 million
     Total floor space of serviced housing                                51.7 th. sq.m


Tver

Subsidiary Loan Agreement                                                 $5.5 million
Project: Infrastructure construction on Site "Juzhny-D"                   13.25 hectares
Contractor: "Rosneftegasstroi" JSC, Moscow
Contract Value                                                            $6.8 million
including loan proceeds                                                   $5.5 million
     Total floor space of serviced housing                                113.3 th. sqm


Nizhniy Novgorod

Subsidiary Loan Agreement                                                 $8.8 million


                                                     - 41 -

Project: Infrastructure construction on Site "Delovaya"            5.61 hectares
Contractor: "Nizhegorodspetzhydrostroi" JSC
Contract Value                                                     $11.0 million
including loan proceeds                                            $8.8 million
    Total floor space of serviced housing                          183.3 th. sqm




Saint Petersburg

Subsidiary Loan Agreement                                          $33.5 million

The City completed implementation of the following contracts:

1.      Project: Infrastructure construction on Site "Kamenka"     13.55 hectares
Contractor: "Inzhstroi" JSC, Saint Petersburg
Contract Value                                                     $8.1 million
including loan proceeds                                            $6.5 million
    Total floor space of serviced housing                          135.0 th. sq.m


2.      Project: Infrastructure construction on site "Kamenka-2"   6.1 hectares
Contractor: Consortium including
"Inzhstroi" JSK, Saint-Petersburg",
"Spetzstroi" JSK and Trust "Spetztonnelstroi" JSK
Contract Value -                                                   $3.6 million
including loan proceeds                                            $2.8 million
    Total floor space of serviced housing                          60.0 th. sq. m


3.      Project: Infrastructure construction on Site "Kolomagi"    8.5 hectares
Contractor: "Inzhstroi" JSC, Saint Petersburg
Contract Value                                                     $4.6 million
including loan proceeds                                            $3.7 million
    Total floor space of serviced housing                          76.6 th. sq. m


4.      Project: Reconstruction of water supply system in the
Saint-Petersburg City Center (Vodokanal)
Contractor: JF "Aarsleff/Preussag" (Denmark).
Contract Value                                                     $14.6 million
including loan proceeds                                            $11.7 million


5.      Project: Relaying of sewer "Karpovka"
Contractor: Consortium "Bonna- Lenims", France-Russia
Contract Value -                                                   $6.9 million
including loan proceeds                                            $5.6 million


6.      Project: Reconstruction of Pumping Waterworks "Parnas"
Contractor: Trust "Spetztonnelstroi" JSK
Contract Value -                                                   $3.6 million
including loan proceeds                                            $2.8 million




                                                    - 42 -

Kazan

Subsidiary Loan Agreement                                                  $9.1 million
Project: Infrastructure construction on Site "District B"                  17.2 hectares
Contractor: "Tatnefteprovodstroi" JSK
Contract Value                                                             $11.0 million
including loan proceeds                                                    $8.1 million
    Total floor space of serviced housing                                  361.2 th. sq. m


Krasnoyarsk

Subsidiary Loan Agreement                                                  $6.6 million
Project: Infrastructure construction on Site "Airport 2"                   13.8 hectares
Contractor: Consortium "Sibiriak" JSK-"Sibspetzstroi" JSK
Contract Value                                                             $6.9 million
including loan proceeds                                                    $5.1 million
    Total floor space of serviced housing                                  234.0 th. sq. m

3.      CONSTRUCTION FINANCE COMPONENT (CFLOC)

CFLOC provided financing for 22 construction projects in five participating cities: Moscow, St.
Petersburg, Nizhniy Novgorod, Novgorod, and Tver. Projects were financed through eligible participating
banks: Vozrozhdeniye, Alpha-Bank, SBS-AGRO, Promstroibank-SPb, Petrovsky, Bank St. Petersburg,
NBD-Bank. A total of 3 232 housing units, or 264 259 sq. m of total floor space (or 331 767 sq. m with
account of commercial space) were financed under the component. The total housing construction cost
amounted to US$ 206.351 million, including US$ 61.8 million of the loan proceeds. Credit principals and
interest were totally repaid to the participating banks under 18 projects. Credits repayment under the
remaining projects is on-going in accordance with the repayment schedules. In accordance with the
Sub-Loan Agreements the banks repaid to the budget US$ 116.45 million, or 96% of the debt.


    Moscow
    Project                        Starovatutinsky proyezd
Borrower                       TOO EKhPO Vel
Participating bank             MAKB Vozrozhdeniye

Project implementation resulted in construction of a 27-storey residential building with the total
floor space of 26,039 sq.m, including 18,359 sq.m of living space. The number of housing units
- 230. Total project cost - US$ 16.39 million, including US$ 5.0 million of the loan proceeds.
    Project                        Settlement Novogorsk
Borrower                       OAO "Corporatsia Podmoskovye"
Participating bank             MAKB Vozrozhdeniye

Project implementation resulted in construction of 97 townhouses, 2-storey, with total floor space
of 35,090 sq.m, including 33,890 sq.m of living space. The number of housing units - 370. Total
project cost - US$ 25.04 million, including US$ 5.0 million of the loan proceeds.
    Project                        Ul. Malaya Filevskaya-1
Borrower                       OOO FSK TESKO
Participating bank             MAKB Vozrozhdeniye

Project implementation resulted in construction of a 13-storey residential building with total floor
space of 9,630 sq.m, including 6,340 sq.m of living space. The number of housing units - 64.
Total project cost is US$ 8.46 million, including US$ 5.0 million of the loan proceeds.
    Project                        Ul. Malaya Filevskaya-2



                                                     - 43 -

Borrower                      OOO FSK TESKO
Participating bank            MAKB Vozrozhdeniye

Project implementation resulted in construction of a 13-storey residential building with total floor
space of 9,630 sq. m, including 6,340 sq. m of living space. The number of housing units - 64.
Total project cost is US$ 8,10 million, including US$ 5,0 million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                       Ul. Malaya Filevskaya-3
Borrower                      OOO FSK TESKO
Participating bank            MAKB Vozrozhdeniye

Project implementation resulted in construction of a 9-storey residential building with total floor
space of 5,206 sq. m, including 3,186 sq. m of living space. The number of housing units - 32.
Total project cost is US$ 5.33 million, including US$ 2.0 million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                       Ul. Pervaya Novokuzminskaya
Borrower                           ZAO Mospromstroi
Participating bank            OAO Alpha-Bank

Project implementation resulted in construction of a 13-storey residential building with total floor
space of 10,187 sq. m, including 6,628 sq. m of living space. The number of housing units - 72.
Total project cost US$ 5.88 million, including US$ 4.0 million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                       Tekhnopolis "Severny", NEAC
Borrower                      ZAO Domostroi
Participating bank            AKB SBS-AGRO

Project implementation was aimed at construction of 120 residential buildings (108 detached
houses, 12 duplexes) with total floor space of 19,636 sq. m Total project cost is US$ 26.63
million, including US$ 10.0 million of the loan proceeds. Due to termination of SBS-AGRO bank
accreditation as the project participant, financing was suspended. Prior to financing suspension
the total amount of disbursements under this project amounted to US$ 4.94 million.
     Project                       Settlement Novogorsk
Borrower                      OAO "PO Novogorsk"
Participating bank            AKB SBS-AGRO
                              Project cost: US$ 8.42 million

Due to termination of SBS-AGRO bank accreditation as the project participant, financing was not
initiated.



     St. Petersburg
     Project                 Ul. Dekabristov
Borrower                  AOZT ISK "KS Invest"
Participating bank        OAO Promstroibank (SPb)


Project implementation resulted in construction of a 5-storey residential building with the total
floor space of 3,923 sq. m, including 3,197 sq. m of living space. The number of housing units -
59. Total project cost is US$ 1.82 million, including US$ 0.75 million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                 Sestroretsk, block 31-33
Borrower                         AOZT ISK "KS Invest"
Participating bank               OAO Promstroibank (SPb)


Project implementation resulted in construction of a residential building with sections of variable
number of floors (7-9) with the total floor space of 14,680 sq. m, including 10,858 sq. m of living
space. The number of housing units - 228. Total project cost is US$ 6.40 million, including US$


                                                    - 44 -

3.86 million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                   Soldatsky per.
Borrower                           TSZh Condominium "Praid"
Participating bank                 OAO Promstroibank (SPb)


Project implementation resulted in construction of a 6-storey residential building with total floor
space of 2,053 sq. m, including 1,744 sq. m of living space. The number of housing units - 9.
Total project cost is US$ 1.10 million, including US$ 0.58 million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                  Pr.Dinamo
Borrower                           ZAO OST
Participating bank                 OAO Promstroibank (SPb)




Project implementation resulted in construction of a residential building with sections of variable
number of floors (4-6-8) with total floor space of 7,699 sq. m, including 6,547 sq. m of living
space. The number of housing units - 94. Total project cost is US$ 6.25 million, including US$
1.78 million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                  MZhK on Krestovsky Ostrov
Borrower                           ZAO SFK "Petrograd"
Participating bank                 OAO Promstroibank (SPb)


Project implementation resulted in construction of 27 townhouses, 3-storey, and a 5-storey
residential building with total floor space of 10,316 sq. m, including 9,070 sq. m of living space.
The number of housing units - 86. Total project cost is US$ 14.31 million, including US$ 3.84
million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                  Ul. Zhukovskogo
Borrower                           AOZT "Fond Imushchestva PSB LO"
Participating bank                 OAO Promstroibank (SPb)


Project implementation resulted in construction of a 5-storey residential building with total floor
space of 5,580 sq. m, including 3,390 sq. m of living space. The number of housing units - 37.
Total project cost is US$ 2.94 million, including US$ 1.67 million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                  Ul. Bolshaya Moskovskaya
Borrower                           AOZT "Fond Imushchestva PSB LO"
Participating bank                 OAO Promstroibank (SPb)


Financing of the project was made through re-investment of funds from the completed projects.
     Project                  Ul. Novoselov, block 2B
Borrower                           OAO ROSSTRO
Participating bank                 AO Bank St. Petersburg


Project implementation resulted in construction of a residential building with sections of variable
number of floors (5-10) with total floor space of 26,246 sq. m, including 20,610 sq. m of living
space. The number of housing units - 337. Total project cost is US$ 8.97 million, including US$
3.75 million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                  Lake Dolgoye, block 29 A
Borrower                           ZAO "Viastroi"
Participating bank                 AB Petrovsky




                                                    - 45 -

Project implementation resulted in construction of three residential buildings with sections of
variable number of floors (7-17) with total floor space of 52,028 sq. m, including 39,494 sq. m of
living space. The number of housing units - 527. Total project cost is US$ 21.77 million,
including US$ 1.76 million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                Lake Dolgoye, 47 A
Borrower                         ZAO Concern "Gradstroikosalting"
Participating bank               AB Petrovsky


Project implementation resulted in construction of a 13-storey residential building with total floor
space of 22,213 sq. m, including 18,044 sq. m of living space. The number of housing units -
270. Total project cost is US$ 7.31 million, including US$ 3.30 million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                Ul. Lipovaya Alleya
Borrower                         ZAO "Lenkai"
Participating bank               AB Petrovsky


Project implementation resulted in construction of a 13-storey residential building with total floor
space of 15,158 sq. m, including 11,652 sq. m of living space. The number of housing units -
147. Total project cost is US$ 8.05 million, including US$ 3.0 million of the loan proceeds.


     Nizhniy Novgorod
     Project                Ul. Donskaya
Borrower                         TOO "Nizhegorodspetsstroi"
Participating bank               OAO NBD-Bank


Project implementation resulted in construction of three residential buildings with sections of
variable number of floors (5-10) with total floor space of 7,361 sq. m, including 6,343 sq. m of
living space. The number of housing units - 97. Total project cost is US$ 3.54 million, including
US$ 1.54 million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                Mescherskoye Ozero, microdistrict 1, 1B
Borrower                         OAO FSK "Povolzhye"
Participating bank               OAO NBD-Bank


Project implementation resulted in construction of a 12-storey residential building with total floor
space of 8,458 sq. m, including 6,530 sq. m of living space. The number of housing units - 118.
Total project cost is US$ 2.08 million, including US$ 0.65 million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                Ul. Trudovaya
Borrower                         TOO SIF "Volgozhilstroi"
Participating bank               OAO NBD-Bank


Project implementation resulted in construction of three residential buildings with sections of
variable number of floors (5-6-9) with total floor space of 5,525 sq. m, including 5,049 sq. m of
living space. The number of housing units - 69. Total project cost is US$ 3.46 million, including
US$ 0.15 million of the loan proceeds.



     Novgorod
     Project                       Ul. Pskovskaya, block 147
Borrower                      OOO "PLANIS"



                                                    - 46 -

Participating bank            OAO Promstroibank (SPb)

Project implementation resulted in construction of 8 detached houses, 8 duplexes, and 26
townhouses with total floor space of 14,190 sq. m, including 12,300 sq. m of living space. The
number of housing units - 80. Total project cost is US$ 8.31 million, including US$ 3.62 million of
the loan proceeds.


    Tver
    Project                  Ul. Rozy Luxemburg
Borrower                     AOZT ISK
Participating bank           AKB SBS-AGRO

Project implementation resulted in construction of a 4-storey residential building with total floor
space of 2,863 sq. m, including 2,303 sq. m of living space. The number of housing units - 34.
Total project cost is US$ 1.09 million, including US$ 0.49 million of the loan proceeds.




                                                   - 47 -

                          Construction Finance Line of Credit (CFLOC)


Participating bank            Projects              Disbursements, $   Total project cost,
                                                                               $
                        Projects completed before August 17, 1998

Promstroibank                Dekabristov                        752,962       $ 1,820,000

(SPb)                         Sestroretsk                     3,855,687       $ 4,400,000
                            Soldatsky per.                     577,742        $ 1,100,000
                               Dinamo                         1,778,993       $ 6,250,000
                             Pskovskaya                       3,616,640       $ 8,310,000
                           B. Moskovskaya                             -        $4,695,000
 Saint-Petersburg         Novoselov, 2 "B"                    3,751,060       $ 8,970,000
  Vozrozhdeniye            Starovatutinsky                    5,000,000      $ 16,388,000
                            M . Filevska?a                    5,000,000       $ 8,460,000
                            M. Filevskaya                     2,000,000       $ 5,330,000
                              Novogorsk                       5,000,000      $ 25,039,000
    SBS-Agro              Rosa Luxemburg                       485,541        $ 1,090,000
                        Technopolis Severny                   4,938,080      $ 26,629,000
                              Novogorsk                               -       $ 8,420,000

   NBD-Bank                   Donskaya                        1,541,724       $ 3,540,000

                              Trudovaya                        148,863          $ 346,000
              Projects completed from August 17, 1998 to December 31, 2000
    Alfa-bank          1-st Novokouzminskaya                  4,000,000       $ 5,880,000
   NBD-Bank              Mescherskoye Lake                      648,495       $ 2,080,000

  Vozrozhdeniye          58/2, M. Filevskaya                  5,000,000       $ 8,100,000

    Petrovsky              Lake Dolgoye-1                     3,300,000       $ 7,310,000
                                Projects completed in 2000
    Petrovsky              Lake Dolgoye- 2                   1,764,814       $ 21,770,000
                            Lipovaya Alley                    3,000,000       $ 8,049,000
  Promstroibank          Krestovsky Ostrov                    3,977,893      $ 14,310,000
      (SPb)                 Zhukovskogo                       1,666,973       $ 2,940,000
Total                                                        61,805,467    $ 206,350,000




                                             - 48 -

     4.      BUILDING MATERIALS LINE OF CREDIT (BLOC)

Since the Project start, six projects were implemented under BLOC. Projects were financed through
Project participating banks: Vozrozhdeniye, SBS-AGRO, Promstroibank-SPb, and Petrovsky. Total
construction cost amounted to US$ 39.0 million, including US$ 27.784 million of loan proceeds.
Sub-loans repayment is on-going in accordance with the financial plans and credit agreements.

Six building industry enterprises were constructed (for manufacturing low-rise residential building
components, window blocks, insulated steel pipes and other materials) with the total annual production
capacity of US$ 123 million providing 3,460 job places.


     Project                       "Vel", City of Mytyshchy, Moscow Oblast
Borrower                       TOO EKhPO "Vel"
Participating bank             MAKB Vozrozhdeniye

Project implementation resulted in construction of a plant producing heating convectors
(KONB-350 and KONB-500 types) with annual capacity up to 220,000 kW. Total project cost is
US$ 6.0 million, including US$ 5.0 million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                       "Podmoskovye", City of Odintsovo, Moscow Oblast
Borrower                       OAO "Corporatsia Podmoskovye"
Participating bank             MAKB Vozrozhdeniye

Project implementation resulted in construction of a plant producing low-rise residential buildings
with annual production capacity up to 33,000 sq. m of floor space. Total project cost is US$ 12.0
million, including US$ 10.0 million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                       Kaluga plywood plant, City of Kaluga
Borrower                       ZAO "Kaluzhsky Fanerny Zavod"
Participating bank             AKB SBS-AGRO

Project implementation resulted in rehabilitation and provision of equipment for an existing plant.
Annual production capacity of this plant (high quality plywood) is up to 10,000 cubic m. Total
project cost is US$ 1.47 million, including US$ 1.05 million of the loan proceeds.



     Project                       "TVEL", St. Petersburg
Borrower                       TOO "TVEL -T"
Participating bank             OAO Promstroibank (SPb)

Project implementation resulted in construction of a plant producing steel pipes of large diameter
(560-1,200 mm) with polyethylene water- and heat-proof envelope. Total project cost is US$ 0.83
million, including US$ 0.66 million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                       "Inkon", St. Petersburg
Borrower                       ZAO ZSK "Inkon"
Participating bank             OAO Promstroibank (SPb)

Project implementation resulted in construction of a plant producing window blocks. Total project
cost is US$ 11.20 million, including US$ 4.82 million of the loan proceeds.
     Project                       "Stylers", St. Petersburg
Borrower                       ZAO "Stylers"
Participating bank             AB Petrovsky

Project implementation resulted in construction of a plant producing joinery and building wooden
materials. Total project cost is US$ 7.5 million, including US$ 6.25 million of the loan proceeds.




                                                    - 49 -

                                       Building materials line of credit

  Lending        Subproject            End      Total project WB Loan            Disbursed,
   bank                              product        cost, $        Amount,            $
                                                                   $
Promstroy-ban       "TVEL"          Insulated      $ 830,000           $ 660,000   $ 660,000
      k        (St. Petersburg)     steel pipes
    (SPb)
                    "Inkon"           Wood        $ 11,200,000       $ 4,981,000 $ 4,819,928*
               (St. Petersburg)      window
                                      blocks
  Petrovsky        "Stylers"          Wood         $ 7,500,000       $ 6,250,000 $ 6,250,000
               (St. Petersburg)      window
                                      blocks
  SBS-Agro     Kaluga plywood        Plywood       $ 1,470,000       $ 1,054,000 $ 1,054,000
                     plant
                   (Kaluga)
Vozrozhdeniy        "VEL"           Radiators      $ 6,000,000       $ 5,000,000 $ 5,000,000
e                 (Mytischi,
                 Mos.Oblast)
               "Podmoskoviye"        Low-rise     $ 12,000,000                 $ $ 9,999,991
                 (Odintsovo,         housing                         10,000,000
              Moscow Oblast)        constructio
                                        n
   Total                                          $ 39,000,000      $ 27,945,000 $ 27,783,919

* Besides, $161,072 million of re-invested funds




                                                 - 50 -

5.        TITLE REGISTRATION COMPONENT

The Title Registration Program was designed to create environment for normal real estate market
relations through further development and improvement of the state registration system for real estate
title and transactions.

The registration process is understood in a broader sense: besides title registration proper, the program
addresses some contiguous issues. The program is focused on improvement of functioning of the title
registration offices, however part of the efforts aim at streamlining those processes, which take place
round the title registration and are directly related to it. These primarily include technical inventory and
cadastre registration of real estate, which in many respects influence the quality and difficulties of the
title registration for the clients.

Title registration is viewed as a single service ("one window") providing for registration of all types of
proprietary interest on real estate, their limitations and encumbrances.
Development of the registration system includes the following objectives:

l    Institutional development of the title registration system;
l    Improvement of the technical support of registration chambers and other agencies involved in the
     title registration process;
l    Development of the title registration computerization process;
l    Legal support and training of staff in the regions.

To achieve these objectives, the component provided assistance in the following areas:

1.        Review of the current status of the title registration and elaboration of the general principles for
          the title registration system development:
         l     Review of the legal aspects of registration;
         l     Review of the institutional status of the title registration;
         l     Review of the current information systems and computerization capacity for data exchange
               between organizations involved in the title registration process;
2.        Development of the information support principles for the title registration and their regionalized
          implementation.
3.        Preparation of reference and methodological materials supporting "one window" title registration.
4.        Professional and support staff training of registration chambers, technical inventory bureaus and
          cadastre chambers.
5.        Development of the title registration computerization in line with the general computerization
          principles for the single state title register:
         l     Development of the general computerization principles for keeping the single state title
               register and data exchange in the registration system;
         l     Review of the status of information systems used in the title registration and inventory in the
               regions and preparation of recommendations for their development in conformity with the
               general principles of computerization of the single state title register keeping;
         l     Development of computerization of registration chambers, technical inventory bureaus and
               data exchange between the title registration process participants in line with the general
               principles of computerization of the single state title register keeping in each participating
               region.
6.        Procurement of equipment to be provided to the registration offices under the RF Ministry of
          Justice and other organizations participating in the registration process.

Sub-loan Agreements were signed with the following regions and cities under this component:

                      Regions                                                Cities
Republic Bashkortostan                                     Ufa
                                                           Salavat




                                                         - 51 -

Republic Buryatiya                                Ulan-Ude
Republic Mariy-El                                 Yoshkar-Ola
Republic Tatarstan                                Kazan
Kraskoyarsk kray                                  Krasnoyarsk
Voronezh oblast                                   Voronezh
                                                  Bobrov
Leningrad oblast                                  Vyborg rayon
                                                  Sosnoviy Bor
Nizhniy Novgorod oblast                           Nizhniy Novgorod
                                                  Arzamas
                                                  Arzamas rayon
Pskov oblast                                      Pskov
                                                  Velikiye Luki
Samara oblast                                     Samara
                                                  Tolyati
Saratov oblast                                    Saratov
                                                  Engels
                                                  Balakovo
Smolensk oblast                                   Smolensk
Tula oblast                                       Tula
Ulyanovsk oblast                                  Ulyanovsk
Chita oblast                                      Chita
                                                  Krasnokamensk
Yaroslavl oblast                                  Yaroslavl
                                                  Rostov Velikiy
                                                  Pereslavl Zalesskiy
Moscow                                            Moscow
Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous county                   Salekhard
                                                  Noviy Urengoy
                                                  Noyabrsk
                                                  Labytnangi

Competitive bidding procedures were held to procure office equipment, computers and software, office
furniture and archive equipment for organizations involved in title registration. Suppliers were selected
based on the bidding results, and equipment was delivered. The list of contracts is provided below:


     Contract         Date of contract             Client                      Contractor
PROCUREMENT OF OFFICE EQUIPMENT, COMPUTERS AND SOFTWARE
HP/TR-CH01          February 01, 2002      Chita oblast              Dellsystems CIS
HP/TR-PSK01        February 22, 2002     Pskov oblast                Dellsystems CIS
HP/TR-SML01        February 15, 2002     Smolensk oblast             Dellsystems CIS
HP/TR-TAT01         March 22, 2002         Republic Tatarstan        Information business
                                                                     systems (IBS)
HP/TR-SAR01         May 29, 2002           Saratov oblast            IBS
HP/TR-SMR01         May 21, 2002           Samara oblast             USP Compulink
HP/TR-BSH01         June 05, 2002          Republic                  USP Compulink
                                           Bashkortostan
HP/TR-TUL01         July 30, 2002          Tula oblast               USP Compulink
HP/TR-NZH01         July 12, 2002        Nizhniy Novgorod oblast      USP Compulink
HP/TR-KRS01         April 27, 2002         Krasnoyarsk kray          IBS
HP/TR-BUR01         June 11, 2002          Republic Buryatiya        Dellsystems CIS
HP/TR-VOR01        June 11, 2002         Voronezh oblast             IBS



                                                - 52 -

HP/TR-YAR01             June 17, 2002             Yaroslavl oblast        USP Compulink
HP/TR-LEN01             October 30, 2002          Leningrad oblast        Prime Group
HP/TR-YNO01             October 25, 2002         Yamalo-Nenets             Prime Group
                                                 Autonomous county
HP/TR-MOS01             October 21, 2002          Moscow                  Compaq
PROCUREMENT OF OFFICE AND ARCHIVE EQUIPMENT
HP/TR-CH02            December 14, 2001           Chita oblast            Sevzapmebel
HP/TR-PSK02           December 19, 2001          Pskov oblast             D-17
HP/TR-SML02           January 25, 2002           Smolensk oblast          Sevzapmebel
HP/TR-TAT02           January 11, 2002            Republic Tatarstan      Sevzapmebel
HP/TR-SAR02           May 29, 2002                Saratov oblast          Sevzapmebel
HP/TR-SMR02           July 23, 2002               Samara oblast           Sevzapmebel
HP/TR-NZH02           June 20, 2002               Nizhniy Novgorod        D-17
                                                  oblast
HP/TR-KRS02           February 12, 2002           Krasnoyarsk kray        D-17
HP/TR-BUR02           January 31, 2002           Republic Buryatiya       D-17
HP/TR-VOR02           March 15, 2002             Voronezh oblast          Sevzapmebel
HP/TR-YAR02           April 16, 2002             Yaroslavl oblast         D-17
HP/TR-LEN02           April 15, 2002              Leningrad oblast        Lenraumamebel
HP/TR-YNO02           June 24, 2002               Yamalo-Nenets           D-17
                                                  Autonomous county

Competitive bidding procedures were held for consultant services to assess the current situation in the
field of the title registration and develop options for further title registration system development. Three
contracts were signed:

    Contract                            Topic                                 Consultant
                     Institutional assessment of processes       Consortium of Real Estate Market
                     related to title registration               Review Center and IBS
                    Assistance to addressing legal issues of Urban Institute Foundation
                    title registration
                    Assessment and recommendations on            OOO "Information Business
                    improvement of the existing information Systems"
                    systems supporting title registration
                     "Preparation of reference and              OOO "Information Business Systems"
                     methodological materials for title
                     registration based on the "one
                     window" principle

Competitive bidding procedure was held to procure services for development of the general principles of
building information systems supporting title registration free of regional specificity. Force Holding, the
winning form, developed a respective document, which was then used as a basis for developing systems
for the participating regions.

Competitive bidding procedures were held to procure services for development of software supporting
title registration and interaction of agencies involved in the registration process. Software developers
selected on the basis of the bidding results developed and implemented automated systems in the
regions with due account of the general requirements to such systems as developed before and
specificity of each region.


        Contract                Date of Contract               Region                  Contractor

HP/TR-PSK03-TA                 August 1, 2002         Pskov oblast               IBS




                                                       - 53 -

HP/TR-SAR03-TA             August 1, 2002             Saratov oblast               KSK Technologies

HP/TR-SMR03-TA             August 1, 2002             Samara oblast                FORCE Holding

HP/TR-KRS03-TA             August 1, 2002             Krasnoyarsk kray             DataX/Florin

HP/TR-NZH03-TA             August 1, 2002              Nizhniy Novgorod oblast IBS

HP/TR-VOR03-TA             August 1, 2002             Voronezh oblast              IBS

HP/TR-BUR03-TA             August 1, 2002             Republic Buryatiya           DataX/Florin

HP/TR-TAT03-TA             August 1, 2002             Republic Tatarstan           FORCE Holding

HP/TR-TUL03-TA             August 1, 2002             Tula oblast                  FORCE Holding

HP/TR-YAR03-TA             August 1, 2002             Yaroslavl oblast             FORCE Holding

HP/TR-CHT03-TA             August 1, 2002             Chita oblast                 IBS

HP/TR-YNO03-TA             August 1, 2002              Yamalo-Nenets               DataX/Florin
                                                       autonomous county

HP/TR-SML03-TA             August 1, 2002             Smolensk oblast              KSK Technologies

HP/TR-LEN03-TA             October 4, 2002             Leningrad oblast             DataX/Florin

HP/TR-BSH03-TA             October 4, 2002             Republic Bashkortostan       FORCE Holding


6.        TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

According to the Loan Agreement the Housing Project includes a comprehensive Technical Assistance
Program aimed at promotion of reforms in the housing sector and at strengthening of each of the Project
components through introduction of principles and procedures required for the Project implementation.

In the period of 1995 to 2003 the Project provided technical assistance to the participating cities,
participating commercial banks, private developers, building materials enterprises, specialists involved in
the title registration and mortgage finance in the Russian Federation.

Technical Assistance was provided for procurement of consultant services in the following areas:
l   Improvement of the legal framework for the housing sector;
l   Improvement of the building norms and standards in conformity with the international norms to
    encourage the use of efficient technologies and materials;
l   Supplementary research and design works required for promotion of the Housing Project and
    preparation of the future Bank-financed projects in the housing sector, urban planning and
    infrastructure;
l   Dissemination of accumulated experience and training of the process participants;
l   Information support to the government housing and utilities policy.

For successful implementation of the housing reform in the Russian Federation and achievement of
objectives under the Housing Project, the Gosstroy of Russia revised the Technical Assistance Program
and brought it in line with the basic goals, objectives and structure of the Main Areas of the Housing
Sector Development for 2001 - 2005 approved by the RF Government Resolution in 2001. This
Technical Assistance Program was approved by the World Bank is 2001.

This Program includes the following activities:

1.        Reform and modernization of the housing and utilities sector
          1.1. Social protection in transition to full housing and utilities cost recovery tariffs
          1.2. Restructuring housing and utilities complex sectors


                                                        - 54 -

2.       Housing finance
         2.1. Mortgage development
3.       Information support of government policy in the housing and utilities sector.


7.       SUB-LOAN AGREEMENTS
7.1.     Sub-loan Agreements with participating cities

7.1.1.   Sub-Loan Agreement with St. Petersburg Administration was signed on July 17, 1995;
Amendment No. 1 was signed on June 10, 1999; Amendment No. 2 was signed on November 18, 1999.
The initial SLA amount was US$ 28.7 million; following the amendments (No. 1 and No. 2) the amount
was increased to US$ 33.5 million.

Six land development projects were financed through the sub-loan proceeds in the total amount of US$
33.5 million. The city budget provided co-financing of these projects in the amount of US$ 7.9 million.
Project implementation is completed.

The city Administration paid US$ 34.8 million of obligatory payments to the federal budget, including
US$ 23.2 million covering the principal debt. As of October 31, 2003, the city has no outstanding debt.

7.1.2.   Sub-Loan Agreement with Nizhniy Novgorod Administration was signed on July 17, 1995, in the
amount of US$ 8.8 million. One land development subproject was financed through the SLA
("Delovaya") in the amount of US$ 8.8 million. The city allocated US$ 2.0 million as co-financing of this
project. Project implementation is completed.

The city Administration paid US$ 1.1 million of obligatory payments to the federal budget. No principal
debt payments were made.

As of October 31, 2003, the outstanding debt amounted to US$ 9.1 million. The Administration of the city
of Nizhniy Novgorod prepared an Agreement for debt restructuring in accordance with the RF
Government resolution No. 435 dated July 17, 2003.

7.1.3.   Sub-Loan Agreement with Velikiy Novgorod Administration was signed on July 17, 1995, in the
amount of US$ 9.6 million. One land development subproject was financed through the SLA
("Pskovskaya") in the amount of US$ 6.0 million. The city allocated US$ 1.6 million as co-financing of
this project. Project implementation is completed.

The city Administration paid US$ 8.79 million of obligatory payments to the federal budget, including
US$ 6.0 million to cover the principal debt.

As of October 31, 2003, the SLA debt was fully recovered in line with the RF Ministry of Finance Order
No. 229 dated September 30, 2002, on overdue debt settlement.

7.1.4.   Sub-Loan Agreement with Barnaul Administration was signed on July 17, 1995, in the amount of
US$ 4.0 million. One land development subproject was financed through the SLA ("Solnechnaya
Polyana") in the amount of US$ 2.2 million. The city allocated US$ 0.5 million as co-financing of this
project. Project implementation is completed.

The city Administration paid US$ 0.15 million of obligatory payments to the federal budget. No principal
debt payments were made.

As of October 31, 2003, the outstanding debt amounted to US$ 3.3 million. The Administration of the city
of Barnaul prepared an Agreement for debt restructuring in accordance with the RF Government
resolution No. 435 dated July 17, 2003.

7.1.5.   Sub-Loan Agreement with Tver Administration was signed on July 17, 1995; Amendment No. 1



                                                  - 55 -

was signed on October 15, 1997. The initial SLA amount was US$ 4.6 million; following the amendment
the loan amount increased to US$ 5.5 million.

One land development subproject was financed through the SLA ("Yuzhnaya-D") in the amount of US$
5.5 million. The city allocated US$ 1.4 million as co-financing of this project. Project implementation is
completed.

The city Administration paid US$ 1.8 million of obligatory payments to the federal budget, including US$
0.5 million to cover the principal debt.

As of October 31, 2003, the outstanding debt amounted to US$ 5.0 million. The Administration of the city
of Tver prepared an Agreement for debt restructuring in accordance with the RF Government resolution
No. 435 dated July 17, 2003.

7.1.6.   Sub-Loan Agreement No. 01-01-06/27-425 with Kazan Administration was signed on June 30,
2000. The amount of the initial SLA was US$ 9.1 million

One land development subproject was financed through the SLA ("Mikrorayon B") in the amount of US$
8.9 million. The city allocated US$ 2.1 million as co-financing of this project. Project implementation is
completed.

The city Administration paid US$ 0.4 million of obligatory payments to the federal budget. No principal
debt payments were made. As of October 31, 2003, the outstanding debt amounted to US$ 3.3 million.

7.1.7.   Sub-Loan Agreement No. 01-01-06/27-424 with Krasnoyarsk Administration was signed on June
30, 2000. The initial SLA amount was US$ 6.6 million.

One land development subproject was financed through the SLA ("Aeroport 2") in the amount of US$ 5.7
million. The city allocated US$ 1.4 million as co-financing of this project. Project implementation is
completed.

The city Administration paid US$ 2.7 million of obligatory payments to the federal budget, including US$
2.2 to cover the principal debt. As of October 31, 2003, the city had not outstanding debt.

7.2.     Sub-loan Agreements with participating commercial banks

7.2.1.   Agreement with commercial bank "SBS-AGRO" was signed on February 8, 1996. The initial
agreement amount was US$ 40.0 million. No additional agreements were signed. The bank disbursed
US$ 6.5 million of the sub-loan for financing three projects. Disbursement of sub-loan funds was
terminated on April 1, 1999, following the decision of the Strategic Task Group. The bank made US$
0.79 million of obligatory payments to the federal budget, including US$ 0.2 million of the principal debt.
The bank debt on obligatory payments amounted to US$ 7.3 million as of June 1, 2003.RF Ministry of
Finance sent a letter dated February 15, 2000, to SBS-AGRO Bank requesting an immediate repayment
of debt and notifying cancellation of the agreement (Letter No. 27-00-05/233 dated February 15, 2000).
Currently ARCO is in charge of settling accounts between the bank and its clients.

7.2.2. Agreement with commercial bank "Promstroibank-SPb." was signed on February 9, 1996. The
initial agreement amount was US$ 40.0 million. No additional agreements were signed.
The bank disbursed US$ 20.1 million of the sub-loan for financing ten projects. Disbursement of sub-loan
funds was terminated on August 9, 1999, in conformity with the SLA. The bank paid US$ 29.2 million of
obligatory payments to the federal budget, including US$ 20.1 million of the principal debt. As of March
31, 2000, the principal along with all other payments due were fully collected. To complete a number of
projects the RF Ministry of Finance approved extension of sub-loan disbursement till December 21,
2000. During this period the subborrower received US$ 1.65 million. The bank made all necessary
payments in the amount of US$ 0.16 million to the federal budget to service this debt. No outstanding
debts.



                                                   - 56 -

7.2.3. Agreement with commercial bank "Bank St. Petersburg". Signed on July 1, 1996. The initial
agreement amount was US$ 15.0 million. On June 13, 2000, an additional agreement was signed to
reduce the sub-loan amount to US$ 3.8 million.The bank disbursed US$ 3.8 million of the sub-loan to
finance one project. Disbursement of the sub-loan was terminated on December 31, 1999, in conformity
with the SLA. The bank paid US$ 2.76 of obligatory payments to the federal budget, including US$ 1.2
million of the principal debt. No outstanding debts.

7.2.4. Agreement with commercial bank "Vozrozhdeniye" was signed on September 27, 1996. Additional
agreement No. 1 was signed on June 11, 1997, additional agreement No. 2: on October 20, 1997. The
initial agreement amount was US$ 10.0 million; additional agreements No. 1 and No. 2 increased this
amount to US$ 50.0 million.The bank disbursed US$ 37 million of the sub-loan to finance eight projects.
Sub-loan disbursement was terminated on December 31, 1999, in conformity with the SLA. The bank
paid to the federal budget a total of US$ 10.7 million of obligatory payments, including US$ 2.5 million of
the principal debt. Bank debt as of February 15, 2002, made US$ 19.3 million, including US$ 13.9 million
of the principal debt.

7.2.5. Agreement with commercial bank "NBD-Bank" (Nizhniy Novgorod) was signed on February 20,
1997. The initial agreement amount was US$ 5.0 million.
The bank disbursed US$ 2.3 million of the sub-loan to finance three projects. Sub-loan disbursement was
terminated on December 31, 1999, in conformity with the SLA. The bank paid to the federal budget total
of US$ 3.7 million of obligatory payments, including US$ 2.3 million of loan principal repayments.
On March 31, 2000 the loan principal was totally repaid along with obligatory payments due.

7.2.6. Agreement with commercial bank "Petrovsky" was signed on July 22, 1997. Additional agreement
No. 1 was signed on September 30, 1997. The initial agreement amount was US$ 15.0 million; additional
agreement No. increased the agreement amount to US$ 21.3 million.
The bank disbursed US$ 11.8 million the sub-loan for financing four projects. Disbursement of the
sub-loan was terminated on December 31, 1999, in conformity with the SLA. The bank paid to the federal
budget a total of US$ 18.3 million of obligatory payments, including US$ 11.8 million of loan principal
repayments. No outstanding debts.
As of December 30, 1999, the debt principal along with all obligatory service payments was fully
collected.
To complete a number of projects the RF Ministry of Finance approved extension of sub-loan
disbursement till December 19, 2000. During this period the subborrower received US$ 2.5 million. The
bank made all necessary payments in the amount of US$ 1.2 million to the federal budget to service this
debt. No outstanding debts.
7.2.7. Agreement with commercial bank "Alpha-Bank" was signed on August 29, 1997. The agreement
amount was US$ 20.0 million. No additional agreements were signed.
The bank disbursed US$ 4.0 million of the sub-loan for financing one project. Disbursement of the
sub-loan was terminated on December 31, 1999, in conformity with the SLA. The bank paid to the federal
budget a total of US$ 4.9 million of obligatory payments, including US$ 4.0 million of the principal debt.
On March 31, 2000 the loan principal was totally repaid along with obligatory payments due.


8.       Project Outcomes

8.1      Land Development Component

The component provided financing for 12 projects implemented in seven participating cities: St.
Petersburg,    Novgorod,    Nizhniy    Novgorod,   Tver,  Barnaul,   Kazan   and    Krasnoyarsk.     Project
implementation resulted in provision of 110 ha of land with engineering infrastructure worth US$ 87.3
million (US$ 70,51 were provided by the loan) for housing construction with the total floor space of 1 350
thousand sq. m.

8.1.1    Development of Title Registration Institute


                                                   - 57 -

In the course of implementation of this component, Project participating cities adopted documents
regulating title registration and transactions, which was a mandatory participation condition for the cities.
These regulatory documents were approved by the World Bank. Consequently, for the first time in
Russia, five Project participating cities adopted local regulatory acts and implemented title registration
systems meeting the international requirements.

Under the Housing Project preparation program, in 1994 the World Bank consultants organized a
seminar for the RF executive authorities, representatives of the participating cities administrations and
other stakeholders. Seminar participants were advised on the IBRD consultants' recommendations
regarding organization of the real estate registration data exchange (BTI, land committees, architecture
and planning units, public property management committees) and setting up of a single title registration
system.

First Novgorod and then other cities of Russia developed and implemented the "single window" principle
for the title registration. This system served as a basis for preparation of a law on the state registration of
titles that was adopted in 1996.

8.1.2.   Land Auctions

The Land Development component was implemented in the Project participating cities, which took up a
responsibility to implement the Regulatory Action Plan and met the loan effectiveness conditions. Land
auctions to sell land plots provided with engineering infrastructure to private developers were one of the
key participation conditions.

First land auctions were held in five participating cities in 1996 - 1997. Based on this experience
Presidential Decree was prepared and adopted: "On sale to citizens and legal entities of land plots
located on the territories of cities and rural settlements for development, or the rights to lease thereof"
(November 26, 1997, No. 1263).

For the first time in the Russian economy sales of land plots to ownership was implemented in
conjunction with transfer of housing to the owner. Thus, successful land auctions held under the Housing
Project facilitated introduction of an important component in the Law on Condominiums adopted in 1997,
which legally stipulates transfer of housing together with the land plot.

8.1.3.   Improvement of the Legal Framework

Project participating cities adopted regulatory acts regarding title registration, land auctions for housing
construction and other documents protecting investors' rights, free access to urban land and encouraging
investment to the city economy. Component allowed achievement of the goals, assisted in development
and adoption of major regulatory acts in the housing and utilities sector.

8.1.4.   Simplification of Construction Permits Issue Procedure

Under this component, administrations of the participating cities undertook to provide land plots with
engineering infrastructure. Land lots were put up for auction together with the agreed technical
requirements, which eliminates a problem of lengthy process of obtaining agreements and additional
costs for the developers.

8.1.5.   Hands-on Training of Project Participants in the state-of-the-art technologies in the sphere of
credit facilities management in the housing sector.

The Project implementation allowed:

l    To train participating cities Administration staff in the use of credit resources for municipal land
     development, progressive methods of arranging land auctions, procurements of works, goods and



                                                      - 58 -

     services

l    To train local contractors in ICB rules and performance under contracts in conformity with
     international standards.

8.1.6    Reduction in engineering infrastructure cost. Preparation and implementation by the Project
participating cities of the RAPs, market assessment of land development cost, ICB procedures allowed to
reduce the percentage of engineering infrastructure cost in the total cost of future housing by 18 - 22%.
Under the existing practices of land allocation this indicator equals 35-40%.

8.1.7.   Creation of new jobs in the process of construction of engineering infrastructure, residential and
commercial buildings on developed sites.

8.1.8.   Increase of tax revenues through sale of land, residential and commercial premises, completed
works, additional employment.

8.2.     Construction Finance Component

From 1995 to 1999, a total of 22 housing construction projects were financed under the component in
five participating cities: Moscow, St. Petersburg, Nizhniy Novgorod, Novgorod and Tver. The component
provided assistance to construction of 3 250 housing units with a total floor space of 264 259 sq. m (with
commercial space take into account offered space is 331 767 sq. m) worth US$ 206.351 million,
including US$ 61.8 million of the loan proceeds.

Implementation of this component facilitated attraction of commercial banks to crediting the formal
sector of the Russian economy. Due to the IBRD resources, the banks could master methods of project
financing, and private investors could get an access to long-term financial resources for housing
construction.

Residential buildings were sold in the free market for the total of about US$ 220 million, which generated
US$ 44 million of sales taxes. Final borrowers paid approximately US$ 4.4 million of profit taxes. In
terms of employment, construction of 22 buildings provided 13 000 man-years of work. Developers also
paid about US$ 11.8 million of pay-roll tax. The total value of income tax paid by workers amounted to
US$ 3.3 million.

Therefore, the indirect economic effect of completed projects amounted to approximately US$ 63.5
million not taking into account the annual real estate taxes and taxes collected from commercial banks.

8.3.     Building Materials Industry Component

From 1995 to 1998, six building materials enterprises were constructed. The total cost of construction
made US$ 39 million, including US$ 27.8 million of the loan proceeds.

Six building industry enterprises were constructed for manufacturing low-rise residential building
components, window blocks, insulated steel pipes and other materials with the total annual production
capacity of US$ 123 million providing 3,460 job places.

These enterprises produce high quality construction products, which enjoy stable demand in the Russian
market of building materials.

8.4.     Title Registration Component

Under this component, computer and office equipment worth US$ 18.02 million was procured for the
regional and municipal organization participating in the title registration process in 16 subjects of the
Russian Federation.




                                                    - 59 -

Special software was developed and implemented to simplify and streamline the title registration
procedure in the registration chambers, BTIs and cadastre centers of the participating subjects of the
Russian Federation.

Implementation of the component in 16 subjects of the Russia Federation provided for:

l     Strengthening of title to real estate;
l     Modernization of technical records and land cadastre procedures required for title registration and
      development of real estate taxation;
l     Improvement of real estate taxation through obtaining more reliable data about real estate and its
      owners;
l     Formation of favorable investment climate;
l     Filling gaps in records and legal data on real estate, including land plots.

By aggregated estimates, component implementation will produce the following additional revenues
through growth of tax collections resulting from additional registration of real estate, growth of taxes and
fees due to increasing investment, saving time of population: US$ 16.2 million annually to the federal
budget; US$ 8.4 million annually to the regional and municipal budgets; US$ 12.6 million annually to the
non-budgetary funds; and US$ 6.3 million annually to the population.

8.5.       Technical Assistance Component

In 1995 - 2003, the Housing Project provided important technical assistance services to promote reforms
in the housing and utilities sector of the Russian Federation.

8.5.1.     Implementation of the technical assistance facilitated preparation of the following regulatory
documents in the area of construction and housing and utilities sector:

l     Decree of the RF President "On sale to citizens and legal entities of land plots located on the
      territories of cities and rural settlements for development, or the rights to lease thereof" of November
      26, 1997, No. 1263;
l     Federal Law "On experiment on taxation of real estate in cities of Novgorod and Tver" of July 20,
      1997, No. 11-FZ
l     RF Government Resolution "On approval of bidding procedures (auctions, competitions) to sell to
      citizens and legal entities land plots located on territories of cities and rural settlements, or the rights
      to lease thereof" of January 5, 1998, No. 2;
l     RF Law "On Condominiums" (No. 72-FZ) adopted by the State Duma on May 24, 1996. Approved by
      the Council of Federation on June 5, 1996. Became effective on June 15, 1996;
l     RF Law "On state registration of real estate tiles and transactions" (No. 122-FZ) adopted by the State
      Duma on June 17, 1996. Approved by the Council of Federation on July 3, 1996. Became effective
      on July 21, 1996;
l     RF Law "On Mortgage (pledge of real estate)" (No. 102-FZ) adopted by the State Duma on June 24,
      1997. Approved by the Council of Federation on July 9, 1998. Became effective on June 16, 1998;
l     RF Urban Planning Code (became effective in May 1998);
l     RF Law "On introduction of changes and additions to the Housing Code of the RFSR"

8.5.2.     Construction norms and standards were developed in compliance with the international
standards to encourage the use of efficient technologies and materials in construction and housing and
utilities sector:

l     Code of rules of autonomous engineering design for individual residential buildings of mass
      production and standard technical solutions of autonomous engineering systems. A manual was
      issued for design of autonomous engineering systems, which is successfully disseminated in regions
      and among developers
l     Improvement of the Russian norms and standards in the area of construction of energy efficient
      buildings. Prepared manual prompts energy saving solutions in residential buildings, encourages the



                                                       - 60 -

    use of efficient building materials
l   Improvement of the Russian norms and standards in the area of resource metering in the housing
    and utilities sector. Recommendations were prepared for local governments and organizations
    maintaining buildings regarding the use of resource meters in the housing and utilities sector.

8.5.3.   Activities were implemented to prepare World Bank financed projects in the area of housing and
urban development:
l   St. Petersburg Strategic Plan was prepared, which is extremely important as a methodological model
    of a comprehensive analysis, projections and monitoring of urban development goals and objectives;
l   Housing market analysis was made in the participating cities and in cities - candidates for
    participation in the Housing Project, which demonstrated a real picture of the housing market in the
    cities in question.

8.5.3.   Experience dissemination activities and training were held for the participants of the reform
process in the housing and utilities sector in Russia. A series of methodological materials was prepared
and published covering current issues of construction, real estate management, urban development
planning, housing and utilities sector.

8.5.4.   Social protection measures were taken for the period of transition to full cost recovery tariffs for
housing and utilities:

l   Government role was justified in provision of social protection to low-income families in the period of
    transition to full cost recovery tariffs for housing and utilities, a concept was developed for social
    norm and federal standard, principle of targeted subsidy
l   A description of population category was prepared covering citizens eligible for housing and utilities
    subsidies; justification was provided for: regional aspects of subsidies; differentiation of subsidy size
    across Russia reflecting the scope and quality of HUS services delivered, as well as tariff values
l   Requirement of financial resources was estimated for social protection of low-income families and
    sources of finance were identified
l   HUS subsidy provision procedures were developed
l   A system of personal accounts for housing and utilities payments was developed and piloted in three
    municipalities of the Russian Federation
l   Subsidy provision regulatory acts were drafted.

8.5.5.   Recommendations for housing and utilities sector restructuring:

l   Financial and technological audit of utilities, equipment inventory; financial flows and issues of sector
    management and the municipal and enterprise level were studied (3 - 5 municipalities)
l   Procedures for dividing housing and utilities sector into competitive and monopoly segments (water
    and sanitation, heat, energy and gas, etc)
l   A detailed study was made on government regulation of the HUS monopoly segment, on state
    enterprises and management companies; establishing and regulating tariffs (monitoring, preparation,
    review and enforcement of revised tariffs)
l   Recommendations were prepared on auctioning and privatization of municipal enterprises in the
    HUS competitive segment; on setting up and maintaining a competitive environment; on attraction of
    private investment and borrowed funds. Concession mechanisms were studied stimulating
    competition among local natural monopolies
l   An analysis of activities of housing owners and their associations was made in the field of real estate
    management in the housing sector; contract arrangements were studied in the field of utility service
    provision; issues of setting up specialized guarantee agencies with government participation were
    studied.

8.5.6.   Recommendations were prepared to develop mortgage finance system in Russia. This study is
of high practical value for all participants of the decision-making process in housing finance and real
estate management:




                                                      - 61 -

l   Issues of the government role in development of mortgage finance in Russia; federal and regional
    aspects of housing and investment requirements of mortgage
l   Insurance in mortgage finance: types of insurance and improvement options
l   Development of mortgage finance infrastructure, organization of state operators activities on the
    secondary housing market
l   Development of legal framework for mortgage finance.


                                     RUSSIA HOUSING PROJECT
                                          Loan No. 3850-RU
                             Loan Proceeds and Co-Financing Funds

  Housing Project               Loan                 Co-financing                 Total
     components
Land development                 70.5                    16.8                     87.3
Construction finance             61.8                   144.6                     206.4
Building materials line          27.8                    11.2                     39.0
of credit
Title registration,
including
-       Goods                    18.0                     3.6                     21.6
-       TA                       7.7                      1.5                      9.2
Technical assistance             19.5                    23.4                     43.0
Operational costs                5.0                                               5.0
Total                           210.3                   201.1                     411.4




                                                 - 62 -

- 63 -

