Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17203
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 3022-CHA)
November25, 1997
Finance and Private Sector Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency = Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
1988              $1 = Y 3.71
1989              $1 = Y 3.71
1990              $1=Y4.72
1991              $1 = Y 5.22
1992              $1 = Y 5.38
1993              $1 = Y 5.45
1994              $1 = Y 8.70
1995              $1=Y-8.31
1996              $1 = Y 8.30
1997              $1 = Y 8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Systemn
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIB   -  China Investment Bank
ERR  -  Economic Rate of Return
FRR  -  Financial Rate of Return
FTC   -  Foreign Trade Corporation
GOC  -  Government of China
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
ICR   -  Implementation Completion Report
LOC      Line of Credit
SOEs -  State-Owned Enterprises
TA    -  Technical Assistance
TLIP  -  Tianjin Light Industry Project
TPIC  -  Tianlong Paper Industry Corporation
TVEs -  Town & Village Enterprises
Vice President    Jean Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director   Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager    Hoon Mok Chung, EASFP
Staff Member      Zafar Shah Khan, Principal Financial Specialist, EASFP



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ..........................................................iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................................................v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................1
a. Project Background .........................................................1l
B. Project Objectives and Description ..........................................................2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives ........................................................3
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...............7
E. Project Sustainability .........................................................1  1
F. Bank Performance .........................................................                    11
G. Borrower Performance ..........................................................              12
H. Assessment of Outcome .........................................................              13
I. Future Operation .........................................................                    13
J. Key Lessons Learned .........................................................                 14
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES                                 ........................................... 17
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits                                     .18
Table 3: Project Timetable .19
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual .20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .20
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations .21
Table 7: Studies included in Project .21
Table 8a:  Project Costs ...................................................                    22
Table 8b:  Project Costs ...................................................                    23
Table 8c:  Project Financing ...................................................                24
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................................    24
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ...................................................          25
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........................ 25
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................    25
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ...................................................           26
APPENDIX  A: ICR  MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE ............................................. 27
APPENDIX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ...................... 36
APPENDIX C: CIB-COMPARATIVE (ACTUAL AND PROJECTED)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEARS ENDING
DECEMBER  31, 1990-96 ........................................................        45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- 11 -
APPENDIX D: COMPARISON OF PROJECTED AND ACTUAL
RESULTS OF SUBPROJECTS .................................................. 46
APPENDIX E: MONITORING OF TARGETS .................................................. 49



- 111 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 3022-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Tianjin Light
Industry Project (TLIP) in China, for which Loan 3022-CHA in the amount of $154
million equivalent was approved on February 21, 1989 and made effective on
December 7, 1989.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1997, compared with the original closing date of
June 30, 1995. Final disbursement is expected to take place on October 31, 1997 at which
time a balance of $0.19 million would be canceled. The project also used $1 million out
of the Second Technical Cooperation Credit (TCCII) (Credit No. 1664-CHA) for the
preparation of Tianjin's overall industrial strategy.
The ICR was prepared by a team comprising Zafar Shah Khan (Task Manager)
and Amanda Hagy (Task Assistant) in the Finance and Private Sector Development
Sector Unit (EASFP) of the East Asia and Pacific Region. Naiqin Lu, Operations Officer
in the Resident Mission of China, and Raymond Chalk, Consultant/Paper Specialist,
participated in the ICR mission and contributed to the mission's work. The ICR was
reviewed by Hoon Mok Chung, Manager, EASFP and Yukon Huang, Director, China
Country Unit. The borrower provided comments that are included as appendixes to the
ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in June/July 1997. It is based on the material in the project file. The borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing relevant data and information,
contributing views expressed in the mission's aide-memoire, preparing own evaluation of
the project's execution and initial preparation, and commenting on the draft ICR.



I



CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 3022-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Bank's first operation in the industrial sector was a loan for the Fertilizer
Rehabilitation and Energy Saving Project in 1985. It was followed by loans for the
Shanghai Machine Tools (1987), Gansu Provincial Development Project (with an
industry component) (1987), Fertilizer Rationalization (1987), Pharmaceuticals (1988),
and Rural Industrial Technology (1990) projects. In addition, the Bank has provided five
credit lines to the China Investment Bank (CIB) for onlending to small- and medium-size
projects in the industrial sector. The Tianjin Light Industry Project was the first of a
series of three pilot projects undertaken at the regional level to implement the overall
development program and strategy for specific industrial subsectors. It focused on the
restructuring of textile dyeing and finishing, pulp and paper, and packaging subsectors,
which were studied jointly by the Bank staff and the Tianjin Municipal Government
(TMG) as a part of project preparation.
Project Objectives
2.    The main objective of the project was to assist TMG in the implementation of the
development program and strategy that it had prepared for the three light industry
subsectors of the project. It aimed to: (a) expedite system reforms at the regional level
leading to greater autonomy for and accountability of enterprise management while
enhancing the regulatory role of municipal authorities; (b) modernize and restructure
viable enterprises; (c) improve internal enterprise management and systems;
(d) strengthen institutional infrastructure (including research and design institutes and
vocational training schools); and (e) support the preparation of a long-term overall
industrial development strategy for Tianjin.
3.    The development program and strategy for the project's subsectors, which
outlined, inter alia, the enterprise reforms to be undertaken and subsector investment
criteria to be followed, was formally adopted by TMG and was the centerpiece of the
project. During negotiations, an assurance had been obtained from TMG that it would
exchange views with the Bank on its implementation. TMG reported the progress on the
implementation of development program and strategy to the Bank on a regular basis and
supervision missions followed up on this subject during field visits.



- vi -
4.    Project objectives were defined at a time when enterprise reforms in China were at
a rudimentary stage and the focus of industrial policies was on hardware investment. It
was the first time that, in the context of a Bank project, concerned Chinese officials
formally recognized that such investment had to be accompanied by greater autonomy to
enterprise managers; separation of the government's ownership, regulatory and
management roles; price liberalization; removal of subsidies and production controls;
labor mobility; financial reforms; etc. Furthermore, the investment had to take into
account economies of scale, product specialization, and comparative advantage. At the
same time, research and design institutes and training centers were to be strengthened to
provide efficient and prompt service to industries. Also, enterprises needed to improve
their internal organization and management systems to achieve greater efficiency and
cost-savings. All these elements were part of the development program and strategy and
included in project objectives. Although the reform process in China has substantially
advanced in subsequent years and there is a greater awareness of product specialization
and rationalization, improved organization and management systems, and closure of
nonviable plants, the project was a major step forward at the time of its preparation. It
also provided a beginning of dialogue on enterprise reforms in the context of Bank
operations.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    All project objectives have been met but the desired results have not yet been
achieved in the project's subsectors. Enterprise reforms have been carried out beyond the
original expectation; internal enterprise organization and management systems have been
improved in pilot enterprises with the help of international experts; institutional
infrastructure has been strengthened; and long-term overall industrial strategy has been
prepared by international consultants and has contributed to the preparation of the ninth
five-year plan for Tianjin. Modernization and restructuring of enterprises; including
increased product rationalization, greater efficiency, quality improvements, and closure of
nonviable and polluting plants; has also been carried out. However, many of these
enterprises are facing working capital shortages and problems in the areas of marketing,
cost and price structure, and social overheads. These problems have led to financial
difficulties that may not be resolved in the near future. Consequently, the sustainability of
the project, from the perspective of subsectoral restructuring, is uncertain.
6.    About 85 percent of the loan amount was disbursed within the original closing
date of June 30, 1995. An extension of two years was approved in the closing date mainly
to complete disbursements for the two paper subprojects.
7.    The technical assistance (TA) component of the project (which received $9.9
million out of the loan amount) was implemented satisfactorily, though the completion of
tasks was behind the original schedule. Cost overruns in this component were small. The
line-of-credit component of $143.9 million was onlent to paper (58 percent), textile
dyeing and finishing (17 percent) and packaging (24 percent) subsectors. Fifteen
subprojects, including 11 above-free-limit subprojects (requiring the Bank's prior



- vii -
approval), were financed under the line of credit. Five subprojects were completed on
schedule or earlier; three with a delay of one year; and seven with a delay ranging from
two to four years. The total cost of restructuring of enterprises was $305.27 million
equivalent compared to the original estimate of $211.6 million equivalent. The cost
overruns in individual subprojects ranged from 27 percent to almost 300 percent (in
renminbi) and were the result of the devaluation of the yuan (from Y 3.72=$1.00 at the
time of appraisal to Y 8.3=$1.00 in 1996), delays in the implementation of some
subprojects, and lower cost estimates particularly for paper subprojects. All but two
subprojects had high-capacity utilization ranging from 60 to 100 percent during the
second year of operation. However, only 4 out of 13 completed subprojects were making
marginal profits and these were generally much lower than estimates. The financial
position of most of the subborrowers was poor. The high cost of inputs (including raw
materials and utilities), without a corresponding increase in the price of outputs due to
increased competition, is a major factor responsible for enterprise losses or low profits. In
addition, delays in subproject completion and overruns in capital cost have also
contributed to poor financial position and results.
8.    At the time of subproject approval, CIB had estimated the economic rate of return
(ERR) and financial rate of return (FRR) to range from 15.37 to 49.7 percent and 15.3 to
75.3 percent, respectively. CIB's revised estimates, based on actual cost and current
revenue projections, estimate the ERR and FRR to range from 0.4 to 20.6 percent and
from 2 to 16.5 percent, respectively. Most of the subprojects would now have ERRs and
FRRs of less than 12 percent (required in the subproject financing criteria).
9.    All subprojects have acquired pollution control equipment and visits to the plants
have not shown any environmental problems as a result of these subprojects. As regards
the paper mills, until such time that they are in continuous operation, it is not possible to
measure their impact on environment but it is expected that considerable improvement
will be achieved over the preproject situation. Improvements will be realized through
closure of old production facilities, provision of new high-efficiency boilers with tall
stacks, and installation of wastewater treatment facilities.
10.   The key factors that have affected the achievement of desired results of the project
are rooted in the overall policy environment for industrial and financial sectors. Industry-
related policies and incentives do not encourage enterprises to quickly adjust their costs
and prices and respond to competition. The enterprise management is still production-
oriented and often lacks the initiative and know-how to cut costs and enhance its
competitiveness. Factories continue to employ a large number of redundant workers. The
marketing function is not getting adequate attention in enterprises and they are also bound
by a low ceiling on sales promotion expenses. The social burden of state-owned
enterprises (SOEs) has not yet been fully eliminated. Financial sector policy constraints
create working capital shortages and a "triangular debt" issue that affects the debt-
servicing by enterprises. Financial intermediaries have a long way to go to base
investment decisions on carefully prepared feasibility reports and project appraisal,
particularly realistic estimates of market viability and cost. Independently of the above



- viii -
factors, the competition both within China and in export markets has intensified and the
textile sector, in particular, is facing global market problems.
11.   The Bank played an active role in the preparation, appraisal and supervision of the
project. Textile, paper and packaging experts, industrial economists, enterprise reform
specialists and financial analysts participated in the preparation of the project.
Supervision missions visited the project frequently and maintained an effective dialogue
with counterparts and provided them necessary advice. Two areas have been identified
where Bank staff should have given greater attention-subproject cost estimates and
procurement through international competitive bidding (ICB). This would have helped to
avoid overruns and delays in the completion of some subprojects. The Bank's overall
performance has been rated as satisfactory.
12.   TMG had full commitment to the project. A team of senior officials of all the
concerned departments and agencies was made responsible for project preparation and
worked closely with Bank staff A project management office was also established with
senior and competent staff who worked with full devotion. TMG successfully introduced
all the enterprise reforms agreed to under the project and has continued to advance this
process. Also, all the institutional development activities were completed satisfactorily. In
addition, all studies agreed under the project were completed with the help of
international consultants.
13.   All loan commitments were met, albeit, with delays incurred for the commitments
of the central government and the municipal government regarding the provision of funds
to meet project objectives.
14.   CIB's performance as a financial intermediary for the line-of-credit component
was somewhat mixed. It prepared detailed appraisal reports on subprojects and kept itself
fully informed of subprojects' status and performance. However, its market evaluation,
cost estimates and capacity utilization targets turned out to be optimistic for some
subprojects. Overall, the performance of the borrower (the government and CIB
combined) has been rated as marginally satisfactory, mainly because of poor operational
and financial performance of restructured enterprises.
15.   The implementation of the project is considered satisfactory because of the
introduction of agreed enterprise reforms; restructuring of three subsectors with
specialization in production, closure of noneconomic plants and polluting small pulp and
paper mills, and import of modern equipment; improvement of technological
infrastructure (support institutions); and completion of three important studies with the
assistance of international consultants and partial implementation of their
recommendations. Development objectives of the project have not been met as most of
the restructured enterprises are not yet financially viable and cannot service their debt.
Consequently, the outcome of the project is considered unsatisfactory, at present.



- ix -
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
16.   The project has provided a useful opportunity to officials of TMG, CIB and
enterprises to learn new skills and methods of project planning, development and
implementation. However, this knowledge would have to be applied in future, keeping in
view the lessons learned under this project. Research and design institutes and training
centers are now providing an important and unique service to the subsectors because of
their well-trained staff and modem equipment. Future industrial development planning in
Tianjin will be guided by various studies carried out by international experts. As regards
the subprojects with operational and financial problems, actions need to be taken by the
government, CIB and subborrowers to provide additional working capital, enhance
marketing skills, introduce greater cost efficiency, reduce surplus labor, and bring greater
product rationalization. These actions will help to minimize the current problems of
enterprises and to turn them around over time.
17.   There are four main lessons to be learned from this operation:
(a)   The profitability of industrial projects is influenced by the country's
overall macroeconomic and sectoral policies, institutional framework, and
competition. Projects undertaken in the context of limited reforms in a
particular region may face problems because of constraints caused by
overall national policies and changing global market situation. These
constraints should be fully recognized in planning all profit-making
activities and mitigating measures should be introduced before investment
decisions.
(b)   The assessment of market viability is of critical importance for industrial
projects. Reliable sources of information for domestic demand and supply
-both present and future-should be developed and modem techniques
of market research should be introduced in institutes responsible for the
preparation of project feasibility. As markets change with the lapse of
time, projects should be implemented soon after their feasibility has been
established; otherwise they may find themselves in an adverse market
situation. Also, enterprises should shift their focus from production to
marketing and this latter function should lead and guide all other activities
of enterprises.
(c)   The culture of enterprises does not change swiftly. It takes time for the
management and staff to adjust to new realities and change their attitude
and actions. Major changes in organization, management and staff may be
needed to expedite the change process.
(d)   Financial institutions that are responsible for the appraisal and supervision
of subprojects are often optimistic about market forecast and cost
estimates. They need to be more conservative and should strengthen staff
capability in these areas through intensive training.






- 1 -
CHINA
TL4NJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 3022-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.    China's industrial development until the early 1980s was guided largely by an
inward-oriented and import substitution strategy. This led to a rapid growth in industrial
output and employment, the acquisition of industrial skills and a wide range of industries.
On the other hand, it had also resulted in numerous problems, including inefficiencies in
production, lack of technological development, poor product quality, and inadequate
knowledge of markets abroad.
2.    The efficiency of resource use in the Chinese industry had also been low.
Institutional rigidities due to planned quotas and price controls, an environment of
distorted prices, and excessive focus on physical and quantitative planned targets,
provided little incentive for efficient management at factory level. In addition, there was
an overemphasis on self-sufficiency at the regional level, leading to a fragmented national
market and reduced domestic competition. As a result, potential gains from economies of
scale, specialization and division of labor were often missed.
3.    The government started to encourage higher exports but these efforts were
frustrated by distortions in the trade regime. For example, a major constraint to Chinese
exports was an almost total separation between enterprises and their external markets.
Enterprises generally had to go through foreign trade corporations (FTCs), which had
virtual monopolies in their subsectors, for imports and exports. This kept enterprises
often unaware of latest developments in foreign markets. Another constraint was that the
access of enterprises to foreign exchange was tied to their ability to export. It was thus
extremely difficult for enterprises to service their foreign exchange debt and to import
raw materials and spare parts if they did not earn foreign exchange through exports.
4.    The economic reforms in China placed high priority on the decentralization of
investment responsibilities from the Center to provinces. In industry, it required the
provinces to play a more active role in the preparation and execution of development
programs and strategies for individual subsectors. The government of China (GOC)
requested the Bank in 1987 to assist some selected provinces in carrying out the above
task. The first such operation to assist the development of specific subsectors was the
Tianjin Light Industry Project (TLIP). Tianjin is an important coastal city in northern
China and has the status of a province. It has a large industrial base with light industry



- 2 -
accounting for the major share. The subsectors to be assisted were textile dyeing and
finishing, pulp and paper, and packaging.
5.    During project preparation, an in-depth study of the three subsectors in Tianjin
was carried out by Bank staff together with the Tianjin Municipal Government (TMG).
The study and subsequent discussions between TMG and Bank staff assisted the
government in the preparation of a development program and the strategy for the three
subsectors. It outlined: (a) the economic and system reforms that would be implemented
in Tianjin on a priority basis to provide a reasonable degree of autonomy and
accountability to enterprise management, as well as to improve the economic
performance of the subsectors; (b) subsector investment strategy and enterprise
investment criteria; (c) plans for improvements in internal enterprise organization,
management, systems, and procedures; (d) plans for the strengthening of institutional
infrastructure; and (f) future studies to be undertaken for the long-term development of
subsectors.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
6.    The main objective of the project was to assist TMG in the implementation of the
above-mentioned development program and strategy formulated for the three light
industry subsectors. It aimed to:
(a)   expedite system reforms at the regional level leading to greater autonomy
for and accountability of enterprise management while encouraging the
municipal authorities to focus their activities on supporting and guiding
enterprises rather than the direct control;
(b)   modernize and restructure enterprises including  increased product
rationalization between plants and the support of high-priority
investments;
(c)   improve internal enterprise management and systems;
(d)   strengthen institutional infrastructure (including research and design
institutes and vocational training schools); and
(e)   support the preparation of a long-term overall industrial development
strategy for Tianjin.
Objective (a) was achieved beyond the original expectations as overall enterprise reforms
accelerated in China, including Tianjin. All other objectives, except objective (b) were
also fully achieved. Objective (b) was achieved in a limited manner as the enterprises
were modernized and restructured with increased product rationalization, higher
efficiency, and quality improvements but most of them continue to have financial
problems and poor debt-servicing and their sustainability is uncertain. As a result, the
project's development objective has not been achieved.



-3 -
7.    The project included financial assistance in the form of an industrial credit of
$141.2 million to be onlent through the China Investment Bank (CIB) to the enterprises
for their restructuring and modernization and technical assistance (TA) of $12.8 million
for the overall industrial restructuring program including strengthening of the institutional
infrastructure in Tianjin. It was originally estimated that CIB would onlend $36.6 million
to the textile dyeing and finishing subsector, $71 million to the pulp and paper subsector,
and $33.6 million to the packaging subsector for the financing of a total of 15
subprojects. These subprojects, which were to be consistent with and part of TMG's
strategy for the restructuring of the three subsectors, were to result in significant
improvements in product quality and production efficiency.
8.    The TA component of the Bank loan was to be used for (a) strengthening of
institutional infrastructure ($11.65 million) through import of testing equipment, pilot
plants, computer hardware and software, teaching aids, etc. and staff training;
(b) development of internal enterprise management systems ($0.5 million); (c) short-term
consultant services for the light industry ($0.3 million); (d) a study to prepare a long-term
development strategy for the paper subsector ($0.3 million); and (e) staff training of CIB
Tianjin branch ($0.05 million). The total cost of the project was tentatively estimated at
$227.6 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of $155.0 million.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.    Enterprise Reforms. All the enterprise reforms agreed with TMG have been
carried out. Price and production controls on the three subsectors have been removed and
these are determined by market forces. Enterprises pay taxes on their income at a fixed
rate instead of the remittance of entire net income to the government or profit contracts as
practiced in the early period of reforms. Enterprises have been given direct export rights.
All new workers are hired on the basis of fixed contracts. Enterprises are free to choose
their bank and vice versa. TMG uses economic and financial criteria (including economic
rate of return, ERR, and financial rate of return, FRR) in its investment decision-making
process. In fact, the enterprise reforms in China, including Tianjin, have advanced over
the last 10-year period much further than contemplated at the time of preparation of this
project. Nevertheless, as noted from the performance of subprojects financed under the
Bank loan, the culture of most of the state-owned enterprises (SOEs) still needs
significant change. In particular, enterprise management has to be less dependent on the
government, more market-oriented and profit-conscious, and show greater financial
discipline. At the same time, SOEs need to be fully absolved of the social burden and
surplus workers.
10.   Subsector Restructuring. The three subsectors of the project have been
restructured in accordance with the strategies and programs agreed at the time of project
preparation. However, most of the 15 subprojects financed under the Bank loan are not
operating satisfactorily and have financial difficulties.



- 4 -
11.   The restructuring of the pulp and paper subsector involved the closure of
inefficient and polluting plants, discontinuation of many varieties of paper that were
uneconomic, and production of high-quality paper using domestic cotton pulp and
imported wood pulp. All this has been largely done, including the closure of 11 out of 26
plants. The subsector has also received the largest portion of the Bank loan ($84 million
or 59 percent of the credit line for two subprojects) for its Mills No. 4 and 5. These mills
have been merged into a newly created joint stock company, Tianlong Paper Industry
Corporation (TPIC), which was established under the new Company Law. Overall civil
works and the physical installation of plant facilities is impressive. TPIC has now some
of the most modem paper manufacturing facilities in China with the potential to produce
high-quality papers of international standard. At the time of the implementation
completion report (ICR) mission, the two mills were not in operation and had not been
run continuously since the first attempts at test runs some six months earlier. Therefore, it
is not possible to make any meaningful comments on plant operation. Discussions with
plant staff and TPIC management revealed that there are a number of technical problems
that will need to be resolved with the cooperation of the suppliers.
12.   On the basis of available information, it appears that the equipment installed at
both mills is generally acceptable and capable of producing the paper grades and qualities
originally planned. The types of problems reported to the mission do not appear to be
particularly unusual for the startup of a modem paper mill and, no doubt, can be solved
through a cooperative approach of supplier and mill technical and operating staff. The
initial startup and commissioning process to bring mills of this type to a level of
continuous operation at consistently high levels of quality can be expected to take at least
six months.
13.   No. 4 mill plans to produce high-quality coated "Art Printing Paper" as originally
planned. The very large domestic demand for this grade is currently being filled by
imports and TPIC is confident that the 40,000 tons/year output of No. 4 mill will be
easily consumed in the domestic market. Prices assumed in TPIC's forecast are
comparable to prevailing prices though it may have to sell initially at 10-15 percent
discount. No exports are planned.
14.   No. 5 mill has considerably changed the originally planned grade mix. The
original plan for No. 5 mill developed with the Tianjin authorities during the appraisal of
TLIP involved a more rational use of cotton pulp, which at that time was used for
producing toilet paper. It was agreed that production of high-quality writing papers with
about 25 percent cotton content on a new paper machine and paper finishing line
presented a good opportunity. This program seems to have been abandoned and the mill
now plans to sell the cotton pulp in the domestic market and produce lower-grade paper
from imported pulp. TPIC is of the view that both domestic and foreign demand for high-
quality paper is not strong and therefore, as a temporary measure, it will produce lower-
grade paper. As soon as the demand and prices have improved, it would shift to the
production of high-quality paper based on a mix of cotton and wood pulp. Another major
problem of TPIC is its financial structure. The two mills had large overruns that have



been financed with loans. As a result, the company has a very heavy debt burden.
According to financial projections prepared by CIB, it would not be able to service its
debt fully even if it starts normal operations. This situation needs to be corrected by
increasing the equity and retiring some of the long-term debt.
15.   The following actions need to be taken urgently to solve the problems of TPIC
and paper subprojects: (a) The most pressing operational problem for TPIC is the
provision of working capital to allow completion of trial runs and commissioning the
mills for full-scale commercial production. TMG should help in the arrangement of
necessary funds. (b) TPIC, with the help of TMG, should restructure its capital so that it
can have a reasonable equity base and a sound capital structure. Financial projections
show that TPIC needs a debt:equity ratio of about 50:50 compared to the actual present
ratio of 80:20. An improved capital structure would help to improve net income and debt
servicing of TPIC once the two mills have started operations. (c) Additional assistance
from the equipment suppliers is needed to help solve the various technical problems
identified so far, as well as new problems that will show up as the machines move up to
full speed and continuous operation. An understanding should therefore be reached with
both the main suppliers as soon as possible. (d) At the same time that full-scale
production is being developed, a vigorous marketing effort must be maintained to ensure
an outlet for the production when it is achieved. (e) TPIC should explore the possibilities
to find a joint-venture partner that can put equity investment and can also help in mill
operation, quality improvement, and export of paper.
16.   The strategy for the restructuring of the textile dyeing and finishing subsector
included the processing of wider-width fabrics and greater design flexibility. This was to
lead to enhancement in export capability and performance. While the above strategy has
been implemented with five subprojects receiving $24.97 million in subloans, all the five
subborrowers have continued to suffer losses and their financial position is unsatisfactory.
So far, the enterprises have operated at high capacity, but some will close down in 1997
because they cannot absorb more losses and their working capital will be wiped out.
Although the major reasons for the sector's problem are the global surplus of supply over
demand and higher cotton prices; the situation in China has worsened because of the
shortage of working capital, significant increase in prices of inputs, and competition with
township and village enterprises (TVEs). In addition, the government has also reduced
the rebate on textile exports from 17 percent to 9 percent in 1995. It is expected that a
number of old textile plants will close and that the number of spindles in Tianjin will
decrease from 600,000 at the end of 1994 to 400,000 at the end of the ninth five-year
plan. In the medium to long term, this may be a good development and consistent with
the general pattern of semi-industrialized and industrialized countries. Lower spinning
will mean less demand for cotton, thus its lower prices. In addition, with limited high-
quality textile production, there would be a need for high-quality and high-value-added
dyeing and finishing that TLIP subprojects will be able to provide.
17.   As regards the immediate future, the subsector should address the issues of lack of
optimal utilization of new production facilities, surplus labor, and low concern for



- 6-
conservation of dyes and chemicals, energy and other inputs that are contributing factors
for poor financial performance. The financial results can be improved through labor
rationalization, savings in inputs, and higher sales revenues by product upgrading and
efficient marketing. Direct export rights have not yet helped enterprises to maximize their
export earnings because the managers are traditionally production-oriented and have not
been exposed to marketing management and cost controls. They need to shift focus from
the quantity of production to the profitability of enterprise. This would, in turn, require a
different set of incentives for enterprise managers.
18.   The following measures are planned for improving the cost efficiency of this
subsector: (a) To reduce direct costs and overheads, industry standards will be set that all
enterprises will have to follow. Standards should, however, be applied with flexibility so
that the more enterprising managers may have the option to exceed them when they can
earn higher profits. (b) The number of workers in No. 1 Dyeing and Finishing Mills has
been reduced from 1,561 to 614 (with the monthly wage bill decreasing from Y 620,000
to Y 350,000). Other mills will also decrease the number of workers. (c) Some
organizational changes have been made to help improve the operations and financial
results of textile mills. For example, No. 4 Dying & Finishing Factory was amalgamated
with a weaving factory in June 1995. At present, they are still separate legal entities with
one headquarters but they will soon become a single legal entity. No. 4 mill will benefit
from better access to gray cloth and improved working capital situation. No. 1 Printing
and Dyeing Factory has formed collaboration with an industrial cloth factory and other
textile mills with similar benefits as above.
19.   The strategy for the restructuring of the packaging subsector included the
balancing, modernization and expansion of production capacity to meet the growing
demand for good-quality packaging material, particularly for export products. This
subsector received $34.93 million in subloans for eight subprojects and has performed
better than the other two subsectors. One subproject (Tianjin People's Printing House)
has high sales and profits. It will pay off the outstanding subloan in the next 1-2 years.
The Tianjin No. 1 Board Containers Mills is also doing well, formed a joint venture with
a Japanese company and fully paid off the subloan. Plastic Factory No. 1 has marketing
and working capital problems. The Tianjin Bureau of Finance has provided a working
capital loan of Y 3 million and this will help to alleviate the problem to some extent.
Plastic Factory No. 3 is operating at more than its capacity of 3,000 tons of BOP film and
plans to reach a target of 5,000 tons at which level it will break even. It is suffering losses
at present because its cost of production (Y 16,000/ton) is higher than the price
(Y 15,000/ton). The price of BOP film has decreased by Y 5,000/ton over the last two
years. Another subproject (Decal Printing Factory) cannot operate because its sole
potential buyer-a bicycle manufacturer-has changed its product design and does not
need decals. This factory has to explore other market potentials for it products and
equipment and also seek the advice of its machinery suppliers for product diversification.
The remaining two printing mills and one plate-making factory are also facing marketing
and working capital problems. Two of them have joined themselves into a loosely formed



- 7 -
body called the Printing World to support each other financially and provide a better and
more coordinated service to clients.
20.   The following measures are planned to be taken to improve the performance of
this subsector: (a) Enterprises will identify new products and new buyers for their
products. In this connection, they will seek the help of foreign experts (including advice
from machinery suppliers), market research institutes in China, and trading companies.
(b) TMG will help the enterprises in obtaining necessary working capital.
(c) Dongfonghong Printing Mill, No. 2 Printing House, Plate Making Mill and Decal
Printing Mill are likely to merge into the newly formed Printing World as one legal entity
and, thus, have the economies of scale, savings in overheads, and better service to clients.
21.   Technical Assistance. The original plan was to strengthen 11 design and
research institutes and vocational training schools in the three subsectors of the project at
an estimated cost of Y 50.6 million, including the Bank loan of $11.7 million. The work
on nine institutes and schools has been completed except for the training of the Textile
Training Center's staff and the testing of equipment of the Packaging Research Institute.
This was to be completed by October 1997. As regards the remaining two institutes, the
Textile Research Institute has become a business enterprise and the Packaging School has
been closed down. The actual cost of this component is Y 89.09 million including a Bank
loan of $8.88 million. It has contributed to the import of new equipment and training of
345 staff. After the completion of this component, the number of clients increased from
240 to 324 and the number of contracts from 512 to 672. Also, the value of contracts has
increased. The design institutes' financial performance is satisfactory. The research
institutes and training schools cannot yet cover their costs but this was not contemplated
in the project design.
22.   Three studies have also been completed under the project: (a) a study of pulp and
paper subsector to prepare its development strategy, (b) a study of management systems
to improve organization, systems and procedures in the paper and textile dyeing and
finishing subsectors, and (c) a study to help prepare a long-term industrial development
strategy for Tianjin. The studies have been beneficial to the concerned industries and
TMG in the preparation of the ninth five-year plan. The management system study's
recommendations had been implemented with the help of consultants in two factories as a
pilot project. These need to be fully replicated in other paper and textile factories to
improve efficiency and cost savings.
23.   The implementation of the TA component was generally satisfactory, although
there were delays, particularly in staff training and selection of consultants for studies.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
24.   Loan Effectiveness and Implementation Schedule. The loan was approved by
the Board on February 21, 1989. It was expected to become effective on May 21, 1989
and to close on June 30, 1995. The effectiveness was delayed by seven months to
December 7, 1989 and the closing by two years to June 30, 1997. The main reason for the



- 8 -
delay in loan closing was that four subprojects under the loan required ICB procedures
and this took a considerably long time because of the inexperience of the financial
intermediary, the foreign trade corporation, and the subborrowers. The delay was
particularly significant in the case of two paper subprojects that took much longer to
complete due to ICB procedures, cost overruns and problems in arranging counterpart
funds to finance overruns. Although about 85 percent of the loan amount had been
disbursed by the original closing date of June 30, 1995, the extension in this date was
necessary to allow payments to be made to suppliers upon the completion of performance
guarantees, which could only take place upon the completion of buildings and erection
and installation of all the equipment.
25.   Loan Categories. The Bank approved, in July 1995, certain changes in loan
categories and allocation between the paper and other subsectors to help finance overruns
in the foreign currency cost of the two paper mills by utilizing savings in other categories
and subsectors. The actual loan utilization by individual subsectors and TA components
as mentioned in paras. 11 to 21 is consistent with these changes.
26.   Subproject Implementation and Performance. Five out of 15 subprojects were
completed on schedule or earlier; three with a delay of one year; two with a delay of two
years; and five with a delay of three/four years. The total cost of restructuring of
enterprises was $305.27 million equivalent (or Y 2,539.1 million) compared to the
original estimate of $211.6 million equivalent (or Y 1,787.3 million). The cost overruns
in individual subprojects ranged from 27 percent to almost 300 percent (in renminbi) and
were the result of the devaluation of the yuan (from Y 3.72=$1.00 at the time of appraisal
to Y8.3=$1.00 in 1996), delays in the implementation of some subprojects, and lower
cost estimates, particularly for paper subprojects. Eleven out of 13 subprojects had high
capacity utilization ranging from 60 to 100 percent during the second year of operation
but only 4 out of 13 completed subprojects were making profits, although these were
generally very small and much lower than estimates. The financial position of most of the
subborrowers was poor as indicated by low current ratio (7 subprojects with a ratio of less
than 1:00) and high debt:equity ratio (13 subprojects with a ratio of more than 2:1 and in
many cases even more than 10:1). The high cost of inputs, (including raw materials and
utilities), without a corresponding increase in the price of outputs, is a major factor
responsible for enterprise losses or low profits. In addition, delays in subproject
completion and overruns in capital cost have also contributed to poor financial position
and results. The debt servicing of all but two subborrowers is poor; they are not making
even full interest payments.
27.   At the time of subproject approval, CIB had estimated the ERR and FRR to range
from 15.37 to 49.7 percent and 15.3 to 75.3 percent, respectively. CIB's revised
estimates, based on actual cost and current revenue projections, of the ERR and FRR
range from 0.4 to 20.6 percent and from 2 to 16.5 percent, respectively. Most of the
subprojects would now have an ERR and FRR of less than 12 percent (required in the
subproject financing criteria). The main reasons for the lower ERR and FRR are the same
as given in the above paragraph for the poor financial position of enterprises.



- 9 -
28.   All subprojects have been equipped with pollution control equipment and visits to
the plants have not shown any environmental problems as a result of these subprojects.
As regards the paper mills, until such time that they are in continuous operation, it is not
possible to measure their impact on environment but it is expected that considerable
improvement will be achieved over the preproject situation. Improvements will be
realized through closure of old production facilities, provision of new high-efficiency
boilers with tall stacks, and installation of wastewater treatment facilities.
29.   Major Factors affection Subsectoral Performance. The three subsectors of the
project, like the rest of China, are facing four generic problems that are affecting the
operations of enterprises despite reforms and technical modernization and restructuring.
These are management, marketing, surplus labor and working capital.
(a)   Management. Traditionally, the main focus of enterprises in China has
been on production. The top management of enterprises normally has a
technical background and its focus is on the quantity and quality of
production. In the past, competition was nonexistent, the price was
determined on a "cost-plus" basis, and the trading companies were
generally responsible for selling products. The enterprise management is
slow to adjust to the new competitive environment and still looks to the
government to solve its problems. Similarly, enterprises have not taken
full advantage of the direct export rights given to them.
(b)   Workers. The excessive number of redundant workers is a serious
problem. Many factories, which are economically nonviable due to
obsolete equipment, outdated technology and high cost of production, are
being kept afloat through direct and indirect subsidies to provide
employment to workers. Such factories need to be closed and their
workers should be retrained and redeployed. However, sector
corporations/bureaus should refrain from transferring such workers to
existing factories with full employment. It was noted that the five dyeing
and finishing factories have 7,621 workers, of whom 2,650 are redundant.
Some of the redundant workers are still paid by the factories.
(c)   Marketing. The marketing function in enterprises is not getting adequate
attention. The staff is relatively small and the sales budget is very limited
-normally 1-1.5 percent of sales. The government has placed a cap on
sales expenses of all SOEs but it is inconsistent with the principle of
autonomy to enterprises. Marketing functions (including organization,
staffing, distribution channels, market research, pricing policy, marketing
strategy, sales promotion and advertisement campaigns, etc.) need to be
given due importance in enterprises and sales expenses should be
significantly increased. Services of professional experts should be engaged
for market research (to guide production) and sales promotion.



- 10-
(d)   Working Capital. There is a general shortage of working capital, which is
affecting production and sales of enterprises. Many enterprises are using
their internal funds for financing working capital rather than servicing
their long-term debt. Banks need to relax their policy on lending for
working capital.
30.   The above problems are, to some extent, a reflection of the policy environment for
industrial and financial sectors, which still face government's selective controls either
directly or indirectly. Industry-related policies and incentives do not encourage
enterprises to quickly adjust their cost and prices and respond to competition. Financial
policies have created constraints on borrowing for working capital needs and, therefore,
enterprises often use their internal cash generation for working capital financing rather
than debt servicing or discharging their liabilities to other enterprises. This so-called
triangular debt is a systemic problem in China and beyond the control of financial
institutions.
31.   Role and Financial Situation of CIB. The financial intermediary for the
industrial restructuring component was CIB, which had delegated all appraisal and
supervision functions to its Tianjin branch. As provided in the original project, it onlent
to textile and packaging subsectors at its own risk while it served as a financial agent for
TMG for the paper subsector. It performed appraisal and supervision of all subprojects.
Looking back at the performance of subprojects, it becomes obvious that there was a need
to be more conservative with regard to cost estimates and market prospects. Also, CIB's
subloan repayment schedules have been too optimistic. Subborrowers cannot repay
according to the short repayment period assigned to them. At the request of the Bank, the
Tianjin branch prepared in June 1996 a plan for improvement in its loan recovery. The
plan covered all 58 long-term borrowers of the branch, most of whom are in default,
classified the nature of their problems in eight categories and specified appropriate
actions for loan recovery. The branch has also created a special division to focus on
arrears and loan recovery. It would be difficult for CIB to carry out many of the planned
actions, particularly those that envisage the foreclosure of assets, legal action to enforce
guarantees, closure of factories and removal of redundant labor. These issues have social
consequences and the government is sensitive to any drastic actions on a large scale. As
mentioned in the last paragraph, the loan recovery problems of banks will need to be
resolved in the context of overall policy reforms.
32.   A comparison of financial projections of CIB for 1988-92 (as prepared by CIB at
the time of the project appraisal) and the actuals for that period shows that its gross
income and net income were lower than estimates. This was mainly the result of
inadequate mobilization of financial resources by CIB. In subsequent years, its financial
position further declined because of poor loan recovery, which, in turn, is the result of
exchange rate and tax policy changes and increased competition that have adversely
affected its clients' ability to repay loans. At the end of 1996, its arrears were at 4.1
percent of the portfolio, the current ratio was 0.6: 1, and total liabilities were 22.4 times of
equity-all less-than-satisfactory indicators. It long-term debt:equity ratio has been



- 11 -
within the revised maximum limit of 7:1 as agreed under the project. CIB has gone
through structural changes beginning in 1995 and it is now functioning more like a
commercial bank with greater focus on short-term lending. Consequently, its net income
(after taxes) after reaching the low level of Y 45.6 million in 1994 has started to pick up
and was Y 67.4 million in 1995 and Y 208.7 million in 1996.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
33.   Enterprise reforms introduced as a part of the project have further intensified. The
Chinese commitment to and the practice of gradual reforms based on experimentation
indicate that the reform process will keep moving forward. The strengthening of
institutional infrastructure is also beneficial and the design and research institutes and
training centers are playing an increasingly important role and are becoming market-
oriented because of the phaseout of government grants for their operations. They will
continue to provide a useful service to the industry. The major issue relates to the
enterprises restructured under the line-of-credit component of the project. Many of these
enterprises have working capital shortages and face severe problems in the areas of
marketing, cost and price structure, and social overheads. As a result, subprojects in paper
and textile dyeing and finishing subprojects would not be able to make profits until 2000.
Besides, two subprojects under dyeing and finishing have been closed because of
shortage of working capital and continuous losses and there are no firm plans for their
rehabilitation and startup. As regards the packaging subsector, three out of eight
subprojects will continue to have losses up to 2000. Under the circumstances, the
financial viability of most of the subprojects is not assured in the near future.
Consequently, the overall sustainability of the project, from the perspective of subsectoral
restructuring, is uncertain.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
34. - The Bank was actively involved in the preparation, appraisal and supervision of
the project. The preparatory work included the study of the three subsectors of the project
with the assistance of industrial economists, financial analysts and experts in paper,
textile and packaging. Bank staff also assisted the Tianjin government in the preparation
of the development program and the strategy for the project's subsectors. It was the first
project of its kind in China in the sense that it took an all-inclusive approach in the
restructuring of individual subsectors based on enterprise and institutional reforms at the
municipal level, technical modernization, and improvements in organization and
management systems. During implementation, Bank staff closely followed up the
progress on various components of the project and provided advice on subproject
appraisal and how to minimize delays and overruns. Staff promptly took up various
project issues, particularly the arrangement of additional funds to finance the cost
overruns, with the central and provincial governments and CIB and sought their
assistance. Furthermore, in case of overruns and delays in subproject implementation,
CIB was asked to reassess their viability and financial prospects and to advise the
subborrowers to take early remedial measures. CIB was also advised to focus on its loan



- 12-
recovery and prepare special plans to lower its arrears. In addition, changes in project
components and categories were discussed and agreed to when found justified in the
interest of the project. All this was achieved through open, frank and continuous dialogue
with project counterparts. The main project risks, i.e., implementation of policy and
system reforms and implementation delays were identified at the time of appraisal but the
delays could not be prevented in certain components.
35.   With hindsight, the Bank staff should have paid greater attention to two areas.
First, the cost estimates of the subprojects, particularly the two paper mills, were readily
accepted by the staff based on the evidence presented by the Chinese side at the time of
appraisal. There should have been a greater scrutiny of these estimates. Second, it was not
realized at the time of appraisal that the counterparts would use the local office of the
foreign trading corporation and that it did not fully understand the principles and
procedures of international competitive bidding as required by the Bank. This led to
confusion in the preparation of bidding documents and in the comparison of tenders,
which resulted in implementation delays in three subprojects. Also, as CIB did not have
the appropriate expertise, Bank supervision would have been perhaps more effective if
technical experts would have also made frequent field trips. This was, however, not
possible because of budget constraints. The Bank's overall performance, considering it
role in identification, appraisal, and supervision, has been rated satisfactory.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36.   TMG had full commitment to the project. It started with the establishment of a
team represented by the senior officials of all the concerned departments and agencies to
coordinate the project preparatory work. The team worked very closely with Bank staff.
A project management office was also established with senior and competent staff who
worked with full devotion. TMG successfully introduced all the enterprise reforms agreed
to under the project and has continued to advance this process. Also, all the institutional
development activities were completed satisfactorily. In addition, all studies agreed under
the project were completed with the help of international consultants.
37.   All legal commitments were met by the borrower albeit with delays in the
commitments of the central government [Section 3.01 (a) (i) of the Loan Agreement] and
the municipal government [Section 2.01 (a) of the Project Agreement] regarding the
provision of funds to meet project objectives.
38.   CIB used the Bank's TA for the training of staff as provided in the project.
However, its performance as a financial intennediary for the line-of-credit component
was somewhat mixed. It was responsible for the appraisal and supervision of the
subprojects and it carried out this activity with diligence, although it was passing through
a learning curve. As a result, its market evaluation, cost estimates and capacity utilization
targets turned out to be optimistic for some subprojects. Overall, the performance of the
borrower (the government and CIB combined) has been rated as marginally satisfactory.



- 13 -
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
39.   The three components of the project have been implemented despite delays and
cost overruns, which are more predominant in the two paper subprojects. The
implementation of the project is considered satisfactory because of the introduction of
enterprise reforms; restructuring of three subsectors with specialization in production,
closure of noneconomic plants and polluting small pulp and paper mills, and import of
modem equipment; improvement of technological infrastructure (support institutions);
and completion of three important studies with the assistance of international consultants
and partial implementation of their recommendations. Development objectives of the
project have not been met as most of the restructured enterprises have financial
difficulties and cannot service their debt. Furthermore, its sustainability is uncertain at
this stage because if the market situation does not improve in the near future and
additional working capital is not arranged urgently, paper mills will not be able to start
operations and other loss-making enterprises and those with low profits may also close
down. Consequently, the outcome of the project is considered unsatisfactory at present.
I. FUTURE OPERATION
40.   The project has provided a useful opportunity to officials of TMG, CIB and
enterprises to learn new skills and methods of project planning, development and
implementation and these will continue to be applied in their future activities. Research
and design institutes and training centers will also continue to provide an important and
unique service to the subsectors because of their well-trained staff and modem
equipment. Future industrial development planning in Tianjin will be guided by various
studies carried out by international experts. As regards the subprojects with operational
and financial problems, certain actions need to be taken by the government, CIB and
subborrowers that will help to minimize the current problems of enterprises and to turn
them around over time. These actions were discussed and agreed to between the Tianjin
side and the ICR mission and are presented below:
(a)   TMG will cause to arrange necessary working capital for paper mills No. 4
and 5. In addition, TMG will take measures to improve the debt:equity
ratio of TPIC so that it becomes financially viable.
(b)   CIB will assess the additional working capital needs of all other
subborrowers and work with TMG to arrange these funds.
(c)   TPIC will reach agreement as soon as possible with the two main
machinery suppliers on the timing of their visit to Tianjin to help in the
start of trial runs and solve the teething problems of paper mills.
(d)   Enterprises will shift their focus from production to marketing. They will
try to identify new products and new buyers for their products. In this



- 14-
connection, they will seek the help of foreign experts (including advice
from machinery suppliers), market research institutes in China, and trading
companies, strengthen their sales and sales promotion departments, and
send managers and staff for training in marketing.
(e)   Following the example of No. I Dyeing and Printing Mill, targets for labor
reduction will be set for all other enterprises in textile and packaging
subsectors and the surplus staff will be transferred by June 30, 1998.
(f)    Wherever appropriate and feasible, similar enterprises in a subsector will
be merged into one legal entity to obtain economies of scale and savings in
overheads. It has been already done for the paper subsector and is also
planned for some of the enterprises in textile and packaging subsectors.
(g)   Enterprises will optimize the use of new equipment by diversifying the
product mix (based on market research) and producing high value-added
products.
(h)   Recommendations in the study of management systems prepared by
international consultants will be implemented in all textile and paper mills
and cost-cutting measures, including savings in various inputs-raw
materials, energy, etc.-will be introduced by the end of 1997.
(i)    CIB will play a more active role in assisting subborrowers in solving their
operational and financial problems. It will also be free to reschedule the
loan repayment in justifiable cases and proceed with foreclosure
proceedings where, in its opinion, there are little prospects for the
rehabilitation of a subproject.
(j)    TMG, as the owner of enterprises, and the enterprises themselves, will
actively seek joint-venture partners that can bring technical, marketing and
management skills and help to turn around the loss-making enterprises
and/or improve the profitability of other subborrowers.
41.   Based on the successful implementation of above measures, new performance
targets of subprojects were prepared by the Tianjin side and are attached to the ICR.
These are rather conservative and show that the subborrowers will be able to reduce their
losses or increase profits, although many of them will not be out of woods until the year
2000.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
42.   Key lessons learned from this project are as follows:
(a)   The profitability of industrial projects is influenced by the country's
overall macroeconomic and sectoral policies, institutional framework, and



- 15 -
competition. Projects undertaken in the context of limited reforms in a
particular region may face problems because of constraints caused by
overall national policies and changing global market situation. These
constraints should be fully recognized in planning all profit-making
activities and mitigating measures should be introduced before investment
decisions.
(b)   Even when appropriate policy changes have been introduced, the culture
of enterprises does not change swiftly. It takes time for the management
and staff to adopt to the new policy environment and change their outlook,
approach, strategies and actions. It would therefore be unreasonable to
expect quick improvements in enterprise performance and results.
However, major changes in organization, management, and staff will help
to hasten the change process.
(c)   The assessment of market viability is of critical importance for industrial
projects. Reliable sources of information for domestic demand and supply
-both present and future-should be developed and modem techniques
of market research should be introduced in institutes responsible for the
preparation of project feasibility. As markets change with the lapse of
time, projects should be implemented soon after their feasibility has been
established; otherwise they may find themselves in an adverse market
situation. Also, enterprises should shift their focus from production to
marketing and this latter function should lead and guide all other activities
of enterprises.
(d)   Financial institutions should strengthen their expertise in market
assessment and cost estimates. In general, there is a need for being more
conservative in estimates. This is an area of common weakness in most of
the financial intermediaries and can only be removed by hiring well-
qualified staff and intensive training.
(e)   A procurement plan should be prepared and agreed during project
preparation for all components requiring international competitive
bidding. Also, bidding documents should be completed before
negotiations. This will avoid confusion about the procedures during
implementation and expedite project completion.
(f)   Technical staff/consultants  should  participate  in  Bank's  project
supervision missions more frequently and the necessary budget should be
provided for this purpose.
(g)   In China, counterpart funds needed as per the original financial plan
prepared at the time of project approval are normally made available on a
timely basis. However, it becomes difficult and time-consuming to
mobilize additional funds to finance cost overruns despite government's



- 16-
blanket commitment to arrange funds as needed to complete the project.
The paper mills in this project are a relevant example. This issue should be
discussed between the Bank and the government and an amicable
agreement should be reached to solve this perennial problem.



- 17-
PART Il: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial      Partial    Negligible   Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                           X
Sector policies                        X
Financial objectives                                             X
Institutional development              X
Physical objectives                    X
Poverty reduction                                                                X
Gender issues                                                                    X
Other social objectives                                                          X
Environmental objectives               X
Public sector management                             X
Private sector development                                                       X
B. Project Sustainability                Likely            Unlikely           Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                  Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                              X
Preparation assistance                      X
Appraisal                                                         X
Supervision                                                       X
D. Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                               X
Implementation                                                   X
Covenant compliance                                              X
Operation (if applicable)                                                           x
E. Assessment of Outcome       Highly         Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory
x



- 18 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title     Purpose                                                   Approval   Status
Ln. 2226-CHA/         To assist CIB in meeting the need for foreign exchange for industrial  1983   Completed
Cr. 1313-CHA          financing, improving investment efficiency, and organizing and
First Industrial Credit    improving CIB's capacity for project design, selection, appraisal and
Project ($71.5 million)   technology transfer.
Ln 2434-CHA/          To continue the institutional building efforts of the first project,  1984   Completed
Cr. 1491-CHA          including expanding branches, assist in appraisal of larger projects
Second Industrial Credit  and meet CIB's resource requirement.
Project ($183.2 million)
Ln 2658-CHA/          To assist CIB in financing productive facilities and resources in China   1986   Completed
Cr. 1663-CHA          to contribute to the country's economic and social development; to
Third Industrial Credit   provide CIB with funds needed to develop its operations and carry out
Project ($103.6 million)  its Charter and Statement of Policy Strategy.
Ln 2783-CHA/          To assist the government in promoting and implementing technology   1987   Completed
Cr 1763-CHA           upgrading and modernization in industry, to build up sound
Fourth Industrial Credit  institutions and procedures for project appraisal and investment
Project ($300 million)    financing and to improve intermediation practices; specifically, to
continue institutional assistance to CIB and provide a general line of
credit for industry.
Ln. 2784-CHA          To assist the Shanghai Municipality to achieve product rationalization   1987   Completed
Shanghai Machine Tool  and product upgrading; modernization  and rehabilitation  of
Project ($100 million)    manufacturing facilities; expansion of the design and engineering
capabilities; and improvements in management systems for the
machine tool sector within Shanghai.
Ln. 2838-CHA Fertilizer  To improve the production efficiency of existing medium-size plants  1987   Completed
Rationalization Project   through plant renovations and upgrading technologies; expand
($97.4 million)       phosphate production to help achieve a more balanced nutrient input;
and improve institutional capacity through the introduction of more
modem systems and techniques in financial and operational
management
Ln. 2943-CHA          To assist the govermment expand pharmaceutical production by using   1988   Completed
Pharmaceutical Project   modem technology; improve the quality of the products and introduce
($127 million)        Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) in selected enterprise and
training programs; and improve the quality, maintenance, marketing
and management in the pharmaceutical industry.
Ln. 3075-CHA          Continuation of activities under the Fourth Industrial Credit Project.    1989   Completed
Fifth Industrial Credit
Project ($300 million)
Ln. 3274/ Cr. 2186/   To assist the Chinese government's ongoing Spark Program, which   1990   Completed
JGF27230-CHA          seeks to upgrade standards of technology and management of China's
Rural Industrial      rapidly growing rural TVEs. In three representative areas, the project
Technology (Spark)    supports demonstration enterprise modernization subprojects in rural
Project               industries, upgrade the "Spark training program" for rural enterprise
($114.3 million)      staff and help an existing technology information system reorient its
focus to small enterprises.



- 19-
Year of
Loan/Credit Title     Purpose                                                   Approval   Status
Ln. 3582-CHA          To assist the local authorities in Southern Jiangsu to strengthen their  1993  to be
Southern Jiangsu      environmental planning and management capabilities, and to caffy out  completed
Environmental         priority initiatives in the regional environmental strategy and action  06/30/2001
Protection Project    plans in an efficient and effective manner.
($250 million)
Ln. 3788-CHA          Support Shenyang Municipal Government's reform program through   1994  to be
Shenyang Industrial   the joint SMG/Bank monitoring of implementation of a Reform         completed
Project               Action Program and the provision of technical assistance and training  06/3012001
($175 million)        to underpin key aspects of SMG's reorganization. The project also
supports two investment components: industrial restructuring and
corporatization, and environmental protection.
Ln. 4045-CHA          To assist Chongqing Municipality to: (a) achieve a significant  1996  to be
Chongqing Industrial    reduction in pollution and restructure productive facilities from its  completed
Reform Project        most polluting industries, iron and steel; (b) establish a strategy and  12/31/2002
($170 million)        prepare a long-term plan to achieve a major reduction in pollution for
the whole sector; and (c) initiate a pilot effort to assist industrial
enterprises in other industrial sectors to restructure their productive
facilities, control pollution and transform themselves into modem
corporations.
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                                  Date planned             Date actual
Identification                                          March 1987               March 1987
Preappraisal                                          November 1987            November 1987
Appraisal                                               March 1988             November 1987
Negotiations                                             June 1988            December 5, 1988
Board presentation                                   February 21, 1989        February 21, 1989
Signing                                               March 15, 1989          September 8, 1989
Effectiveness                                          May 21, 1989           December 7, 1989
Project completion                                     June 30, 1995         September 30, 1997
Loan closing                                           June 30, 1995            June 30, 1997



- 20 -
TABLE 4: LoAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($ million)
FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
Appraisal estimate                 8.8    27.7    77.0   112.4   138.6  154.0
Actual                             4.0    20.59   43.56   52.38   81.58  139.20  147.42  153.27
Actual as % of appraisal estimate  45     74       57      47      59      90        n.a.    n.a.
Date of final disbursement                                                                TBD
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators in SAR                Estimat4d date of      Actual date of
completion            completion
A. General
Loan Effectiveness                                     May 1989          December 7,1989
B. Utilization of Industrial Credit Component by CIB
Last date for subproject submission                    June 1992           February 1991
Last date for loan withdrawal                          June 1995               TBD
C. Implementation of Technical Assistance Component
Development of Institutional Infrastructure
Selection of suppliers                           October 1989          October 1996
Completion of civil works                       December 1989         December 1995
Start of use of new equipment                      June 1990          December 1992
Commencement of staff training                   January 1990          January 1992
Completion of staff training                    December 1991            June 1994
Enterprise Management Study
Commencement                                     October 1989           March 1991
Completion                                      September 1990           May 1992
Paper Subsector Study
Commencement                                     October 1989           April 1991
Completion                                        April 1990            March 1992
Studies for Industrial Development Strategy of Tianjin
Commencement                                     January 1990         December 1990
Completion                                      December 1991            May 1994
Consultant Services for Light Industry
Commencement                                       July 1989            August 1990
Completion                                      December 1994            June 1991
CIB staff training
Commencement                                     January 1990           March 1992
Completion                                      December 1991           April 1992



- 21 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
The key indicators for project operations were in terms of (a) enterprise reforms that have
all been carried out, and (b) operations and financial performance of subprojects financed
under the line of credit. The comparison of projected and actual results of subprojects is
indicated in Appendix D.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study            Purpose as defined at Appraisal/Redefined    Status   Impact of Study
Pulp and Paper    The purpose of the study was to assist the Completed  It assisted in the
Subsector Study    Tianjin Paper Corporation to prepare a  March    development of pulp
medium- and long-term development plan   1992    and paper sector
for the subsector. The study provided          including the closure
analysis of the following topics: the          of many small
domestic market, export markets, raw           polluting plants.
material base, technology and scale of
operations, alternative development
strategies and centralized pulping and
waste paper operations.
Internal Enterprise, The study was intended to strengthen the   Completed Greater efficiency and
Organization and   enterprise management systems in    May 1992 cost-saving was
Management        Tianjin's textile dyeing and finishing and     achieved in the
Systems Study     pulp and paper subsectors with the main        subsectors.
objective of improving their productivity,
efficiency and competitiveness.
Industrial        The main purpose of the study was to  Completed It contributed to the
Development       assist the Tianjin government to prepare a  May 1994 preparation of five-
Strategy for Tianjin long-term overall industrial development    year plan and
strategy.                                      restructuring plans for
major subsectors in
Tianjin.



- 22 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(Yuan million)
Appraisal estimate        Actual/latest estimate
Item                                   Local Foreign  Total       Local Foreign     Total
Technology Restructuring of Enterprises
Capital Costs:
Textile Dyeing and Finishing         50.6  128.7  179.3       111.36  204.11   315.47
Pulp and Paper                      155.0  234.4  389.4       854.03   646.77  1,500.80
Packaging                            26.1  125.0  151.1       117.53  289.53   407.06
Subtotal                        231.7  488.1  719.8      1,082.92 1,140.41  2,223.33
Incremental working capital          30.3   37.2   67.5       259.53   56.25   315.78
Subtotal for Enterprise Restructuring   262.0  525.3  787.3  1,342.45 1,196.66 2,539.11
Technical Assistance
Development of Technology Infrastructure   7.1   43.5   50.6   15.23   73.86    89.09
Others                                0.7    4.1    4.8         7.32    8.81    16.13
Subtotal                          7.8   47.6   55.4        22.55   82.67   105.22
Preparation of Overall Industrial Strategy  0.2    3.7    3.9               6.78     6.78
Total                           270.0  576.6  846.6      1,365.00 1,286.11  2,651.11



- 23 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Appraisal estimate         Actual/atest estimate
Item                                     Local  Foreign  Total       Local Foreign      Total
Technology Restructuring of Enterprises
Capital Costs:
Textile Dyeing and Finishing          13.6   34.6   48.2         13.39   24.54    37.93
PulpandPaper                          41.7   63.0  104.7        102.68   77.76    180.44
Packaging                              7.0   33.6   40.6         14.13   34.81     48.94
Subtotal                          62.3  131.2  193.5        130.20  137.11   267.31
Incremental working capital            8.1   10.0   18.1         31.20    6.76    37.96
Subtotal for Enterprise Restrcturing    70.4  141.2  211.6  161.40  143.87   305.27
Technical Assistance
Development of Technology nfiastructure    1.9   11.7   13.6      1.83    8.88     10.71
Others                                 0.2    1.1/a   1.3         0.88     1.06     1.94
Subtotal                           2.1   12.8   14.9          2.71    9.94    12.65
Preparation of Overall Industrial Strategy  0.1    1.0    1.1                  0.82     0.82
Total                             72.6  155.0  227.6        164.11  154.63   318.74
La Includes $0.5 million for enterprise organization and management systems study, $0.3 million for pulp
and paper subsector study, $0.3 million for consultancy services for light industry, and $0.05 million
for CIB staff training.



- 24 -
TABLE 8c: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Appraisal estimate                Actual/late estimate
Source              Local      Foreign     Total         Local    Foreign    Total
Bank loan/credit                  -         155.0     155.0            -        154.6     154.6
Other loans                   }           }          }               162A         -       162.4
} 72.6      }         } 72.6
Self-financing                }           }          }                 1.7        -         1.7
Total                         72.6       155.0      227.6         164.1      154.6     318.7
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
These figures have been included in Appendix E.



- 25 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-          Original    Revised
Agree-              nant  Present fulfillment  fulfillment
ment    Section   type   Status    date         date            Description of covenant          Comments
LOAN    3.01 (a) (i)    4     CD                          The Government shall cause Tianjin    Working capital
Municipality and CIB to provide necessary funds being arranged
funds to meet project objectives.   for paper mills.
PROJECT 2.01 (a)       4      CD                          Tianjin Municipality shall provide or cause Working capital
to be provided necessary funds.      funds being amnged
for paper mills.
Schedule 2,  10     C                           Tianjin Municipality shall carry out  Complied with
para 2                                          various studies.
CIB 3.01     1      C                           CIB shall maintain accounts and financial  Complied with
statements and submit to the Bank no later
than 6 months after the end of each year.
CIB 3.02     1      C                           CIB shall maintain debt/equity ratio of no  Complied with
more than 5:1. The Bank revised this limit
to 7:1 in June 1994.
Covenant Class:                                                                 Status:
I = Accounts/audits                8 = Indigenous people                     C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting    CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not         CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project     covered by categories 1-9
funds                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                 budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the           allocation
project or executing agency   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants             regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement       13 = Other
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
FY             1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991   1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  Total
Preappraisal    24.9  61.4  126.7                                                                          213.0
Appraisal                      9.1                                                                           9.1
Negotiations                   2.7    9.8                                                                   12.5
Supervision                           6.6   18.8  10.0   12.9  10.5    5.3    9.5   11.2   10.3             95.1
Completion                                                                                     2.4    7.6*  10.0
Total                                                                                                   339.7
* estimate.



- 26 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Specialized    Imple.     Devel-
Stage of project cycle   Month/  Number of   Days     staff skills   mentation   opment
year     persons    in field  represented La  status Lt   objectives   Type of problems
Identification         3/87        3          8         FA,EN
Preparation            7/87        8          20      FA,EN,EC
Preappraisal           11/87       3          17      FA,EN,EC
Appraisal              11/87
Postappraisal          5/88         1         3          FA
Negotiation            12/88        8         5       EC, EN, LC
Board approval        2/21/89       1
Signing               9/8/89
Effective             12/7/89
Supervision 1          9/89        2          14         FA                                TA implementation slow
Supervision 2          3/90        2          7          FA                                         same
Supervision 3          7/90        1          7          FA                                         same
Supervision 4          1/91         1         7          FA                                         same
Supervision 5          6/92         1         7          FA                                         same
Supervision 6          6/93         1         8          FA            2          2
Supervision 7          7/94        2          7          FA            3          3       Completed subprojects had
losses and poor debt
servicing
Supervision 8          5/95        2          5        FA, 00          3          3                 same
Supervision 9          11/95       3          5        FA, 00          3          3                 same
Supervision 10         5/96        3          5        FA, 00          2          3                 same
Supervision 11         11/96        5         7        FA, 00          2          3                 same
Completion             7/97         4         7       FA,EN,OO         2          3                 same
La EC: Economist; EN: Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; LC: Legal Counsel; 00: Operation Officer;
L 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory



-27-                     APPENDIX A
APPENDIX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.    A World Bank's ICR mission, comprising Zafar Shah Khan, Task Manager, Lu
Nai Qin, Operations Officer, Raymond Chalk, Paper Specialist/consultant, and Amanda
Hagy, Staff Assistant visited Tianjin from July 1 to July 10, 1997 for the preparation of
ICR for TLIP. The mission also supervised the Tianjin Industrial Development Project.
The mission met the officials of the Tianjin Municipal Government (TMG), the Tianjin
World Bank Loan Office (TWBLO), CIB, and various subproject entities. The mission
acknowledges with thanks the hospitality and cooperation received during its visit.
Mission's main findings, conclusions, and understandings, which are subject to review by
the Bank management, are recorded in this aide memoire.
2.    The project has three main components; viz. enterprise reforms; restructuring of
textile dyeing and finishing, packaging and paper subsectors; and technical assistance;
which are discussed below:
Enterprise Reforms
3.    All the enterprise reforms agreed with the Tianjin Municipal Government (TMG)
have been carried out. Price and production controls on the three subsectors have been
removed and these are determined by market forces. Enterprises pay taxes on their
income at a fixed rate instead of the remittance of entire net income to the government or
profit contracts as practiced in the early period of reforms. Enterprises have been given
the direct export rights. All new workers are hired on the basis of fixed contracts.
Enterprises are free to choose their bank and vice versa. TMG uses economic and
financial criteria (including ERR and FRR) in its investment decision-making process. In
fact, the enterprise reforms in China, including Tianjin, have advanced over the last ten
year period much further than contemplated at the time of preparation of this project.
Nevertheless, as noted from the performance of subprojects financed under the Bank
loan, the culture of most of the SOEs still needs significant additional changes. In
particular, enterprise management has to be less dependent on the government, more
market oriented and profit conscious, and show greater financial discipline. At the same
time, SOEs need to be fully absolved of the social burden and surplus workers.
Subsector Restructuring
4.    The three subsectors of the project have been restructured in accordance with the
strategies and programs agreed at the time of project preparation. However, most of the
15 subprojects financed under the Bank loan, have unsatisfactory operational
performance and financial position as shown in Annex 1.



-28 -                    APPENDIX A
5.    The pulp and paper subsector (with two subprojects) has received the largest
portion of Bank loan (59 percent of the credit line) for its Mills No. 4 and 5. These mills
have been merged into a newly created company, viz. Tianlong Paper Industry
Corporation (TPIC). The mission was favorably impressed with the overall physical
installation of the civil works and the plant facilities. TPIC has now some of the most
modem paper manufacturing facilities in China with the potential to produce high quality
papers of international standard. At present, the two mills are not in operation and have
not been run continuously since the first attempts at test runs some six months earlier.
Therefore, it is not possible to make any meaningful comments on the plant operation.
The mission was informned that neither mill has completed guarantee runs as specified in
the contracts with suppliers, and unfortunately all funds have now been paid to the
suppliers due to delays in completion. Furthermore, discussions with plant staff and TPIC
management have revealed that there are a number of problems which will need to be
resolved with the cooperation of the suppliers. The Austrian supplier of No. 4 paper mill,
Voith, is scheduled to return to Tianjin in mid-July 1997 to continue trial runs primarily
to continue improvements in paper quality. In the case of No. 5 mill, there is currently no
schedule for the return of the Italian supplier, Overmechanica, although the company and
the supplier have held meetings in Tianjin in March, 1997, and have prepared a list of the
major problem areas needing attention. A date for their return should also be agreed as
soon as possible.
6.    On the basis of available information, it is the mission's present opinion, that the
equipment installed at both mills is generally acceptable and capable of producing the
paper grades and qualities originally planned. The types of problems reported to the
mission do not appear to be particularly unusual for the startup of a modern paper mill,
and no doubt can be solved through a cooperative approach of supplier and mill technical
and operating staff. The initial startup and commissioning process to bring mills of this
type to a level of continuous operation at consistently high levels of quality can be
expected to take at least six months.
7.    Grade Mix and Markets. No. 4 mill plans to produce high quality coated "Art
Printing Paper" as originally planned . The very large domestic demand for this grade is
currently being filled by imports and TPIC is confident that the 40,000 tons/year output
of No. 4 will be easily consumed in the domestic market. No exports are planned. The
mission generally agrees with this program but wishes to point out the necessity of
maintaining an active domestic marketing program with continuous contacts with
consumers.
8.    No. 5 mill has considerably changed the originally planned grade mix and the
mission questioned the validity of such changes. The original plan for No. 5 mill
developed with the Tianjin authorities during the appraisal of TLIP involved a more
rational use of cotton pulp which at that time was used for producing toilet paper. It was
agreed that production of high quality writing papers with about 25 percent cotton content
on a new paper machine and paper finishing line presented a good opportunity. This
program seems to have been abandoned and the mill now plans to sell the cotton pulp in



-29-                     APPENDIX A
the domestic market. There seems to be some confusion about the production of so-called
"Bond Paper", and a perception that such paper is limited to legal security papers, or
perhaps for currency. TPIC is concerned that such paper is government controlled and not
a suitable market for No. 4 mill. It is the mission's understanding that the original plan
was never to produce currency paper (the mill and raw materials are not suitable) and that
legal papers with consumer's own security water marks would not be part of the mill's
production. The original intention was to produce high quality writing papers,
watermarked with the mill's identification, and indication of its cotton content. Such
papers, if quality is high, currently sell in international markets at prices ranging from
$2000-3000/ton. It was to enter such markets, export and domestic, that No. 5 mill was
designed. The mission does not agree with the current plan to produce lesser lower grade
paper. Furthermore, the mission is not convinced of the viability of producing cotton pulp
for sale in the domestic market. Bleached cotton pulp is not a commodity which is
commonly, if ever, traded in the industry. Mills produce cotton pulp for internal
consumption to make high quality paper in blends with wood pulp. The mission thinks it
is unlikely that domestic mills would be prepared to pay the high price (equivalent to
about $1000/ton) assumed in the mill's financial projections. The mission therefore
recommends that TPIC reconsider the grade mix at No. 5 mill. TPIC is of the view that
both domestic and foreign demand for high quality paper is not strong and therefore, as a
temporary measure, it will produce lower grade paper. As soon as the demand and prices
have improved, it would shift to the production of high quality paper based on a mix of
cotton and wood pulp. The mission was also informed that the cotton pulp will be sold
for making car filters and there is a buyer at a price of $1 000/ton.
9.    Another major problem of TPIC is its financial structure. The two mills had large
overrums which have been financed with loans. As a result, the company has a very heavy
debt-burden. According to financial projections prepared by CIB, it would not be able to
service its debt fully even if it starts normal operations. This situation needs to be
corrected by increasing the equity and retiring some of the long-term debt.
10.   The following actions are urgently needed to solve the problems of TPIC and
paper subprojects:
*  The most pressing operational problem for TPIC is the provision of working
capital to allow completion of trial runs and commissioning the mills for full
scale commercial production. The two idle mills are costing about Y 10
million per month in interest payments alone. TMG should help in the
arrangement of necessary funds.
*  TPIC, with the help of TMG, should restructure its capital so that it can have a
reasonable equity base and a sound capital structure. Financial projections
show that TPIC needs a debt/equity ratio of about 50:50. An improved capital
structure would help to improve net income and debt-servicing of TPIC once
the two mills have started operations.



-30 -                    APPENDIX A
*  Additional assistance from the equipment suppliers is needed to help solve the
various problems identified so far, as well as new problems which will show
up as the machines move up to full speed and continuous operation. An
understanding should therefore be reached with both the main suppliers as
soon as possible.
*  At the same time that full scale production is being developed, a vigorous
marketing effort must be maintained to ensure an outlet for the production
when it is achieved.
*  TPIC should explore the possibilities to find a joint venture partner who can
put equity investment and can also help in mill operation, quality
improvement, and export of paper.
11.   The textile dyeing and finishing subsector (with five subprojects) has suffered
continuous losses. So far the enterprises have operated at high capacity, but some will
close down in 1997 because they can not absorb more losses and their working capital
would be wiped out. Although the major reasons for the sector's problem are the global
surplus of supply over demand and higher cotton prices; the situation in China has
worsened because of shortage of working capital, significant increase in workers' wages
and prices of inputs, and competition with TVEs. In addition, the government has also
reduced the rebate on textile exports from 17% to 9% in 1995. It is expected that a
number of old textile plants will close and that the number of spindles in Tianjin will
decrease from 600,000 at the end of 1994 to 400,000 at the end of 9th five year plan. In
the medium- to long-term, this may be a good development and consistent with the
general pattern of semi-industrialized and industrialized countries. Lower spinning will
mean less demand for cotton thus its lower prices, In addition, with limited high quality
textile production, there would be a need for high quality and high value-added dyeing
and finishing that TLIP subprojects will be able to provide.
12.   As regards the immediate future, an earlier Bank mission had pointed out that
weaknesses in operation, management, and marketing have also contributed to losses.
Lack of optimal utilization of new production facilities, surplus labor, and low concern
for conservation of dyes and chemicals, energy and other inputs are contributing factors
for poor financial performance. The financial results can be improved considerably
through labor rationalization, savings in inputs, and higher sales revenues by product
upgrading and efficient marketing. Direct export rights have not yet helped enterprises to
maximize their export earnings because the managers are traditionally production
oriented and have not been exposed to marketing management and cost controls. They
need to shift focus from the quantity of production to the profitability of the enterprise.
The mission was informed that several measures are planned for improving cost
efficiency:
* To reduce direct costs and overheads, industry standards will be set that all
enterprises will have to follow. The mission advised that the standards should



- 31-                    APPENDIX A
be applied with flexibility so that the more enterprising managers may have
the option to exceed them when they can earn higher profits.
*  The number of workers in No. I Dyeing and Finishing Mills has been reduced
from 1,561 to 614 (with the monthly wage bill decreasing from Y 620,000 to
Y 350,000). Other mills will also decrease the number of workers.
*  Some organizational changes have been made to help improve the operations
and financial results of textile mills. For example, No. 4 Dyeing & Finishing
Factory has been amalgamated with a weaving factory in June 1995. At
present, they are still separate legal entities with one headquarters but they
will soon become a single legal entity. No. 4 mill will benefit from better
access to gray cloth and improved working capital situation. No. 1 Printing
and Dyeing Factory has formed collaboration with an industrial cloth factory
and other textile mills with similar benefits as above.
13.   The packaging subsector (with eight subprojects) has done a little better. One
subproject (Tianjin People's Printing House) has high sales and profits. It will pay off the
outstanding subloan in the next 1-2 years. The Tianjin No. 1 Board Containers Mills was
also doing well but it has formed a joint venture with a Japanese company and fully paid
off the subloan. Plastic Factory No. 1 has marketing and working capital problems.
Tianjin Bureau of Finance has provided a working capital loan of Y3 million and this will
help to alleviate the problem to some extent. Plastic Factory No. 3 is operating at more
than its capacity of 3,000 tons of BOP film and plans to reach a target of 5,000 tons at
which level it will break-even. It is however, suffering losses at present because its cost
of production (Y 16,000/ton) is higher than the price (Y 15,000/ton). The price of BOP
film has decreased by Y 5,000/ton over the last two years. Another subproject (Decal
Printing Factory) cannot operate because its sole potential buyer-a bicycle manufacturer
-has changed its product design and does not need decals. This factory has to explore
other possible uses of its equipment and seek the advice of its machinery suppliers. The
remaining four printing mills are also facing marketing and working capital problems.
Two of them have joined themselves into a loosely formed body, called the Printing
World, to support each other financially and provide a better and more-coordinated
service to clients. The mission was informed that the following measures will be taken to
improve the performance of this subsector:
*  Enterprises will identify new products and new buyers for their products. In
this connection, they will seek the help of foreign experts (including advice
from machinery suppliers), market research institutes in China, and trading
companies.
* TMG will help the enterprises in obtaining necessary working capital.
*  Dongfonghong Printing Mill, No. 2 Printing House, Plate Making Mill and
Decal Printing Mill are likely to merge into the newly formed Printing World



- 32 -                   APPENDIX A
as one legal entity and, thus, have the economies of scale, savings in
overheads, and better service to clients.
Technical Assistance
14.   The original plan was to strengthen eleven design and research institutes and
vocational training schools in the three subsectors of the project at an estimated cost of
Y50.6 million, including the Bank loan of $11.7 million. Two institutes were later
dropped because of organizational changes. The work on remaining nine institutes and
schools has been completed except for some training of the Textile Training Center's
staff and the testing of equipment of the Packaging Research Institute. This will also be
completed by October 1997. The actual cost of this component is Y89.09 million
including a Bank loan of $8.88 million. It has contributed to import of new equipment
and training of 345 staff. After the completion of this component, the number of clients
has increased from 240 to 324 and the number of contracts from 512 to 672. Also, the
value of contracts has increased. The design institutes' financial performance is
satisfactory. The research institutes and training schools can not yet cover their costs but
this was not contemplated in the near future.
15.   Three studies have also been completed under the project: (a) a study of pulp and
paper subsector to prepare its development strategy, (b) a study of management systems
to improve organization, systems and procedures in paper and textile dyeing and finishing
subsectors, and (c) a study to help prepare long-term industrial development strategy for
Tianjin. The studies have been beneficial to the concerned industries and TMG in the
preparation of the ninth five-year plan. The management system study's
recommendations had been implemented with the help of consultants in two factories as a
pilot project. These need to be fully replicated in other paper and textile factories to
improve efficiency and cost-savings.
16.   The implementation of the TA component was generally satisfactory though there
were delays, particularly in staff training and selection of consultants for studies.
Overall Assessment
17.   All the three components of the project have been implemented despite delays and
cost overruns which are more prominent in paper subprojects. All the loan covenants
have been met except that the commitments of the central government [Section 3.01 (a)
(i) of the Loan Agreement] and the municipal government [Section 2.01 (a)] regarding
the provision of funds to meet project objectives have been met with delays. The
implementation of the project is considered satisfactory because of the introduction of
enterprise reformns; restructuring of three subsectors with specialization in production,
closure of non-economic plants and polluting small pulp and paper mills, and import of
modern equipment; improvement of technological infrastructure (support institutions);
and completion of three important studies with the assistance of international consultants
and partial implementation of their recommendations. However, the development
objectives of the project have not been met as most of the restructured enterprises are not



-33 -                     APPENDIX A
yet financially viable and can not service their debt. Consequently, the project is
considered unsatisfactory on this account. Furthermore, its sustainability is uncertain at
this stage because if the market situation does not improve in the near future and
additional working capital is not arranged urgently, paper mills will not be able to start
operations and other loss-making enterprises will also close down.
18.   CIB is the financial intertnediary for the line of credit component of the project. It
has onlent to textile and packaging subsectors at its own credit risk and to the paper
subsector as an agent for TMG because of the large size of the subprojects. It is obvious
from the experience of the subprojects in the three subsectors of TLIP that CIB needs to
be more careful in market evaluation of subprojects and conservative in cost estimates
an'capacity utilization targets. During implementation, it should identify up-coming
problems at an early stage and initiate prompt action to alleviate these problems with the
help of owners (in this case, TMG), other banks, and the enterprise management. Also, it
should proceed with legal action and foreclosure of security (assets of the subborrowers)
when it sees no other prospects of loan recovery.
Operational Plan and-Performance Targets
19.   The operational plan of the project should focus on the immediate start of paper
subprojects and alleviation of problems of loss-making enterprises in textile dyeing and
finishing and packaging subsectors. To achieve this objective, following actions have
been agreed to be taken by TMG, CIB and enterprises:
(a)   TMG will cause to arrange necessary working capital for paper mills no. 4
and 5 latest by September 30, 1997. In addition, TMG will take measures
to improve the debt/equity ratio of TPIC so that it becomes financially
viable.
(b)   CIB will assess the additional working capital needs of all other
subborrowers and work with TMG to arrange these funds by October 31,
1997.
(c)   TPIC will reach agreement as soon as possible with the two main
machinery suppliers on the timing of their visit to Tianjin to help in the
start of trial runs and solve the teething problems of paper mills.
(d)   Enterprises will shift their focus from production to marketing. They will
try to identify new products and new buyers for their products. In this
connection, they will seek the help of foreign experts (including advice
from machinery suppliers), market research institutes in China, and trading
companies, strengthen their sales and sales promotion departments, and
send managers and staff for training in marketing.



- 34-                    APPENDIX A
(e)   Following the example of No. 1 Dyeing and Printing Mill, targets for labor
reduction will be set for all other enterprises in textile and packaging
subsectors and the surplus staff will be transferred by June 30, 1998.
(f)   Wherever appropriate and feasible, similar enterprises in a subsector will
be merged into one legal entity to obtain economies of scale and savings in
overheads. It has been already done for the paper subsector and is also
planned for some of the enterprises in textile and packaging subsectors.
(g)   Enterprises will optimize the use of new equipment by diversifying the
product-mix (based on market research) and producing high value-added
products.
(h)   Recommendations in the study of management systems (by IDI) will be
implemented in all textile and paper mills and cost-cutting measures,
including savings in various inputs-raw materials, energy, etc.-will be
introduced by the end of 1997.
(i)   CIB will play a more active role in assisting subborrowers in solving their
operational and financial problems. It will also be free to reschedule the
loan repayment in justifiable cases and proceed with foreclosure
proceedings where, in its opinion, there are little prospects for the
rehabilitation of a subproject.
(j)   TMG, as the owner of enterprises, and the enterprises themselves, will
actively seek joint venture partners who can bring technical, marketing
and management skills and help to turn around the loss-making enterprises
or improve the profitability of other subborrowers.
20.   Based on the successful implementation of above measures, new performance
targets of subprojects were prepared by the Tianjin side and discussed with the mission.
They will be finalized and sent to the Bank by July 19, 1997. It was agreed that the Bank
will be informed by TMG and CIB, through TWBLO, of implementation of operational
plan and achievement ofperformance targets on a six-monthly basis.
Others
21.   The mission had detailed discussions with TMG and CIB on their contribution to
ICR. Their draft evaluation report was reviewed and agreements reached on additional
information and clarifications.
Zafar Shah Khan
for the World Bank Mission



ANNEX 1: PERFORMANCE OF TLIP COMPLETED SUBPROJECTS (1995-97)
(Unit: thousand yuan, thousand dollars)
Sales                 Profit                  Export             Loan repayment
Name of subproject            1995   1996   1997*   1995   1996   1997*    1995       1996  1997*  1995   1996  1997*
Tianjin No. 1 Plastic Factory            12,666   6,071   6,600   1,342  -3,224     0      918 T      0      0      0      0      0
Tianjin No. 3 Plastic Factory            18,710  50,670  26,650   1,510   -800   -940          0      0      0      0      0      0
Tianjin No. I Paper Board Container Mill  46,620  83,570     0    514    310        0          0      0      0   371 58,173       0
Tianjin People's Printing House          30,100  34,000  58,680   8,980  14,030  29,580        0      0      0  1,978  1,077    196
Tianjin DongFangilong Printing House      4,840   2,560   3,000      3  -1,390      0          0      0      0    179      0      0
Tianjin No. 2 Printing Factory            5,850  10,000   3,410     50   -593       0          0      0      0      0      0      0
Tianjin Plate Making Factory              3,538   4,450   4,470      0      0       0          0      0      0      0      0      0    w
Tianjin Decal Printing Factory            1,761    380   1,070    125   -997    -80            0      0      0      0      0      0
Tianjin No.2 Printing& Dyeing Mill      172,190 144,240  31,520     22  -9,900   -800 28,000KM   3,910    860   257        0      0
Tianjin No. 1 Printing& Dyeing Mill     166,380 141,110  26,330      6   -500 -10,030  14,959KM   3,070  1,640      0      0      0
Tianjin Sanhaun Textile Printing & Dyeing Co. 179,970 140,830   6,470   -969 -25,020 -19,760  22,320KM   8,240  0   0      0      0
Tianjin No. 4 Dyeing & Finishing Factory  92,835  69,660  33,000  -1,203  -4,150  -3,450   6,790KM   4,000  1,790    31    0      0
TianjinNo. I Dyeing& Finishing Factory   45,550  19,730  11,700 -13,250 -10,100  -5,080   3,860KM     0      0      0      0      0
* 1997 represents actual figures for January - May.



-36-                     APPENDIX B
APPENDIX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
A. General
The preparation for Tianjin Light Industry Project started in March 1987. The agreement
on loan for the project was signed on Sep. 8 1989 after identification, preparation,
appraisal and was effective on Dec. 7 the same year. The project includes: reform of 15
enterprises of Paper-Making, Packaging and Textile Dyeing and Finishing subsectors and
9 supporting institutes, study on 2 consulting topics and consulting service by exports.
USD 154 million dollar of the World Bank loan was planned as well as RMB 290 million
yuan. The actual disbursement of USD 153.81 million dollars and RMB 850 million yuan
is estimated. All of the tasks under the project have been basically finished so far.
B. Objectives of Project
1. Promote system reform of the three subsectors in Tianjin, encourage and guide the
enterprises to participate competition and raise the competitiveness of subsector
enterprises.
2. Reform major enterprises in the subsectors, update technology and facilities, improve
grade and quality of their products, increase export of textile products and raise flexibility
of the products to meet the demand of marketplace.
3. Strengthen organization of the supporting institutes, improve design capability and
level of design institute, raise technical development capability of research institute and
capability and level of training school so that they can offer support to the enterprises.
4. Improve organization structure and management of enterprises of three subsectors,
raise management level of enterprises, develop a long-term development strategy for
paper subsector, assist paper subsector to realize the goals on organizational structure and
reform.
5. Help Tianjin to develop a long-term strategic action plan for the development of
Tianjin's industries.
C. Evaluation of Realization of the Goals
1. Realization of reforms specified in the development strategy for light industry
Tianjin Municipal Govermment carried out a series of reform in industries based upon
"Development Program and Strategy of Tianjin Municipal Government on Textile
Dyeing & Finishing, Pulp & Paper and Packaging subsectors" and within overall



-37 -                      APPENDIX B
framework of National policies and reform. The principal targets are to: raise benefit of
investment, expose enterprises to markets, make them market responsive, grant
enterprises with autonomy and responsibilities and raise economic benefit of subsectors.
Tianjin Municipal Government has taken the following measures for three subsectors:
(1) Direct Export
Tianjin Municipal Government started direct export by enterprises on a trial basis in
1988. Dyeing subsector selected individual enterprise (Sanhuan Textile Printing &
Dyeing Group, created by Tianjin Textile & Dyeing Factory) for a trial in 1989 and five
enterprises in dyeing subsector under part A of the loan were authorized to export directly
in 1993. All the enterprises under the project (or their subsidiary Groups) have been
authorized to export directly and sections for export business set up.
(2) Use of Economic and Other Criteria for Investment Decision
The current economic criteria for Project evaluation are: internal rate of return is no less
than 14% and financial rate of return is no less than 12%. The Departments of Tianjin
Government involved examine: a. if it suits the direction of subsector's development and
the subsector policy of the Nation; b. if the economic, financial and internal rate of return
reach the criteria; c. if construction conditions, such as raw materials, energy, technical
capability and environment, available or up to the standard; d. if the investment scale is
rational; e. feasibility study of the project had been carried out.
(3) Price Reform
The Municipal Government has adopted a price reform policy to gradually increase the
proportion of products for which the price are based on free negotiations. The prices of
products in three subsectors are deregulated and the enterprises can set the prices based
on market.
(4) Production Planning Reform
T'he first step of the reform is the transit from mandatory planning to indicative planning
which inspires enterprises constantly diversify their product lines according to market
situation. Since China adopted a socialist market economy in 1993, the economic system
has gradually undergone changes where market dominates. Enterprises prepare
production plan based on demand and organize production on order.
(5) Labor Mobility
The term employment system for management staff and contracting system for workers
are practiced in the enterprises. The labor mobility depends fully on enterprises demand
or coordination between factories, as well as recruitment from the society. The surplus
laborers started going to society to be reemployed as reform is deepening and
reemployment is taking different forms either internally or externally.
(6) Profit Contract
"Profit Contract" has been abolished after several years of practice. All the enterprises
pay tax according to tax regulation.



-38-                     APPENDIX B
(7) Financial Reforms
The relationship between Government and Banks has been changed from administration
leadership into economic guidance through years of reform. Banks are practicing
commercialized self-operation. Banks and enterprises can make mutual choice for the
loan making and project financing.
(8) Enterprise Reform
Enterprises Reform started in 1994, e.g. make clear the enterprise ownership, set up and
perfect legal entity system and restructure enterprise according to "Corporate Law", so
that enterprise can take a real part in market competitive and become a legal entity.
(9) Institutional Reform
To change the governmental function and quicken institutional reform, the original
Industry Bureaus were changed into Group or General Corporation, i.e., the original
administrator becomes a legal person to operate State-owned property or a State investor
within the scope of authorization by the Government. The original administrative
relationship between Bureau and enterprises becomes property and investment
relationship.
2. Evaluation on Part A of the Project
The targets for three subsection's reform have basically been realized, such as production
specialization for Textile and Dyeing subsector has been realized, old facilities, out-of-
date technology, high consumption of material and energy and serious environmental
pollution changed in paper and package industries.
(1) Packaging Subsector
Through technology introduction and improvement of facilities in recent years, a industry
with modem process facilities has been formed in Tianjin packaging printing subsector:
new printing material replaced traditional material. The up-to-date technology of
electronic scanning and plate making replaced out-of-date process of manual photo,
netting and plate making. The automatic offset press with high speed and multicolors
replaced manually operated old ones of low speed and monochrome. Relief printed trade
mark and label printing appeared. Flexible plate, plastic packing base materials and
corrugated cardboard box with seven layers represent advanced level in Tianjin. People's
Printing House, a star among 8 World Bank loan projects in this subsector, has their sales
revenue and profit reached and beyond design level, the profit was RMB 8.75 million
yuan in 1995 and no overdue loan. The stock of this enterprise was listed in stock market
in Oct. 1993. The First Paper Board Containers Mill set up a joint venture with a
Japanese firm and the loan paid off in one bill. Two plastic projects have been put in
operation since the middle of 1996 and two years is estimated to reach break-even point.
There are problems in profitability (loan repayment is poor) in other four projects
(printing and plate making).



-39-                     APPENDIX B
(2) Textile Dyeing and Finishing Subsector
The textile dyeing and finishing subsector added some key equipment, adjusted products
mix and raised grades and quality of products, for example, No. 1 Printing & Dyeing
Factory developed six series of products, production period shortened and foreign
currency earning capability increased by meeting the demand of small batches and
diversified products. The capability of the enterprises for the market changes and
competition is better than that before. However, because of short supply of funds and the
too heavy original burden, sales value is decreasing and loss is becoming worse in five
enterprises of the project and loan repayment is poor.
(3) Paper-making Subsector
By using the loan on project of art paper and bond paper in No. 4 and No. 5 Paper
Factory, old facilities and production technology were phased out, new ones of advanced
level in 1990s were introduced and environmental pollution is reduced. However, for
various reasons, operation has not started as scheduled. According to the evaluation
report by CIB, price of the product is higher than previous estimation, but the price of
input has gone up also. The internal rate of return for art bond paper are 5.7% and 6.3%
respectively. Generally speaking, the reform of three subsectors of Tianjin light industry
promoted the change of management system for enterprises, enterprises become
economic entities; environmental pollution reduced; old technology and high
consumption of energy and materials are being improved. However, the micro-benefits
on finance in some of the Projects are not ideal. Considering the performance both micro-
and macro-operationally and analysis above, the projects are basically good, yet the
People's Printing House and the First Paper Board Containers Mill are better by criteria
of the World Bank.
T'he factors which make micro-operation not ideal are as following:
First, the increase of input price is greater than the products price. The costs of coal, water
supply, power supply, average salary and foreign exchange rate had increased by 161%,
330%, 274%, 162% and 152% respectively from 1991 to 1995, therefore, sales income
cannot cover the cost.
Second, the cost is not under well control. Some of the costs are beyond the control of
enterprises and are part of overall economic system reform. As social insurance system
has not been set up, surplus workers are still in the enterprises, for example, No. 1 and
No. 4 Dyeing & Finishing Factories, Sanhuan Textile Printing and Dyeing Group and
No. 1 and No. 2 Printing & Dyeing Factories have the surplus laborers as much as 550,
150, 550, 440, and 350 respectively. This lowers the margin of workers and increases the
cost.
Third, the development of market is not sufficient. As being in the transit period,
enterprises failed to change their ideas of planned production towards the operation under
marketing system at once, have not set up a effective network of marketing on time, or
have their users too concentrated, thus operational risk formed. For example, No. 1



-40 -                    APPENDIX B
Plastic Factory exported 2,000 ton of PVC sheet to U.S. in 1995, but the new market has
not been developed very well. Occupying of market is a hard process although the
enterprises are authorized to export by themselves.
Fourth, because of the unavailability of counterpart funds on time and construction cost
increasing, construction period postponed from planned 2 years to 5-6 years. This
increased cost make loan repayment difficult and entrance of market late and the project
cannot reach scale.
3. Evaluation of Part B of the Project
Nine supporting institutes, two consulting topic studies and consulting service by
specialists are involved in Tianjin Light Industry Project. USD 9.96 million dollar from
the World Bank loan and RMB 9 million yuan were planned. The following tasks have
been finished so far. USD 9.94 million dollar and RMB 22.55 million yuan have been
used actually.
(1) By assisting the supporting Institutes under Part B, (a), the design capacity, design
quality and design level of Design Institutes raised, modem CAD system and office
automation system set up, design period shorten and economic benefit and competitive
power improved; (b) development capacity for new technology and new product of
Research Institutes increased, research topics undertaken and results on development
increased and difficulties on finance overcame; (c) capacity and level of training schools
raised, number of students and Dept. enlarged. 351 of technician and teachers trained,
USD 460,000 dollar used and quality of staff in supporting institutes raised.
(2) Many recommendations were put forward through consulting on management of
enterprises in three subsectors and development strategy for paper industry and some of
the recommendations have been implemented; the adjustment of product mix and
consolidation of enterprises realized based on requirements in the strategy for paper
industry.
4. Impact of the restructuring through World Bank financing and Overall Comment on
TLIP
Impact on Subsectors
(1) By restructuring No. 4 and No. 5 Paper Factories, the gap for high grade paper in
Tianjin filled up, restructure and reform in paper industry promoted, domestic demand on
high grade art paper, bond paper and writing paper met and import substitution realized.
(2) Without increasing production capacity, enterprises in textile dyeing & finishing
subsector imported advanced equipment, production technology and process, production
environment improved, product lines increased, level and quality raised, export increased
and power to suit market strengthened.



-41-                     APPENDIX B
(3) By restructuring principal enterprises in paper package, plastic package and printing
package subsectors, level and quality of packaging materials raised, added value of
packages increased. The export of packaging materials is promising and export
competitiveness is stronger than before.
(4) The improvement of the supporting institutions' ability in technology development,
product design and training and the use of new technology have further strengthened their
ability to provide support to the development of subsector enterprises.
Overall comment
Generally speaking, TLIP has promoted the development of three subsectors, raised
overall strength of the industry, enlarged production scale and created conditions for the
enlargement, group operation, set up of Joint Venture, development of new fields by
many enterprises. However, as the deepening of Chinese reform and the implementation
of reform measures (such as financial reform, foreign exchange system reform, foreign
trade system  reform  and price reform), enterprises cannot adapt new  situation
immediately themselves, face temporary difficulties operation and not reach the expected
goals, as a result, the ability to service their debt is affected.
D. Problems on Implement and Factors affecting Goals
There are problems both internally and externally: A. Because of the change of method
for tendering (one-stage tender changed into two-stage tender) and excessive high bidding
price at bid opening, the requirement of counterpart funding became is too high for the
four projects and the time used for equipment procurement was extended. As a result the
completion of TLIP as a whole was postponed. B. Because of the foreign exchange
reform system in China and exchange rate (USD 1 dollar = RMB 3.72 yuan at the time
when the project was appraised, the rate is 1:8.4 now ) and increase of the price of input,
debts of the enterprises and costs increase, thus the realization of expected benefit is
affected.
E. Comment on World Bank
Tianjin has been strongly supported and assisted by the World Bank since the
effectiveness of Tianjin Light Industry Project in 1989. The strict and scientific procedure
of the World Bank, the earnest and responsible attitude as well as the spirit of the staff
have left us a deep impression. We have learned quite a lot and will take reference for the
construction and management in future.
F. Comment on Borrower and Intermediate Finance Institute
Tianjin Planning Commission (the administration body of TLIP), Tianjin Finance Bureau
(debtor/creditor of TLIP and an implementing agency of Part B of TLIP), CIB (onlending
bank for all the subprojects except the paper subprojects where CIB is an agent), all
worked jointly, collaborated closely and finished the project well according to the



-42 -                   APPENDIX B
requirements of the World Bank and duty and obligations on the Agreement of Loan, as
well as offering possible convenience during the implementation. The consciousness and
strict auditing were realized for purchasing, tendering, paying and managing of the
account. Besides carrying out the regulation and policies of the World Bank and the
Ministry of Finance, they developed a series of rules and regulations to control
management of the Project in conformity with specific situation to assure a smooth
progress of procurement and disbursement, as well as financial control of subprojects.
G. Future Operation and Development Plan
1. Accelerating the Establishment of Group companies
(1) Set Up Tianlong Paper Corp. Ltd. Tianlong Paper Corp. Ltd. (the Company) has been
set up with investment from First Light Industry General corp., Paper Corp., No. 4 and
No. 5 Paper Factory to produce high grade art paper, bond paper and writing paper. A
management system suitable for the development of the company will be set up and the
marketing of products while sales network will be formed for major products of high
grade art paper, bond paper and writing paper. The proportion of equity capital will
increase step by step to reduce the debt of the Company, so that the debt structure will
become rational and products more competitive.
(2) On the basis of the existing Sanhuan Textile Printing & Dyeing Group, No. 4 Dyeing
& Finishing Factory joined Tianyi Textile Group in June 1996; No. 1 Printing & Dyeing
Factory joined Lianyuan Textile Group to improve the competitiveness of the Groups.
(3) Tianjin Plastic Groups Ltd. will be set up to incorporate the two Plastic subprojects
(No. 1 and No. 3 Plastic Factory ). The assets combination of BOPP Project is realized
already.
(4) Tianjin Package Printing World Ltd. has been set up by incorporating some of the
enterprises in packaging subsector. No. 2 Printing Factory, a subproject under TLIP, has
been incorporated. Other World Bank Projects will be incorporated to create group
advantage with vertical integration of product development, plate-making, printing and
marketing to raise competitiveness.
2. Strengthen internal control of cost for enterprises. Set cost targets and carry out Cost
Overrule Method.
3. Adjust product mix and accelerate the development of new products.
4. Carry out ISO-9000 Quality Assurance System in major enterprises to improve quality
and increase value-addedness of products.
5. Strengthen marketing. Supply and Sales Dept. for pulp and paper has been set up
already in Tianlong Corp. The enterprises in Dyeing & Finishing subsector will



-43 -                    APPENDIX B
accelerate to set up overseas sales company and agent (in the United Arab Emirates and
Burma), occupy the market in non-quota Regions and increase export.
6. Enlarge production scale, realize scale economy, lower cost and expand market share
through various means and financial resources.
H. Experience and Lessons
By implementing Tianjin Light Industry Project, the following experience is obtained:
1. Project appraisal and market forecast should be strengthened. All possible means
should be applied to collect international market information and careful projection
should be made for investment projects with international competitiveness as a
precondition.
2. Strictly control the investment cost, supervise and manage the project with greater
effort.
3. Effectively combine World Bank procedures with Chinese ones and make effective use
of funds. Create all the conditions and accelerate project implementation so that they can
become operational as early as possible.
4. Strengthen project management and reform management system for enterprises to meet
the needs of construction.
5. We suggest the World Bank to simplify the procedures and shorten cycle time for the
projects with competitive nature.



-44-                        APPENDIX B
ANNEX 1: ADDITIONAL BORROWER COMMENTS ON WORLD BANK
ASSESSMENT RATINGS
\ovenber i3,  SC7
Mr. Laf'ar Shah Khan,
Principal Financial Specialist.
Finance & Private sector Development lnit
The World Bank
Dear M-. Khan:
We have revieved the 7Mplementaticn Completion  Report  ( ICR)    on
Tianjin Light Industry Project  (TT IP) and found1 it wvell prepared and  it
woulLd be a guideline in oujr future work.. AAnd  we  will  see  to it  that
best  effort  wvll  be   used   by   the   concerned   institutions   to
implement the recommendat-ons contained in -C?R. However, ve  vould  ; ike
to po:nt out rhat -r is not atrrropriate tO consider the outcome oL  TLIP
unsatistactorv. We reuiuese that it be revised to rz.--d quote the  ouzcome
of the oroject -s3 considere-   unsatisfaczory  at  Fresent  unquote.   1n
.add ion. the-rze are  a  few   iiaccurate  or  :naiCpro-r-ate  descr:npt ons
wht,ich   are    recuesead    t c e changed or dele-ted and indicated         b v
handwriting in pages where such revisions are needed.
,ve voul d have nn o    ICR  i.f rthe  aepi ested  ch anzes  or
delet:ons are made.
We send to vou tnrough EMS th-s 'etter  aztachec  w:h  the  -:ages
where changes cr deietions are needed and our Evaiuat:on ieport.
Regards.
Wang Gongiu
'9ce Direcror
: an,:n Viorld Bank n san C fLIce



APPENDIX C: CIB-COMPARATIVE (ACTUAL AND PROJECTED) FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS FOR THE YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1990-96
(Yuan million)
I   PROJECTED                                                 ACTUALS
1990        1991        1992         1990        1991        1992         1993        1994         1995        1996
Income Statements
Total Income                         772.20     1,062.80     1,366.60     855.21       881.43     1,094.43    1,758.27    2,635.26     3,358.83    3,709.00
Total Expenses                        556.40      761.50      977.60      736.43       764.91      969.30     1,616.87    2,524.12     3,236.91    3,036.00
Netlncomebefore Inc. Tax              207.70      284.80      367.60       118.78      116.52      125.12       141.40      111.14       121.92      377.12
Income Taxes                          114.30      156.60      202.20       72.46        71.08       76.33        82.01       65.53        54.49      168.44
Net Income                             93.40      128.20      165.40       46.32        45.44       48.80        59.38       45.61        67.43      208.67
Balance Sheet Statements
Cash/due from banks                  715.80      583.50       978.90     1,801.96    1,929.47    2,425.33     4,090.73    7,724.27    9,083.63     9,609.18
Current assets                      1,371.60    1,649.50    2,788.40     3,653.51    4,568.37     5,685.64    6,814.34    11,314.58    18,478.71    25,107.84
Investment Loans:
-local currency                    2,584.70     3,441.90    4,040.50     1,615.22    1,565.15    1,719.84     2,414.50    3,117.57    2,074.91     2,196.25
-foreign currency                   6,238.60    8,509.80    10,822.70    5,346.79    5,616.38    5,703.83     6,594.88    10,254.15    10,019.22    10,861.12
-Working capital loans                                                   2,144.86    4,297.94    8,401.13     9,848.55    13,528.00    15,114.83    18,225.84
Total Investment loans              8,823.30    11,951.70    14,863.20   9,106.87    11,479.47    15,824.79    18,857.93    26,799.72    27,208.96    31,283.21
less: Accu. Provisions               572.60     1,002.70    1,552.70      109.28      109.28       227.99      376.98       531.25      524.03      569.22
Net Investment Loans                8,250.60    10,949 00    13,310.50   8,997.59    11,370.19    15,596.80    18,480.95    26,268.47    26,684.93    30,714.67
Long-temm Investments                 84.50       142.10      223.70        17.41       26.68       98.40       205.30      256.25      312.91       678.11
Net Fixed Assets                      10.60       18.80        36.10       15.50       27.97        34.27      125.91       199.39      296.58      363.59
Other Assets                         115.00      125.00       380.00      830.78     1,331.02    2,451.41     4,279.51    5,967.36     6,422 92    4,203.04
TOTAL ASSETS                        9,832.40    12,890.30    16,738.60    13,514.79    17,324.23    23,866.51    29,906.00    44,006.06    52,196.05    61,067.26
Deposits:                            471.60       599.40      769.50
-local currency                                                           939.68     1,651.63    4,044.41     7,511.10    10,173.07    17,703.81    26,794.42
-foreign currency                                                         927.73     1,331.23    2,090.32     2,132.92    3,820.30     4,229.35    4,992.22
Total current Liabilities           1,330.80    1,435.70     2,150.70    4,033.66     5,300.54    9,569.28    14,821.20    22,62225    31,751.00    42,451.34
Long-term Debts:
-local currency                     1,320.00    1,420.00    1,520.00     1,355.81    2,853.56    3,567.28     2,011.48    2,561.06     2,152.74    2,400.79
-foreign currency                   4,955.30    7,537.80    10,441.20    5,245.22    5,622.09    5,991.98     7,029.84    10,283.67    9,372.61    9,350.29
TotalLong-termDebts                6,275.30    8,957.80    11,961.20    6,601.03     8,475.65    9,559.25    9,041.32    12,844.73    11,525.35    11,751.07
Other liabilities                     280.00      26000       100.00     1,059.12     1,702.51    2,906.24    4,243.26     6,259.26    6,517.95    4,259.01
Equity                              1,946.20    2,236.90     2,574.50    1,748.53     1,845.53    1,831,75    1,800.22     2,279 83    2,401.75    2,605.84
TOTAL LIAB. & EQUITY                9,832.40    12,890.00    16,738.60    13,442.33    17,324.23    23,865.53    29,906.00    44,006.06    52,196.05    61,067.26
RATIOS
Current Ratio (X)                       1.03        1 15        1.30         0.91        0.86        0.59         0.46        0.50         0.58        0.59
Long-Term debt/equity ratio(X)         3 22         4 00        4.65         3.78        4.59        5.22         5.02        5.63         4.80        4.51
Acc. Provisions/gross loan              6.49        8.39       10.45         1.20        0.95         1.44        2.00        1.98         1.93        1.82
portfolio (%)
Net Income/Equity (%/.)                 4.80        5.73        6.42         2.65        2.46        2.66         3.30        2 00         2.81        8.01
As % of total assets:
-total income                         7 85         8.24        8.16        6.33         5.09        4.59        5.88         5.99        6.44         6.07
-net income                           0.95        099          0.99        0.34         0.26        0.20        0.20         0.10        0.13         0.34
-administrative/other expense                                              0 16         0.15        0.15        0 15         0.10        0.41         0.56



APPENDIX D: COMPARISON OF PROJECTED AND ACTUAL RESULTS OF SUBPROJECTS
No. 3 Plastic    No. 1 Plastic     Plate Making    Dong Fang Hong   People's Printing    Decal Printing
Name of enterprise                 Factory           Factory           Factory       Printing House       House             House
Estimate  Actual Estimate  Actual Estimate  Actual Estimate  Actual Estimate  Actual  Estimnate  Actual
Fixed costs                     38,385   95,380   36,671  102,218   11,522   26,496    8,496   21,464   19,289   31,257   10,722   18,782
Total cost including net working  42,405  115,047   48,286  120,018   11,992  26,496    9,713   21,464   20,709   31,257   11,022   18,782
capital
Completion date                   1991    1995    1991    1995    1991    1991    1991    1991    1992    1991    1991    1991
Data in second year of operations
Capacity utilization(%)           100     100      100       60      100      100     100       80      100      100       80        5
Cost of production             33,763   43,200   53,023   10,959    1,000    1,779    2,248   17,031    735      588    8,420      360
Sale value                     41,533   50,500   69,240   12,666    2,000    1,864    3,696   19,203    1,620    726   14,633     426
Exports (in '000)               7,533       0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0
Net profit (loss) before tax La  7,769    8,000   13,025    610    1,000       85    1,448     107      875      120    4,910       66
Principal and interest payment as           0                 0        0        0                0                                   0
% of total due and payable
during the year
Current ratio                     2.7    1.22     5.68     4.92      2.1    0.95      3.26     3.6    3.45      1.97      5.1    2.67
Debt/equity ratio                5.88     116    6.91      80.5     1.84    20.24     0.75     1.02    1.37     2.42     1.24    37.25
Return on equity                                                                 0            0.0379             0.156
ERR (%)                           17.55    20.59    20.4        6      27     4.56    18.66    12.86     39.5   27.38      49.7   12.08
FRR(%)                           17.90    15.84      20      4.82      20     4.56    15.69     7.95      24    16.53    15.29      4.6
*** data not available
La Actual profit is before depreciation and interest accrued but not paid, and therefore not a true picture.



No. 2 Printing  First Paper Board  Sanhuan Textile Printing No. I Printing and  No. 2 Printing and   No. 4 Printing and
Name of enterprise                   Mill          Containers Mill    and Dyeing Mill       Dyeing            Dyeing            Dyeing
Estimate  Actual  Estimate   Actual   Estimate    Actual  Estimate  Actual  Estimate  Actual  Estimate  Actual
Fixed costs                       3,870    8,964    25,717   51,194    22,351    27,792   43,840   63,101    34,864  453,341   25,049    42,879
Total cost including net working  4,370    8,964    33,523   51,194    23,467    27,792   45,700   63,101    36,724   53,341   26,189    42,879
capital
Completion date                    1992    1991      1991    1993        1991     1993    1991    1994       1992    1993    1992       1993
Data in second year of operations
Capacity utilization (%/6)        100       50       100      100        100       59      100      67       100      63      100       61
Cost of production              12,688    3,990    53,236   54,850    162,974   163,010  127,204  106,915   109,610  146,160   58,893    98,774
Sale value                      15,868    4,657    59,049   57,210    168,474   186,650  130,000  123,076   113,800  167,540   85,532   110,740
Exports (in '000)                   0        0         0        0    117,866    33,040   72,650   20,540    77,400   24,780   73,695    12,180
Net profit (loss) before tax La  3,180     227      5,813    2,360     5,500        5   2,796    -939      4,190     730   20,369        0
Principal and interest payment as           18                                      0                0                 0                 0
% of total due and payable
during the year
Current ratio                     5.38     2.68     7.28     0.91        3.4     0.65    2.48      0.71     3.79     0.76    2.93      0.79
Debt / equity ratio               0.47     1.32     3.94     2.42       0.69     11.33     1.9    12.6       1.5   23.02     1.19      8.82
Return on equity                                                                   0.01                               0.09                 0
ERR (/0)                          21.4    11.28     25.98     5.43     27.55         4   26.82 ***            19      3.4    75.3       0.4
FRR (%)                            25.5      4.9    16.84      4.13     25.73         0    18.93 ***         23.79    2.44    23.81        0
* * * data not available
La Actual profit is before depreciation and interest accrued but not paid, and therefore not a true picture.



No. 1 dyeing and    Tianjin No. 4 Paper   Tianjin No. 5 Paper
Name of enterprise                finishing        Making Mill         Making Mill
Estimate   Actual  Appraisal  Estimate  Appraisal  Estimate
Estimate  (1997)   Estimate  (1997)
Fixed costs                    25,532    41,241   217,007   836,540   224,365   734,070
Total cost including net working  26,760    41,242   250,995   956,540   240,526   834,070
capital
Completion date                  1992      1993     1993      1997      1993      1997
Data in second year of operations
Capacity utilization (%)        100        21        80       75        80        75
Cost of production           108,080    91,713   153,846   289,898   128,305   245,619
Sale value                   114,000    82,731   191,930   396,581   160,512   354,872
Exports (in '000)             67,500    6,460    89,516        0    68,211         0
Net profit (loss) before tax L/  5,920    -8,982    15,782   -34,619    18,163   -37,504                      x
Principal and interest payment as           0         0        0         0         0
% of total due and payable
during the year
Current ratio                   2.46      0.6       5.3      2.24      1.88      2.24
Debt / equity ratio             0.97     60.9       4.5      1.54      3.54      1.54
Return on equity
ERR (%)                         26.82               15.37        2      18.48       10
FRR (%)                         18.93 ***           15.28        2     21.42      6.02
*** data not available
la Actual profit is before depreciation and interest accrued but not paid, and therefore not a true picture.
3v



APPENDIX E: MONITORING TARGETS
Part A /a
Plate Making   Decal    Donfanghong   No. 2    People's   First Paper Tianlong Paper  No. I    No. 2    No. 4   Sanhuan   No. I    No. 1    No. 3
Factory     Printing    Printing   Printing    Board Con-  Ltd Company Printing &   Dye &    Dye &    Group   Dye and  Plastic   Plastic
tainer Mill              Dyeing  Finishing Finishing Company Finishing
1. Operational    develop plate  develop    develop high  develop develop high it has formed  develop Art   increasing variety, develop    they have ceased  tap the market, lower
Strategy        making tech. screen print quality printing  label  quality & fine JV and paid  coated paper  multicolor products, increase the  operations  costs, and develop
products  on thick paper products   prints   off loans  and bond paper production of higher value-added            high value- added
product                                 products.
2. Capacity design
1997               70         15            60      80         100                        0        60       55       70                        50      100
1998               70         20            60      80         100                       50        70       65       80                       66.7     100
1999               75         20            60      80         100                       75        75       75       85                         75     100
2000               80         20            60      80         100                       90        75       75       90                         95      100
3. No of production lines
1997                5          5                                20                        0        30       24       40                         10       3
1998                5          5                                23                        3        40       40       50                         12       4
1999                5          5                                23                        4        50       40       60                         14       6
2000                5          5                                23                        4        50       50       60                         20       10
4. Sales (Y'000)
1997            9,400        500           500    700      138,000                        0    60,000   60,000   75,000                     31,600   58,000    4:
1998            9,400        600           500    800      151,800                   405,200    72,000   70,000   85,000                    42,150   65,000    'D
1999           10,000        600           500   1,000     167,000                   607,800    80,000   84,000   90,000                    50,000   68,000
2000            12,000       600           500   1,000      167,000                  724,360    90,000   95,000  100,000                    60,000   70,000
5. Net income (Y)
1997                0          0             0              51,000                        0   -14,000   -6,000    5,500                         0        0
1998                0          0             0              56,000                   -88,810    -5,000   -4,000   -3,000                        0         0
1999              100          0             0              61,000                   -34,440    -3,000   -3,000   -2,000                     1,000    2,000
2000              200          0             0              61,000                    -6,380        0        0        0                      2,000    4,000
6. Production    million CM   CR      CR            CR      CR                      T                    (million meters)                      T        T
1997             6 33        600         10,000  10,000    900,000                        0        20       15       19                      3,000    3,800
1998             6 33        800         10,000  10,000    1,000,000                  35,000       24       20       24                      4,000    4,000
1999             7.00        800         10,000  10,000    1,050,000                  52,500       28       26       25                      4,500    4,500
2000             7.00        800         10,000  10,000    1,100,000                  63,000       32       32       25                      6,000    5,000
7. Export (Y'000)
1997                                                                                           30,000   28,000   45,000                         0        0
1998                                                                                            35,000   35,000   55,000                     5,000       
1999                                                                                           40,000   40,000   55,000                      5,000        0
2000                                                                                            45,000   45,000   55,000                    15,000        0 
8. Debt service (Y'000)
1997              600                      400      60         300                        0                                                     0         0   \
1998              600                      400      80         300                        0                                                      0        0    t
1999              650                      400    100          400                    20,000                                                 1,000    2,000
2000              650                      400    100                                 62,170                                                 2,000    4,000
L Does not include Tianjin Paper Corporation which received $0.3 million for testing equipment and training.
Note: CM=square centimeters, CR= color rings



Part B a
Light Industry   Textile Design   Printing Res. Ins.    Plastic Res. Ins.   Package Res. Ins.  Paper Res. Institute    Printing Tech.  Textile Training
Design Ins.        Institute                                                                                 School            Center
1. Operational    To become leading    To become the     To develop    Identify and develop Identify and develop   To become pilot  To become the   Provide new modem
Strategy          light industry design   leading textile  holograph &   new markets and    new markets and  center for paper filter training center for    facilities to the
institute in China   design institute in   imitation-proof    new product lines   new product lines  and paper processing   the subsector  textile sector
China          technology                                            engineering
2. Capacity design
1997                                                           1                4                 3                 16
1998                                                          0                 6                 4                 16
1999                                                          4                  8                6                20
2000                                                           5                10                 9                20
3. No of production
lines
1997                                                                                                                                200              1,000
1998                                                                                                                                200              1,000
1999                                                                                                                                200              1,000
2000                                                                                                                                 200             1,000
4. Sales (Y'000)
1997                 586,050           220,000
1998                 400,000           240,000                                                                                                                  o
1999                 450,000           260,000
2000                 450,000           300,000
5. Net income (Y)
1997                  12,000             4,110             1,500             3,000              200              2,300             1,200             2,000
1998                  12,000             4,300             1,700             3,500              600              2,600             1,200             2,000
1999                  13,000             4,500             2,000             4,000             2,000             2,600             1,200             2,000
2000                   13,000            5,000             2,200             5,000             6,000             3,000             1,200             2,000
6. Production
1997                     300               100                0                20                 0                 0                 0               200
1998                     500               150                0                40                                   0                 0               200
1999                     500               200               50                60                50                50                 0               200
2000                     600               250               100               120               100               100                 0               200
7. Export (Y'000)
1997                      31                30               50                99                10               230
1998                      36                35               65                41                15               234
1999                      36                39               70                43                30               240
2000                      36                40                70                47               40               240
1/ Does not include Tianjin Paper Corporation which received $0.3 million for testing equipment and training.
Note: CM=square centimeters; CR= color rings



