Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL ('SE ONLY
Report No. 7165-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
JANUARY 25, 1989
Industry, Tiade and Finance Operations Division
Country Dev4rtment III
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official doties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzaffion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Currency Unit = Yuan Renminbi Y)
1982    1983    1984   1985    1986   1987   1988
Y per $, year average       1.89    1.98    2.32    2.94   3.45   3.72   3.72
December 1985:   Y 3.20   -   $1.00
Y 1.00   -   $0.31
December 1986
thru          Y 3.72   =   $1.0
December 1988:   Y 1.00   =   $0.27
(In this report $ refers to US$)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC       -    Agricultural Bank of China
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
BOD       -    Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CIB       -    China Investment Bank
DFC       -    Development Finance Company
FTC       -    Foreign Trade Corporation
GOC       -    Government of China
ICBC      -    Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
MOF       -   Ministry of Finance
MOFERT    -    Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade
PCBC      -    People's Construction Bank of China
PRC       -    People's Republic of China
SPC       -    State Planning Commission
SSRC      -    State System Reform Commission
TDF       -    Textile Dyeing and Finishing Subsector in Tianjin
TDFPP     -    Textile Dyeing and Finishing, Paper, and Packaging
Subsectors in Tianjin
TEC       -    Tianjin Economic Commission
TFLIB     -    Tianjin First Light Industry Bureau
TFTB      -    Tianjin Foreign Trade Bureau
TMG       -    Tianjin Municipal Government
TLIP      -    Tianjin Light Industry Project
TPC       -    Tianjin Planning Commission
TPB       -    Tianjin Price Bureau
TSLIB     -    Tianjin Second Light Industry Bureau
TSRC      -    Tianjin System Reform Commission
TTB       -    Tianjin Textile Bureau
TTFTC     -    Tianjin Textile Foreign Trade Commission
TTIEU     -    Tianjin Textile Import-Export Union



- ± -                    FOIl OFFICUAL USE ONLY
CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................................  iii
I.   INTRODUCTION .................................................        l
II.   THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN CHYNA ................................    2
A.  Structure and Performance .................................    2
B.  Main Sectoral Issues and The Government's Strategy ........    3
C   Bank Support for Industry .................................    6
III.   LIGHT INDUSTRY SECTOR IN TIANJIN ..............................    7
A. Tianjin and Its Industry                   ..                      7
B.  Light Industry Sector ............................                7
C.  Tianjin Industrial Policy Issues and Reforms .............        9
D. TDFPP Subsectors Restructuring                .        .          12
Restructuring of Plant and Equipment          .     .       13
Development of Technological Infrastructure    . .          15
Strengthening of Enterprise Level Management Systems
and Enterprise Support Services           .      .        16
E.  Development of Overall Industrial Strategy for Tianjin....    17
F. Bank Role and Strategy                    ..                      17
IV. THE PROJECT .18
A. Project Objectives    ..18
B. Projec~t Components    ..18
Financial Assistance for Enterprise Technological
Restructuring   ..18
Technical Assistance    ..20
C. Project Cost and Financing    ..21
D.  Project Implementation Arrangements       .      .               23
Role of the Tianjin Municipal Government (TMG) ..23
Role of the China Investment Bank (CI   ..       .23
E. Environmental Impact    ..27
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission, composed of Zafar Shah
Khan (Mission Chief), Har Bhattacharya, Raymond Chalk, David Kochav, Nicolas
Mathieu, and George Macdonald (Consultant), who visited China in November/
December 1987. Certain updated data and information was made available to
Bank staff later on and has been incorporated in the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
V.   THE LOAN ................................... ...................   28
A. Main Features of the Loan                 ..                    28
Lending and Onlending Arrangements ....................   28
Free Limit                     . .    29
B.  Prtcurement and Disbursements              ..                  29
C. Reporting and Auditing                  ..                      31
D. Benefits and Risks                    ..                        31
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION                  ..                    32
ANNEXES
1. The Statement of the Tianjin Municipal Government on the
Development Program and Strategy for TDFPP Subsectors ...   35
2.  Sectoral Policies and Management Systems ..................   44
3.  Textile Dyeing and Finishing, Pulp and Paper, and
Packaging Subsectors in Tianjin .........................   51
4.  Technological Infrastructure ..............................   56
5.  Pulp and Paper Subprojects ................................   72
6.  TOR of Pulp and Paper Subsector Study .....................   76
7.  TOR of Internal Enterprise and Management Systems Study...   80
8.  Project Implementation Schedule ...........................   84
9. Key Monitoring Indicators ....................... ........   85
10. CIB Actual and Projected Operatics .87
11. CIB Actual and Projected Income Statements .88
12. CIB Actual and Projected Balance Sheets .89
13. Procurement Arrangements .90
14. Estimated Disbursements .91
15. Documents Available in Project File.                           92
CHARTS
1.  China Investment Bank-Organization Chart .93
2. Administration of Tianjin Dyeing and Finishing
Paper and Packaging Subsectors .94
MAP
IBRD - 20878  China - Tianjin Light Industry Project ..........   95



- iii -
CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summa;.Y
Borrower:           People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:      Tianjin Municipal Government (TMG)
China Investment Bank (CIB)
Amount:             $154.0 million equivalent.
Terms:              Twenty years, including five years grace; standard variable
interest rate.
Onlendina Terms:   The proceeds of the loan would be made available to the
Tianjin Municipal Government (TMG) which, in turn, would
make available the industrial credit component of $141.2
million to CIB. CIB would act as a full financial interme-
diary for $70.2 million allocated to textile dyeing and
finishing and packaging subsectors and the TMG would onlend
this amount to CIB with a repayment period of 20 years
including five years grace and at a variable interest rats
equal to the Bank rate. As regards the balance amount of
$71.0 million for the paper subsector, CIB would act as a
managing agency on behalf of the TMG.  The in4ustrial
credit component would be onlent to eligible enterprises
for a maximum period of 15 years including up to 3 years of
grace and at a variable interest rate equal to the Bank
rate plus a minimum spread of 1Z and subborrowers would
carry the foreign exchange risk.  Out of the technical
assistance component, the TMG would make available $50,000
to CIB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Proiect
Description:      The project would support the restructuring of three
important subsectors (textile dyeing and fiLishing, pulp
and paper and packaging) of the light industry in Tianjin.
It would provide financial assistance of $141.2 million for
the modernization of enterprises and technical assistance
of $12.8 million for strengthening of support institutions,
studies, and expert services for the three subsectors out
of the Bank loan. The project would aim: (a) to expedite
system reforms at the regional level leading to greater
autonomy for and accountability of enterprise management
while encouraging the Tianjin authorities to focus their
activities on supporting and guiding enterprises rather
than direct control; (b) to modernize and restructure
enterprises including the support of high priority
investments; (c) to strengthen institutional infrastructure
including research and design institutes and vocational
training schools; (d) to improve internal enterprise



- iv -
organization and management systems; and (e) to support the
preparation of a long term industrial development strategy
for Tianjin.
Benefits and
Risks:            The acceleration of policy and systems reforms, improved
services by support institutions, and subsector-wide
restructuring would result in improvement of subsector
efficiency and performance including higher exports and
efficient import substitution. The subproject selection
criteria will aim to ensure their economic and financial
viability. The main project risks relate to the
implementation of policy and systems reforms and to the
timely completion of the project. However, the Govern-
ment's strong commitment to the reform process and the
institutional arrangements for the supervision of project
implementation agreed with the Government would help to
minimize these risks.
Estimated Cost:
Local     ForeiRn   Total
…------ (S million) ------
Technological restructuring
of enterprises /a                     70.4       141.2   211.6
Development of technological
infrastructure                         1.9        11.7    13.6
Other technical assistance                0.2        1.1      1.3
Preparation of long-term overall
industrial strategy                    0.1         1.0     1.1
Total                            72.6       155.0   227.6
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                      -        154.0   154.0
CIB, other banks and enterprises /a    70.4           -     70.4
Tianjin Government                       2.2         1.0     3.2
Total                            72.6       155.0   227.6
/a  Tentative figures.  Final cost estimates and financing plan to be pre-
pared by CIB for each subproject at the time of its appraisal.
Estimated
Disbursement:  Bank FY           1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
…CS------------- ($ million) ----------------
Annual                       8.8   18.9    49.3    35.4   26.2       15.4
Cumulative                   8.8   27.7    77.0   112.4  138.6    154.0



CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1      The ongoing economic reforms in China place high priority on the
decentralization of investment responsibilities from the Center to provinces.
In industry, it requires the provinces to play a more active role in the
preparation and execution of development programs and strategies for
individual subsectors. The GOC has requested the Bank to assist some selected
provinces in carrying out the above task. The first such operation to assist
the development of specific subsectors is the proposed Tianjin Light Industry
Project (TLIP). Tianjin is an important coastal city in Northern rhina and
has the status of a province. It has a large industrial base with light
industry accounting for the major share. Due to Tianjin's well developed sea
port, high priority is being given to the acceleration of manufactured
exports. The subsectors proposed to be assisted in Tianjin are textile dyeing
and finishing, pulp and paper, and packaging, which are in urgent need of
restructuring. These subsectors have a significant share in the total light
industry output of Tianjin. The textile, packaging, and, in part, paper sub-
sectors are export oriented, either directly or indirectly.
1.2      During project preparation, an in-depth study of the three subsectors
in Tianjin was carried out by Bank staff with the assistance of the Tianjin
Municipal Government (TMG). The study and subsequent discussions between the
TMG and Bank staff have assisted the government in the preparation of a
development program and strategy (Annex 1) for the thxee subsectors. The
development program and strategy, which is consistent with the conclusions and
recommendations of the study, outlines: (a) the economic and system reforms
that would be implemented in Tianjin on a priority basis to provide a reason-
able degree of autonomy and accountability to enterprise management as well as
to improve the economic performance of the subsectors; (b) subsector invest-
ment strategy and enterprise investment criteria; (c) plans for improvements
in internal enterprise organization, management, systems, and procedures;
(d) plans for the strengthening of institutional infrastructure; and
(e) future studies to be undertaken for the long-term development of sub-
sectors.
1.3      The main objective of the proposed TLIP is to assist the Tianjin
government in the implementation of above-mentioned development program and
strategy. The proposed Bank loan of $154 million would support the foreign
exchange needs of the prcject; $141.2 million as an industrial credit to be
onlent through the China Investment Bank (CIB) for technological restructuring
of enterprises in the three subsectors, and $12.8 million for the technical
assistance for strengthening of support institutions, studies, expert
services, and training. The subprojects to be financed by CIB will be con-
sistent with the Tianjin government's strategies for the tlree subsectors and
will also meet CIB's own investment criteria.



- 2 -
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN CHINA
A. Structure and Performance
2.1      Industry makes up about half of China's GDP. and employs 172 of the
total labor force. About 96,800 state enterprises generate 692 of total
industrial outp.c; the remainder being produced by about 400,000 enterprises,
mainly urban and rural collectives. The gross industrial output, valued at
Y 1,119 billion ($324 billion) in 1986, is shared almost equally by light and
heavy industries. The textile and clothing subsectors accounted for 32Z of
total output in light industry. Paper and paper products, and household
plastic industries contributed 11? and 42 respectively of light industry pro-
duction.
2.2      Gross value of industrial production has grown at 10.5? in real terms
per year in the period 1980-86, in large part reflecting the high rate of
capital accumulation in industry. The gress output of light industry
increased by an average of 12.6? p.a. during 1978-85, which was substantially
faster than heavy industry (Table 2.1) mainly due to economic reforms
initiated in 1979. Reflecting strong internal demand and growing exports,
textile manufacturing was a major contributor to this growth in light
industry. The paper industry also expanded relatively fast at an average rate
of 9.1? per year, to meet the growing demand of local markets.
Table 2.1; CHINA: INDUSTRIAL GROWTH TRENDS
Average Annual
Growth Rate (2)         Share in Output (2)
1952-78    1978-85       1978/a       1985/b
Gross Industrial Output                11.3       10.1         100.0       100.0
1.  Heavy Industry                  13.6         8.1         57.3         50.4
2.  Light Industry                   9.1        12.6          42.7        49.6
of which:  Textiles /c         6.9        13.6         12.5         15.3
Paper              8.3         9.1           1.3         1.8
la   At 1970 constant prices.
/b   At 1980 constant prices.
/c   Includes chemical fibers, cotton, woolen and silk textiles, and knitting.
Sources. Statistical Yearbook of China 1982, 1984, 1986, 1987.
2.3      Over the two decades from the mid-fifties to mid-seventies, Chinese
industry was oriented mainly toward the rapidly growing domestic market.
Since then, Chinese manufactured exports have grown rapidly from around
$8 billion equivalent into about $23 billion equivalent in 1986. This
impressive performance was sustained by a strong growth in light industry
exports, which doubled in nominal terms during 1983-86 (Table 2.2) and formed
nearly 70? of total exports of manufactured goods. However, the share of
exports in industrial output remains low (7.22).



-3-
Tab'e 2.2: CHINA: STRUCTURE OF EXPORT COMMODITIES
Exports                 Share (2)
1983    1984    1985    1986       1983    1986
------- (S billions) --------
Total value of exports            22.1    25.0    27.3    36.6       100.0   100.0
1.  Primary exports                9.6    11.4    13.9    13.3        43.3    36.4
2.  Manufactured goods            12.5    13.6    13.4    23.3        56.7    63.6
Heavy industry /a           4.9      4.6     3.6      7.5      22.0    20.4
Light inditztry             7.6      9.0     9.8    15.8       34.7    43.2
/a  Includes chemical products.
Sources:  China Customs 3tatistics, 1985-1, 1986-1, 1987-1.
B.  Main Sectoral Issues and the Government's StrateRy
2.4      China's industrial development was guided traditionally by an inward-
oriented and import substitution strategy.  This has led to rapid growth in
industrial output and employment, the acquisition of industrial skills and the
development of a wide range of basic, intermediate and consumer goods
industries. On the other hand, it has also resulted in numerous problems,
including inefficiencies in production, lack of technological development,
poor product quality, and inadequate knowledge of markets abroad.
Manufacturing output per worker in China is low ($3,350 in 1985); about one-
fourth of the average productivity in newly industrialized countries (NICs)
and much below the productivity in more industrialized countries. The low
productivity can be explained partly by overmanning and outdated technologies,
and partly by lack of incentives and plant level inefficiencies. Nearly SOZ
of the current stock of capital equipment is worn out or obsolete, and most of
it needs replacement.
2.5      Although the level of investment has been very high in China, the
efficiency of resource use is low. Not only is technical efficiency low as
Chinese plants use more raw materials and energy per unit of output, but
"economic efficiency" is also poor due to slow response of enterprises,
brought up under a system of mandatory planning, to changing price and quality
signals in product and factor markets. Institutional rigidities due to
planned quotas and price controls, an environment of distorted prices, and
excessive focus on physical and quantitative planned targets, provide little
incentive for efficient management at the factory level. In addition, there
is an over-emphasis on self-sufficiency at the regional level, leading to a
fragmented national market and reduced domestic competition. As a result,
potential gains from economies of scale, specialization and division of labor
are often missed. Furthermore, lack of labor and capital mobility results in
suboptimal use of scarce skills, t&lent and resources.
2.6      The Government is now encouraging higher exports in part to earn
foreign exchange for the modernization of industry through imported



- 4 -
technology. However, these efforts are being frustrated by distortions in the
current trade regime. For example, a major constraint to Chinese exports is
an almost total separation between enterprises and their external markets.
Enterprises generally have to go through foreign trade corporations (FTCs),
which have virtual monopolies in their subsectors, for imports and exports.
Enterprises do not normally participate in trade negotiations; nor do they
receive information on sale prices. As a result, enterprises are often
unaware of latest developments in foreign markets, including changes in demand
patterns, new products, emerging competition and price movements. Another
re ated constraint is that the access of enterprises to foreign exchange is
tied to their ability to export. It is thus extremely difficult for
enterprises to service their foreign exchange loans and to import raw
materials and spare parts if they do not earn foreign exchange through
exports. Although ad hoc solutions are being tried, no national market for
foreign exchange exists as yet.
2.7      The industrial deveiopment is also constrained by inadeqrate
infrastructure (transportation, telecommunications, energy), investments in
which have lagged behind those in industry. In addition, institutional
infrastructure--research and development organizations, vocational training
schools--are generally lacking in modern technology and know-how0 and, compared
to their counterparts in industrialized countries, provide very limited
service to the industry.
2.8      The development of industry in China is also hampered by an
underdeveloped financial sector. Financial markets are still in their
infancy. Financial institutions are few, relatively inexperienced and provide
limited intermediation services. Other problems in the financial sector
include a mLltiplicity of interest rates, high non-performing loan portfolio
of some banks, subsidized and negative real interest rates on certain loans,
general absence of competition, lack of capacity to appraise projects
according to generally accepted techniques and procedures on the part of many
intermediaries, limited instruments for regulation, supervision, and
management of the financial system on the part of central banking authorities,
and inadequate accounting and auditing procedures.
2.9      Since 1979, the Chinese Government has attempted systematically to
remove fundamental weaknesses in the economy. The development strategy for
the industrial sector has emphasized modernization of existing equipment,
development of more efficient light industry, promotion of manufactured
exports, and material and energy conservation. The main thrust of reforms,
adopted in 1984, L^s been two-fold. The first includes a series of measures
designed to reduce the role of mandatory planning, to correct major price
distortions, and to enhance the role of markets in setting prices and
determining industrial ouput.  While a growing number of industrial products
can now be sold 'on the market", planned allocation of inputs and outputs
coupled with a regulated, aibeit me:e flexible, price system still accounts
for the bulk of industrial output. This has led to a three-tiered pricing
regime under which a small number of centrally fixed prices still operate for
some key commodities; a broad band of negotiated but still regulated prices
(which can be adjusted up to about 15Z in either direction of the fixed
prices) operate for the bulk of industrial goods; and largely market
determined prices are allowed for non-essential foodstuffs and some light
consumer goods. Price reforms remain a critical item on the Government's



reform agenda; however, the worries relating to the inflationary implications
of these reforms have resulted in a cautious approach and the process has been
temporarily slowed at present.
2.10     A second set of reforms have been aimed at changing the incentive
structure and enlarging the scope for managerial autonomy at the enterprise
level. These enterprise reforms include initiatives designea to (a) devolve
the control over decisions relating to investments to modernize plants,
payment of bonuses to workers and expenditure on social services for employees
through higher profit retention; (b) change the structure of production and
contractual linkages between enterprises, and to clarify their legal identity,
and the relationship between management and owners, be they shareholders, or
the state; and (c) make managers more responsive to changing price, market and
profit considerations by allowing them to change the level and mix of
production by instituting the management responsibilitv system.
2.11     In trade, the main changes so far have involved the partial break-up
of the export and import monopolies.  This has been done mainly through
limited decentralization of the export trade and the granting of direct
trading rights to some 100 large production enterprises all over China.  Some
progress has also been made in increasing the availability of foreign exchange
to nonexporting enterprises as several provinces have now established foreign
exchange adjustment centers to which such enterprises have qualified excess to
meet their impo.t requirements. Some foreign exchange trading markets have
also been created, but their operation is restricted to the Special Economic
Zones.
2.12     In the financial sector, reforms to date have been focused on
increasing the competition among existing (and some new) financial
institutions and reducing the role of centrally budgeted and planned
investments in the ecouomy. This has been done in part by allowing
enterprises to finance their investments through bank borrowings and, more
recently, through the issuance of bonds. (The share of budgetary allocations
to investments has declined from 611 to 201 since 1980.) In addition, more
uniformity has been introduced into the interest rate structure and the
overall rates have been raised resulting in less subsidization.
2.13     The reforms are being implemented in China at a different pace
between regions and subsectors. While the reforms constitute significant and
positive changes, the degree of autonomy of enterprises is still very limited.
Enterprises depend heavily on the various central and provincial ministries,
commissions, and bureaus in their day-to-day management. Most are still
basically production units, rather than autonomous economic entities. It is
well recognized b, the central and provincial governments that further
important reforms are required in industry, and actions are contemplated to
further decentralize decisiea-making to provinces, and from provinces to
enterprises; and to provide he appropriate incentive framework to these firms
by increasingly subjecting them to the discipline of the market.
C. Bank SupDort for Industry
2.14     The Bank Group's industrial lending operations in China began in
December 1982 with the approval of the First China Investment Bank Project.
Subsequently, three more loan and credit operations to CIB have been approved
with total lending amounting to $645.6 million (details in paras. 4.12-4.27).
The main purpose of the CIB operations has been to develop CIB as a premier



- 6 -
financial intermediary providing financing for small- and medium-scale
industry. Disbursements of the CIB loans and credits, have, apart from some
delays on the first operation, proceeded generally satisfactorily. While
CIB's manpower and systems require additional strengthening, the basis of a
sound development bank, particularly at the branch level, has been
established.  Besides the four CIB operations, Bank Group involvement
comprises: (a) three loans, totaling $257.3 million (Loan 2541-CHA, May 1985,
Loan 2838-CHA, June 1986 and Loan 2958-CHA, June 1988) for a Fertilizer
Rehabilitation and Energy Saving Project, a Fertilizer Rationalization Project
and a Phosphate Development Project; (b) a loan of $100 million (Loan
2784-CHA, April 1987) for the Shanghai Machine Tool Project, involving
rehabilitation and modernization of machine tool sector in Shanghai; (c) a
regional development project for Gansu Province (Loan 2812-CHA, and Credit
1793-CHA, April 1987) which includes an industrial development component of
$20 million, to be used for diversification and modernization of the
predominantly rural industrial base in the province; and (d) a loan of $127.0
million (Loan 2943-CHA, May 1988) for a China Pharmaceutical Project.
Physical implementation of the first two fertilizer projects is proceeding
satisfactorily and procurement actions on the two industrial projects in
Shanghai and Gansu have been initiated. A Planning Support and Special
Studies Project, which, inter alia, includes components for supporting long-
term planning and strategic studies in selected industrial subsectors, was
approved in June 1987. No PCRs have yet been prepared on any of the above
projects. IFC support, since the first operation in 1985, totals $25 million
equivalent (of which $2 million equivalent is in the form of equity), covering
the following projects: Guangzhou and Peugeot (Investment Jo. 813), Chi.na
Investment Company (Investment No. 974) and Shenzen China Bicycles Co., Ltd.
(Investment No. 1020).
2.15     The Bank's overall objectives in the industrial sector are to assist
the Government to: (a) improve the policy framework for the sector as a
whole; (b) build sound institutions and practices for financial
intermediation, subsector planning and project approval and implementation;
(c) promote and implement technology upgrading, plant restructuring and
rehabilitation and energy and material conservation in selected subsectors at
the national and provincial levels; and (d) carry out the needed reforms in
the financial sector. The present and the emerging operational pipeline and
the program of economic and sector work reflect the above strategic thrust.
Specific plans include further support for both CIB and other financial
intermediaries, in the context of overall sector reform now underway,
assistance to selected major subsectors at the national and provincial levels,
e.g., fertilizers, pharmaceuticals and machine tools, and the development of
broad-based industrial lending operations at the provincial level, involving
restructuring of major subsectors in the context of a coherent provincial
strategic framework. The increasing devolution of planning and implementation
responsibility from the center has the potential for a significant impact on
the industrial sector, providing that the provincial authorities can
effectively enunciate and carry out their new role. The anticipated series of
provincial operations are designed to help selected provinces articulate and
implement their new responsibilities. Operations designed to assist the
rapidly growing rural industrial sector are also planned. Such support will
initially be through the SPARK program that is providing technical and
financial support to selected rural enterprises, many of which are outside the
state sector. The Bank's significant program of economic and sector work in
the area of industry and finance has and is providing the basis for an active



policy dialogue with the Government on many of the issues described in paras.
2.4-2.8 above. The main studipe completed so far relate to the state
enterprise management system, finance and investment, and external trade and
capital. Further work is planned in such areas as enterprise and financial
reform as well as several subsector studies at the national and provincial
level. This work is increasingly being carried out jointly with Chinese
I;3encies.
II:. LIGHT INDUSTRY SECTOR IN TIANJIN
A. Tianiin and Its Industry
3.1      Tianjin, an industrial city at the confluence of the ancient Grand
Canal and the Hai River, which flows to the Gulf of Bohai, is China's third
largest city after Shanghai and Beijing. These three cities have the status
of provinces and are directly under the Central Government. The Tianjin
Municipality covers an area of 11,300 km2, including the city itself, seven
suburban and maritime districts and five rural counties. The population of
the municipality as a whole was 8.2 million in 1986, with 5.4 million people
living in the city proper.
3.2      Tianjin has a key place in the Chinese economy.  It was opened up as
an international commercial port in 1860 and since that time has been
important in industrial trade and financial center. Because of its location,
Tianjin is a major land and water communication pivot in China. The two trunk
lines of the Beijing-Shanghai railway pass through Tianjin. The port of
Tianjin is the third largest in China. It has, thus, become a large economic
center serving Northern China.
3.3      Tianjin has a relatively large and diversified industrial base.  In
1986, its industrial output reached Y 33.2 billion ($9.6 billion), 32 of the
national industrial output. The share of light industry is above the national
average; 54.92 compered with 46.71 for China (at current prices). State-owned
enterprises dominate Tianjin industry, generating about 802 of its gross
industrial output, a pattern similar to Shanghai and Beijing. The total labor
force employed in the fianjin Municipality in 1985 was 5.7 million, of which
about 2 million persons were working in state-owned units and 0.7 million in
collective units, the remainder being self-employed, government employees, and
farmers.
B. Light Industry Sector
3.4      Light industry in Tianjin produces a large variety of consumer goods.
The main subsectors are textiles and clothing (with 322 of total output value
of light industry) and food processing. Other products include paper and
paper products, pharmaceuticals, silk products, cigarettes, liquors, tin cans,
bicycles, watches, and some categories of machine tools. Textiles (including
garments), paper, and packaging and printing are important subsectors in
Tianjin, and represent 412 of its total light industry output. The textiles,
packaging, and, in part, paper subsectors are export-oriented either directly
or indirectly. The demand for their products is increasing rapidly and they
also have good potential to contribute to higher export earnings.



3.5      Tianjin industrial output grew at the rate of 8.1Z p.a.l/
at constant prices between 1980 to 1986 (Table 3.1). The good performance of
industry was supported by light industry whose production grew at an average
rate of 8.4Z p.a. However, the gross output of textile dyeing and finishing,
and paper grew at a lower rate, due mainly to production capacity constraints.
The packaging industry grew faster but now faces capacity constraints as well.
Table 3.1: TIANJIN: INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT TREND
Output Value
(Y million at 1980      Average Annual Growth
Constant Prices)                Rate (Z)
1980     1985     1986              1980-86
Gross Output of Industry   18,800   28,500   30,000                   8.1
Heavy industry             8,700   13,000   13,600                  7.7
Light industry            10,100   15,500   16,400                  8.4
Of which:  Textile /a   3,100    4,200    4,100                   4.8
Paper          347       358      376                 1.3
Packaging /b    21        35       59                18.8
/a   Textile dyeing and finishing, excluding garments.
iD   Paper board packaging only.
Source: Tianjin Planning Commission and Mission estimates.
3.6      Exports of manufactured goods from Tianjin grew at 7.3Z p.a. in
constant terms, during 1980-86, as a result of national and regional export
promotion policy efforts (Table 3.2). The share of Tianjin exports in
regional industrial output reached 10.1Z in 1986, a ratio higher than the
national average. Most c.ports consist of light industry goods. Quality and
production capacity constraints did not allow exports of textiles and paper to
follow the same high export trends. Moreover, subsector production and
marketing policies and practices often prevented enterprises from adjusting to
new and rapidly changing export market requirements.
1/  This average growth rate is lower than the 10.42 rate of industrial
growth for China during the same period, since Tianjin had already
reached a much higher development level than the rest of China.  The
gross industry output per capita in Tianjin was Y 2,510 in 1980,
compared with Y 504 for China, and reached Y 3,681 in 1986 (at 1980
prices).



- 9 -
Table 3.2: TIANJIN: INDUSTRIAL EXPORTS
ExDorts
(Y Million at 1980         Average Annual
constant prices)         Growth Rate X
1980      1985       1986       1980-86
Exports of manufacturing goods       2,100     2,500      3,200            7.3
of which:  Textiles /a               418       388        560            5.0
Paper                     45         44        49            1.4
/a   Direct exports plus indirect exports of textile fabrics.
Source: Tianjin Planning Commission and Mission estimates.
C. Tianiin Industrial Policy Issues and Reforms
3.7      Industry in Tianjin confronts almost the same problems as the rest of
the sector in China. Production and distribution is largely regulated by
various municipal bureaus and commissions which have been guided by a policy
of regional self-sufficiency with emphasis on quantity rather than quality and
efficiency. Enterprise management has very little autonomy and accountability
and lacks exposure to fast changing technology, production methods and devel-
opments in foreign markets. The municipality's industrial sector is often
characterized by a lack of specialization, uneconomic size of operations,
distorted price structure and inadequate management systems. Generally, the
factory buildings are old, technology and equipment is outdated, plant layouts
are cumbersome, and the consumption of electrical and thermal energy and raw
materials is high.
3.8      In line with national policy, the Tianjin Government is implementing
a series of reforms in the industrial sector with the main objectives of
increasing investment efficiency and making the enterprises more responsive to
market signals. A number of reforms have been introduced in the textile
dyeing and finishing, pulp and paper and packaging (TDFPP) subsectors in
Tianjin (Annex 2). Production planning is no more under government's full
control. Most industrial output is now subject to 'indicative planning" where
enterprises are given guidance targets which are not compulsory. An
increasing proportion of production is 'market-adjusted", whereby enterprises
are free to take their own decisions on production and marketing. For
example, most textile and paper products are now under *indicative planning",
whereas some of the packaging enterprises are now producing under a 'market-
adjusted' regime. Prices of majot textiles and some paper products are still
under central or provincial control but prices of most packaging products have
been decontrolled. Small investments (less than Y 500,000) do not require the
approval of the Government if funds are available from enterprise's own
sources or through a bank loan. The adjustment tax (a supplement to the
enterprise income tax to transfer surplus profits to the government) has been
abolished for the textiles subsector. Labor contracts have been introduced
for newly hired workers, though they still form a small percentage of total
labor force in TDFPP. Experimentation is also taking place with respect to
the role of the corporations, which until recently administered operations of



- 10 -
all enterprises in their subsectors. The corporations responsible for textile
dyeing and finishing, paper packaging and printing and decoration subsectors
have been abolished and their functions have been distributed between the
enterprises and the concerned industrial bureaus. The corporations
responsible for pulp and paper and plastic packaging subsectors have been made
"economic, entities with responsibility for profits and losses and financial
obligations of their enterprises. In another innovation some large
enterprises in the three subsectors are experimenting with contracts between
the government and enterprises which provide for special wage premia if these
entities achieve a opecified profit and tax level. Certain financial sector
reforms were also introduced in Tianjin in April 1987 (para. 3.18), which are
impacting on TDFPP subsectors.
3.9      As mentioned earlier (para. 2.13), while the industrial sector
reforms introduced in China, including Tianjin, represent major policy
initiatives, the process has only just begun. In order to provide further
autonomy and accountability to enterprises and to make them more responsive to
market signals, additional reforms are contemplated. Within the boundaries of
overall reforms planned by the Central government, additional measures are
anticipated in textiles, pulp and paper, and packaging subsectors in Tianjin
and the pace of implementation of certain reforms is to be accelerated. These
reforms are included in the Tianjin government's development program and
strategy for TDFPP subsectors which was discussed in detail with Bank staff
during the preparation and appraisal of the proposed project (Annex 1) and
formally adopted by the Municipality in January 1988. During negotiations, an
assurance was obtained from the Tianjin government that it would exchange
views with the Bank on the implementation of its development program and
strategy including the reforms. Details of the reforms are given below.
3.10     Price Reform.  Price control is exercised by the State Price
Commission on centrally planned products and by provincial price bureaus on
provincially planned products. Although the price control system appears
rigid, in practice there is some flexibility, in response to market conditions
and to quality variations. For example, TDF enterprises are permitted to
raise the price of cotton fabric up to 102, without TTB approval, if market
demand is strong. Similarly, enterprises are permitted to raise prices of
dyed and finished fabric up to 152 for good quality products, although
approval of TTB is needed.
3.11     The pace and sequence of major price reforms in Tianjin depend on
decisions to be taken at the national level. Nevertheless, there are certain
price reforms which can be implemented at the Tianjin level. The Tianjin
government intends to accelerate the process of price decontrol, and to
increase substantially the share of products with freely negotiated prices.
It has decontroled prices of certain types of cloth and most paper in 1988 and
further measures will be taken for the decontrol of prices of pure cotton and
blend fabrics in 1989. In addition, the Central government has removed subsi-
dies on imported pulp in 1988; these subsidies were granted on imported pulp
used for within-quota production and were passed on by enterprises to
customers.
3.12     Production Planning Reform.  Substantial progress has been made in
reducing the share of production under mandatory planning in Tianjin.
However, as stated in para. 3.8, a considerable share of production in the
three subsectors is still subject to such contracts. The national ministries
in Beijing intend gradually to remove light industry production from mandatory



- 11 -
planning. In line with this policy, the Tianjin government has decided to
reduce considerably the share of production subject ti mandatory planning in
the TDFPP subsectors, and would aim to increase the share of market-adjusted
production to at least 50? of the total production value by the end of 1990.
3.13     Profit Contracts.  Profit and wage contracts were introduced in 1987
on an experimental basis in some large enterprises in Tianjin (para. 3.8).
The main objective of contracts is to raise enterprise efficiency and profit-
ability by offering wage incentives to workers as well as higher tax collec-
tion to the government. The Tianjin government will develop criteria designed
to evaluate the success of the contract experiment. If the results are found
satisfactory by the government, it will consider introducing similar contracts
in all textile dyeing and finishing, paper and packaging enterprises.
3.14     Direct Exporting.  In China, exports are generally made by foreign
trade corporations (FTCs) and not by enterprises (para. 2.6).  FTCs purchase
products from enterprises at Reminbi prices which are often unrelated to
export prices that they negotiate with foreign buyers. Under the reform
program it is intended that the enterprises in Tianjin textile and paper sub-
sectors would be given the choice of either exporting through FTC or exporting
directly. The latter practice would end their isolation from direct contact
with their export markets and give such entities first hand information on
changing conditions in international markets. It would also serve as an
effective instrument for technology transfer to enterprises, which typically
takes place through such,market contacts, and would provide direct incentives
for quality upgrading.
3.15     In view of the long tradition of textile exports by FTCs and lack of
experience of the enterprises in such activities, a sudden shift to direct
exports could cause transitional difficulties. The Tianjin government has
therefore planned to move gradually in this direction by experimenting with
limited direct export right' to enterprises beginning 1988. During the
transitional period enterprises would establish export departments, train
marketing staff, appoint agents in major export destinations, and, in some
cases, station their own sales representatives in major markets (e.g., in Hong
Kong). These entities would be assisted in their efforts, at least at initial
stages, by the Tianjin Textile and Garment Import-Export Corporations and
Tianjin Stationary and Sports Goods Import-Export Corporation. These corpora-
t.ons have expressed their readiness to provide such assistance.
3.16     Use of Economic Criteria for Investment Decisions.  The major
objective of _nvestments and restructuring of existing production capacity is
to improve the economic performance of TDFPP subsectors. However, in the
absence of appropriate cost and price signals financial analysis by itself
will not always be a reliable guide to optimal decision-making. Furthermore,
the price reform process is a very complex and lengthy exercise which will
often be outside the control of the Tianjin authorities. A second best
approach is the use of economic criteria, besides financial criteria, in the
preparation of overall subsectoral investment plans and in decision-making on
individual investment proposals by financial institutions. This would also
help to ensure that enterprises are financially viable when the price reforms
have been fully introduced. The economic criteria will require the use of
shadow prices for raw materials and other inputs (e.g., power), skilled labor,
and capital. Shadow prices for output should be based on international export
and import prices. Investment decisions should also be based on careful
evaluation of demand prospects in external and domestic markets, and



- 12 -
availability of inputs as well as physical infrastructure and human resources.
In addition, decisions on restructuring of existing production capacity should
aim at exploiting economies of scale where appropriate. The Tianjin
government has decided that its future subsectoral investment plans for TDFPP
aubsectors will be guided by the above considerations. TPC and financial
institutions in Tianjin will apply economic criteria in their investment
decisions. TPC has already begun training some of its staff in the use of
economic criteria in project evaluation, and will intensify such training.
3.17     Labor Mobility.  Restructuring of TDFPP would exacerbate the problem
of surplus labor in some of the sectoral enterprises. In the present socio-
economic structure of China and in the absence of a national social security
system, it is not possible for firms to lay off large numbers of workers. The
Tianjin government would, however, assist in the transfer of excessive workers
from project activities to enterprises in other rapidly growing subsectors
which might be short of labor. As regards newly hired workers, the Tianjin
government has already stipulated that fixed-term labor contracts be agreed
upon between enterprises and workers. The government considers that a
contract duration of three to five years is appropriate, and, in order to give
sufficient flexibility to enterprise management, the contract term should not
be longer.
3.18     Financial Reforms.  With the growing focus of sectoral bureaus on the
formulation of policies and strategies, the burden of individual investment
financing decisions will increasingly and rightly fall on the financial
institutions. Within the context of the national financial reforms
(para. 2.12) some policy changes have been gradually introduced in Tianjin
since April 1987, on an experimental basis. The main reforms are the
following: (a) all banks are permitted to accept deposits; (b) specialized
banks (st ;h as PCBC, ABC and ICBC) are permitted to make loans to any enter-
prise and enterprises are permitted to choose the bank they wish; (c) more
than 30 new financial outlets have been opened; these include local branches
of national specialized banks, urban collective banks owned by districts, and
equipment leasing companies. A high level committee is presently preparing
additional financial reforms in Tianjin, including the establishment of an
inter-bank financial market, and a discount market that nonfinancial enter-
prises could use for trade transactions.
3.19     The decision of the Tianjin government to experiment with financial
reforms should bring benefits to both banks and enterprises. However,
hitherto the implementation of these reforms has been very slow. The People's
Bank in Tianjin and the Tianjin Systems Reform Commission are exploring ways
to encourage competition in the banking field by inducing enterprises to
exercise their new right to deal with the bank of their choice, as well as to
accelerate the implementation of other financial reforms.
D. TDFPP Subsectors Restructuring
3.20     Background information on the textile dyeing and finishing, pulp and
paper and packaging subsectors in Tianjin is given in Annex 3. The main
subsector specific issues and the Tianjin government's strategies (Annex 1)
for subsectoral restructuring are as follows.



- 13 -
Restructuring of Plant and Equipment
3.21     Textile Dveing and Finishing.  This subsector faces a number of
problems including low value added and poor quality of finish, high
consumption of energy and dyes and chemicals, and declining production, sales
and profitability. Many of these problems arise from the continued use of old
and obsolete equipment. Production cycles are typically long and lack
flexibility, preventing the enterprises from accepting domestic or export
orders requiring prompt deliveries of small lots and various color
assortments. Production is generally of smaller width fabrics while the
export market requires wider varieties. In addition, the plants are unable to
provide special finishes, like water repellent, flame retardant, heat
resistance, etc., which are in demand. Most plants in the subsector lack
product specialization and have more or less similar product-mix. This in
turn results in the underutilization of certain types of equipment in many
factories.
3.22     The Tianjin government's basic objective is to restructure the
textile dyeing and finishing subsector so that it can effectively respond to
new patterns of demand in both domestic and foreign markets. The major thrust
is to improve quality and efficiency without an increase in basic production
capacity. The upgraded quality would increase foreign exchange earnings due
to higher export value added. In addition, it would increase the share of
exports (both fabrics and garments) in total output. Exports would be
increased mainly to markets not restricted by quotas, such as Asia, Eastern
Europe and the Middle East. Even in markets with quota restrictions, the
Chinese enterprises are often not able to fulfill the quota for some products,
due to inadequate supply or unsatisfactory quality. The restructuring would
help remove this constraint. It would also enable the efficient substitution
of some of the present import of 40 million-50 million meters per year of high
value fabrics by Tianjin for making garments for re-export. These quality
improvement objectives would be achieved by introducing modern technology.
3.23     However, in order to exploit this new technology efficiently,
significant sector restructuring will be required. According to the
development program and strategy of the Tianjin government, (Annex 1,
para. 18) the restructuring of textile dyeing and finishing subsector would be
guided by the following considerations: (a) the restructuring would aim at
product specialization in individual plants which would enable optimum
utilization of equipment, savings of spares (since each enterprise would have
only one set of equipment), savings in dyes and chemicals, quality
improvement, and economies of scale; (b) instead of piecemeal modernization,
complete restructuring of plants would be carried out; (c) in addition to the
replacement/updating of main processing equipment, auxiliary equipment would
also be modernized to save costs by conserving energy and reuse of water and
certain wastes; (d) the product-mix would be shifted from the present low
quality and low value fabrics to specialized high value fabrics for which
there is ample export opportunity and less competition in the quota countries;
(e) the subsector would develop fabrics in which China could play a leadership
role in export markets; (f) enterprises would be allowed to establish direct
contact with the customers in export markets; and (g) the management and staff
in the Textile Bureau and enterprises would be encouraged to keep themselves
abreast of new technological developments abroad by participating in seminars,
and visits to trade fairs and factories in other countries. The above
strategy is considered satisfactory and responsive to the needs of the
industry.



- 14 -
3.24     Pulp and Paper.  The immediate problem facing the paper subsector in
Tianjin lies in outdated equipment which results in low production capacity
and very high consumption of electrical and thermal energy. However, the
fundamental long-term constraint is the lack of a stable supply of good
quality pulping fiber from domestic sources. The Tianjin government
originally planned to increase paper production from 227,000 tons to 350,000
tons in the next 10 years and to increase exports from 26,000 tons to about
100,000 tons. The restructuring of the subsector aimed at closing about half
of the existing 26 factories, expanding eight of the remaining factories, and
producing 138 different varieties of paper. However, following the dialogue
between the Bank and the municipality during the preparation of this project
the Tianjin authorities have modified their position and now believe that a
strategy needs to be articulated which takes into account the shortage of good
quality pulping fiber, comparative advantage, economies of scale in production
and the international market situation for various types and grades of papers
planned to be exported.
3.25     The restructuring of the pulp and paper subsector in the immediate
future would be highly selective and guided by three main considerations
(Annex 1, para. 21). First, small-scale expansion in pulping would be
discouraged as it leads to inefficient high cost production and may have an
adverse impact on environment. Second, any decision to expand production for
exports will be taken only after a careful analysis of Tianjin's conparative
advantage. To this end consideration would be given, to the extent
technically feasible, to increasing the indigenous fiber content in the
production of paper. In this connection, the export of high value specialty
papers based on locally available cotton pulp (perhaps blended with some
impurted pulp) is particularly attractive. Third, the production of many
varieties of paper would be discontinued and decisions in this regard would be
taken on the basis of an economic cost/benefit analysis of individual types of
paper. Two projects have been identified which would meet the criteria for
assistance in the immediate future and are proposed to be financed under TLIP
(para. 4.3 and Annex 5).
3.26     In order to define the long-term development of the pulp and paper
subsector, the Tianjin government has decided that the Tianjin Paper
Corporation would undertake an in-depth study of the subsector.  Draft terms
of reference for the proposed study are detailed in Annex 6 to this report.
Based on a review of the current st&tus and cost structure of the industry in
Tianjin, alternative strategies for the long term development of the sector
would be defined.  The study would also include the technical and economic
feasibility of establishing centralized pulping and waste paper processing
units. Such a single modern pulping plant could replace all the existing
pulping capacity in smaller plants in Tianjin. It should be of a size which
would support chemical recovery and pollution abatement equipment. With a
view to increasing waste paper usage, the study would also determine the
viability of replacing many small waste paper processing units in Tianjin
paper mills by a large centralized treatment plant; such a plant could
increase the efficiency of collecting, sorting, and cleaning of waste paper
and, thus, allow higher waste usage and assure better quality of pulp. The
above strategy for the future development of the pulp and paper subsector in
Tianjin is realistic and appropriate.
3.27     Packaxins.  The packaging subsector in China remained very
underdeveloped until 1981. As a result of poor packaging, losses in Tianjin
alone are estimated at about Y 100 million in 1986. In order to rectify this



- 15 -
situation and considering the importance of packaging in sales promotion,
particularly in export markets, Tianjin's current modernization program puts
special emphasi on the development of the packaging subsector. At present,
the packaging subsector in Tianjin is characterized by outdated technology
which results in low productivity, poor quality, and wastage of energy and raw
materials. Due to excess demand, there is a preoccupation with physical
output with little emphasis on quality or cost improvements. Shortages of
vital raw materials such as paper board are an additional constraint. The
demand for many high quality products cannot be met and more specialization in
individual plant operations is required. Research and development work is
inadequate and there is a general lack of data and information on the subsec-
tor which inhibits forward planning.
3.28     The development program and strategy of the Tianjin government
(Annex 1, para. 25) provides for the following measures to develop the
packaging industry: (a) the Government would undertake strategic planning for
production, and investment that would consider, inter alia, a balanced
development of various types of packaging industries; interchangeability of
different packaging materials, including paper, glass, aluminum, tin-plate,
and plastics; location and scale of production facilities; and matching of
supply with demand in terms of quantity, quality and variety; (b) the actual
investment program emerging from this work would be carried out in two phases-
-the first phase (up to 1990) would focus on the most urgent needs of bal-
ancing and modernizing existing equipment, the second phase would constitute
major new capital investments designed to introduce modern technology; (c) to
help rectify shortages in raw material supplies, paperboard and wider
corrugated board production would be increased. In this context, consider-
ation would be given in the next five-year plan to establishing a large
centralized corrugated fibre board plant (with a potential output of about 200
million sq m of board) that would cater to the needs of a large number of
small box-makers in and around Tianjin.  This would bring economies of scale,
increase competition among box-makers, release space for expansion in small
paper packaging factories, and provide high quality board; (d) enterprises in
the printing industry would be allowed to import faster multicolor machines
and the supply of printing plates would be improved both in quantity and
quality.  At the same time, these enterprises would be discouraged from
acquiring their own platemaking facilities which are difficult to justify on
an individual plant basis; and (e) marketing links between producers and users
of packaging products would be improved and the research and development
ir-titutes would be strengthened so as to better help the industry respond to
its clients' needs. The above strategy for the development of the packaging
subsector is satisfactory.
Development of Technological Infrastructure
3.29     All the subsectors have their own research and design institutes and
vocational training schools (Annex 4). They function under the concerned
corporations or under the industrial bureaus where such corporations have been
abolished. These institutes and schools are generally well managed and have
dedicated staff but lack modern equipment, including computer hardware and
software, testing equipment, pilot plants and teaching aids and facilities.
They have limited contacts with similar institutions in developed countries
and it is, therefore, difficult for them to keep up with the latest
technological developments abroad. Consequently, they are providing limited
service to the industry.



- 16 -
3.30     The Tianjin governnent's development program and strategy aims at
strengthening these institutes and schools through the import of necessary
equipment and expansion of their programs of applied research.  They would be
encouraged to establish contacts with similar institutions abroad to enable
them to become genuine centers for collection and dissemination of inform-
ation. In addition, they would start publishing technical handbooks, training
manuals, etc. In the textile subsector, the government plans to develop a
facility for making original and innovative designs to help the industry tap
new markets and to achieve a competitive edge in others. The government also
plans to carry out, in 1989, a feasibility study of combining the three
existing institutes in the three packaging subsectors and in accordance with
the normal international practice, locating all the facilities for developing,
measuring and testing packaging products in one place.
Strengthening of Enterprise Level Management Systems and Enterprise Support
Services
3.31     As explained in Chapter II (Section B), enterprises in China have
hitherto faced little competition and, therefore, generally lacked a con-
sciousness of cost, quality, and efficiency issues. However, as the reform
process deepens, enterprises will have to become more efficient and
competitive to respond to the new economic environment. In order to achieve
this objective, it is necessary that, in addition to technological restruct-
uring, management relationships within enterprises and between enterprises and
their supervisory institutions be streamlined, performance assessments and
control techniques for production and marketing be applied with greater
objectivity, and that suitable management information systems be introduced.
While modern management and systems are required by all enterprises in light
industry in Tianjin, not all need the same level of sophistication.  Priority
has to be given -.o larger enterprises in textiles, and pulp and paper
subsectors.
3.32     The introduction of modern management tools will require the
preparation of systems appropriate to the Chinese economy, and well designed
training programs for their use. In order to articulate and introduce
appropriate systems, the development program and strategy of the Tianjin
government includes a study designed to develop inter alia operational
recommendations on enterprise organizational structure, information flows
between bureaus and enterprises, production planning and scheduling and
materials management systems as well as quality control, maintenance programs,
and financial management and information systems. Terms of reference for the
proposed study are detailed in Annex 7.
3.33     As China moves towards a market oriented economy, the increasingly
autonomous Chinese enterprises, including those in light industry in Tianjin,
will need to develop capabilities to address emerging issues and problems in
such areas as technology, marketing, internal organization, labor management
and other efficiency related matters. However, the development of such
expertise will take time and, in the near future, these entities will be
dependent on outside assistance, pa,ticularly when the problems are more
complex. In order to institutionalize such assistance, the Tianjin government
has established recently a light industry support unit at the municipal level.
The unit will assist the enterprises in promptly locating qualified experts
for specific assignments in the three subsectors of TLIP as well as other
subsectors of light industry. For this purpose, it will maintain a roster of
suitably qualified local and foreign consultants. The experts will be engaged



- 17 -
generally for short-term assignments and, besides offering services to
individual enterprises, would work as and when needed with concerned indus-
trial bureaus in Tianjin on inter-subsectoral and intra-subsectoral issues.
Given the complexity and the relatively new character of many of the above
mentioned issues for the Tianjin industry, it is expected that the services of
international experts will be required in a number of cases. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained from the Tianjin government that it will
maintain the light industry support unit with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank and with competent staff in adequate numbers.
E. Development of Overall Industrial Strategy for Tianiin
3.34     The Tianjin government has initiated the preparation of an overall
iTdustrial etrategy for Tianjin up to the year 2000. The preparation of the
strategy would involve several studies on both overall industrial and subsec-
tor levels, in which several bureaus, institutes and universities will be
involved. A preliminary assessment of Tianjin's industrial development
prospects was completed in 1988 and reviewed and commented upon by the Bank.
An action plan for more detailed studies and other related activities, which
would form the basis for further work, would be completed by the Tianjin
government by mid 1989. As requested by the government, the Bank will review
the plan upon its completion and will provide appropriate support in the
preparation of the overall industrial strategy.
F. Bank Role and Strategy
3.35     The Bank's strategy for the industrial sector of Tianjin, to be
implemented through the proposed TLIP, is three-fold: (a) to help articulate
overall strategy for the medium- and long-term industrial development of
Tianjin; (b) to assist in designing the specifics of restructuring programs
and strategies for the three priority subsectors; and (c) to finance and
support the implementation of the program and strategies. As mentioned in
para. 3.34 above, the Bank is already assisting the Tianjin government in the
preparation of overall strategy for the industrial sector.
3.36     As mentioned in para. 1.2, Bank staff, with the assistance of the
Tianjin government, have carried out an indepth study of the three subsectors
which is available in the project file. The study focused on sectoral
policies and systems; operational performance and trends in the subsectors;
financial management and technical structure of enterprises and their plans
for restructuring; and the role and adequacy of institutional infrastructure.
The study formed the basis for a very constructive dialogue with the Tianjin
authorities which have prepared and formally adopted a development program and
strategy for the three subsectors. The proposed policy and system reforms
(paras. 3.10-3.19), technological restructuring of enterprises
(paras. 3.20-3.28), development of institutional infrastructure
(paras. 3.29-3.30), and strengthening of enterprise management systems (para.
3.31 and 3.32) as given in the development program and strategy (Annex 1) are
consistent with the conclusions and recommendations of the study and fully
responsive to the development and restructuring needs of the three subsectors.
3.37     The Bank staff has also reviewed the restructuring plans of selected
project beneficiaries and, where necessary, has made suggestions to make them
consistent with the strategy for the development of each subsector. In
particular, in the paper subsector, where the economies of scale require



- 18 -
relatively larger investments and careful selection of paper varieties and
grades to be produced, the Bank staff has made interim reviews during the
preparation of feasibility studies and provided necessary advice.
3.38     The Bank staff has also assisted the Tianjin government in the
preparation of a detailed development program for the institutional
infrastructure and plans for the strengthening of internal enterprise
management and information systems in TDFPP subsectors. It is expected that
the Bank's study of the three subsectors and its involvement in the
preparation of enterprise restructuring plans and programs for the development
of institutional infrastructure will serve as a model for similar exercises
for other subsectors in Tianjin for which the municipal government will now
assume full responsibility.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
4.1      The proposed project forms part of the Bank's overall effort to
support the implementation of the GOC's program of industrial restructuring.
The project will focus on three important subsectors of the light industry in
Tianjin, viz. textile dyeing and finis. Tng, pulp and paper, and packaging,
that have been given high priority for deve.pment by the municipal govern-
ment. It would assist the implementation of the Tianjin government's
development program and strategy for the above subsectors and would have the
following specific objectives:
(a) acceleration of policy and systems reforms in the selected
subsectors as well as the preparation of long-term overall
industrial development strategy;
(b) modernization and restructuring of subsectoral enterprises based on
economic criteria;
(c) strengthening of related technological infrastructure; and
(d) improvement of related internal enterprise management and systems.
B. Proiect ComDonents
4.2       The project will have two main components:
(a) financial assistance for the technological restructuring of
enterprises in TDFPP subsectors, and
(b)  technical assistance for the overall subsector restructuring
programs including the strengthening of institutional infrastructure
in Tianjin.
The description of two components is as follows.
Financial Assistance for Enterprise Technological Restructuring
4.3      The project will provide financial assistance of $141.2 million out
of the proposed IBRD loan to meet the foreign currency requirements of the



- 19 -
technological restructuring of enterprises in TDFPP subsectors. The funds
would be onlent through CIB which would be responsible for the appraisal and
assessment of overall viability of individual subprojects. At present, there
are 15 subprojects in the pipeline that are proposed to be financed under
TLIP. In the textile dyeing and finishing subsector, five enterprises have
been identified for restructuring. The investments would include inter alia
the purchase and installation of energy efficient processing equipment to
allow the project beneficiaries to produce high quality and high value added
fabrics for the domestic and export markets and to enable the rationalization
of product lines between plants. In the pulp and paper subsector, only the
two highest priority establishments out of a total of 26 enterprises are pro-
posed to be restructured during 1988-90; further restructuring of the sub-
sector would await the conclusions of the comprehensive study (para. 3.26).
The investments in these two plants, (Annex 5) which are for product lines in
which Tianjin has a clear comparative advantage, would establish a new
production capacity of 40,000 tpy of high quality coated and priority paper
and 30,000 tpy of high quality water-marked writing paper; about half of the
output would be for the domestic market with the remainder being exported.
The investment would allow the beneficiaries to exploit domestic raw material
more efficiently particularly local cotton waste which yields a pulp of
superior quality. Eight projects have been identified in the packaging
subsector (one in paper and board packaging, two in plastic packaging and five
in printing and decoration) that are proposed to be financed under TLIP. The
investment would enable these enterprises to upgrade the quality of their
output and to increase product variety so as to meet the increasingly
sophisticated needs of their clients particularly those in the export sector.
The line of credit will be used by the above enterprises to import machinery
and equipment and to finance incremental working capital and interest during
construction.
4.4      Given their relatively large size, the Bank staff has made a detailed
evaluation of the two paper subprojects, as well as a preliminary review of
the subprojects expected to be financed in other subsectors. The
restructuring plans of these subprojects are consistent with Tianjin govern-
ment strategies for their respective subsectors. The subprojects appear to be
economically and financially viable, though this will be finally established
by CIB at the time of its subproject appraisal. CIB would ensure that all
subprojects to be financed under TLIP are consistent with the development
program and strategy of the Tianjin government and its own investment criteria
which include a minimum ERR and FRR of 12Z and that they are sponsored by
enterprises with satisfactory projected financial position. The subprojects
in the pipeline are subject to change if CIB's detailed analysis shows them
not to be viable or as a result of changes in the plans of specific
enterprises they are no more suitable for financing.
4.5      Although the project is primarily intended to assist the three pre-
identified subsectors, CIB will be allowed the flexibility to finance sub-
projects in other subsectors to be agreed between the Bank and the Tianjin
government on the basis of studies and development strategies to be prepared
by the municipality. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from CIB
on the above eligibility and investment criteria for assisting enterprises
under the industrial credit component of the project.



- 20 _
Technical Assistance
4.6      Technical assistance of $12.8 million will be provided out of the
proposed IBRD loan to finance equipment, computer hardware and software,
advisory and consultancy services, staff training, studies, etc., for overall
subsector restructuring as described in the following paragraphs. During
negotiations assurances were obtained from the Tianjin government and CIB that
they will carry out the TA component in accordance with the program agreed
with the Bank.
4.7      Development of Technological Infrastructure.  The project will assist
eleven design and research institutes and vocational training schools in the
TDFPP subsectors to implement the Tianjin government's strategy for the
development of technological infrastructure (paras. 3.29 and 3.30). Detailed
information on the current status of all the support institutions and the
program for their development to be suppor:ted by the technical assistance to
be provided under the project, is given in Annex 4. The equipment, consulting
services and training to be provided under this component will help the
beneficiaries to upgrade their research and testing facilities and teaching
aids, and enable them to increase their contacts with counterpart institutions
in developed countries, thereby increasing their exposure to latest technolo-
gical developments.  During negotiations, understandings were reached with the
TMG on the details of this TA component.
4.8      Studies and otber Consultancy Support.  The beneficiaries in the
three selected subsectors, particularly those larger enterprises in the pulp
and paper and textile subsectors, need to strengthen their enterprise level
management systems (paras. 3.31 and 3.32). This in turn requires a detailed
analysis of individual needs of each subsector and development of appropriate
systems which would be supported under the project. Detailed terms of
reference for this work which would be carried out by internationally
recru::.ted consultants are given in Annex 7. The exercise would include the
preparation of the study itself, the preparation of related training manuals
and the introduction of the new systems and techniques in selected pilot
enterprises. The Tianjin government has developed a short-term strategy for
the pulp and paper subsector (para. 3.25) which includes the two projects pro-
posed for financing under TLIP (para. 4.3). The subsequent development of
this subsector would be based on the results of the study described in
para. 3.26 above which would be supported under the project. The detailed
terms of reference of the study are given in Annex 6. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the TMG that (a) both the enterprise management
systems study and the paper subsector study would be carried out in accordance
with terms of reference and timing agreed with the Bank; and (b) the results
of the studies and actions for the implementation of recommendations will be
discussed between the Bank and the Tianjin government upon their completion.
Suppcrt would also be included for the training of CIB Tianiin staff
(para. 4.26), and consultancy services for general assistance to light
industry (para. 3.33).  The pre:-ration of Tianjin overall industrial strategy
including the background studies (para. 3.34) is included in the project scope
but not covered in the TA component and will be financed from other sources
(para. 4.10).



- 21 -
C. Proiect Cost and Financing
4.9      The total cost of the project including incremental working capital
is estimated at $227.6 million (reflecting mid-1988 prices) of which $155.0
million (68Z) would be in foreign exchange. Table 4.1 summarizes the
estimated project costs including contingencies. The estimates are of a
tentative nature as the main project component--technical restructuring of
enterprises--is based on preliminary cost estimates of the subprojects in the
pipeline that are proposed to be financed through a credit line. Reflecting
the above no attempt has been made to separate contingencies. The actual
subprojects and their final cost estimates may be somewhat different and these
would be prepared by CIB at the time of its subproject appraisal. The total
cost of the technical assistance component is estimated at $14.9 million of
which $12.8 million would be in foreign exchange.



- 22 -
Table 4.1: E-STIMATED PROJECT COST
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  X of
(Y million) ----  ---- (I million) ---- Total
Technololical Restructurina
of Enterprizes
Capital Cost:
Textile Dyeing and Finishing   50.6  128.?  179.8   18.6  84.6    48.2 21.2
Pulp and Papor                166.0  234.4  889.4   41.7  68.0   104.7 46.0
Packaging                      28.1  125.0  161.1    7    88.6    40.6 17.8
Subtotal                   231.7  488.1  719.8   62.8 181.2   193 6 85 .
Incremental working capital    So a   87.2   67.5    8.1  10.0    18.1  7.9
Subtotal for Enter-
prise Restructuring      262.0  625.8  787.8   70.4 141.2   211.6 92.9
Technical Assistance
Development of Technological
Infrastructure               7.1   48.6   60.6    1.9  11.7    18.6  6.0
Others                          0.7    4.1    4.8    0.2   1.1 /a  1.8  0.6
Subtotal                     7.8   47.6   66.4    2.1  12.8    14.9  6.6
Pr-earation of Overall Industrial
Strateay                        0.2    8.7    8.9    0.1   1.0      1.1  o.5
Total Financina Required   27     67.6  846.8   72.   166 n   227.6 lnn n
/   Include $ 6 million for enterprise organization and management system study, 80.8
million for pulp and paper subsector study, o B million for consultancy services for
light Industry, and 20.06 million for CIS staff training.
4.10      The proposed Bank loan will meet the foreign currency requirements
of $154 million; the balance of $1.0 million required for th.e preparation of
Tianjin's overall industrial strategy is expected to be financed from the
Second Technical Corporation Credit (TCC II) (Credit No. 1664-CHA). Local
currency requirements for technological restructuring would be financed by
CIB, other Chinese banks and enterprises' own resources. The Tianjin
government will provide the necessary local currency finance for the technical
assistance component of the project. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Tianjin government that it will ensure the availability of
the necessary funds, services and resources for the implementation of the
project.



- 23 -
D.  Proiect Implementation Arrangements
Role of the Tianiin Municipal Government (TMG)
4.11     TLe Tianjin Municipal Government (TMG) and CIB (Tianjin) will be
responsible for overall project implementation. The TMG, besides carrying out
economic and system reforms as outlined in the development program and
strategy, will coordinate and monitor all project related activities. TPC has
established, on behalf of the Tianjin government, a task force for projcct
preparation under its own chairmanship.  It comprises senior officials from
the Tianjin Finance Bureau, Tianjin Textile Bureau, Tianjin First and Second
Light Industry Bureaus, Industry Department of TPC, PCBC and CIB. This task
force will be maintained and will be supported by a recently established
project implementation unit with full-time staff. The unit will be
responsible, inter alia, for follow up on (a) implementation of the
development program and strategy for the three subsectors; (b) implementation
of the technical assistar-e for support institutions; (c) utilization of
general assistance for light industry; and (d) completion of the studies for
internal enterprise management strengthening and the paper subsector and
implementation of their recommendations. The secretariat will also liaise on
a regular basis with the concerned municipal government departments, central
government institutions, CIB and the Bank. It will prepare six-monthly
reports on project implementation together with CIB (para. 5.8). During nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained from the Tianjin government on the main-
tenance of the existing task force and the above unit with competent staff in
adequate numbers, and with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the
Bank.
Role of the China Investment Bank (CIB)
4.12     CIB, through its Tianjin Branch, will be responsible for the
appraisal and supervision of subprojects to be financed under the proposed
Bank loan. The Tianjin Branch will prepare the appraisal reports required for
each subproject and forward them directly to the World Bank for review. CIB
has already gained substantial experience in project appraisal and is the only
financial institution in the industrial sector in China whose investment
finance decisions are based on generally accepted project appraisal techniques
and procedures. It has received, so far, four credit lines from the Bank
Group: CIB I (Ln/Cr 2226/1313-CHA) for $70.6 million approved on December 21,
1982; CIB II (Ln/ Cr 2434/1491-CHA) for $175 million approved on June 5,1984;
CIB III (Ln/Cr 2659/1663-CHA) for $100 million approved on March 3, 1986; and
CIB IV (Ln/Cr 2783/1763-CHA) for $300 million approved on March 3, 1987. The
Bank has also provided considerable support to CIB's institutional develop-
ment. It has developed sufficient capability to satisfactorily appraise and
supervise subprojects that will be financed under TLIP and to take objective
investment financing decisions.  The institutional, operational,  'nd financial
aspects of CIB are described below.
4.13     The Institution.  CIB commenced its operations in 1983 as a
government-owned development finance institution. It has a paid-in capital of
Y 1,150 million ($309 million equivalent). CIB is administratively under the
leadership and supervisory responsibility of MOF and remains closely tied with
PCBC, from whom most of its internal staffing, both at central and provincial



- 24 -
levels, has been drawn. Its organization (Chart 1) consists of (a) a head
office in Beijing which performs an administrative and supervisory role for
its entire operation; and (b) provincial branch offices, which have the direct
responsibility for screening, appraisal and supervision of projects. The
branch offices have expanded from three in 1982 to 31 at present and some have
also established subbranches. CIB has also delegated in 1987 limited loan
approval authority to selected branches; decisions on larger loans are taken
at the head office.
4.14     CIB's 33-member Board of Directors has remained structurally the same
since 1983; it is chaired by the President of PCEC and includes
representatives of the Government departments and banks concerned. The Board
meets once a year and has delegated most of its operational decision making
authority to a Managing Committee consisting of the Board Chairman, the three
Deputy Chairmen and eight Managing Directors.
4.15     CIB's management at the head office consists of a President and
two Vice-Presidents who have the responsibility of supervising specific
departments. Each branch office is also headed by a President. Until early
1987, these Presidents were generally Vice Presidents of the local branches of
PCBC and the day-to-day management was assigned to a Vice President. In order
to have full-time top management which focuses exclusively on CIB affairs, CIB
has decided gradually to appoint full-time presidents at the branch level; and
twenty have already been appointed. The total number of staff at the head
office has increased from 33 in 1984 to 130 in mid-1988. Similarly, the staff
at the branches has also increased from 84 to 910 during the same period. The
staff includes 122 engineers and 510 economists/financial analysts, who are
directly involved in project appraisal and supervision work. CIB plans to
increase its total staff to about 1,400 by the end of 1990. The staff size
would be adequate to cope with CIB's growing operations. However, middle
level managers and professional staff generally lack advanced financial skills
and experience and there is thus a continued need for intensive training
programs.
4.16     CIB's major operational and financial policies are outlined in its
Policy Statement. CIB will continue to focus on small- and medium-sized
projects aimed at expansion, modernization and technical transformation of
existing enterprises, particularly in the light industry sector. Its total
foreign currency lending to any one project would not normally exceed
$15 million and total local currency lending would not exceed Y 30 million
($8.1 million equivalent). The two paper subprojects proposed to be financed
agency basis (para. 5.1).
4.17     CIB's project appraisal is undertaken in accordance with the
Industrial Projects Appraisal Manual vhich bas been prepared with the Bank
assistance. While considerable progress has been achieved by CIB in the short
time since its inception in evaluating and appraising investment projects
there is need for further improvement in economic and market analysis. The
project supervision of CIB follows its Project Supervision Manual and is quite
intensive. It includes frequent staff visits to projects and periodical
reports by enterprises to CIB to facilitate the monitoring of progress on
project implementation and operations.



- 25 -
4.18     Since its establishment in 1981, CIB has made considerable
progress in its institutional development. It has adopted effective lending
procedures, modern project appraisal techniques and comprehensive project
implementation and supervision guidelines. In addition, it has recruited a
large number of well-educated junior and middle-level staff, started to
diversify its funding resources, and developed strong branches in several key
counties and provinces. CIB is also implementing various institutional
strengthening measures agreed under CIB IV. It has introduced a new financial
management information system, established a separate unit for economic and
research work, appointed a full-time internal auditor, and is carrying out a
staff training program.
4.19     In response to its rapid expansion and the likelihood of greater
competition, as well as to correct existing shortcomings, CIB needs to focus
on five main areas of institutional development. First, it should provide
greater autonomy for its branches to allow prompt investment decisions and to
tap provinces' own sources of foreign exchange. Second, it should enhance its
contribution to the design of subprojects including inter alia the
strengthening of its sectoral expertise. Third, it should expand its
financial products and services for client enterprises. Fourth, it should
further diversify its funding sources, particularly by enhanced commercial
borrowings abroad. Fifth, it should expand its staff training program. The
Bank is having a continuous dialogue with CIB in the context of its lending
operations and project supervision and CIB is moving in all these areas.
CIB's active involvement in the preparation of TLIP was a useful experience
for its staff of upstream participation in project design through subsectoral
work.
4.20     Operations.  CIB's foreign exchange loan approvals in 1986 declined
by 162 (from $215 million in 1985 to $182 million in 1986) and the local
currency approvals declined by 182 (from Y 334 million in 1985 to Y 272
million in 1986). This situation was due to foreign currency resource
constraint. In 1987, the downward trend was reversed, with foreign exchange
loan approvals increasing by 1202 to $400 million, and local currency loan
approvals increasing by 902 to Y 518 million. The availability of additional
resources including the fourth Bank loan/IDA credit, the first ADB loan, and
foreign market borrowings, and the strong demand for CIB's funds, made it
possible for CIB to increae its lending operations sharply. CIB plans to
increase its loan approvals by 152 per annum upto 1992. As a result, loan
approvals will increase to $993 million in foreign currency and Y 1,300
million ($350 million equivalent) in local currency by 1992 (Annex 10).
4.21     Resource Position.  Since its establishment, CIB has received
share capital of Y 1,150 million from the Government, and local currency loans
totalling Y 420 million from PCBC and local governments. In addition, the
Government has onlent to CIB $645 million received from IBRD/IDA under CIB I-
IV and $100 million from ADB.  CIB itself has raised foreign exchange funds in
foreign currency requirements during 1988-92 CIB plans to utilize available
resources at the end of 1987, loan recoveries and additional borrowings from
the Bank, ADB and international capital markets. Local currency resources
will include increases in paid-in capital, loan recoveries and borrowings from
PCBC.



- 26 -
4.22     Financial Performance.  The actual and projected income statements
and balance sheets of CIB for 1983-92 are given in Annexes 11 and 12
respectively. CIB's net profit was Y 94 million in 1987 representing 8.2X of
average equity. The five-year tax holiday for CIB expired at the end of 1987
and therefore its profits after tax would decline in 1988 but would increase
in later years. CIB's administrative expenses in 1987 were low, representing
0.3Z of its average total assets. CIB's average spread on all foreign
exchange and local currency loans decreased from 4.1? in 1985 to 2.4Z in 1987
mainly because of the higher share in CIB's total resources of foreign
currency loans which have relatively lower margins. CIB's long-term debt to
equity ratio was 1.6:1 at the end of 1987, well within the 5:1 limit provided
under CIB IV. CIB's debt service coverage ratio in 1987 was 2.8 times. The
overall financial position of CIB is sound.
4.23     According to CIB's financial projections, its net income before taxes
would increase from Y 119 million in 1988 to Y 368 million in 1992. However,
the net income after taxes would be Y 165 million in 1992. The overall
average interest spread of CIB would remain at about 2.OZ which is
satisfactory. Administrative expenses would also remain low at 0.2-0.3? of
average total assets. The rate of return on average equity would be between
4-7Z during 1988-92. This low return is attributable to the fact that CIB
primarily relies on share capital to finance its local currency operations,
and very little leverage on borrowed funds is applied. Long-term debt to
equity ratio would increase from 2.4:1 in 1988 to 3.6:1 in 1990 and 5.0:1 in
1992 which is the maximum limit specified in earlier Project Agreements and
would necessitate the injection of additional equity funds. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from CIB that it will maintain its
debt/equity ratio below 5:1 limit.  The projections indicate that CIB's
financial position would continue to be strong during 1988-92.
4.24     Utilization of Bank Loans/IDA Credits.  As of August 31, 1988,
approvals under CIB I, II, III and IV totalled $623.2 million for 493
subprojects. Of the subprojects financed with Bank funds, those in the light
industry subsector accounted for 29.3? in amount. Other predominant
subsectors are textiles and clothing (25.32) followed by electronics (11.2Z),
machinery (lO.OZ), and chemicals (7.1?); other subsectors including
metallurgical, building materials, pharmaceuticals, packaging materials, food
processing and services account for less than 5? each. The average size of
all Bank-financed subloans is $1.3 million. The subloans are for 3-10 years,
including grace periods of up to 3 years. Most subborrowers are state
enterprises together with a few urban collectives. CIB has not financed any
joint ventures. The projected economic rates of return of the subprojects
financed under Bank loans range from 12? to 45? and the financial rates of
return from 13? to 35?. In its financing, CIB is placing emphasis on export-
oriented subprojects, use of advanced technology, and energy conservation. In
general, new projects sponsored by existing enterprises have resulted in more
effective use of the fully committed on schedule. However, due to cumbersome
internal procedures in China following subloan approval, disbursements were
slow in the initial two years. Since 1985, internal procedures in China have
been streamlined and disbursements have accelerated. At the request of CIB,
the closing date of CIB I was extended by one year, to December 31, 1988.
Disbursements under CIB II, and III are ahead of estimates and those under CIB
IV are a little behind because of some delay in loan/credit effectiveness.



- 27 -
4.25     CIB Tianiin Branch.  The CIB Tianjin branch was one of the first to
be established and is among the most developed brarc.-hes of CIB. It is headed
by a full-time President and has a total staff of 50; most of them being
economists and engineers with university degrees. About half of the staff is
involved in project appraisal and supervision, including 12 economists/
financial analysts and 6 engineers. Almost all the staff has received some
training after joining CIB. Most of them have attended short training
programs organized by the head office. Seven staff have participated in EDI
training programs in China and another five have received training in foreign
countries. Further training for the branch staff is, however, necessary,
particularly to enhance their capability in subsectoral review and analysis.
A sum of $50,000 (para. 4.8) has been included in the technical assistance
component of TLIP for such training.
4.26     As of August 31, 1988, the Tianjin branch had approved 47 subprojects
for a total loan amount of $84.6 million in foreign currency and Y 158.1
million in local currency. Loan approvals for textiles, paper and packaging
subsectors were $25 million or 30 of the total approvals in foreign currency.
Among the 47 subprojects approved, 24 are under implementation and 23 have
been completed. Overall, the operational and financial performance of
completed subprojects has been highly satisfactory.
E. Environmental Impact
4.27     Of the three subsectors included in TLIP, only the paper industry has
potentially significant environmental problems. The packaging industry
presents no particular difficulty for the environment, and the textile dyeing
and finishing plants have only minor discharges of spent chemicals and dyes.
In all of the textile mills being renovated under the project, suitable
effluent treatment facilities will be included to provide flocculation,
settling and seven day retention of the effluent to neutralize the small
amount of acids and toxic materials.
4.28     The existing pulp and paper industry in Tianjin has a negative impact
on the environment because it discharges spent pulping chemicals and dissolved
organic materials in the liquid effluent from the many small chemical pulp
mills. The effluent is treated in a municipal sewerage system, but this
treatment may not be adequate for the heavy load of Biochemical Oxygen Demand
(BOD) from the production of over 100,000 tons/year of chemical pulp. Because
the mills are small, it is not economically possible to provide each of them
with a chemical recovery furnace to recover the pollutants. This is a
fundamental environmental problem in Tianjin, and the long term solution would
be to shut the many small pulp mills and replace them with a single large pulp
mill which would have the necessary economy of scale to allow the installation
of a suitable chemical recovery furnace and primary and secondary effluent
treatment facilities. As a part of the TA component of TLIP, the Government
and the Tianjin Paper Corporation have agreed to engage specialized
consultants to study the feasibility of such a centralized pulp mill, and
recommend an implementation program. TLIP will not result in any additional
pollution load from the paper industry. On the other hand, modest environ-
mental improvements can be expected in the existing facilities of the two
mills which will be renovated under the project. The new equipment in these



- 28 -
mills will be considerably more efficient in consumption of water, energy,
chemicals, and fiber, and this will reduce discharges. Further the existing
primary treatment facilities at these mills will be replaced so as to allow
the efficient removal of suspended solids from the effluent of the new
facilities as well as existing production units.
4.29     The equipment proposed to be installed in subprojects in textile
dyeing and finishing and pulp and paper subsectors would help to meet the
Bank's standards for pollution control, besides complying with local
regulations for environmental protection. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from CIB that it will ensure that subprojects will be consistent
with environmental sLandards satisfactory to the Bank. Furthermore,
understandings were reached that appraisal reports and summary information on
individual subprojects to be sent by CIB to the Bank, will indicate
specifically the equipment to be procured for pollution control. During
project implementation and before the Bank's approval of individual
subprojects, or the authorization for withdrawals, Bank staff will check and
ensure that the necessary equipment is included in the list of machinery to be
procured for each subproject.
V. THE LOAN
A. Main Features of the Loan
Lending and Onlending Arrangements
5.1      The People's Republic of China (PRC) will be the borrower of the
proposed Bank loan of $154 million equivalent. It will make available the
loan proceeds to the Tianjin Municipal Government (TMG) on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The TMG would make available the
financial assistance component of the loan ($141.2 million) to CIB for
relending to eligible enterprises. Out of this component, CIB would be the
borrower of $70.2 million for subprojects in the textile dyeing and finishing
subsectors and the managing agency (with all the functions of a financial
intermediary except the assumption of credit risk) on behalf of the TMG for
$71 million for subprojects in the paper subsector. The exceptional treatment
for the paper subsector is considered necessary and acceptable because the two
paper subprojects planned to be financed under the Bank loan are above the
maximum subloan limit of CIB and the bank staff has fully reviewed their
feasibility studies (para 4.4). The TMG would also make available $50,000 out
of the technical assistance component to CIB for its staff training on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. In order to regulate the flow of
resources from the PRC to beneficiaries and to set out the respective obliga-
tions of various entities, the following agreements will be signed: (a) Loan
Agreement between the Bank and PRC; (b) Subsidiary Loan agreement between the
Tianjin government and CIB; (c) Project Agreement between the Bank and the
Tianjin government; (d) Project Agreement between the Bank and CIB; and
(v) Subloan Agreements between CIB and enterprises. State Council approval of
the Loan Agreement and signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement under (b)
above, satisfactory to the Bank, will be conditions of effectiveness of the
Bank loan.



- 29 -
5.2      Under CIB IV, the Government had onlent the loan/credit to CIB at a
fixed interest rate of 7? p.a. and had carried the variable interest rate risk
and the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and the currency pool
index. CIB had onlent at a fixed interest rate of 8.52 with subborrowers
carrying the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and the Chinese Yuan.
Under TLIP, CIB will pay to TMG a variable interest rate equal to the Bank
rate on its borrowed loan amount.  All subborrowers will carry variable
interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk between the currency pool index
and the Chinese Yuan and will pay an interest rate equal to the Bank rate plus
a spread of 1X. This spread is considered adequate to cover the associated
administrative costs and the credit risk in view of a limited number of
relatively large-sized subloans expected to be financed under the loan. As
regards the two paper subprojects where CIB will be a managing agency, it will
transfer the spread to TMG after charging its management fee of 0.32.   The
maximum repayment period for individual subloans would be 15 years including a
grace period of up to 3 years. The last date for submission of subloan
applications will be June 30, 1992. The closing date of the loan will be
June 30, 1995. Assurances on the above terms and conditions were obtained
during negotiations.
5.3      The onlending rate to enterprises would, over the life of the
subloans, be positive in real terms, given projected world and domestic
inflation rates. China's inflation rate was 3Z p.a. in 1981-84, 8.8Z in 1985,
6? in 1986, 7.5? in 1987, 182 in 1988 (estimate) and is projected to be 15? in
1989, 10? in 1990 and 1991, and 8? in 1992 and later years. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (a) CIB would afford the Bank an
opportunity to exchange views with it prior to making any changes in its
interest rates; and (b) from time to time at the request of any party, the
Government and CIB would exchange views with the Bank on the interest rates to
be charged by CIB in its lending operations in light of CIB's cost of funds
and profitability and of movements in interest and inflation rates in China
and internationally.
Free Limit
5.4      Under CIB IV, the Tianjin branch of CIB was one of the three CIB
branches that were allowed a higher free limit of $2.5 million because of
their better quality of appraisal. As the Tianjin branch has now gained more
experience in project work and the Bank staff has already made a detailed
review of the three subsectors to be assisted under TLIP, it is recommended
that the free limit under the proposed loan should be set at $3.5 million.
However, in view of the relatively larger size of subloans, it is estimated
that only one-fourth of the subloans will be below the free limit.
B. Procurement and Disbursements
5.5      Procurement.  It was provided in CIB IV that individual contracts of
$4 million equivalent and above will be awarded after international
competitive bidding (ICB) has been carried out according to the Bank
Procurement Guidelines and those below $4 million will be awarded after
evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at least three
qualified svppliers. The Bank's experience with procurement under earlier
industrial credits to CIB has been satisfactory. The ICB limit for the



- 30 -
industrial credit component of TLIP would be increased to $5 million which is
considered appropriate. Local bidders would be granted the standard
preference, equivalent to custom/import duties or 152 of cif cost, whichever
is lower. Contracts below $5 million would be awarded after evaluation and
comparison of quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers.
Bank's standard review and approval procedures (from bidding documents to
contract awards) would be confined to the first five ICB packages of above $5
million and subsequent contracts of above $10 million. All other procurement
contracts would be subject to post-review by the Bank and CIB would maintain
all relevant documents in its records for this purpose. CIB would also be
responsible for the overall supervision of procurement by subborrowers. Only
about a dozen contracts are expected to exceed $5 million. The procurement
arrangements are summarized in Annex 13.
5.6      As mostly small items of equipment will be procured by the
beneficiary institutions under the technical assistance component, procurement
will be through international shopping. However, for those items of special
equipment, which would have contracts of more than $1 million, procurement
will be through limited international bidding (LIB), with bids invited from a
short list of specialized suppliers to be agreed with the Bank. Furthermore,
each contract estimated to cost $500,000 or more will be subject to the Bank's
prior review. The above procurement arrangements were discussed and agreed
during negotiations.
5.7      Disbursements.  Disbursements would be made against standard
documentation for: (a) 1002 of amounts disbursed by CIB under subloans for
foreign expenditures on goods and services, the ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured equipment procured through ICB, and interest during construction
on subloans payable by an investment enterprise in foreign currency; (b) 10O
of foreign expenditures, 1007 of local expenditures (ex-factory), and 752 of
local expenditures for other items procured locally, for goods under the TA
component; and (c) 100Z of expenditures for consultant services for the
implementation of technical assistance program and o0erseas training.
Disbursements for contracts of or above $500,000 will be made against full
documentation. Disbursements for contracts of less than $500,000 and overseas
training will be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOE), with the full
documentation held by the TMG or CIB, as appropriate, for review by the Bank
supervision missions. CIB will submit a monthly SOE giving information on
amounts of individual subloans, amount of payments, purpose of loans, name and
address of machinery suppliers, and the country of origin of machinery. A
similar monthly SOE will be submitted by the TMG on expenditures under the
technical assistance program. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
June 30, 1995. The disbursement projections are consistent with the
disbursement profile of DFC lending in China and are given in Annex 14. In
order to facilitate project disbursements, two Special Accounts to be
maintained in US dollars would be established under the loan in a bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. For the account to be
established for the financial assistance component to be operated by CIB, the
Bank will make an initial deposit of $8.0 million. As regards the second
account for the technical assistance component to be operated by the TMG, the
Bank will make an initial deposit of $0.8 million. Applications for
replenishment will be submitted monthly or when the amounts withdrawn are
equal to 50S of the initial deposit, whichever comes sooner.



_ 31 -
5.8      Retroactive Financing.  Eligible expenditures under the project upto
a total of $8.0 million (6Z of the loan amount) incurred subsequent to
December 1, 1988 will be allowed for financing under the loan on a retroactive
basis. It will enable the procurement of some of the urgently needed items of
machinery and equipment of relatively small value by enterprises and support
institutions and engagement of consultants to prepare subproject machinery
specifications for bidding purposes.
C. Reporting and Auditing
5.9      The progress of the reform actions will be reported by the Tianjin
government at six-month intervals and discussed periodically with the Bank.
In addition, the Tianjin government will provide: (a) semi-annual progress
reports on implementation of various items included in the technical
assistance component of TLIP; and (b) annual audit reports on Special Account
and Statements of Expenditure with respect to the technical assistance
component prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. CIB will
submit (a) semi-annual reports on progress of all subprojects under imple-
mentation; (b) annual reports on all completed subprojects during the first
three years of subprojects' operations, providing information on performance
of individual subprojects against anticipated constructions and operational
targets (project cost, time schedule, production, sales, exports, and
profitability); reasons for any cost and time overruns, and shortfalls in
meeting original targets and actions being taken or proposed to be taken by
CIB and/or the project sponsor to improve performance; and (c) an annual audit
report on (i) CIB's accounts and (ii) Special Account and Statements of
Expenditures with respect to financial assistance component of TLIP audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. All audited accounts and
statements will be submitted within six months after the end of each fiscal
year. The Tianjin government and CIB will also prepare a project completion
report within six months after the completion of disbursements of the proposed
loan. During negotiations, understandings were reached on above reporting
requirements and assurances were obtained on the auditing requirements.
D. Benefits and Risks
5.10     The acceleration of policy and systems reforms in Tianjin will result
in greater autonomy and accountability for enterprise management, higher
efficiency, and increased competition in the textile dyeing and finishing,
pulp and paper, and packaging subsectors in Tian;in and resource allocation
decisions which increasingly reflect underlying factor costs. The
modernization and restructuring of enterprises in the context of a suitable
overall restructuring strategy for the individual subsectors is expected to
result in significant gains in enterprise productivity, more efficient use of
energy and raw materials and an increase in production quality and exports.
On the basis of preliminary analysis, it is estimated that subprojects to be
financed under the financial component of the loan will generally have minimum
ERR of 20Z or above. The two subprojects in the pulp and paper sector are
estimated to have financial rates of return of 22Z and 172 and economic rates
of return of 22Z and 212 respectively.



- 32 -
5.11     The strengthening of the technological infrastructure will assist the
three subsectors in designing and implementing new projects, product
development, quality control, and product testing and will increase their
exposure to the latest technological advances in foreign countries. Finally,
the project, which would be the first of its kind in China, would serve as a
model for the design and implementation of similar projects in Tianjin and
other provinces. Work has already started on the development of regional
subsectoral projects in Shanghai and Jiangsu.
5.12     The main project risks relate to (a) the implementation of policy and
system reforms by the Tianjin government; and (b) the timely completion of
various activities envisaged under the project. Although the government is
fully committed to the economic reform program, the need to ensure macro.-
economic stability and the inevitable sensitivities associated with programs
of this magnitude will affect the pace of its implementation.  However, given
the Government's past performance, the direction of the reform process is not
in doubt.  Furthermore, the increasing delegationi of greater authority to the
provinces should allow the Tianjin government to move easily ahead with many
of the reforms to which it is committed.
5.13     The complexity of the project, which deals with three subsectors
managed by different bureaus in Tianjin, a major financial intermediary and
several support institutions, could result in implementation delays. While
specific subcomponents are to some extent independent, in that they are not
dependent on the involvement of all project institutions for their
implementation, overall project activities will require close coordination and
supervision to ensure timely and satisfactory completion of the project.  A
special project implementation unit has already been established in TPC for
this purpose (para. 4.11).
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1      During negotiations, assurances were received on the following
conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) State council to approve the Loan Agreement (para. 5.1).
(b)  The Tianjin Municipal Government (TMG) and CIB sign Subsidiary Loan
Agreement satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.1).
6.2      Assurances were received from the PRC, TMG, and CIB on the following
conditions:
(a)  PRC to:
(i) make loan proceeds available to TMG on terms and conditions
iatisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.1); and
(ii) exchange views on CIB's interest rates (para. 5.3).
(b) TMG tot



- 33 -
(i) exchange views on implementation of the development program and
strategy for TDFPP subsectors (Annex 1) including economic and
system reforms (para. 3.9) and strategies for subsector
restructuring (para. 3.20).
(ii)  make available $141.2 million to CIB of which $70.2 million to
be a loan at a variable interest rate equal to the Bank's rate
and $71 million to be managed by CIB on behalf of TMG (paras 5.1
and 5.2);
(iii) carry out the technical assistance program as agreed with the
Bank (para. 4.6);
(iv)  make available $50,000 out of the technical assistance component
to CIB for its staff training on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Bank (para. 5.1);
(v) maintain t}e unit with functions and responsibilities acceptable
to the Bank and with competent staff in adequate numbers to
assist enterprises in locating short-term consultants for
specific tasks (para. 3.33);
(vi)  maintain the project task force and the unit with functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and with competent staff
in adequate numbers to coordinate and monitor the overall
implementation of the project (para. 4.11);
(vii)  carry out both the enterprise management system (para. 4.8) and
the paper subsector studies (para. 4.8) in accordance with terms
of reference and timing agreed with the Bank, and discuss the
results of the studies and actions for the implementation of
recommendations with the Bank upon the completion of each of
these studies;
(viii) ensure the availability of funds for the implementation of the
project (para. 4.10); and
(ix)  meet reporting and auditing requirements (para. 5.9).
(c)  CIB to:
(i) onlend to subborrowers after adding a spread of at least 12
(para. 5.2);
(ii)  exchange views with the Bank on interest rates (para. 5.3);
(iii) ensure that eligible subprojects were consistent with the TMG's
development program and strategy for the jubsector concerned,
met CIB's lending criteria including a minimum ERR and FRR of
12?, were sponsored by enterprises with satisfactory projected
financial position, and were consistent with environmental
standards satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 4.5 and 4.30);



- 34 -
(iv) carry out staff training in accordance with program agreed with
the Bank (4.8);
(v) maintain debt/equity ratio at below 5:1 limi' (para. 4.2.); and
(vi) meet reporting and auditing requirements (para. 5.9).
6.3      Understandings were reached with the TMG on the following:
(a) Details of the technical assistance for support institutions to be
implemented by the TMG (para. 4.7).
(b)  Detailed terms of reference and time-table of the studies of
(i) enterprise management system; and (ii) pulp and paper subsector
(para. 4.8).
6.4      With the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of $154.0 million repayable over 20 years (including
five years grace) on standard terms to be made to the People's Republic of
China.



- 35 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 1
CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHIT INDUSTRY PROJECT
The Statement of the Tianjin Municipal Government on the
Development Program and Strategy for Textile Dyeing and
Finishing, Pulp and Paper, and Packaging (TDFPP) Subsectors 1
A. Background
1.        Tianjin, the third largest city in China with the status of a
province, has a relatively large and diversified industrial base. Its
industrial output was Y 33.2 billion in 1986. The share of light industry in
Tianjin is higher than the national average; 54.6% compared with 47.7Z for
China as a whole. The average growth rate of industrial sector of Tianjin was
8.7Z in 1980-85 in real terms.
2.        Textiles (including garments), paper and pulp, and packaging are
important subsectors in Tianjin, representing 41% of its total light industry
output. The textiles, packaging, and, in part, paper subsectors are export-
oriented either directly or indirectly. The demand for their products is
increasing rapidly, and they also have good potential to contribute to higher
export earnings. However, these subsectors, like the rest of the industry,
need policy and institutional reforms and modern technology and equiqment.
3.        In the past industrial policies of the Tianjin Government were
aiming at acceleration of production of a large variety of intermediate and
final products. As a result, Tianjin was able to produce 156 categories of
products out of the national classification of 164. Presently, the planning
authorities have become more selective in the promotion of subsector
development and are taking into account production costs, energy consumption,
and export capability. In the framework of the seventh five-year plan (1986-
90), the Tianjin Government intends to give high priority to 22 product lines,
mainly through the development of four major sectors: (a) light and textile
industry; (b) chemical products based on oil, ocean chemistry, synthetic
fibers, dyes; (c) machinery and equiqment for oil platforms, power generators,
construction machinery; and (d) electronics industry.  On the other hand,
several energy intensive production lines, including ferrometals, certain
chemicals, and traditional building materials, will be phased out. Paper
packaging is included indirectly in the priority area as an input for the
sales promotion of other products, particularly in the export market.
1/   This statement was formally adopted by the Tianjin Municipal Government
in January 1988.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
B. Economic and Management System Reforms
4.        In line with national policy, the Tianjin Government is carrying out
a series of reforms in the industrial sector with the main objectives of
increasing the efficiency of investment and making the enterprises more
responsive to market signals. A number of reforms have been introduced in the
textile dyeing and finishing, pulp and paper and packaging (TDFPP) subsectors
in Tianjin. Production is no more under government's full control; most of
the prodtction is now under "indicative planning" where enterprises are given
guidance targets which are not compulsory; some of the production is "market-
adjusted", where the enterprises are free to take their own decisions on
production and marketing. While a large number of textile and paper products
are now under "indicative planning", some of the packaging products are
"market-adjusted." Prices of major textiles and paper products are still
under central or provincial control. Prices of non-standard garments, a few
non-essential types of paper, and mosts packaging products have been decon-
trolled. Small investments (less than Y 500,000) do not require the approval
of the Government if funds are available from enterprise's own sources or
through a bank loan. The adjustment tax (a supplement to the enterprise
income tax to transfer surplus profits to the government) has been abolished
for the textiles subsector. Labor contracts have been introduced for newly
hired workers, though they still form a small percentage of total labor force
in TDFPP. An experiment is also being made with the role of corporations,
which administered operations of all enterprises in their subsectors. The
corporations responsible for textile dyeing and finishing, paper packaging and
printing and decoration subsectors have been abolished, and their functions
have been distributed between the enterprises and the concerned industrial
bureaus. The corporations responsible for pulp and paper and plastic packag-
ing subsectors have been made economic entities with responsibility for
profits and losses and financial obligations of their enterprises. Another
innovation being experimented in some large enterprises in the three sub-
sectors is contracts between the government and enterprises which provide for
special wage premia if enterprises achieve a specified profit and tax level.
Certain financial sector reforms have also been introduced in Tianjin in April
1987, and they would have a bearing on TDFPP subsectors.
5.        The Tianjin Government recognizes that further reforms are required
in industry including TDFPP. The main thrust of these reforms would be to
provide reasonable degree of autonomy and accountability to enterprises as
well as to improve the economic performance of the subsectors. In this
regard, the Government intends to take the following measures for TDFPP.
(i) Direct Exporting
6.        In China, traditionally exports have been made by foreign trade
corporations (FTCs) and not by enterprises. However, it is now considered
that direct export rights to enterprises (or corporation in the paper subsec-
tor) would provide them first hand information on changing conditions in
international markets. Furthermore, direct contact with foreign customers is
an effective instrument for technology transfer to enterprises.  In addition,
it would encourage enterprises to upgrade quality of their products. Direct
enterprise exports are already being experimented by chemical and television



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
enterprises in Tianjin. The Government would gradually expand this experiment
to include textile and paper subsectors, and the enterprises (or the paper
corporation) would be given the choice of either exporting through FTC or
exporting directly. In view of the long tradition of exports by FTC, a sudden
shift to direct exports by enterprises can cause problems. The Government
would therefore move gradually in this direction by experimenting with limited
direct export rights to enterprises beginning 1988. Enterprises or corpora-
tions in the TDFPP subsectors wishing to export directly would apply to the
Tianjin Foreign Trade Bureau (TFTB). If they met certain prerequisites set by
the central authorities, the Tianjin government, including TFTB would support
their applications and will pass it on to the approval of MOFERT in Beijing.
TFTB will also assist enterprises in actual exports.
7.        In order to make successful export drives, enterprises or
corporations would have to establish export departments, to train marketing
staff, to appoint agents in major export destinations, and in some cases to
have sales representatives stationed in major markets. To do so efficiently,
enterprises would be provided necessary assistance by the Tianjin Textile and
Garment Import-Export Corporations and the Tianjin Stationery and Sport Goods
Import-Export Corporation.
(ii) Use of Economic and other Criteria for Investment Decision
8.        The major objective of investments and restructuring of existing
production capacity is to improve the economic perfcrmance of TDFPP sub-
sectors. One of the measures to achieve this objective is the use of economic
criteria, besides financial criteria, in preparation of overall subectoral
investment plans and in decisions on individual investment proposals by
financial institutions. This requires the use of shadow prices for raw
materials and other inputs (e.g. power), exports and imports, skilled labor,
and capital. CIB already applies these techniques in its project appraisal
work. In future, these criteria would be gradually introduced in the Tianjin
Government's subsectoral investment planning as well as investment decisions
by all financial institutions in Tianjin. Tianjin Planning Bureau will train
its staff in the use of economic criteria in project review.
9.        In addition to the use of economic criteria, the Government would
also ensure that all investment decisions are based on careful and indepth
evaluation of demand prospects in external and domestic markets, and an
evaluation of availability of inputs as well as physical infrastructure and
human resources. Furthermore, decisions on restructuring of existing
production capacity would aim at product specialization and economies of scale
to minimize per unit costs.
(iii) Price Reform
10.       It is the intention of the Tianjin Government to accelerate the
process of price decontrol, and to increase substantially the share of
products with freely negotiated prices. The Tianjin Government will apply to
the National Price Commission for decontrol of prices of pure cotton and blend
fabrics, as well as most paper during 1988 and 1989. In addition, the Central
Government intends to gradually reduce subsidies on imported pulp.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
(iv) Production Planning Reform
11.       Substantial progress has been made in reducing the share of
production under mandatory planning in Tianjin. However, as stated earlier, a
considerable share of production in the three subsectors is still subject to
mandatory planning. The national ministries in Beijing intend to gradually
remove light industry production from mandatory planning. In line with this
policy, the Tianjin Government will reduce considerably the share of
production subject to mandatory planning in the TDFPP subsectors, and would
aim to increase the share of market-adjusted production to at least 501 of the
total production value by the end of 1990.
(v) Labor Mobility
12.       Following TDFPP restructuring, the Tianjin Government would take
necessary measures to facilitate the transfer of excessive workers to
enterprises in other rapidly growing subsectors which might be short of
labor. The Tianjin Government has already stipulated that labour contracts
for newly-hired workers be agreed upon between enterprises and workers. The
Government considers that a contract duration of 3-5 years would be
appropriate.
(vi) Profit Contracts
13.       The profit and wage contracts introduced in 1987 in certain subsec-
tors is an innovative scheme. The main objective is to raise enterprise
efficiency and profitability by offering wage incentives to workers, as well
as higher tax collection to the Government. The Tianjin Government will
design criteria, such a enterprise efficiency and profitability increase to
evaluate the success of the contract experiment. If considered successful,
the Government will consider introducing similar contracts in all dyeing and
finishing, paper and packaging enterprises.
(vii) Financial Reforms
14.       It is expected that the Tianjin Government decision of April 1987 to
experiment with financial reforms would benefit both banks and enterprises.
As a part of implementation of these reforms, the Tianjin Government decided
to permit enterprises to deal with the bank of their choice and would permit
banks to make loans to any enterprise. However, the implementation of this
policy has been very slow, since enterprises are very reluctant to weaken
their relations with their present banks. The People's Bank in Tianjin and
the Tianjin Government are presently exploring ways to implement the new
policies in this respect.
C. Restructuring of Enterprises in Textile Dyeing and
Finishing, Pulp and Paper, and Packaging Subsectors
15.       Textile Dyeing and Finishing: This subsector faces a number of
problems including low value added and poor quality of finish, high consump-
tion of energy and dyes and chemicals, and declining production, sales and
profitability. Many of these problems arise from the old and oosolete



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
equiment. The production cycle is therefo e long, preventing the enterprises
from accepting domestic or export orders requiring prompt deliveries. The
production is generally of smaller width fabrics (up to 50 inches) while the
export market requires wider widths. The plants are unable to provide special
finishes like water repellent, flame retardant, heat resistance, etc., which
are in demand. The machine speeds are low by 20-50% and the wastage of
inputs is high, compared to international standards.
16.       Certain problems of this subsector stem from the production
management system and marketing practices. Most plants in the subsector lack
product specialization and have more or elss similar product-mix. This
requires additional equiqment in each plant, which remains underutilized. Due
to the separation of enterprises from direct export marketing of their pro-
ducts, there is no direct interaction with customers. Enterprises may not
receive prompt information about changes in demand and, thus, may not plan for
adjustments in product-mix and procurement of raw materials and other appro-
priate inputs (dyes, chemicals, etc.) in time in accordance with changes in
demand. This also leads to the buildup of inventories. The management and
staff of the textile bureau and enterprises need more exposure to fast chang-
ing technology and production methods, and the ratio of skilled labor to the
total number of workers in the factories has to be increased.
17.       The Tianjin Government's basic objective is to restructure the
textile dyeing and finishing subsector so that it can effectively respond to
new patterns in demand in both foreign and domestic markets. The major thrust
is to improve quality, with little if any increase in production capacity.
The upgraded quality would increase foreign exchange earnings due to export of
higher value added products. In addition, it would increase the share of
exports (both fabrics and garments) in total output. Exports would be
increased mainly to markets not restricted by quotas, such as Asia, Eastern
Europe and the Middle East. Even in the US market, the Chinese enterprises
are not able to fulfill the quota for some products, due to inadequate supply
or unsatisfactory quality. The restructuring would help to remove this
constraint. It would also be possible to substitute efficiently the present
import of 40-50 million meters per year of high value fabrics in Tianjin for
making garments for export. The above objectives are proposed to be achieved
by introducing modern technology.
18.       The restructuring program for the textile dyeing and finishing
subsector would be guided by the following main considerations: (a)
Restructuring would aim at product specialization in individual plants which
would enable optimum utilization of equiqment, savings of spares since each
enterprise would have only one set of equipment, savings in dyes and
chemicals, quality improvement, and economies of scale; (b) Instead of
piecemeal modernization, comprehensive restructuring of plants would be
carried out; (c) In addition to the replacement/updating of main processing
equipment, the auxiliary equipment would also be modernized to save costs by
conserving energy and reuse of water and certain wastes; (d) The production
would be shifted from the present low quality and low value fabrics to
specialized high value fabrics for which there is ample export opportunity and
less competition in the quota countries; (e) The subsector would endeavor to
develop fabrics in which China could play a dominating role in export markets;



-40-                               ANNEX 1
Page 6
(f) Enterprises would be allowed to establish direct contact with the
customers in export markets; and (g) The management and staff in the Textile
Bureau and enteprises would be encouraged to keep themselves abreast of new
technological developments abroad by participating in seminars, and visits to
trade fairs and factories in other countries.
19.       Pulp and Paper.  The immediate problem facing the paper subsector in
Tianjin is the outdi,ted equipment which results in low production capacity and
very high consumption of electrical and thermal energy. However, the
fundamental long-term constraint is the lack of stable supply of good quality
pulping fiber from domestic sources.
20.       The Tianjin Government originally planned to increase paper
production from 227,000 tons to 350,000 tons in the next 10 years and to
increase the exports from 26,000 tons to about 100,000 tons. The
restructuring of the subsector .imed at closing about half of the existing 26
factories, expanding eight of the remaining factories, and producing 138
different varieties of paper. However, the Government believes that the above
program needs to be reviewed taking into account the shortage of good quality
pulping fiber, comparative cost advantage, economies of scale in production
and international market situation for various types and grades of papers
planned to be exported.
21.       In the immediate future, the Government's strategy for the pulp and
paper subsector would be guided by three main considerations. First, the
continued small-scale expansion in pulping would be discouraged as it leads to
inefficient high cost production and may have an adverse impact on environ-
ment. Second, the decision on increase in exports will be taken after a
careful analysis of Tianjin's comparative advantage. Consideration would be
given, to the extent technically feasible, to the indigenous fiber content in
the production of paper. Exports would be considered of high value specialty
papers preferably based on locally available cotton pulp or blending thereof
in sizeable proportion with imported pulp. Third, the production of large
varieties of paper would be discontinued and decisions in this regard would be
taken on the basis of an economic cost/benefit analysis of individual types of
paper.
22.       In order to define long-term objectives and to develop a strategy
for the efficient development of pulp and paper subsector, the Tianjin Paper
Corporation would undertake an indepth study of the subsector. The study
would include the technical and economic feasibility of centralized pulping
and waste paper processing units. A single modern pulping capacity may
replace all the existing pulping capacity in small plants in Tianjin. It
should be of a size which would support chemical recovery and pollution
abatement equiqment. In order to increase the waste paper usage, the study
would determine the viability of replacing many small waste paper processing
units in Tianjin paper mills by a large centralized treatment plant; such a
plant should increase the efficiency of collecting, sorting, and cleaning of
waste paper and, thus, enable higher waste usage and better quality of pulp.
23.       Packaging.  The packaging subsector in China remained very under-
developed until 1981. As a result of poor packaging, the losses in Tianjin



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7
alone are estimated at about Y 100 million in 1986. In order to avoid this
loss and considering the importance of packaging in the sale promotion,
particularly in the export markets, Tianjin's current modernization program
puts special emphasis on the development of packaging subsector.
24.       At present, the packaging subsector in Tianjin is confronted with a
number of problems. The outdated technology and certain manual operations
result in low production, poor quality, and wastage of energy and raw
materials. Due to the excess of demand over supply there is not much emphasis
on improvement in quality and savings in costs. Paperboard is in short supply
affecting the production of paper packaging industry. The subsector is not
capable of producing many high quality products now in demand. There is a
need for more specialization in operations. The research and development work
is inadequate. There is a general lack of data and information on the subsec-
tor which inhibits forward planning.
25.       The Government's development program for the packaging subsector is
guided by the basic objective of providing efficient service to agriculture
and industry. The above objective would be achieved through the following
measures: (a) The Government would undertake strategic planning for produc-
tion, and investment that would consider, inter alia, a balanced development
of various types of packaging industries; interchangeability of different
packaging materials, including paper, glass, aluminum, tin-plate, and
plastics; location and scale of production facilities; and matching of supply
with demand in terms of quantity, quality and variety. (b) The program for
the technological transformation would be carried out in two phases--the first
phase (up to 1990) would focus on the balancing and modernization of existing
equipment and the second phase would aim at major new capital investments to
introduce modern technology. (c) The supply of paperboard and wider
corrugated board would be increased. In this context, consideration would be
given in the next 5-year plan to establish a large centralized corrugated
fibre board plant (with a potential output of about 200 million sq m of board)
that would cater to the needs of a large number of small box-makers in and
around Tianjin. This would bring economies of scale, increase competition
among box-makers, release space for expansion in small paper packaging
factories, and provide high quality board. (d) The enterprises in the
printing industry wot:ld be allowed to import faster multicolor machines and
the supply of printing plates would be improved both in quantity and
quality. At the same time, these enterprises would be discouraged from
acquiring platemaking facilities and would focus on their own production
lines. (e) Finally, the communication between the makers and users of
packaging products would be improved and the research and development
institutes would be strengthened to play an important role in this regard.
D. Strengthening of Internal Enterprises Organizations, Management,
Systems and Procedures
26.       The on-going enterprise reforms place greater responsibility on the
enterprise management to make rational and viable investment decisions, to
prepare operational plans that optimize the use of available resoures, to
improve quality of products, to control costs, to enhance market response, and
thus, to bring overall improvements in the operational performance of enter-



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8
prises.  In order to achieve the above objectives, the internal organization
of enterprises needs .o be streamlined and their management tools need to be
strengthened.  Obviously not all enterprises would require the same level of
sophistication in the modern management systems and techiques to be intro-
duced.  Though the priority in this regard needs to be given to larger
enterprises in the textile, and pulp and paper subsectors, particularly those
units which are planning substantial investments in immediate future, the
broad conceptual framework of such systems should be based on a detailed
analysis of the individual needs of each subsector and applied to all enter-
prises therein. For this purpose, the Tianjin Government plans to carry out a
management study covering the following main areas: internal organization
structure of enterprises; linkages and flow of information between bureaus,
corporations, enterprises and other concerned agencies; production planning
and scheduling; material management system; quality control; maintenance
programs; financial management information systems covering detailed cost
accounting to measure productivity against standards and to measure profita-
bility, working capital management, establishment of a system of financial
ratios and targets for internal control, and internal auditing procedures.
The introduction of above management tools will require the preparation of
systems appropriate to the Chinese economy and, in addition to new and more
sophisticated equipment, the implementation of well designed training programs
for future users to ensure that the full benefits of the program can be
obtained. The Tianjin Government would carry out the above study and the
subsequent implementation of its recommendations with the assistance of
international consulting firms.
E. Strengthening of Support Institutions
27.       TDFPP subsectors have their own research and design centers and
training institutes. These organizations are reponsible for product develop-
ment, testing, research and training activities. Their contribution is
however hampered due to lack of modern equipment, including computer hardware
and software, testing equipment, pilot plants and teaching aids and facili-
ties. Also the institutions need to enhance their contacts with similar
institutions in developed countries and, thus, to keep up with latest
technological developments abroad.
28.       The Tianjin Government plans to strengthen the research and design
centers and training institutes through the import of necessary equipment and
expansion of the program of applied research. These institutions would be
encouraged to establish contacts with similar institutions abroad and become a
center fo- collection and dissemination of information. Professional staff
would alL be trained in English to ease communications with technical
institutes in other countries. These institutions would also start publishing
technical handbooks, training manuals, etc. In the textile subsector the
Government plans to develop a facility for making original and innovative
designs to tap new markets and to achieve a competitive edge in international
markets. As regards the packaging subsector, all the three types of packaging
industries have their own research institutes. The Government plans to carry
out, in 1989, a feasibility study of combining and locating in one place all
facilities for developing, increasing and testing packaging products as this
is the normal international practice.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9
P. Enterprise Investment Criteria
29.       In order to achieve an efficient and balanced development of the
textile dyeing and finishing, pulp and paper, and packaging subsectors, it is
necessary that the investment programs of individual enterprises are consis-
tent vith the Government's subsectoral strategies and priorities as briefly
outlined in paras. 15 to 25 above. This would be ensured through the present
project approval process of the Government as well a the evaluation of
enterprise investment proposals by the concerned financial institutions in
Tianjin.
30.       Besides general compliance with the Government's development priori-
ties and strategies, all projects for restructuring and their sponsoring
enterprises in the three subsectors would be required to meet the criteria of
technical, financial and market viability as used by the China Investment Bank
(CIB). Furthermore, these criteria will be applied to all projects in the
three subsectors irrespective of the source of financing. In this connection,
the Government would arrange for the training of staff of other financial
institutions in Tianjin in the use of CIB's project appraisal manual.



- 44 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 1
CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
Sectoral Policies and Management Systems
1.        Light industry enterprises in Tianjin are mainly subject to control
of the municipal government bureaus, which are under dual leadership of their
respective national ministries and of the Tianjin Municipal Government
(TMG). In light industries in Tianjin (as in other provinces), the municipal
government carries greater responsibility and controls than the central
government ministries.  The Chart 2 summarizes the administrative set-up of
the textile dyeing and finishing, pulp and paper and packaging subsectors in
Tianjin (TDFPP).
2.        The policies and systems applicable to TDFPP have transformed along
with the reform process that started in China in 1979. The reforms have been
applied with varying degree in different regions and subsectors and many of
them are still of an experimental nature.  TDFPP subsectors have experienced
certain positive developments as a result of the reforms but a large number of
policy and systems reform issues still remain to be addressed as described in
the following paragraphs.
Production Planning
3.        Production planning is no more under the government's full
control. Generally, "essential" raw materials, as well as intermediate
products in short supply (such as newsprint and textbook paper) are subject to
mandatory planning. Mandatory planning is compulsory; enterprises are
required by law to fulfill the production quotas; raw materials are allocated
by the State, which authorizes purchase from a specific supplier; and prices
are generally controlled. In light industry, indicative planning is more
prevalent. Production guidance targets are given to enterprises, but these
are not compulsory; raw materials are purchased by enterprises, and are
generally not provided by the State; prices in many cases are uncontrolled.
In the TDFPP, enterprises have a fair degree of freedom to produce "non-
essential" products subject to neither mandatory nor to indicative planning.
Such production is "market adjusted;" enterprises have to find customers with
whom they negotiate prices, and have to purchase raw materials generally from
other provinces in China.
4.        To the extent production in TDFPP is subject to planning, the three
subsectors vary with respect to types of planning as follows (in value share
of total planned production).



- 45 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 2
In TDF             -    100% of grey cloth is subject to mandatory planning;-/
-    100Z of dyed and finished fabrics are subject to
indicative planning;
In paper           -    20Z of planned product value is mandatory;-
-    80% is indicative; and
In packaging       -    100Z of planned product '.alue is subject to indicative
planning, except for plastic industry where 20% is
market-adjusted.
5.        For products subject to mandatory planning, production quotas are
set not only by TPC and TEC, but also by sectoral bureaus. For example, in
the paper subsector, TPC sets production quotas for three major product cate-
gories--pulp, "essential" paper products and board. The First Light Industry
Bureau (FLIB) sets quotas for several other major paper products.
Export Marketing
6.        The export marketing gystem in China is described and analyzed in
detail in a recent Bank report._ All exports require licenses, which are
issued by the provincial Foreign Trade Bureaus. These bureaus generally issue
export licenses to Foreign Trade Corporations (FTCs). Only in exceptional
cases are export licenses issued to individual enterprises or to enterprise
associations.
7.        In Tianjin, there are a total of 28 FTCs, of which 5 are in tex-
tiles, garments and paper subsectors. These FTCs negotiate contracts with
customers and arrange for shipping. They purchase export products from enter-
prises at Renminbi prices, which are often unrelated to the actual export
prices. Enterprises do not normally participate in trade negotiations; nor do
they receive information on sale prices. The Renminbi price paid by FTC to
Tianjin enterprises for textile fabrics for exports is, on an average, 8%
higher than the domestic price. This difference can be considered a quality
premium, and it serves as an incentive for enterprises to increase the share
of exports in total production.
8.        As a first step in breaking up the FTC monopoly and in decentraliza-
tion, the Tianjin Textile Bureau (TTB) set up in 1984 the Tianjin Textile
Import-Export Union (TTIEU), representing several textile enterprises, includ-
ing spinning, weaving, dyeing and finishing factories. TTIEU operates in a
1/ The grey cloth subject to mandatory planning was reduced to 50% in 1988.
2/ Almost all types of paper were removed from mandatory planning in 1988.
3/   Bank Report No. 6690-CiA, China-External Trade and Capital Reform Issues
and Options, October 20, 1987 (Chapter II and Annexes 1 and 2).



- 46 -
-                                ANNEX 2
Page 3
similar way as the FTC. Its export value is still smalls about $4 million in
1986 compared to about $220 million for the whole of Tianjin textiles
sector. In practice, TTIEU operates as a department of TTB, which considers
it a first step towards direct export by individual enterprises.
9.        The isolation of enterprises from direct contacts with export
markets is one of the most serious weaknesses in enterprise management, since
enterprise managers do not get first hand signals of customers preferences on
overall export demand. Although FTC passes on some marketing information to
enterprises, such information is partial and delayed. There is insufficient
relationship between costs and export prices, which often leads to economic
distortions.
Foreign Exchange Retention
10.       The main export incentive provided under economic reforms is the
right to retain foreign exchange.  Enterprises generally use retained foreign
exchange for import of capital equipment and spare parts, and sometimes for
specialized inputs. In Tianjin, as in most other provinces in China, export
proceeds in foreign exchange are divided in the following way: 75% to the
State (national level) and 25% to the province, of which 12.5% is retained by
the provincial government and 12.5% by exporting enterprises (or corporations
where they exist). Several modifications to the system was currently being
introduced which are expected to result in a higher retention rate by the
provinces.
11.       In some subsectors, the 12.5% of foreign exchange retained by
exporting enterprises is shared with indirect exporters. In the TDF sub-
sector, 5% of total proceeds (40% of 12.5%) are retained by the dyeing and
finishing enterprise, 3.75% by the weaving enterprises and 3.75% by the spin-
ning enterprises. No arrangements have been made for paper packaging and
printing enterprises in Tianjin to share in export proceeds, and they depend
on allocations of the Tianjin government, and are continuo.sly hampered by a
shortage of foreign exchange for imports.
Pricing
12.       Prices in TDFPP, like other industrial products in China, are now
determined through a variety of mechanisms.  Generally, the State Price Cor-
mission controls the prices of centrally planned products, while the
provincial price bureaus set prices for production controlled by provincial
authorities. Prices of raw materials and products relevant to TDFPP are set
in the following manner:
(a)  Prices of raw materials, as well as many basic intermediate and
final products are nationally controlled by the State Price Com-
mission.  Thus, prices of cotton, wool, man-made fabricst three



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
basic textile fabrics ,4ulp and six basic paper products are
controlled nationally.-
(b) Prices of many intermediate and final products are controlled by the
Tianjin Price Bureau (TPB). For,example, prices of 11 paper
products are controlled by TPB.-
(c) Prices of some products which were previously decontrolled by the
State Price Commission, are subject to controls by price control
offices of Tianjin Sectoral Bureaus. For example, TFLIB imposed
controls on five paper products, which were previously decontrolled
by the State Price Commission. The Tianjin Bureaus considered
imposition of price controls on these paper products justified
because of their allocation of foreign exchange for imports of pulp
used for such products. TTB controls prices of some textile
fabrics.
(d)  Prices of "nonessential" products are not controlled, and are nego-
tiated between sellers (trade corporations or enterprises), and
buyers (trade corporations or stores). In case of disagreement
between sellers and buyers, TPB arbitrates and makes the final
decision. Prices of nonstandard garments, of three relatively minor
paper products, and most of the packaging products are negotiated.
13.       Another basic feature is dual prices for some raw materials and
intermediate products: a controlled maximum price for within-quota produc-
tion, and a negotiated higher price for above-quota production. Thus, cotton
is subject to dual prices. Controlled price cotton is used for the production
of standard clothing. Negotiated price cotton is used for production of
fashion garments. Garment manufacturers for exports pay a weighted average
price for cotton.
14.       Although the price control system appears rigid, in practice there
is a considerable degree of flexibility, in response to market conditions and
to quality variations. For example, TDF enterprises are permitted to raise
the price of cotton fabric up to 10%, without TTB approval, if market demand
is strong. Similarly, enterprises are permitted to raise prices of dyed and
finished fabric up to 15X for good quality products, although approval of TTB
is needed.
Investment and Project Planning
15.       Ente vrises have to submit investment proposals for technical trans-
formation or renovation for the approval of their sectoral bureau. For
investments of less than Y 500,000 no further approvals are needed, if financ-
ing is available from enterprise sources or from a bank loan. Projects cost-
ing over Y 0.5 million and up Y 10 million have to be approved by TEC, and
4/   Prices of most paper varieties and certain types of cloth were
decontrolled in 1988.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
those costing Y 10 to Y 30 million have to be approved by TPC. Projects cost-
ing more than Y 30 million have to be submitted to SPC for approval.
16.       The main criteria for project approval used by TPC are the follow-
ing:  (a) consistency of the project with national and provincial development
objectives; (b) approval of the FTC or domestic trade corporation of the
marketing prospects; (c) technical requirements of enterprises for transforma-
tion or for construction; (d) financial profitability, based on financial
costs and prices, as set by FTC and domestic trade corporations; and (e) a
financing plan that provides generally for 10% to 30% self-financing by enter-
prises.
17.       The investment criteria presently used in Tianjin suffer from two
major weaknesses: (a) the most serious drawback is the reliance on financial
profitability criteria. Given the subsidized prices for infrastructure inputs
(e.g., power), raw materials and capital, and the divergence of domestic from
international output prices, many investment decisions are bound to be
uneconomic; and (b) investment decisions are not made within a sectoral frame-
work, and little attention is paid to cost minimization through enterprise
specialization and economies of scale.
Financial Reforms
18.       Financial reforms have been introduced in Tianjin since April 1987,
following a request by the Tianjin government to join 27 other cities
presently experimenting with financial reforms. The main reforms gradually
introduced in Tianjin are the following: (a) all banks are permitted to
accept deposits; (b) specialized banks (auch as PCBC, ABC and ICBC) are
permitted to make loans to any enterprise and enterprises are permitted to
choose the bank they wish; (c) more than 30 new financial outlets have been
opened; these include local branches of national specialized banks, urban
collective banks owned by districts, and equipment leasing companies.
19.       A high level committee is presently preparing additional financial
reforms, including the establishment of an inter-bank financial market, and a
discount market that nonfinancial enterprises could use for trade transact-
ions.
20.       It is too early to assess the overall impact of these reforms.  How-
ever, the implementation of the reforms appears to be very slow. For example,
although enterprises are presently permitted to deal with the bank of their
choice, in practice they continue to deal with the former bank designated by
the sectoral bureau, since they are concerned with the risk that dealing with
another bank, might lead to repercussions on the part of their traditional
bank. Similarly, activities in the interbank financial market are minimal.
Interest rates of the various banks are centrally set by the People's Bank,
and there is no interest rate competition among banks.
Taxation
21.       Enterprises in TDFPP are subject to the following taxes:
(a) Enterprise income tax, at a uniform rate of 55% of gross profit for state-



- 49 -2
49 -                     ~~~~~~ANNEX 2
Page 6
owned enterprises. Enterprises owned by the municipal government pay this tax
to the mun,cipal government, which passes a part to the Central Government.
(b) Product tax, at the rate of 5Z of sales value; 60.55Z of the proceeds go
to the Central Covernment, and 39.45X to the Tianjin Government. (c) Adjust-
ment tax, a supplement to the enterprise income tax, is paid by paper and
packaging enterprises in Tianjin at varying rates according to enterprise
profitability. The adjustment tax has been abolished for textile enterprises
in China, in order to provide an additional incentive for the development of
the textile industry. (d) 15X of retained profits and depreciation is paid to
the energy and transport fund of the municipal government.
22.       An interesting innovation introduced in 1987 is contracts which
permit enterprises to pay wage premia if they achieve a specified profit and
tax level. The contracts also require the enterprises to meet qualitative
targets regarding product quality and variety, consumption of raw materials
and energy, and work safety. Such contracts were signed on an experimental
basis with some large enterprises in TDFPP as well as in some other sub-
sectors. The contract could be beneficial to both workers and the govern-
ment. If the contract induces higher efficiency and profitability, workers
would gain a wage premium and the government would also collect more taxes
although at a somewhat lower rate for above-target profits. After one year,
the experiment would be evaluated and if considered successful, it would be
renewed, either in the original or a modified form.
Labor Management and Contracts
23.       Enterprises in Tianjin have very limited autonomy in hiring and fir-
ing of workers. Excessive labor appears to be common in TDFPP enterprises.
To the extent enterprise managers wish to lay off excessive workers, they can
use the following options:
(a) the enterprises can set up (with the approval of bureaus) a subsid-
iary, for instance a dyeing and finishing factory can set up a
garment factory, to employ family members and laid-off workers;
(b) workers can be transferred to another enterprise but only with
bureau permission; and
(c) contract workers can be laid off at expiration time.
To the extent there is labor mobility, it is within city limits. Inter-city
mobility is very exceptional.
24.       In Tianjin, as in other provinces, labor contracts have been intro-
duced for newly hired workers. In TDFPP, such contracts apply to a small per-
centage of total number of workers. The contracts extend over the following
periods: For manual workers-up to 5 years; for semi-skilled-up to 10 years;
for technical workers--up to 15 years. Enterprise managers consider such
contracts useful in improving worker performance; however, the very distant
expiration time for contracts and the reluctance of managers to lay off
workers appear to seriously limit the effectiveness of labor contracts.



-50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
25.       Workers bonuses are limited to four months of annual salaries.  In
very exceptional cases, managers can approve higher bonuses, but the enter-
prise would have to pay very heavy taxes on excess bonuses. In practice, in
very few cases bonuses have been paid in TDFPP enterprises in excess of four
months salaries.
Corporations
26.       Before the introduction of reforms, all the enterprises in a sub-
sector were "administered" by a corporation which functioned under the indus-
trial bureaus. The future administration and control of enterprises is being
experimented in two ways. The corporations responsible for textile dyeing and
finishing, paper packaging, and printing and decoration subsectors have been
abolished and their functions have been distributed between the enterprises
and the concerned industrial bureaus. On the other hand, the two corporations
in paper and plastic packaging subsectors, have been made economic entities in
1987 with responsibility for profits and losses and financial obligations of
their enterprises.
27.       The Tianjin Paper Corporation plans production of each of its 26
enterprises based on orders from FTC, domestic trade corporations and stores;
it purchases pulp and many other inputs for all enterprises; and it supervises
financial performance of enterprises. The corporation agrees with TFLIP on a
profit performance target for a year. If actual profits exceed the target,
the major share of above-target profits is transferred to the Tianjin
government; however, 14.5Z is retained by the corporation, and transferred to
managers and workers of enterprises as additional bonuses. In case profits
fall short of the target, bonuses of enterprise managers and workers are
reduced proportionally, and in extreme cases enterprise managers can be
replaced. The corporation does not generally market directly. Marketing is
done by FTC or domestic trade corporations. The Plastic Corporation manages
16 enterprises in packaging (of which 6 are state-owned and 10 are collec-
tives) with about similar functions as those of the paper corporation. In
view of their new responsibilities, the corporations need to strengthen their
institutional capability to alleviate the operational problems of enterprises
and to improve their productivity and efficiency.



-51 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 1
CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
Textile Dyeing and Finishing, Pulp and Paper and
Packaging Subsectors in Tianjin
A.  Textile Dyeing and Finishing Subsector
Overall Textile Sector
1.        China has emerged as an important producer and exporter of textiles
in recent years. Its share of world production of cotton textiles has gone
up from 202 to 25% since the beginning of economic reforms, while its share of
woolen textiles, synthetic textiles and blankets has increased from 6% to 17X
during the same period. The sustained growth of raw cotton production in
China (from 2 million metric tons in 1964-65 to 4.14 million tons in 1985)
accounting for 30% of the world production, and low wage levels are the main
reasons for the rapid development of the textile industry.
2.        China's exports of textiles have increased from $2.8 billion in
1979 to $7.0 billion in 1986. However, due to inferior quality, the Chinese
fabrics presently earn, on an average, $0.65/meter in foreign markets as
against about $0.80/meter for Korea at.d $0.95/meter for Japan.
3.        The Tianjin textile industry has a history of over 70 years.  Before
the Revclution in 1949, there were more than 4,000 private enterprises and
workshops, all scattered around the city of Tianjin. Subsequently, the
industry was nationalized and revamped. At present, there are 170 enterprises
grouped in separate subsectors of spinning, weaving, dyeing and finishing,
knitting, decorative fabric manufacturing, industrial fabric manufacturing,
chemical fabric production, and textile machinery manufacturing.
4.        There are 851,000 spindles (760,000 cotton based, and 91,000 woolen)
and 17,079 looms in Tianjin. The annual yarn and cloth production capacity
is 120,000 tons and 438 million meters respectively which is about 3X of the
whole of China.  The total annual production value of the Tianjin textile
sector is Y 3,820 million ($1,027 million). The annual export is around
$200 million equivalent. Among Tianjin's export markets, Hong Kong/Macau
account for 22Z of sales, followed by USA for 20%, Malaysia/Singapore for
14%, USSR and other Eastern European countries for 142, Japan for 10X, and
other countries for the rest. The sector employs 200,500 workers compared
to 5.35 million for the whole of China.
Dyeing and Finishing Subsector in Tianjin
5.        This subsector comprises eight fabric processing enterprises--five
for dyeing and finishing and three for printing and finishing. The total
fabric processing capacity of these enterprises is about 400 million meters
per year. The aggregate value of their net fixed assets was Y 154 million
($41 million) at the end of 1986, and the value of production was Y 451 mil-



-52-
-52-                     ~~~~~~ANNEX 3
Page 2
lion ($122 million) in the same year. The total direct and indirect exports
of the subsector were $73 million in 1986 and formed about 46% of the
production value.
6.        The factory buildings are old and there has been very limited
renovation. Further, due to staged capacity expansion, the plant layouts are
cumbersome and machines are crowded. The equipment is installed on various
floors thereby obstructing the smooth flow of material from one process to
another. Nearly 601 of the machinery is more than 17 years old and most of
the equipment is conventional type incorporating "first generation"
technologies. As a result, the enterprises process fabrics with low value
added and poor quality finish. In addition, the old and unsophisticated
equipment and noncontinuous-type operation result in the use of 20% higher
labor forces, 10-15% higher electrical and thermal energies, and about 10%
higher dyes and chemicals when compared to international standards. Also, the
machine speeds are 20-50% lower.
7.        The production volume of the subsector has declined steadily since
1982, when it peaked at 365 million meters (92Z of the rated capacity). The
equipment obsolescence together with marketing problems due to limited
production flexibility are the main reasons for the decline in production.
8.        The demand pattern for textile fabrics has changed in China.  There
is now increasing demand for fabrics with different colors and designs. The
demand in export markets also keeps shifting from one type of fabric to
another with changes in fashions. On the other hand, the production cycle
of plants in Tianjin is generally long resulting in lack of flexibility. The
plants cannot process a variety of fabrics for small-lot orders requiring
prompt deliveries in domestic and foreign markets. In addition, the dyeing
and finishing capacity is generally for smaller width fabrics (up to 50
inches) while the garment industry requires wider widths. Moreover, the
plants are unable to provide special finishes like water repellent, flame
retardant, heat resistance, etc., which are in demand.
9.        While a large number of existing problems of the subsector arise
from the old and obsolete equipment, many other problems stem from the
management system and marketing practices. Most plants in the subsector
lack product specialization and have more or less similar product-mix. This
requires additional equipment in each plant which remains underutilized. The
enterprises have no role in the export marketing of their products. The
textile subsector needs direct interaction with customers, more than in other
subsectors, due to quick changes in demand and the need for adjustments in
product-mix and finding raw materials and other appropriate inputs (dyes,
chemicals, etc.) in time. The absence of such contacts has also contributed
to the buildup of inventories. Finally, the management and staff of the
textile bureau and enterprises have inadequate exposure to fast changing
technology and production methods, and the ratio of skilled labor to the total
number of workers in the factories is low.
10.       The declining production and sales and higher costs have adversely
affected the profitability and liquidity position of the enterprises. The
aggregate net profit before taxes was only Y 5 million ($1.3 million) in 1986



- 53                              ANNEX 3
Page 3
compared to Y 94 ($49.7 million) in 1982. In 1986, three enterprises were
marginally profitable, three suffered net losses, and one was reasonably
profitable. (The equipment of the eighth enterprise is still under installa-
tion.) The long-term financial position of the enterprises has, however,
remained satisfactory due to relatively small long-term borrowings in the
past. The economic cost/benefit analysis and DRC calculations for six major
products show that five of them were economically viable. The total factor
productivity in the subsector has decreased between 1982 and 1986 at an
average annual rate of 2.2%, mainly due to sharp decline in production volume
without an accompanying decline in raw materials, labor and capital inputs.
B. Pulp and Paper Subsector
11.       This subsector comprises 26 enterprises which are under the control
of the Tianjin Paper Industries Corporation.  Its production of paper and
paperboard was 227,000 tons in 1986, of which 26,000 tons was exported. The
manufacturing facilities in the subsectwr are characterized by their small
size and old equipment. About 80% of the paper machines are more than 20
years old and several date back to the 1930s.  Furthermore, Tianjin mills are
in most cases very congested and, being located in an urban environment where
land is scarce, expansion and rehabilitation seems difficult.
12.       Due to their simple design and old age, the mills use much higher
electrical and thermal energy, in some cases using three times the level of
inputs found in other developing countries.  The atmospheric pollution from
the pulp and paper industry in Tianjin does not appear to be a serious problem
at present. However, liquid effluents are discharged with virtually no treat-
ment and flow to a central plant in the city. It is doubtful that the central
plant would be able to effectively treat and neutralize all the chemical
effluents from around the city.
13.       Tianjin produces about 120 grades of papers, though many of these
are simple variations in weight or color. Product quality is generally satis-
factory for the domestic market given the low quality pulp (based on straw and
reeds instead of wood) available locally, but in most cases falls short of
international standards. Given the outdated equipment and low quality of
pulp, the production and quality levels achieved are still commendable and
reflect a hardworking and dedicated management and work force at the
factories.
14.       The enterprises have generally satisfactory operating results and
financial position. However, this is mainly the result of "cost - plus"
pricing policy and limited use of borrowed funds for capital expenditures.
The imported wood pulp for the mandatory production quotas is supplied by the
government at subsidized prices which are about half the international
prices. The benefit of the subsidy is, however, passed on to the customers.
The supply of imported pulp at subsidfized prices is declining and it is
expected to be discontinued by 1990.-  Due to distortion in prices and
1/   The subsidy was discontinued in 1988.



- 54 -
54                                ANNEX 3
Page 4
generally uneconomic level of operations, the economic cost/benefit analysis
of a selected variety of papers indicates that their current production is
either marginally viable or not viable. On the other hand, the production of
all these papers is financially viable.
15.       In Tianjin, like the rest of China, the supply of paper is much
less than the demand. According to the paper corporation, the estimated
annual demand for the art printing paper alone is at least twice the actual
production capacity. There are shortages in the supply of other types of
paper also.
16.       The immediate problem facing the paper subsector in Tianjin is the
low production capacity from outdated equipment, although this could be solved
with sufficient capital investment. The fundamental long-term constraint is
the lack of stable supply of good quality pulping fiber from domestic sources.
17.       The subsector operates in a supplier's market.  The enterprises do
not have a profit oriented outlook and do not attempt to optimize their grade
mix. The production of large varieties of paper, without the consideration of
comparative cost advantage and specialization, does not appear to be
justified.
18.       The main national objectives in the paper subsector are:  (i) to
increase the production from 9 million tons in 1985 to more than 10 million
tons by 1990 and to 20 million tons by the year 2000; (ii) to increase exports
particularly of writing and printing papers and papers for household uses
through quality improvement; and (iii) to raise productivity which has been
low in the past mainly due to a large number of small and uneconomic size
plants. In order to fulfill the above objectives, the Central government
strategy is: (i) to modernize and develop the production capacity of mills
already producing more than 10,000 tons per year and to convert nearly all
these mills to processes integrating pulp and paper; (ii) to rely to the
maximum extent on local raw materials and equipment; and (iii) to relocate
part of the industry in South, where basic raw materials for pulping are
available in larger quantities.
C. Packaging Subsector
19.       The packaging subsector includes three types of industries, viz.,
the paper packaging industry, the plastic packaging industry, and the printing
and decoration indugtry. In Tianjin, there are 14 enterprises in the paper
packaging industry,_ 28 in the plastic packaging industry and 14 in the
printing and decoration industry. The total net value of fixed assets of
these enterprises was Y 175 million ($47 million equivalent) and their total
output value Y 668 million ($181 million equivalent) in 1986. The direct
export of enterprises in the packaging subsector is relatively small.
2/   The total number is 102 including small box-makers but they are not under
the concerned corporations.



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
20.       Enterprises in the paper packaging and the printing and decoration
industries have generally old equipment and are often located in congested
buildings that affect the work flow and restrict the scope for expansion.
Most of the machinery in plastic factories is relatively new though there are
some 27-year old extruders still in operation which need replacement. The
wastage factor in all the three industries is relatively high. There is also
wastage of energy because of old boilers and leaking valves, particularly in
the paper packaging industry.
21.       The quality of hand-made board is far below international standards
and this, together with the excessive use of adhesives, results in poor
quality of cartons. However, the products of plastic and printing and decora-
tion industries are of generally good quality. The financial performance of
the enterprises is generally satisfactory as seen by their income statements
and balance sheets.
22.       The packaging subsector has the most freedom in production planning,
marketing and price negotiations. As the demand for its products far exceeds
supply, there are no marketing problems. In fact, the plastic packaging and
printing and decoration industries do not have the facilities to meet the
demand for a wide variety of products, particularly those of high quality.
23.       The packaging subsector is confronted with a number of issues, many
of which are common to all three types of industries. The outdated technology
and certain manual operations result in low production, poor quality and
wastage of energy and raw materials. Due to the excess of demand over supply
there is little incentive for producers to improve quality and to save
costs. The paperboard is in short supply affecting the production of the
paper packaging industry. The subsector is not capable of producing many high
quality products now in demand. Some of the enterprises in the printing and
decoration industry are acquiring their own platemaking equipment which they
cannot hope to use on a full time basis. The research and development work is
inadequate. There is a general lack of data and information on the subsector
which inhibits forward planning.
24.       The packaging subsector had received little attention in China until
1981, and it remained very underdeveloped. The China National Packaging
Corporation has estimated that the poor packaging costs the Chinese economy
about Y 10 billion ($2.7 billion equivalent) each year in terms of product
damage. In order to avoid this loss, and considering the importance of
packaging in the sale promotions, particularly in export markets, China's
current modernization program puts special emphasis on the development of the
packaging subsector. According to a report of the State Economic Commission,
the output of China's packaging subsector is to increase from Y 7 billion in
1980 to Y 43 billion in the year 2000 in constant prices. The share of the
packaging subsector in gross industry and agricultural output is to increase
from 0.9X to 1.5%, and the packaging industry is to grow at an average annual
rate of 10%.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
Technological Infrastructure
A. Background
1.        In addition to the assistance to be provided by TLIP directly to the
enterprises in the three selected industrial subsectors, the Project will also
address the needs of the various institutions, such as design and research
centers and training schools, which provide support to operations to enable
them to make a more effective contribution to the development of the
subsectors.
2.        In order to judge the strength and weaknesses of each institution,
the Bank Missions visited all of the support institutions and interviewed
management and staff and inspected physical facilities. In the context of
these discussions, the institutions have developed a program to be financed
under Technical Assistance (TA) component of the TLIP. This Annex presents
the findings of the mission and includes details of the TA program.
B. Textile Dyeing and Finishing
Introduction
3.        The Tianjin textile subsector has the support of a research
institute, a project design center, and a technical training institute. The
following paragraphs briefly describe their roles, present constraints, and
the future development plans.
Tianjin Textile Research Institute
4.        This Institute was founded in 1981 to provide research and quality
control support to the Tianjin Dyeing and Printing Subsector. The Institute
is housed within the premises of one of the dyeing and printing factories. It
is equipped with basic instruments to test fabric tearing strength, abrasion
resistance, weathering, washing fastness, and fire resistance. The Institute
also has an old pilot plant for simulating bleaching, dyeing and printing
operations. The Institute provides the following services to the Tianjin
dyeing and printing subsector:
(a) testing and quality control monitoring of in-process and finished
products;
(b) testing of new dyes and chemicals and advising the factories about
their applications;
(c) developing new product lines for domestic and international markets;
and
(d) training factory workers and staff in thc proper use of new
processes and equipment.



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        The Institute is headed by a Director, and operates under the
administrative control of the Tianjin Textile Bureau (TTB). At present, there
are 21 persons employed in the Institute. Since the services of the Institute
are provided to the Tianjin dyeing and printing subsector free of charge, the
recurring expenditures (about Y 65,000 per annum) are borne by the TTB).
6.        The available space for the Institute, and the testing facilities
are minimal. Most equipment is technologically outdated. The pilot plant is
too small and does not correctly simulate the production processes and
equipment installed in the establishments. As such, the trial results of the
pilot plant are not entirely reproducible in the production plants. There are
too few staff to effectively monicor the quality control aspects of the
various establishments. Due again to the limited staff, the system for
collation of information, interpretation of test results and dissimination of
the quality control information, is weak. Finally, due to the lack of
exposure of the staff to the latest developments in the fabric processing
technology, the Institute is not able to play the crucial role of an effective
research institution.
7.        The development and restructuring strategy for the Institute is
aimed to provide more appropriate space (200 sq. meters), improved and updated
testing equipment, and a pilot plant that would provide reliable and
reproducible trial test results. The staffing would be suitably strengthened
(an increase to 150), to better cover testing and other services which will be
gradually charged to beneficiary enterprises. Computer facilities for
information collection, interpretation, and quicker dissemination of results
will be enhanced. Finally, the TA component will provide for foreign
training, participation in international seminars and interaction with
international experts in the field.
Textile Design Center (TDC)
8.        The Centre was set up in 1980 to provide engineering design support
to the Tianjin textile subsector. The major functions of the Center are as
follows:
(a) providing designs and cost estimates for civil works and building
improvements in the factories;
(b) providing technical and consultancy services for new projects; and
(c) assist the factories in project planning and implementation.
9.        The Design Center functions under the administrative control of TTB,
but does not receive any financial supporv from the TTB. The Center meets its
recurring expenditures through the consultancy and service charges from the
factorics which are about 1% to 2% of the project cost. At present, there are
182 persons working in the Center. Of these, 120 are technically qualified
staff. However, they are not abreast of the latest developments in project
designing and implementation techniques due mainly to lack of exposure to the
recent developments elsewhere in the world.



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
10.       The Design Center is housed in a relatively small rented building,
which is inadequate for its staff. Laboratory facilities for environmental
testing (soil, water, etc.) and structural testing are inadequate. The
drawing and designing studios are ill-equipped. In the absence of suitable
computer facilities, large numbers of project designs, engineering drawings,
and material estimates, have to be done manually. This leads to project
delays and cost overruns. Given that the Centre is the only institution of
its kind to provide entire engineering support services to the Tianjin textile
subsector, it needs to be strengthened.
11.       The restructuring and development plan of the Centre includes
provision for required space and building, appropriate laboratory facilities
for soil and water testing, proper drawing and designing studios, suitable
computer facilities, and exposure of the key staff to world developments in
the subsector through foreign training, technical literature, and interaction
with foreign counterparts.
Tianjin Textile Training Institute
12.       This Institute is a textile educational institute under the
administration of the Tianjin Education Bureau. Tt is the main source for
providing technical management personnel to the Tianjin textile subsector.
The Institute provides two types of training: middle level courses for the
lower level factory staff and operators, and higher level degree courses.
13.       The Institute trains nearly 700 students, of which 120 are senior
level. The Institute has so far trained nearly 3,000 students majoring in
spinning, weaving, dyeing/printing, garment manufacturing, industrial
engineering, and electrical and mechanical engineering. About 1,000 trained
supervisor staff serving in the Tianjin textile sector have attended these
courses.
14.       The Institute has a qualified faculty.  However, a large percentage
of junior (46%) and middle level (15%) teachers, who have joined the Institute
directly after acquiring a basic degree, lack higher level teaching techniques
and technical training.  There is little fundamental research related to
studies in the training center, due mainly to lack of technical communication
with the outside world.  Further, most of the laboratory facilities and
teaching aids are limited. Most of the testing equipment is Chinese-made and
is representative of technology of the 1950s and 1960s. These limitations
affect the research abilities and teaching levels. The Institute is the only
technical education and training center for textiles in Tianjin for all levels
of management, and its development will significantly improve the quality of
management and operation of the Tianjin textile sector.
15.       The development plan for the training center includes updating the
laboratory equipment and teaching aids, pilot plant for demonstrations and
teaching, and training programs (lasting 12 months) for middle and junior
level faculty.
16.       The following table summarizes the cost of equipment, services and
training programs for each of the institutions discussed above:



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
(i)     TEXTILE RESEARCH INSTITUTE EQUIPMENT
Item                                Amount ($)
- Testing and quality control
-  (physical and chemical testing)                     940,000
-  Pilot plants--bleaching, dying & printing           720,000
-  Special Testing (water, caustic revovery, etc.)   130,000
-  Computer                                            120,000
TOTAL                                             1,910,000
(Plus local costs of Yuan 0.68 million)
(ii)     TEXTILE RESEARCH INSTITUTE TRAINING
Number of    Cost/        Total Cost
Persons     Person (M)      ($)
Foreign Training
-  Quality Control                   2           10,000         20,000
-  Computer                          2           10,000         20,000
-  Special Process Technology        2           10,000         20,000
60,000
(iii)     TEXTILE DESIGN CENTER EQUIPMENT
-  Environmental Monitoring                                    120,OGO
-  Computer & Peripherals                                      770,000
-  Office Automation                                           160,000
TOTAL:                                                    1,050,000
(Plus local costs of Yuan 0.61 million
to implemented the above and Yuan 0.26
million for reference materials, books,
periodicals and formal contact with
international research institutes)
(iv)     TEXTILE DESIGN CENTER TRAINING
Number of            Cost/    Total Cost
Persons       Person ($)        ($)
Foreign Trainin8
- Environmental, Structural
Engineering, and Design
Techniques                      2           20,000         40,000
-  Computer                           2          15,000         30,000
TOTAL:                                                       70,000



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
(v)     TEXTILE TRAINING CENTER EQUIPMENT
-  Laboratory                                                  400,000
-  Pilot Plant                                                 230,000
-  Audio-Visual Teaching Aids                                   60,000
-  Computer                                                     60,000
TOTAL:                                                      750,000
(Plus local costs of Yuan 1.3 million to
implement the above and Yuan 0.11
million for books, reference materials,
and library facilities)
(vi)     TEXTILE TRAINING CENTER TRAINING
Number of    Cost/       Total Cost
Training                           Persons      Person ($)    ($)
-  Teacher Training Abroad           8           15,000        120,000
- Training in Tianjin to Staff
by foreign experts                                           70,000
TOTAL:                                                      190,000
Library & reference materials                                30,000
TOTAL:                                                      220,000
C. Pulp and Paper
17.       The pulp and paper subsector in tianjin is directly supported by two
institutions: The Tianjin Light Industry Design Institute, and the Tianjin
Paper Research Institute. The first of these organiztions provides
engineering design services and erection supervision for projects in the mills
of the Tianjin Paper Corporation, and the second undertakes fundamental and
applied research in papermaking and related subjects. The following
paragraphs provide an overview of the staff and facilities of the two
organizations, including existing strengths and weaknesses, and summarize the
development program to be included in the TLIP to improve the effectiveness of
the institutions.
Tianjin Light Industry Design Institute
18.       This Institute was founded in 1958 and is now one of the preeminent
design institutes in all of China. The headquarters are located in Tianjin
City in the modern multi-story building which contains administrative offices,
design offices, computer rooms, and a staff cafeteria. Administratively, the
Institute is under the Tianjin First Light Industry Bureau, and provides its
services to all of the Bureau's industries, including pulp and paper,
transportation, construction, watches, detergents, food processing, and



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
others. The Institute is self-financed through the fees it earns for its
professional services.
19.       The Institute is headed by a President and employs a total staff of
about 200, of which 801 are engineers and other technically trained people.
20.       Although the majority of the Institute's work is for industries and
other organizations in Tianjin, it has also completed assignments elsewhere in
China and a few foreign countries. The Institute's overseas work has been
tied to projects which have included the supply of Chinese manufactured
equipment and machinery.
21.       In Tianjin, the Institute has already completed several projects for
the pulp and paper industry, and is capable of doing most of the detailed
design work for the proposed TLIP. However, because of their limited amount
of work outside of China, and little exposure to similar organizations world-
wide, the professional staff are not well informed about current technological
developments in the pulp and paper industry. Therefore, the TLIP, and the
Design Institute, would benefit greatly from assistance of a foreign
engineering company in the areas of conceptual design and basic engineering.
22.       Increasing contacts with similar organizations overseas is one of
the main ways the Institute plans to improve its effectiveness, and the TLIP
will include funds to allow study tours, particularly to study the technical
aspects of the rehabilitation of Paper Mills 4 and 5, at the workshops and
design offices of equipment suppliers and paper mills using modern technology.
23.       The Institute is only partly equipped with modern tools of office
technol7gy. They have, for example, a number of micro computers and related
equipment for computer assisted drafting (CAD), but the level of technology
currently in use is fairly basic. The development program in the TLIP will
include funds for advancing the Institute's capabilities in CAD and other
modern design office techniques.
24.       The Design Institute, recognizing the need to develop contacts with
overseas engineering companies, is currently seeking to establish a joint-
venture arrangement with one of the large consulting engineering companies in
North America or Europe who specialize in the pulp and paper industry. A
number of contacts have been made, and it is expected that a suitable
arrangement will be in place before the start of implementation of the TLIP.
25.       In summary, the TA program for the Tianjin Light Industry Design
Institute, will include:
(a) establishment of a complete computer auxiliary design system by
installation of a central main computer with satellite terminals.
(b) establishment of modern office systems, integrated with the above
computer system, to provide management of archival design material,
Chinese language word processing, international communications
systems, and other modern office technology to improve efficiency
and enhance communications with overseas contacts.



- 62 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 7
(c) sending selected specialists overseas for technical investigations
and training.
Tianjin Paper Research Institute
26.       This Institute, which was founded in 1958, is administratively part
of the Tianjin Paper Corporation. The Institute employs some 150 scientists,
engineers, and other technically trained personnel who are housed in several
adjacent buildings in Tianjin City. The Institute is financed largely by
grants from the Central and Municipal governments, which together provide
about 90% of the total funds. The remaining funds come from fees earned for
contract research projects.
27.       Basic and applied research is carried out in a wide variety of
fields, such as pulping, papermaking, non-woven fabrics, and environmental
protection. In the papermaking field, the Institute is heavily involved in
coating technology, an area of particular interest to the Paper Corporation.
This work is significant as it is aimed at higher utilization of locally
available raw materials, such as local talc as a substitute for imported china
clay. Results from this work should provide immediate foreign exchange
savings for a number of the paper mills, including the No. 4 mill whose
project for the production of high grade coated art printing paper is proposed
to be included in TLIP.
28.       In addition to its commercially important applied research such as
the work in coating technology, the Research Institute is also involved in
some areas of fundamental research. One example is biological pulping, an
area which many pulping researchers in the world feel will be the next major
breakthrough in pulping technology.
29.       As is the case for the Design Institute, the Research Institute
suffers from isolation from the research activities being carried out in the
major pulp and paper producing countries of the world. The staff scientists
at the Institute would benefit greatly from more contact with scientific
counterparts in these countries, and TLIP will include foreign funds to assist
the Institute in developing such contacts.
30.       Many of the basic items of specialized equipment needed for research
are available at the Tnstitute, including a relatively large experimental
paper machine and an off-machine coater. However, some of these machines are
old and outdated, and this limits the usefulness of the experimental
results. The major single item in this category is the experimental coating
machine which uses outdated technology. The machine needs to be replaced with
one using the modern technology of the type proposed to be installed in No. 4
paper mill.
31.       The Institute does not have adequate computing facilities either for
the analysis of research results, or for searching on-line data bases or
abstracts of the world's scientific and technical literature. The Tianjin
Institute of Scientific and Technical Information, also located in Tianjin
City, already subscribes to the on-line services offered by "Dialog", and the
Paper Research Institute plans to avail itself of this facility by purchasing



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8
microcomputers equipped with modems. It would then have immediate access to
most of the published literature from all the major pulp and paper research
institutes throughout the world.
32.       In summary, the TA program for the Tianjin Paper Research Institute
will include:
(a) purchase and installation of a multiple-head pilot coating machine,
400 mm width, and working speed 250-400 m/min.
(b) purchase of specialized testing equipment including a particle
counter and dynamic printing machine.
(c) purchase of microcomputers with associated peripherals and software.
(d) sending selected specialists for overseas investigations and
training in specific areas of interest to the paper industry in
Tianjin, including neutral sizing, highly filled papers, and high
solids coating.
Tianjin Paper Corporation
33.       As the owner and manager of these paper mills in Tianjin, the Paper
Corporation provides certain technical services to the mills, and as such,
plays a role as a support institution. The TA program therefore includes
assistance to the Corporation in the form of financing specialized testing
equipment to be used in a number of mills. Also, the TA program will finance
the foreign cost of study tours for key personnel associated with the new
technology to be utilized inthe proposed rehabilitation work in Mills No. 4
and 5.
Summary and Cost of the TA Program for Pulp and Paper
34.       The following table provides details of equipment and training
programs for each of the institutions discussed above:



64 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 9
(i) Design Institute Equipment:
Item                            Amount ($)
-    Main computer                                   210,000
-    Micro computers                                  50,000
-    6 Drawing workstations                          180,000
-    Chinese operating system                          6,000
-    Color copying machine                            13,000
-    Color picture scan transfer                       3,000
-    Picture design software                          30,000
-    Multi-pen roller drawing instrument               3,000
-    Character instrument                              5,000
-    19 inch color screen picture indicator           32,000
-    Printing machine                                   1,000
-    Engineering duplicator                           85,000
-    2 Blueprint machines                              4,000
-    Telex system                                      2,000
-    Telephotographer                                  5,000
-    200 Drawing appliances                            5,000
-    12 computer terminals                            35,000
Total for Equipment                       $ 669,000
(plus local costs of Y 100,000)
(ii)   Design Institute Training:
Number of   Cost per   Total
Subject                      Persons      Person    Cost
-      Computer training                  5       14,000      70,000
-      Specialized paper technology       2       15,000      30,000
-      Other specialized technology       6       10,000      60,000
-      Design management training
by foreign experts                                  40,000
Total for training                             $200,000
(iii) Research Institute Equipment:
Item                                         Amount ($)



- 65 -
ANNEX 4
Page 10
-      Pilot plant coating machine                           600,000
-      Particle counter                                       30,000
-      Dynamic printing machine                               50,000
Micro computers with peripherals and sofware          60,000
Total for equipment                             740,000
(plus local costs of Y 300,000)
(iv)   Research Institute Training:
Number of   Cost per   Total
Subject                      Persons      Person    Cost
-  Neutral sizing technology              3       23,300      70,000
- Technology of highly filled
papers                              2        22,500     45,000
-  Technology of coating                  2       22,500      45,000
Total for training                                  160,000
(v)    Paper Corporation Equipment:
Item                                             Amount ($)
-  caliper tester                                              4,000
-  tensile tester                                             40,000
-  formation tester                                           40,000
-  print testing machine                                      25,000
-  oxygen permeability tester                                 20,000
-  release strength tester                                     7,000
-  friction tester                                             7,000
-  E direction strength tester                                 8,000
-  equipment for technical
information center                                      87,000
Total for equipment                               $ 238,000



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Page 11
(vi)   Paper Corporation Training:
Number of   Cost per   Total
Subject                          Persons      Person    Cost
-  energy and pollution technology        3       10,000      30,000
- energy improvement, pulping
technology                          4        10,000     40,000
-  paper industry management              4        5,000      20,000
Total for training                                   90,000
D. Packaging
35.       Technical support to the packaging subsector in Tianjin is currently
provided by three design and research institutions and three related schools
representing paper packaging, plastics, and printing. A review of their
facilities and activities indicates a certain degree of overlap, and
substantial underdevelopment in many areas.  Since the functions of each
institute and school are highly complementary in many cases, close
coordination among institutions is necessary in the design and implementation
of a subsector-wide development program.  The following paragraphs outline the
strengths and weaknesses of the institutions and provide a summary of the
development program proposed to be included in TLIP.
Packaging Decoration Institute
36.       The Packaging Decoration Institute employs 41 staff including one
senior engineer and 34 middle-level engineers. The current functions of the
institute are to carry out (i) the design of packaging decoration; (ii)
research into packaging materials, technolofy and equipment; (iii) package
testing and technical services to industry._ The strength of the institute
lies in paper and paper board, adhesive technologies, corrugated board and
carton board testing. Currently, no research is undertaken in plastic and
composit packaging, and consultancy services to industry appear very limited.
37.       The packaging institute 2hould continue to build on its strengths,
and develop coating technologies,2 as well as better corrugated case
specifications and designs. The institute should also diversify into plastic
paper composite packaging and plastic packs. The equipment necessary to
undertake this research program is a multifunction, coating and extrusion
pilot plant. A shock table is required to help reducing damage levels due
1/   The institute also prepares National Packaging Standards.
2/   Both paper and plastic technologies.



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page 12
poor packaging. The institute also requires test equipment consistent with
the coating pilot plant.
Plastics Research Institute
38.       The Tianjin Plastip  Research Institute employes 143 persons, of
whom 67 are technical staff._   The major work of the institute is in the
field of plastics technology and polymer masterbatch, flame resistant and
plastic building materials, and medical plastics.  Important work in the field
of food packaging has also been undertaken. The institute is more closely
related to the industry than the packaging institute, because of its
involvement in pilot plant development, testing, legislation and certifi-
cation.  The plastics institute has a range of analytical equipment which
could be used by the packaging institute, thus indicating the advantage of a
close coordination between the institutes.
39.       The main strength of the plastics institute is in polymer
masterbatch development and plastic processing and not in the packaging use of
plastics. The institute's plans to dev, op more into packaging plastics, must
avoid dupli.cation with the packaging institute. The plastics institute needs
equipment to develop large 100-200 liter polyethylene (PE) drums, which are
not currently manufactured in China. The development of large PE drums should
be encouraged, since they are more allied to polymer science and plastic
processing. Also, the institute needs to acquire equipment to improve
masterbatch development.
Printing Technology Research Institute
40.       The Tianjin Printing Technology Research Institute was established
in 1977 and currently employs 74 persons (47 are technical staff, of which 31
are college graduates). It has acquired significant expertise in the field of
lithography plate-making and screen printing. It also provides art work,
color separation, and transparency services to industry, and has built its own
testing equipment. The institute appeared to be more commercially oriented
than plastic and packaging institutes, since some of its services are sold at
full price to clients. The involvement of this institute in printing and
decorating overlaps with the packaging institute. However, the printing
institute seems better staffed and equipped to handle such research.
41.       Since concern has been expressed in China about security against
counterfeit printed materials, the plan of the institute to diversify into
holographic printing is very relevant. In addition, the institute plans to
update its plate making facilities and improve transparency production. These
areas of development do not overlap with the development program of other
institutes and are also worth supporting.
3/   Including 22 engineers, but only seven of them working directly on
packaging.



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Page 13
Printing and Packaging Schools
42.       The printing school employs 28 teachers and has 350 students, of
which 280 are receiving middle class technical level education and the
remaining 70 a college level training. Currently, the school has no facilities
for "hands on" training. The packaging school was established in 1982 and
consists of seven teachers. The school trains 27 part-time students every two
years. Its main purpose is to train workers and administrative staff under 35
years old to a middle school level. The school has very little facilities and
the courses need to be upgraded to supply the required expertise and knowledge
in the subsector. The plastics school appears to be well equipped and the
training program seems satisfactory. It does not need any external assistance
at present.
43.       The printing and packaging schools should upgrade their course
content and teaching level. Trained technicians and engineers should master
advanced packaging and printing techniques and raise the quality of packaging
to international standards, especially for export goods. The course content is
to be enhanced by introducing equipment for "hands on" training. Since
teaching courses in printing and packaging are highly complementary, close
coordination between the two schools is necessary in all aspects: course
content, diploma delivered, "hands on training", course schedule, development
programs, etc. In the long run, the two schools should consider to merge to
form a packaging and printing school offering three-year full time courses of
college level as well as their present training programs.
Training Requirements
44.       The institutes and schools concerned should receive a detailed
training for the use of newly acquired equipment, with specific courses in
related packaging, plastic and printing technologies. In addition the schools
would greatly benefit from teacher training courses on recent techniques in
printing, paper and paperboard, and packaging, as well as modern teaching
methods. Most of the training will be received by inviting foreign experts
for a reasonable period of time.
Cost of the TA for Packaging, Printing and Plastics
(a) Equipment required:
Item                               Amount ($)
(i) Packeging Institute
Pilot plant coating machine                              500,000
Cutting/creasing and forming machine                      20,000
Shock table                                              170,000
Shock/time, drop and weather recorders                    20,000
Electronic analytical balance                              4,000
Controlled humidity/temperature cabinet                   12,000
Tensile tester                                            20,000



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 14
Zenon testing cabinet                                     8,000
Rapid moisture determining cabinet                        4,000
Laboratory heat sealer                                    3,000
Oxygen permeabilty tester                                 4,000
Infra red spectrometer                                   31,000
Rotary viscometer                                         4,000
Other misc. items                                       100,000
Total for equipment                                   $ 900,000
(plus local cost of Y 629,000)
(ii) Plastic Institute
Extrusion blow moulding machine                         800,000
High power microscope                                    12,000
Moisture penetration tester                               8,000
Co2 Permeabilty tester                                   40,000
Drop impact tester                                        6,000
Fadeometer                                                8,000
Other misc. items                                       100,000
Total for equipment                                   $ 974,000
(plus local cost of Y 40,000)
(iii) Printing Institute
Hologram and printing laboratory                        730,000
Film making and reproduction                            235,000
Plate making equipment                                   34,000
Proofing machine                                         80,000
Transparency research equipment                          39,000
Laboratory test equipment                                78,000
Other misc. items                                       150,000
Total for equipment                                   1,346,000
(plus local cost of Y 720,000)
(iv) Printing school
Demonstration printing presses                          510,000
Laboratory scale printability tester                     12,000
Viscosity Tester                                          4,000
Audio visual kits                                        20,000
Textbooks and reference materials,
and periodicals (several years)                        30,000
Other misc. items                                        50,000
Total for equipment                                     626,000
(plus local cost of Y 37,000)



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Page 15
(v) Packaging school
Paperboard burst tester                                    3,000
Flat platten crush testing machine                         2,000
Tear tester                                                5,000
Tensile and elongation tester                             20,000
Water vapor transmission, stiffness, strength,
water absorbancy, and surface friction testers          18,000
Micrometers (6), balances and templates                    6,000
Surface strength, smoothness and porosity testers         22,000
Curl tester, balances, compression tester, oil
resistance and gloss testers, sample cutters,
and conditioning cabinets                               39,000
Computers (6 sets of PC hardware)                         20,000
Reference books, periodicals (several years),
and software for computers                              13,000
Other misc. items                                         50,000
Total for equipment                                      198,000
(plus local cost of Y 406,000)
(b) Tr&ining required:
Number      Cost per          Total
Subject               of persons      person           Cost
(US$)
(i) Packaging Institute
Coating technology               2          10,000        20,000
Modern packaging techniques    2             5,000        10,000
Total for training                                      $ 30,000
(no additional local cost)
(ii) Plastic Institute
Blow moulding technology         1          15,000        15,000
Testing and maintenance
techniques                    1           15,000        15,000
Advanced plastics technology   1             15,000       15,000
Mould-making technology          1           15,000       15,000
Total for training                                      $ 60,000
(plus local cost of Y 50,000)



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Page 16
(iii) Printing Institute
Advanced plate making           3            7,500       22,500
Modern art-work preparation    5             7,500       37,500
Total for training                                       60,000
(plus local cost of Y 5,000)
(iv) Printing and packaging schools
Machine printing techniques    14            2,700       37,500
Printing and packaging teacher
training                       5           12,000      60,000
Material technology              5            4,500      22,500
Reference materials and books                            20,000
Total                                                 $ 140,000
(plus local cost of Y 12,000)
D. Cost Summary and Financing
45.       The cost of the TA program for the strengthening of technological
infrastructure described above is summarized in the following table.
Equipment                    Training
Local   Forei    Total       Local   Foreign   Total
-----                 ($ million) ------------------
Subsectors
Textiles                     0.80     3.71      4.51        -        0.35    0.35
Paper                        0.34     1.65      1.99        -        0.45    0.45
Packaging                    0.49     4.04      4.53       0.07      0.29    0.36
Subtotal                   1.63     9.40    11.03        0.07      1.09    1.16
Physical Contingencies (5%) 0.08      0.49      0.57        -         - 
1.71     9.89    11.60        0.07     1.09    1.16
Price Contingencies (6%)    0.10      0.60      0.70        -        0.07    0.07
Total Cost               1.81    10.49    12.30        0.07      1.16    1.23
The foreign cost will be financed under the TA component of TLIP and funds for
the local cost will be provided by the Tianjin government.



- 72 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
Pulp and Paper Subprojects
Introduction
1.        The paper industry in Tianjin consists mostly of small and outmoded
mills which rely heavily on imported pulp. Consequently, Tianjin does not
seem to have a comparative advantage in the production of many paper varieties
and their economic viability appears doubful. In order to consider the inclu-
sion of the pulp and paper subsector in the TLIP, it was agreed during the
preparation of the project that feasibility studies would be prepared for the
two priority subprojects, Nos. 4 and 5 Paper Mills for product lines in which
they did appear to have on a priori comparative advantage, proposed by the
Tianjin Paper Corporation (TPC). The Tianjin First Light Industry Debign
Institute prepared the feasibility studies. The studies were reviewed by the
Bank's pre-appraisal mission and the Chinese authorities, and the results are
summarized in this annex.
Descriptio-aof Proposed Paper Projects
2.        No. 4 Mill plans to undertake new production of 40,000 tpy of high
quality coated art printing paper, of which half would be for export and half
for domestic sales. The main machinery will be a new paper machine with stock
preparation and paper finishing equipment, and an off-machine coater with
coating kitchen. No. 5 Mill plans new production of 30,000 tpy of high
quality water-marked writing paper, sales of which will be split evenly
between export and domestic markets. The main items of machinery for No. 5
mill will be a new paper machine, stock preparation plant, and paper finishing
equipment. In both paper mills, additional steam boilers and electrical
turbo-generators will be installed, replacing old and inefficient machines.
Modern paper machines will be installed with equipment to allow maximum recir-
culation and re-use of process water. For the water which is finally dis-
charged, equipment will be provided for primary treatment.
Compatability with Subsector Development Objectives
3.        Most of the 26 mills of TPMC require some form of rehabilitation or
modernization, or in a few cases, total closure. The improvements proposed
for mills 4 and 5 are considered by TPMC to be top priority. Both projects
comply with the subsector development strategy agreed with the Tianjin
authorities: use of domestic pulp is maximized, and exports are limited to
grades of high quality and high value-added paper.
4.        No. 4 mill project will be able to limit its use of imported pulp to
only 50x. The remaining materials will be domestic short fiber pulp and
surface coating materials. With this furnish, the product will achieve the
high quality needed to sell in export markets.



- 73 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        No. 5 mill will take advantage of the availability of local cotton,
which yields a pulp of superior quality, and blend this special pulp with
imported wood pulp to make a type of paper which commands high prices in
quality-conscious export markets. Cotton pulp is currently used to produce
toilet tissue for export. This is a wasteful use of a very high quality pulp
to produce a relatively low quality paper, and the proposed project is a first
step in correcting this misuse. As the mill establishes its reputation in
export of high quality writing paper, the entire output of cotton pulp can be
diverted to this higher valued product.
6.        The Paper Corporation plans to export half of the new production
from both mills, and this is judged to be a reasonable and obtainable
objective. However, like virtually all grades of paper, the two types of
paper to be produced by mills No. 4 and 5 are in high demand in China, and the
entire new output of the two mills could easily be sold domestically.  In such
a case, the financial profit would be higher.
Market Outlook
7.        World markets for pulp and paper are cyclical, and currently the
demand and prices are high. Furthermore, the overall growth rates for pulp
and paper are steady at around 2-3 percent per year and the outlook is
generally healthy.
8.        In the case of coated art printing paper, world growth rate is
significantly above average, at about 5.6 percent per year on a current
consumption of 5 million tpy. About 2 million tpy is traded internationally,
of which about 400,000 tpy is imported into S.E. asia. Domestic consumption
of all qualities of coated art printing paper has grown in China at a rate of
over 30% per year since 1980, and in 1987 reached 270,000 tons. Of this,
about one third, 90,000 tpy, is the high quality type to be produced by No. 4
Paper Mill under the TLIP. Only one mill in China, the Jiang Nam mill in
Shanghai, with a capacity of 20,000 tpy, is currently capable of producing
this high quality grade, and the remaining tonnage of high quality material
has to be imported. Thus the 20,000 tpy of domestic sales planned under TLIP
can easily be absorbed.
9.        Printing and writing is one of the largest and fastest growing
categories of paper in the world. Almost 50 million tons are produced
annually, of which about half is traded internationally. High quality grades
make up 70% of this total. Demand is growing at over 4% per year,
significantly faster than the average for all types of paper. Imports in S.E.
Asia are about 500,000 tons/year. The export volume assumed in the
feasibility study by the time the mill No. 5 starts producing will be about 3%
of the S.E. Asia total imports.
Product Prices
10.       The current surge in paper demand world-wide has raised prices to
relatively high levels, which are expected to be maintained in at least the
medium term.



- 74 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
11.       For high quality coated art printing paper of the type to be
produced under TLIP, actual prices in the European and Hong Kong markets in
mid-1987 have risen about 15X since the beginning of the year to $1,400 to
$1,650 per ton cif. Lower qualities currently sell for about $1,200. The
feasibility study for No. 4 mill assumes a mill net selling price for exports
of only $1,025, which is too low and will be achieved easily. An export price
of $1,200/ton cif for this grade would be reasonable, and this is the level
assumed in the economic analysis. For domestic sales, the only mill in China
currently producing this high quality grade sells it for Y 5,600/ton, and the
feasibility study assumes a slightly lower price, i.e. Y 5,400/ton. At the
official exchange rate, this price is equivalent to about $1,450/ton, which is
essentially in line with the international price.
12.       The price of high quality cotton content writing paper can be very
high, depending on the supplier's reputation for quality and service. Typical
North American price is about $1,600/ton for medium grade, but European
producers currently sell better qualities in the Hong Kong market for $3,300
to $4,100/ton. The feasibility study takes a conservative approach on export
price by starting at a fairly low level of $1,000/ton for three years until
Tianjin can become established in the market. After this trial period, price
is increased slowly until it reaches a conservative top level of $1,600/ton in
the sixth year of operation. Domestic price in the feasibility study is
assumed at a conservative Y 3,500/ton, less than $950/ton at the official
exchange rate.
Capital Costs
13.       The cost estimates in the feasibility studies are based on current
estimated prices. Details are in the Project File, and are summarized below:
Pulp and Paper Subsector--Capital Cost Estimate
Local     Foreign      I :al      Local     Foreign      Total
…  Y million------ ---         -----$ million----------
No. 4.         71.0       171.1       242.2       19.1        46.0       65.1
No. 5         101.3        93.0       194.3       27.2        25.0       52.2
To,tal    172.3       264.1       436.4       46.3       71.0       117.3
14.       In addition to the installed plant cost, the above estimates include
provision for training and technical assistance, working capital, interest
during construction, and contingencies.



- 75 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
Manufacturing Costs
15.       Details of the manufacturing cost estimates for the two grades are
in the Project File, and are summarized below:
Y/ton          Equivalent      $/ton
No. 4    No. 5          No. 4       No.5
Imported pulp                       1,270    1,273          343            344
Domestic pulp                         351       959          95            259
Other variable costs                  980       403         265            109
Fixed costs                           172       168          46             45
Total manufacturing cost         2,773    2,803          749            757
Financial Rate of Return
16.       For the purpose of financial analysis, it has been assumed that the
project implementation period would be 3 years, and production would be 60% of
capacity in the first year of operation, 80X in the second year, 90% in the
third year, and 100% thereafter.  To allow for inefficiencies during the
startup period, manufacturing costs have been increased by 15% in the first
year.  Selling prices for exports have been assumed at levels below
international prices in order to provide a conservative estimate of the rate
of return.  On this basis, the financial rates of return for both subprojects
are acceptable, with No. 4 at 22% and No. 5 at 17Z. Details of the analysis
are in the Project File.
Economic Rate of Return
17.       The economic rate of return has been calculated by making
appropriate adjustments to the financial cost/benefit streams. The main
adjustments are the removal of all taxes and other transfer payments, and the
use of international prices for the tradeable inputs and outputs. Standard
conversion factors have been used to adjust non-tradeables. On the basis of
these adjustments, the economic rates of return are 22% for No. 4 and 21% for
No. 5. Details of the analysis are in the Project File.
Conclusion
18.       The feasibility studies have demonstrated that for the two high-
value paper grades to be produced there is sufficient difference between
manufacturing cost and selling price to justify importing a substantial
portion of the pulp requirements. The imported pulp can be blended with
domestic pulps, and the paper sold at a profit. This is accomplished without
subsidies on imported pulp, and assuming conservative selling prices in both
export and domestic markets. Both financial and economic rates of return are
acceptable. On the basis of these results, the inclusion in TLIP of
subprojects of this type in the papet subsector is justified.



- 76 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Pulp and Paper Subsector Study
I. Introduction
1.        The following Terms of Reference are intended as an outline of the
scope of work which will be undertaken to assist the Tianjin Paper Corporation
to prepare a m*dium and long-term development plan for the subsector.  The
work will be carried out by the Corporation in collaboration with the Tianjin
Light Industry Design Institute and the Tianjin Pulp and Paper Research
Center, with the assistance of a firm of international consultants with
special expertise in the pulp and paper industry.
2.        The industry in Tianjin consists of 26 paper mills which are gen-
erally, small and outdated, producing in total about 220,000 tons of a wide
variety of paper grades. Only about half of tha pulp requirements is produced
in integrated mills; wastepaper and imported pulp makes up the rest. The main
local fibrous raw materials for pulping are rice straw and reeds.
3.        The Corporation has plans to close certain mills and expand
others. Under the proposed World Bank financed Tianjin Light Industry
Project, work is planned to be undertaKen in two mills which are considered by
the Corporation to have top priority. Beyond that, no firm plans have been
prepared and one purpose of this study is to help lead the Corporation to the
next and subsequent steps-
II. Terms of Reference
Structure of the Industry
4.        Review the historical pattern of development of the pulp and paper
subsector in Tianjin.
5.        Describe the structural arrangements between the Ministry of Light
and the Paper Industry Bureau of the Central Government, The Tianjin Light
Industry Bureau, The Tianjin Paper Making Corporation, and the individual
manufacturing plants (enterprises). Comment on the line of responsibility and
authority in all areas of corporate management, including raw material pur-
chasing, production planning, financial planning, investment planning, quality
standards, marketing and market development.
6.        Propose alternative structural arrangements, outlining the reasons
and the benefits for the suggestions, and the practicality of implementing
changes in the Tianjin/Chinese environment.



- 77 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
Domestic Market
7.        Through actual records of production, imports, and exports, deter-
mine the past 10 years' apparent consumption of paper in Tianjin and in China
by major product categories.
8.        Compare the past consumption with that in various other countries
having a similar range of economic development level and draw any significant
conclusions.
9.        Develop statistical relationships between consumption and appro-
priate economic indicators and use these to project future demand to the end
of the Century.
Export Markets
10.       Identify logical export target countries based on their current and
expected consumption, level of quality expectations, availability of foreign
exchange, and transportation connections with China.
11.       Considering Tianjin's current and future potential to compete in
foreign markets, outline the most likely paper grades which could be consid-
ered for export.
12.       For the grades identified in para. 11 above, estimate the selling
price and volume of export potential to each target country.
Raw Material Base
13.       Determine the long term availability and delivered cost of each
locally available fibrous raw materi&l, including reeds, straw, cotton, hemp,
waste good, bagasse, waste paper, and any others.
14.       Comment on the suitability of the local raw materials for various
grades of paper, indicating the most suitable types of paper production and
grades to ba avoided.
15.       Determine the availability and cost of chemical raw materials from
domestic and imported sources.
16.       Identify any critical shortages of raw materials and comment on the
impact this might have on the future development of the industry.
Technology and Scale of Operations
17.       Through visits to a representative number of mills, and review of
available data at Corporation headquarters, determine the physical character-
istics of the mills, including production capacity, age, level and relevance
of technology.
18.       Determine the industry's impact on the environment.



_ 78 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
19.       Determine the immediate and long range availability and cost of
water, power, and fuel.
20.       Comment on the adequacy of the mill's quality control program.
21.       Review the capabilities of the management and staff at all levels,
and determine the needs for training and technical assistance.
22.       Assess che suitability of the existing plants continuing at their
current levels of operation, or being candidates for rehabilitation, expan-
sion, or closure.
Alternative Development Strategies
23.       Estimate an overall supply-demand balance for pulp and paper for
China and Tianjin up to the end of the Century, and indicate the main areas of
deficit (or surplus).
24.       Comment on the suitability of the current development plans of the
subsector to meet the domestic needs.
25.       Comment on the technical, financial, and economic appropriateness of
Tianjin increasing exports of ,aper.
26.       Outline alternative programs for the development of the pulp and
paper subsector, taking into account environmental impact of each.
27.       Estimate the capital cost of the alternatives including pollution
control measures, and calculate the expected benefits.
Centralized Pulping and Waste Paper Operations
28.       In order to achieve economy of scale, and to prov.de an opportunity
to greatly reduce environmental impact, investigate the possibility of combin-
ing all of Tianjin's current and medium term future pulping capacity into a
single pulp mill, capable of handling all the available fibrous raw materials.
29.       Investigate the possibility of expanding the supply of fibrous raw
material beyond the current levels, possibly by importing wood chips, in order
to increase the mill size to allow replacement of imported pulp and to achieve
even greater economy of scale.
30.       In order to improve efficiency of waste paper collection, and the
quality of its processir.g for use as paper making fiber, consider establishing
a central waste paper processing plant to replace or to supplement all of the
existing small operations in the individual paper mills.
31.       Make a preliminary investigation of possible sites for a combined
central pulp mill and waste paper processing plant, including ecological
characteristics and regional planning impact of alternative sites.
32.       Undertake preliminary estimates of capital and manufacturing costs,
including pollution control costs, and preparn a cost/benefit analysis.



- 79                               ANNEX 6
Page 4
III. Schedule of the Study and Reporting
33.       The proposed study will be carried out by a consultant team
consisting of experts in industrial restructuring and project feasibility
studies with experience in the pulp and paper subsector. The study is
expected to take about six months from the date of contract award.
34.       The consultants shall submit the following documents and reports,
both in Chinese and English languages:
(a) An Inception Report (five copies to Tianjin Government and three
copies to the World Bank) within two weeks from the date of contract
award summarizing the detailed work program, arrangements needed for
the field work of the study, major issues to be investigated in-
depth, and more importantly, a detailed list of information (where
necessary, data formats will be provided) to be prepared by Tianjin
Government and tnterprises in the paper subsector before the start
of field work.
(b) An Interim Report (five copies to Tianjin Government and three
copies to the World Bank) within six weeks from the start of field
work, briefly summarizing preliminary findings, issues to be further
investigated, and recommendations on arrangements to facilitate the
study;
(c) Draft Final Report (10 copies to Tianjin Government and 3 copies to
the World Bank) at the end of 6 months detailing the work performed
in accordance with the Terms of Reference, including detailed
findings and recommendations of the study and action programs to
carry out the recommendations; and
(d)  Final Report (the number of copies will be determined later by
Tianjin Government and the Bank) within one month after
incorporating the comments on the Draft Final Report from Tianjin
Government and the World Bank.



- 80 -                              ANNEX 7
Page 1
CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Internal Enterprise, Organization
and Hanagement Systems Study
I. Introduction and Objectives of the Study
1.        The Tianjin Municipal Government plans to develop and restructure
textile dying and finishing, pulp and paper and packaging subsectors with the
main objectives of improving their productivity, quality, efficiency and
competitiveness. One of the means of achieve the above objectives is to
strengthen the organizational structure and to improve the effectiveness of
management systems at the enterprise level. At present, it is proposed to
introduce necessary changes in the textile and paper subsectors. A study
would therefore be carried out to review the present organization and
management systems in these subsectors and to recommend measures for their
improvement and a program for their implementation.
2.        The objectives of the study are to:  (a) review relationships
between enterprises and their supervisory authorities, other related
government agencies and clients; (b) develop proper organizational structures
of enterprises, which will allow them to achieve their current objectives
effectively, and plan for future development; (c) develop adequate management
information system for enterprises based on well derined relationships between
enterprises and related agencies and clients, and revised internal structure;
and (d) review and evaluate the cost accounting system. The development of
the information system may require the use of computerized tools. The study
will include pilot testing of the systems to be developed for enterprises.
Pilot implementation of the alternative organizational structures, management
information system, and cost accounting for enterprises will be carried out
for selected companies in the two identified subsectors. The study will also
propose an implementation program, including a training program to facilitate
the introduction of the information system in different type and size of
enterprises.
II. Scope of the Study
3.        In order to assist enterprises in installing an appropriate
organizational structure, financial control and cost control systems, and a
management information system, the study will review the following:
(a) The existing institutional set-up of the textile and paper
subsectors will be reviewed with specific focus on the relationship
between enterprises and supervisory authorities, between those two
and other controlling and supporting organizations, including those
responsible for marketing.  Existing organizational mandates for
each institution will be reviewed.  Communications, including flows



-81-                           ANNEX 7
Page 2
of information, approvals for decisions, and instruction and
guidelines, among these entities will be examined.
(b) The organization and management information system (MIS) of
enterprises will be reviewed to propose alternative organizational
structure based on analyses of their organizational mandate and
strategic objectives. Based on the analysis of a repretentative
number of enterprises representing identified subsectors, the :tudy
will redefine functions, responsibilities and authorities of each
organizational unit within the enterprise, and its staffing.  The
study will consider Fhe benefit of establishing profit centers
within enterprises.,   In support of the implementation of the
proposed organizational structure across the subsectors, the study
will prepare organizational models which will accommodate different
sizes of enterprises.  The organizational models should refer to a
MIS compatible with the use of computerized tools which will support
the proposed organizational structure of enterprises. The MIS
should include subsystems for: (i) data base management for
physical flows of raw materials, and products, production costs,
personnel and overheads, financial flows; (ii) production and
financial planning: (iii) inventory control of raw materials,
finished products, and spare parts; (iv) production and cost
monitoring system; and (v) sales, dispatch and distribution.  The
study will also identify the general and specific training
requirements for managers, technicians, and support staff to ensure
the efficient operation of their new organizational structure and
MIS.
(c) The current costs accounting system will be reviewed with focus on
data flows, output of reports from the system, and the set-up of
cost accounting units.  The study will provide specific cost
effective recommendations for improvements to existing cost
accounting operations and processes, including proper use of
computerized tools. The proposed accounting system should ensure
the flow of adequate and reliable accounting data for cost
management of enterprises as well as financial reporting to
supervisory authorities.
(d) To ensure proper implementation of the new systems, training needs
for the textile and paper subsectors will be identified. General
and specific training requirements for corporation officials,
enterprise managers, technicians, accountants and support staff will
be reviewed with the aim to suggest appropriate training sites and
courses, both within and outside China. Such recommendations should
take into account the level of training courses, teaching faculty
1/   Each production unit in a factory is directly or indirectly contributing
to the total profit (or loss)of the factory. This contribution can be
measured by a method accounting for the costs and gains generated by
these production units.



-82-                           ANNEX 7
Page 3
and training materials on one hand, and the present level of
knowledge of the trainees on the other hand, to ensure the efficient
introduction and operation of the new system.
4.        Based on the findings of the review, the study will prepare specific
recommendations for the following:
(a) Alternative organizational structure of enterprises in the textile
and paper subsectors, in light of their organizational mandate and
strategic objectives.
(b) Development of management information system (MIS) for textile and
paper enterprises with the use of computerized tools for data base
managenent, production and financial planning, inventory control,
production and cost monitoring, and sales monitoring.
(c) Improvement of existing cost system of textile and paper enterprises
for better cost management and more reliable financial reporting.
(d) An implementation program for the introduction of the new
organizational structure, MIS, and cost accounting system for
textile and paper enterprises with specific focus on the steps to be
taken, required resources including computerized tools, and
necessary training requirements.
(e) Training programs in support of the installation, maintenance, and
improvement of the systems for enterprises with specific focus on
the role of the supporting institutions where the training could be
organized.
III. Schedule of the Study and Reporting
5.        The proposed study will be carried out by a consultant team
consisting of experts in organization and systems design, management
information system, accounting and financial management, marketing, and
marketing traininxg, in the following two phases: (a) Phase I--Analysis ad
Program 3uilding; and (b) Phase II--Pilot Implementation of the Program. The
study is expected to take about 12 months from the date of contract award to
complete the Phase II of the study. The Phase I, during which alternative
systems for enterprises in the textile and paper subsectors will be develoned,
is expected to take about eight months including two-months data preparation
by enterprises in Tianjin and two months report writing by the consultant.
The results of the Phase I of the study will be reviewed by Tianjin Government
and the World Bank, and necessary changes will be made. These tasks should be
completed within two months. The alternative systems will then be installed
and tested on an experimental basis under the Phase II of the study, which is
expected to take about two months.
6.        The consultant(s) shall submit the following documents and reports,
to be written in English:



- 83 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4
(a)  An Inception Report (5 copies to Tianjin Government and 3 copies to
the World Bank) within two weeks from the date of contract award
summarizing the detailed work program, arrangements needed for the
field work of the study, major issues to be investigated in-depth,
and more importantly, a detailed list of information (where
necessary, data formats will be provided) to be prepared by Tianjin
Government and enterprises in the textile and paper subsectors
before the start of field work.
(b)  An Interim Report (5 copies to Tianjin Government and 3 copies to
the World Bank) within two months from the start of field work,
briefly summarizing preliminary findings, issues to be further
investigated, and recommendations on arrangements to facilitate the
study;
(c) Draft Final Report (10 copies to Tianjin Government and 3 copies to
the World Bank) with the completion of the Phase I, detailing the
work performed in accordance with the Terms of Reference, including
detailed findings and recommendations of the study and action
programs, including pilot implementation program, to carry out the
recommendations.
(d) Pilot Implementation Completion Report (5 copies to Tianjin and 3
copies to the World Bank) upon completion of pilot implementation
summarizing the results of pilot implementation;
(e) Final Report (the number of copies will be determined later by
Tianjin Government and the Bank) within one month after the
completion of pilot implementation, incorporating the results of
pilot implementation, and comments on the Draft Final Report from
Tianjin Government and the World Bank; and
(f) Implementation Manuals (as part of the Final Report) for facili-
tating the introduction and implementation of the recommendations
new systems, which should include:  (i) organization manual for
enterprises; (ii) manual for installation and maintenance of MIS for
enterprises; and (iii) cost accounting manuals for enterprises,
including applications to cost control.



CHRU
Tienjin Light Industry Project
Project Ieolem_ntation Schedule
Yr.         1989            1990           1991           1992            1993            1994           1995
Qtr.     I II III IV    I II III IV    T 'I III IV    I II III IV    I II III IV    I II III IV    I II III IV
Technological Restructuring
of Enterprises
Procurement
Construction
Production start-up
Development of Technological
In;rastructure
Procurement of equipment                       -
Overseas training
Enterprise management systems
study
implementation of recommendations
of above study
Paper subsector studly
Studies for overall industrial
strategy for Tianjin
Consultants for general assistance
for light industry                               - 
CIB overseas training
01/04/89
ZSKhan:amre
AS3IF



- 85 -
ANNE) 9
Page 1
CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
Key Monitoring Indicators
Indicators                                                        Target Date
A. General
Loan Effectiveness                                            May 1989
B. Utilization of Industrial Credit Component by CIB
Last date for subproject submission                           June 1992
Last date for loan withdrawal                                 June 1995
C. Implementation of Technical Assistance Component
Development of Institutional Infrastructurt
Selection of suppliers                                    October 1989
Completion of civil works                                  December 1989
Start of use of new equipment                              June 1990
Commencement of staff training                             January 1990
Completion of staff training                               December 1991
Enterprise Management Study
Commencement                                               October 1989
Completion                                                 September 1990
Implementation of recommendations of above Study
Commencement                                               January 1991
Completion                                                 December 1991
Paper Subsector Study
Commencement                                               October 1989
Completion                                                 April 1990
Discussions with the Bank                                  June 1990
Studies for Industrial Development Strategy of Tianjin
Commencement                                               January 1990
Completion                                                 December 1991



- 86 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2
Consultant Services for Light Industry
Commencement                                                          July 1989
Completion                                                            December 1994
CIB staff training
Commencement                                                          January 1990
Completion                                                            December 1991
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 87 -
ANNEX 10
CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
CIB - Actual and Planned 0perations, 1983-92
(Million yuan unless otherwise stated)
Actual                                              Planned
1983    1984      1985      1986       1987       1988       1989       1990       1991        1992
Approvals
Local currency           165.2   139.0    334.1       272.4       518.4     690.0      855.5      983.8    1,131.4    1,301.1
Foreign currency /a    139.4   185.4    639.1         625.8   1,491.0   1,711.2   2,429.2   2,793.5    3,212.6    3,694.5
(US$ million)          (49.8)  (66.2)  (215.3)   (181.8)   (400.8)   (460.0)   (653.0)   (751.0)    (863.6)    (993.1)
Total                 304.6   324.4    973.2       898.2   2,009.4   2,401.2   3,284.7   3,777.4    4,344.0    4,995.6
Coumi tments
Local currency            76.1   188.1    328.1        344.2     457.8      630.4      822.4      956.2    1,101.9    1,267.2
Foreign currency /a       48.7   231.0    601.7       609.9   1,138.0   2,089.9   2,131.2   2,687.1    3,193.8    3,530.4
(USS million)         (17.4)  (82.5)  (202.7)   (173.9)   (305.9)   (561.8)   (572.9)   (722.3)    (858.6)    (949.0)
Total                 124.8   419.1    929.8       954.1   1,595.8   2,720.3   2,953.6         3,645.2    4,295.7    4,797.6
Disbursements
Local currency            33.7    80.2    251.0       364.8      450.9      434.1      663.4      871.1     1,208.1     1,170.2
Foreign currency /a       10.9    52.9    349.4       697.0      912.5   1,152.7   2,006.2   2,249.2    2,857.4    3,198.6
(USS million)           (3.9)  (18.9)  (117.7)   (200.0)   (24:.3)   (309.9)   (539.3)   (604.6)    (768.1)    (859.9)
Total                  44.6   133.1    600.4   1,061.8   1,363.4   1,586.8   2,669.5   3,120.3    4,065.5    4,368.8
Lnan Repayments
Local currency             4.8    10.1       38.1       28.5       81.6      110.0      165.0     209.0       350.9        571.6
Foreign currency /a         -       1.7      25.5      141.2     285.7      254.0      287.9      321.8       586.i       885.8
(US$ million)             -     (0.6)    (8.6)    (39.2)    (76.8)    (68.3)    (77.4)    (86.5)    (157.6)    (238.1)
Total                   4.8    11.8      63.6      169.7      367.3      364.0      452.9      530.8       937.0    1,457.3
Loan Portfolio
Local currency            28.9    99.0    318.3       643.3   1,100.3   1,424.3   1,922.6   2,584.7    3,441.9    4,040.5
Foreign currency /a       10.9    60.5    389.1   1,068.5   1,694.1   2,592.8   4,311.1   6,238.6    8,509.8   10,822.7
(USS million)           (3.9)  (2:.6)  (131.1)   (288.0)   (455.4)   (697.0) (1,158.9) (1,677.0)  (2,287.6)  (2,909.3)
Total                  39.8   159.5    707.4   1,711.8   2,794.3   4,017.1   6,233.7   8,823.2   11,951.7   14,863.2
-/a  Exchange rates:  1983/84             : 1 - Y 2.80;
1985                  $1 - Y 2.9682;
January-June 1986:  S1 - Y 3.20;
July 1986 - 1992 :  $1 - Y 3.72.
A&S3IF
November 1988



- 88 -
ANNEX 11
CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
CIB - Actual and Projected Income Statements, 1983-92
(Million yuan)
Actual                                Pro1ected
1983  1984  1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990    1991           1992
Income
Interest Income from Loans
Local cuirency                          1.2   2.3  16.2   46.1   79.7  140.0  188.2  252.6    337.0    418.1
Foreign currency                       0.1   1.8  14.4   66.4  115.1  192.9  325.9  492.4    684.1    893.5
Subtotal                              1.3   4.1  30.6  112.5  194.8  332.9  514.1  745.0  1,021.1  1,311.6
Interest Income on Deposits
Local currency                          6.1   5.8   3.8   12.4   13.1    6.5    6.8    7.2           7.5       7.8
Foreign currency                       0.4   5.3   8.9   13.4   12.9    6.5    7.4    8.4            9.3       9.8
Subtotal                              6.5  11.1  12.7   25.8   25.9   13.0   14.3   15.5           16.8      17.6
Income on Equity Investments
Local currency                          -      -      -      -       -      1.0    1.0    4.3        7.7      11.7
Foreign currency                                   - -  -    -      0.4    1.8    1.8    4.4         9.3      16.7
Subtotal                               -      -     -       -      0.4    2.8    2.8    8.7        16.9      28.4
Other income                               -     -      -     0.2    3.9    5.0    6.0    7.0          8.0       9.0
Total Income                          7.8  15.2  43.3  138.5  225.1  353.7  537.2  772.2  1,062.8  1,366.6
Expenses
Financial Expenses
Local currency interest                0.9   3.5   7.7   19.3   19.5   56.6   98.6  144.8    182.1    225.4
Foreign currency interest              0.9   4.2   9.3   44.9   94.0  150.7  262.3  378.4    537.8    702.2
Foreign currency fees                }                              0.1    0.1    0.2    0.2         0.4       0.5
Subtotal                               1.8   7.7  17.0   64.2  113.6  207.4  361.2  523.4    720.2    928.1
Administrative and other expenses         0.5   1.6   4.3    7.3   10.6   11.7   12.8   14.1          15.5      17.1
Provisions for doubtful accounts           -     -    2.7    4.1    0.6    8.0   12.7   17.7          23.9      29.7
Depreciation and amortization              -     -      -     0.1    0.4    0.5    0.8    1.2          1.8       2.7
Total Expenses                        2.3   9.3  24.0   75.7  125.2  227.7  387.2  556.4    761.5    977.6
Profit Before Taxes                   5.5   5.9  19.3   62.8   99.9  126.0  149.9  219.8    301.4    389.0
Less:  Business tax                         0.4   0.2   1.6    3.7    5.6    6.9    8.3   12.1          16.6      21.4
Net Profit Before Income Tax          5.1   5.7  17.7   59.1   94.3  119.1  141.7  207.7    284.8    367.6
Less:  Income tax                            -     -      -       -      -    65.5   77.9  114.3    156.6    202.2
Net Income After Tax                  5.1   5.7  17.7   59.1   94.3   53.6   63.7   93.5    128.2    165.4
AS3IF
November 1988



- 89 -                                                                 X 12
CHINA
TLAJIN LIGH? IIIUSTBtY PROJECT
CdR - Actual and ProClcted Balance Sheeca  1983-92
Actual                                          Projected
1983   1954      1985     1986       198'      1988      1989     1990       1991       1992
Asseti
Current Assets
Csh -end bank deposit                             510.3  730.7      350.5    779.3      748.7     811,9     649.3    71S.8       583.5     978.9
Current meturitlee of long-term loans
Local currency                                    6.8   26.0       47.7      28.5      81.6     110.0    165.0    209.0        350.9     571.6
foreign currency                                   -      5.6      63.0    141.2    285.7    254.0    287.9    321.8           586.1     885.8
Subtotal                                           6.8    31.6    1IC.7      169.7    367.3    364.0    452.9        530.8      937.0   1,457.3
Accounte receivable                                 2.1    0.4       82.9      67.7    269.3    100.0    110.0    125.0          135.0      400.0
Total Current Assets                             519.2  762.7    544.1   1,016.7   1,385.3  1,235.4   1,212.2   1.371.6    1,649.5   2.788.4
Lon -Serm hsets.
no:    cal currency                             28.8   99.0      318.3    643.3   1,100.3   1,424.3   1,922.6  2,584.7   3,441.9   4.040.5
Forelgn currency                            9.3   60.5    389.2  1.071.8   1.694.1  2,592.8  4,311.1  6,238.6   8,509.8   10,822.7
;As,: Provictons for bad and doubtful loans          -       -       (2.7)     (6.8)     (3.7)    (11.7)    (24.2)    (41.8)    (65.7)     (95.4)
Currant portlon of term loans               (6.8)  (31.6)   (110.7)   (169.7)   (367.3)   (364.0)   (452.9)   (530.8)    (937.0)  (1,457.3)
Net Iong-Term Loan Portfolio                      31.3  127.9    594.0   1,538.6  2,423.4  3,641.4   5,756.2  8,250.6  10,949.0   13,310.4
Equity investments                                   -      3.9       5.3       6.8      14.0      14.0      43.5      84.5      142.1      223.7
Not fixed assets                                     -      0.4       1.4       2.1       3.7       S.t       6.8      10.6       18.8       36.1
Other assets                                         -       -         -        7.2       3.9     100.0    110.0    115.0        125.0      380.0
Total Lona-Tem Assets                             31.3  132.2    600.7  1,554.7  2,444.9   3.760.5   5,917.0  8b,460.2   11.234.8  13.950.2
Total Assets                                     550.5  994.9   1,144.8   2,571.4   3,830.1   5,036.4   7,129.2  9.832.4   12,890.3  16,738.6
Liabilities and 4utty
Current Liablities
Accounts payable                                    0.1      -       81.1      46.6    438.7    377.0    415.6    486.4          499.0      498.8
Current portlon of long-term debt                    -      0.1        -         -        5.0      18.3    177.1    372.8        337.3      882.5
Total deposits                                       -       -         -         -       66.6    287.2    374.4    471.6         599.4      769.5
Total Current Liabilittles                         0.1    0.1       81.1      46.5     510.2    682.5    967.1   1,330.8    1,435.7    2,150.7
-Term Debt
iewiic borrowungs                                 140.0  423.5    420.0    420.0    420.0    720.0  1,020.0  1,320.0   1,420.0   1,520.0
IIorld Bank                                         5.2   60.4    215.1    742.4  1,062.1   1,225.3   1,714.8  2,451.1    3,605.4   5,024.5
An8                                                  -       -         -      156.9        -       52.1    230.6      453.8      833.3    1.221,6
Otbhr external borrowuLge                            -       -         -         -      386.9    796.1   1,409.9  2,600.3    3,809.3   5,408.9
Less: Current portion                                -       -         -         -       (5.0)    (23.3)   (195.4)   (549.9)    (710.2) (1,219.8)
Total Long-Term Debt                             145.2  483.9    635.1   1,319.3   1,864.0   2,770.2   4,180.0   6,275.3   8,957.8  11,9$1.2
Others                                                 -       -         -      199.8      95.1    200.0      320.0    280.0       260.0      100.0
Total Liabilities                                145.3  484.0      716.2   1,565.7  2,469.4   3,652.7  5,467.0   7,886.2  10 653.5  14,211.9
TdiI-in capital                                     400.0  400.0    400.0    910.1   1,150.0   1,150.0   1,400.0   1,650.0    1,900.0   2,150.0
Retained earnings                                   5.2   10.9       28.6      95.6    210.8      233.7    262.7    296.2        336.9     424.5
Total Equlty                                     405.2  410.9    428.6   1,005.7   1,360.8   1,383.7   1,662.1   1,946.2    236.9    2.574.5
Totel Liabilitles and Equlty                     550.5  994.9   1,144.8  2,571.4   3,830.1   5,036.4   7,129.2  9,832.4  12,890.3  16,738.6
Managed funds from local governments                     -       -      112.9    163.9         -      198.0     237.5    285.1       342.1     410.5
dS3IF
Novembr 1988



- 90 -
ANNEX 13
CHI"
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
-$--------- S million -----------
Procurement Method
Proiect Element                    ICB    LIB    Other      Total Cost
Industrial credit component/a    85.0             126.6        211.6
(85.0)          (56.2)      (141.2)
-,echnical assistance for                  1.1     12.5         13.6
development of technological            (1.1)   (10.6)       (11.7)
infrastructure
Other technical assistance                          1.3          1.3
(1.1)       (1.1)
*         Preparation of overall
industrial strategy               :           1               1.1
Total financing               85.0    1.1    141.5        227.6
(85.0)  (1.1)   (67.9)      (154.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
/a Includes initial raw materials and spare parts covered under incremental
working capital.



--91-                              ANNEX 14
CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
Estimated Disbtursements
($ milllion)
Year                  Period                     Amount                Cumulative
FY90             July - December                  8.8/a                     8.8/a
January - June                   -                        8. 87
FY91             July - December                  3.5                      12.3
January - June                 15.4                      27.7
FY92             July - December                 21.6                     49.3
January - June                 27.7                      77.0
FY93             July - December                 21.6                     98.6
January - June                 13.8                     112.4
FY94             July - ;B3cember                16.9                    129.3
January - June                  9.3                     138.6
FY95             July - December                  7.7                     146.3
January - June                  7.7                     154.0
/a  This amount is higher than the standard profile and represents the amount
to be transferred to the Special Account.



ANNEX 15
- 92 -
CHINA
TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files
A-1   China - Finance and Investment, Asia Regional Office, World Bank, June
1987.
A-2   China's Industrial Reform, World Bank Research Publication, June 1987.
A-3   China - External Trade and Capital, Reform Issues and Options, Asia
Regional Office, World Bank, October 1987.
B-1   China, The Chinese Packaging Industry, A Bank Consultant's Rep--t,
December 1981.
B-2   China, A Study of Textile Dyeing and Finishing, Pulp and Paper, and
Packaging Subsectors in Tianjin, Prepared by Bank's Preparation Mission,
October 1987.
B-3   Consultant's Report on Support Inititutions in the Packaging Subsector
in Tianjin, December 1987.
D-1   Details of Two Paper Subprojects Proposed to be included in TLIP.
D-2   Other Detailed Working Papers for TLIP.



CHINA Ik
Organiation Chart (As of SepL ) ,1988)
Chewfto of ftopwm  con  som am* of ch  
BOARD Of MAGING DIRECTORS
The bS     C no. d CS an: 1040 hbduig 130                                     U     Dl Ra            _    Tang ras-en
mewdeesIn HOW ORIl end 910 In BrenChe.
Under CIM NWdOm 31 brendiee
ad25        _ m!u~e
PRESIENT
Lu XWianI
Viem Prekiden
TCt- Hong  -z                     rao zt-G
.                                     E
ADMINISTRATIVE  PERSONNEL £  COORDINATING  FINANCING £          ~INVESTIGATION £       PROJECT LNd.       PROLJECT LNd         CREDIT
ODFINISTUATIVONDEL&                      CORI.NANG            FACCING ET             RESEARCH OFFICE         DEPT. No I         DEPT No 2         MA|0lGEMENT
COiFl:rAE-Te      EDeLsAT ON DP.        &PANIG            ACUTN DEPT                Chief: Liua Wei-Ran   ChNo. Ye W 81n-QI                      epmn ChzeI
Cwd: Ma En-Tian  nmnutv Chief:  DFPT.  Chlol~ Zou Fang-Lbn   De" chOs De" ChIl:                     Huesg Too-An       CAWs hza Si
DepuyChIm:             SN YI            Deputy Udt:          DepUy Chief:              T       c).          U Jigv-zon        DepUty Chief      Yang Gueng Do
Waj XLm           ZtMM Rd-4uan         Tong Yu-XIwsN        Wu YeoZhoIJ   DZngt                                              Sun Xengan We         b
~ _22                5                  13 1ang                                                        Ho De-Zong         San              We 3  22  14  _ 17  ,  17
31 Branches



ADMINISTRATION OF TIANJIN DYEING AND FINISHING
PAPER AND PACKAGING SUBSECTORS
Tianin 
Munipal
Government
Tianjin          Tian System                                   Tian                      Tianjin                           Tianjin
Tianning            a Seform                                    Texle                   First Ught                       Second Light
Comm'ssion          Commission                                   Bureau                Industry Bureau                   Industry Bureau
(TPC)               (TS RCJ                                    (TTB)                    (TFLIB)                           (TSLIB)
Tianjin          Tianjin
Economic        Foreign Trade     Price Bureau
Commission          Bureau            (TP)
(TEC)            (TFTB)
Tianjin          Tianjin           Tianjin        lianjin                       Tianjin                            Tianjin
Textile         Garments           Paper           Packaging                     Paper                            IPnlstic
Foreign Trade    Foreign Trade     Foreign Trade     Foreign Trade               Corporaton                          Industrial
Corporation      Corporaton        Corporabionion Corpoion                      C p a o                            Corporation
Dyeing and         Pulp &           Printing          Plastic        Paper/Boadc
Finishing          Paper         Enterprises       Enterprise       EnePrcaineg
Enterprises      Enterprises                                          Enepis
CaM~W41769b       ii.



U S S     ( -    '.   US1).,.a,                                                         CHINAu
ti    J  '    to_4 TIANJIN LIGHT INDUSTRY PROJECT
' >   -     ~~~.6'       .   i
MONGOCIA  .  /J
22 - *. rlr- $^  ....   ,    '                                                           Roads
a,."       r                 5        a---  Railroods
- _                         509111                             .                               t 4 . . , , E Canals
;.' r   .1? EP    J                                         *     Nationol Capital
tF                                                          - - PA- -    -     Community (Xion) Boundories
KOI ifi-s  rS < ,                           s               -   ^-  Province Boundaries
_ * *'                               f                                X X    Internotional Boundaries
0
4.                                               Sa.he                                                                             40> wa-W 
. .          ,              - 
*                Nuaxian~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x
JSBEI (L \  Oeg Ji XicsN-G
X.
\   j>ongqng  H        T'g+              J/ Slionggutn
no            HAB  E/ |on
\ r, M / \-                  " I                                          _     __
e t/ <q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ing*Betn
2                    X  I N  G \~~~~~~~~~~H TA A\                  /he 
/IN        X-+s         O.       10        20
ii Cngzhoi,   ~        I io.                    oJ
.  rOC0"R  l,r  rOA 1988
MAY 1988



