Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3022-CHA
CIB Project Agreement
(Tianjin Light Industry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
Dated September 8, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3022-CHA
CIB PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 8, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CHINA INVESTMENT BANK (CIB).
WHEREAS  (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty-four million 
dollars ($154,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that CIB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as 
are set forth in this Agreement and Tianjin Municipality agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in the Tianjin Project 
Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between Tianjin 
Municipality and CIB, a portion of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the 
Loan Agreement, will be made available to CIB on terms and conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS CIB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of CIB
Section 2.01. (a) CIB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Parts A and B.2 of the Project through its Tianjin branch and conduct its operations 
and affairs, in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers and in accordance with its Charter, 
Supplementary Regulations, Statement of Operating and Financial Policies, Statement of 
Development Strategy and Lending Procedures.
(b)
CIB shall carry out Part B.2 of the Project in accordance with a program 
agreed between the Bank and CIB.
Section 2.02. CIB undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
CIB shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in 
such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and of CIB; (ii) comply with 
its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) 
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and services required for Parts A and B.2 of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.04. CIB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the CIB Project Agreement and Parts A and B.2 
of the Project.
Section 2.05. CIB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CIB shall not take or concur 
in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to affect the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of 
the Tianjin Project Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) CIB shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
CIB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by CIB of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. If CIB establishes or acquires any Subsidiary, CIB shall cause 
such Subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of CIB under this Agreement to 
the extent to which such obligations shall or may be made applicable thereto, as 
though such obligations were binding upon such Subsidiary.
Section 2.08. CIB shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposal to modify 
its Charter, Supplementary Regulations, Statement of Operating and Financial Policies, 
Statement of Development Strategy or Lending Procedures.
Page  3
Section 2.09. From time to time, at the request of any one of them, the Bank, 
the Borrower and CIB shall exchange views on the interest rates to be charged by CIB 
in its lending operations in light of CIB's cost of funds and profitability and 
interest and inflation rates in China and internationally.
Article III
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) CIB shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor 
and report the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (including its 
cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices and operations and financial 
condition of CIB.
(b)
CIB shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited and (B) 
the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CIB shall not incur or 
permit any Subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurrence of such debt, the 
aggregate principal amount of the consolidated debt of CIB and all its Subsidiaries 
then incurred and outstanding would be greater than five times the consolidated 
capital and surplus of CIB and all its Subsidiaries. For this Section:
(a)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of CIB or any Subsidiary maturing 
by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the modification of its 
terms of payment, on the date, and to the extent, the amount of such debt has become 
outstanding pursuant to such contract or agreement or instrument; and (ii) under a 
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into but only to the extent the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c)
Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value, 
in terms of Renminbi, debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made 
at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the 
time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the 
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
(d)
The term "consolidated debt of CIB and all its Subsidiaries" means the 
total amount of debt of CIB and all its Subsidiaries excluding: (i) debt owed by CIB 
to any Subsidiary or by any Subsidiary to CIB or to any other Subsidiary; and (ii) 
debt referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) of this Section.
(e)
The term "consolidated capital and surplus of CIB and all its 
Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of: (i) the total unimpaired paid-in capital, 
surplus and free reserves of CIB and of all its Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom 
such amounts as shall represent equity interests of CIB in any Subsidiary, or of any 
such Subsidiary in CIB or in any other Subsidiary; and (ii) such amount of any other 
Page  4
loan which the Bank may determine to be included in the consolidated capital and 
surplus of CIB.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CIB shall not make any 
repayment in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of CIB which, in 
the judgment of the Bank, would materially affect CIB's ability to meet its financial 
obligations.
Section 3.04. CIB shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall be 
necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates 
of exchange between the various currencies (including Renminbi) used in its 
operations.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and CIB thereunder 
shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance 
with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CIB thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
   and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For CIB:
China Investment Bank
Jingtong Hotel
No. 27-B
Wan Shou Road (South)
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
Page  5
2122
22537 CIB CN
Beijing
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CIB may be 
taken or executed by its President, or by such other person or persons as the 
President shall designate in writing, and CIB shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
and Processing Procedures
1.
Principal Terms and Conditions of CIB Sub-loans: 
 
(a)
Sub-loans shall bear interest on the principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate not less than the variable rate payable under 
Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement, plus a spread of at least 1%.
(b)
The aggregate amount of all Sub-loans and Prior Sub-loans for an 
Investment Project shall not exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000.
(c)
Repayment periods for Sub-loans shall normally not extend beyond fifteen 
years, including up to three years of grace.
(d)
Investment Enterprises shall bear all foreign exchange risks on 
Sub-loans.
(e)
A Sub-loan may be used to finance goods and services required for the 
Investment Project, including initial permanent foreign currency working capital, and 
interest during construction payable in foreign currency on such Sub-loan.
(f)
Investment Projects shall be in eligible industrial sub-sectors, and 
consistent with Tianjin Municipality's development program and strategy for the 
Sub-sector. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans shall be allocated 
among eligible industrial sub-sectors as follows:
Page  6
(i)
textile dyeing and finishing, up to $36,000,000;
 
(ii)
pulp and paper, up to $71,000,000; and
 
(iii)
packaging, up to $33,600,000.
 
(g)
With respect to the Sub-loans for the pulp and paper sub-sector: (i) CIB 
shall be the managing agency, on behalf of Tianjin Municipality on terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Bank; (ii) CIB shall carry out all the functions of a 
financial intermediary except that the credit risk for such sub-loans shall be borne 
by Tianjin Municipality; (iii) in respect of this managing agency
function, CIB shall charge Tianjin Municipality a managing fee of 0.30% of principal 
outstanding on such Sub-loans which shall be deducted from the spread under paragraph 
1 (a) above; (iv) the remaining amount of the spread shall be paid to Tianjin 
Municipality; and (v) the limitation in paragraph 1 (b) above shall not apply.
(h)
Investment Projects shall have minimum financial and economic rates of 
return of 12%.
(i)
Investment Enterprises shall have a satisfactory projected financial 
position as determined by generally accepted financial standards.
(j)
Investment Projects shall be consistent with environmental standards 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days 
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the application and 
information required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such 
Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-limit 
Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date 
on which the Bank shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan.
(i)
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement and this Agreement, a 
free-limit  
Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Investment 
Project in an amount to be 
financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan which, when added to any other 
outstanding amounts 
financed or proposed to be financed out of Sub-loans and 
Prior 
Sub-loans, the proceeds of which have been or are being used for 
financing goods and services directly and materially related to such 
Investment Project, shall not exceed in  the aggregate the equivalent of 
$3,500,000, the foregoing amount being subject to change from time to 
time as 
determined by the Bank.
 
3.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub loan) to the Bank 
for approval, CIB shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to 
the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and an 
appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and a description of the procurement procedures; (ii) the proposed terms and 
conditions of the Sub-loan including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and 
(iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by CIB for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description 
of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of 
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and a 
description of the procurement procedures; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the 
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan.
Page  7
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before June 30, 1992.
4.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby CIB shall obtain, by written contract 
with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to 
protect the interests of the Bank and CIB, including the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Sub-loan (i) be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and (ii) be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included in the 
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be  made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or CIB shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Investment Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with CIB.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, CIB shall cause Investment Enterprises 
to procure goods and services to be financed in whole or in part under Sub-loans in 
accordance with paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 below.
1.
Goods and services estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent 
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under 
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in this 
paragraph, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
2.
Goods and services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000,000 per 
contract shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three qualified suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Review of procurement decisions by the Bank:
 
(a)
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(i)
With respect to the first five contracts estimated to cost the 
equivalent of
$5,000,000 or more and all subsequent contracts estimated to cost 
Page  8
the 
equivalent of $10,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply 
Where payments for such 
contract are to be made out of the CIB 
Special Account, such procedures shall 
be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required 
to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be 
furnished to 
the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the CIB 
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(ii)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding 
paragraph, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines 
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to 
be made out of the CIB 
Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required 
to be furnished to the 
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to 
the Bank as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(iii)
The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraphs (a) (i) and (ii) 
shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized 
withdrawals 
from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of 
expenditures. Such 
contracts shall be retained in accordance with 
Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the 
Loan Agreement.
 
(b)
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
