Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3022-CHA
(Tianjin Light Industry Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 8, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3022-CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 8, 1989, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Tianjin Municipality has adopted a Development Program and Strategy for 
the Textile Dyeing and Finishing, Pulp and Paper and Packaging Sub-sectors; and
(C)
Part B.1 of the Project will be carried out by Tianjin Municipality and 
Parts A and B.2 of the Project will be carried out by China Investment Bank (CIB), all 
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Tianjin Municipality the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Tianjin Project Agreement and CIB Project Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Bank and Tianjin Municipality and CIB, respectively;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Charter" means the Charter of China Investment Bank  approved by the 
Borrower's State Council on December 4, 1981;
(b)
"CIB" means China Investment Bank, a state enterprise established 
pursuant to its Charter;
(c)
"CIB Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between 
the Bank and CIB, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the CIB Project Agreement;
(d)
"eligible industrial sub-sector" means a light industrial sub-sector 
agreed between the Bank and Tianjin Municipality pursuant to paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 
to the Tianjin Project Agreement;
(e)
"foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of the 
Borrower;
(f)
"free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan which qualifies as a free-limit 
Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 to the CIB 
Project Agreement;
(g)
"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which CIB proposes to make 
or has made a Sub-loan;
(h)
"Investment Project" means a specific technological restructuring project 
in an eligible industrial sub-sector to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise 
utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(i)
"Lending Procedures" means the Lending Procedures (on a Trial Basis) of 
CIB, approved by the Borrower's Ministry of Finance on April 2, 1983;
(j)
"Prior Sub-loan" means  a  Sub-loan as defined in Section 1.02 (e) (i) of 
the Development Credit Agreement, dated December 28, 1982, Section 1.02 (e) of the 
Development Credit
Agreement, dated June 25, 1984, Section 1.02 (f) of the Development Credit Agreement, 
dated April 16, 1986, and Section 1.02 (f) of Development Credit Agreement, dated 
March 16, 1987, between the 
Borrower and the Association for the Industrial Credit Project, Second Industrial 
Credit Project, Third Industrial Credit Project and Fourth Industrial Credit Project, 
respectively;
(k)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(l)
"Statement of Operating and Financial Policies" and "Statement of 
Development  Strategy"  mean the Statement of Operating and  Financial  Policies  and 
Development Strategy Statement of CIB, respectively, as approved by its Board of 
Directors in July 1986 and as revised thereafter with the Bank's concurrence;
(m)
"Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the outstanding 
voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled by CIB 
or by any one or more Subsidiaries of CIB or by CIB and one or more of its 
Page  3
Subsidiaries;
(n)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Tianjin Municipality and CIB pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of the Tianjin 
Project Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(o)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by CIB to an 
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds 
of the Loan relent or made available to CIB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(p)
"Supplementary Regulations"  means  the "Regulations Supplementary to the 
Charter of China Investment Bank," approved by CIB's Board of Directors on October 6, 
1982;
(q)
"Tianjin Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and 
Tianjin Municipality of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Tianjin 
Project Agreement; and
(r)
"Tianjin Special Account" and "CIB Special Account" mean the accounts 
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, "Special Accounts" means the 
Tianjin Special Account and the CIB Special Account, collectively, and "Special 
Account" means either of the Special Accounts.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty-four million dollars ($154,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or if the Bank shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by CIB on account of 
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; (ii) amounts in respect of interest 
during construction payable in foreign currency by an Investment Enterprise under a 
Sub-loan; and (iii) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part B of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of: (i) Part B.1 of the Project; and 
(ii) Parts A and B.2 of the Project, respectively, open and maintain in dollars two 
separate special accounts
in banks and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to be known as the 
Tianjin Special Account and the CIB Special Account, respectively. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Page  4
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall 
notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
(e)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
interest rate for the Interest Period commencing in the first Semester of 1989 shall 
be seven and sixty-five hundredths percent (7.65%).
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 
1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall: (i) cause Tianjin Municipality and CIB to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Tianjin Project Agreement and the CIB
Project Agreement, respectively, all the obligations of Tianjin Municipality and CIB 
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Tianjin Municipality 
and CIB to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
Page  5
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance; and (ii) cause Tianjin 
Municipality to enable Investment Enterprises to convert sufficient amounts of 
Renminbi to foreign currency as and when needed to make payments to CIB under their 
Sub-loans. 
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Tianjin 
Municipality on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Tianjin Project 
Agreement and the CIB Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively): (a) in respect of Part B.1 
of the Project, shall be carried out by Tianjin Municipality pursuant to Section 2.04 
of the Tianjin Project Agreement; and (b) in respect of Parts A and B.2 of the 
Project, shall be carried out by CIB pursuant to Section 2.04 of the CIB Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, from time to time, at the request of any one 
of them, exchange views with the Bank and CIB on the interest rates to be charged by 
CIB in its lending operations in light of CIB's cost of funds and profitability and 
interest and inflation rates in China and internationally.
Page  6
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Tianjin Municipality or CIB shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Tianjin Project Agreement or CIB Project Agreement, 
respectively.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Tianjin Municipality or CIB will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Tianjin Project Agreement or CIB Project Agreement, respectively.
(c)
The Charter, Supplementary Regulations or Lending Procedures shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of CIB to perform any of its obligations under the CIB Project 
Agreement.
(d)
A change shall have been made in CIB's Statement of Operating and 
Financial Policies or Statement of Development Strategy without the Bank's 
concurrence.
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CIB or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Loan Agreement; and
 
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of Tianjin 
Municipality and CIB.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Tianjin Project  Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Tianjin Municipality, and is legally binding upon Tianjin Municipality in 
accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the CIB Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
CIB, and is legally binding upon CIB in accordance with its terms; and
(c)
that the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Tianjin Municipality and CIB and is legally binding upon Tianjin Municipality and 
CIB in accordance with its terms.
Page  7
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Page  8
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated             % of
                       (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category       Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans           141,200,000        100% of amounts
                                            disbursed by CIB
                                            for foreign
                                            expenditures
                                            (including interest
                                            during construction)
                                            and for local expendi-
                                            tures (ex-
                                            factory)
(2)  Goods for            10,490,000        100% of foreign
     Part B.1 of                            expenditures,
     the Project                            100% of local
                                            expenditures
                                            (ex-factory
                                            cost) and 75%
                                            of local ex-
                                            penditures for
                                            other items pro-
                                            cured locally
(3)  Consultants'          2,260,000        100%
     services and
     overseas
     training for
     Part B.1 of
     the Project
(4)  Overseas                 50,000        100%
     training
     for Part B.2
     of the
     Project
                         ___________
          TOTAL          154,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower which, 
for purposes of Category (1) only, shall have been procured in accordance with 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the CIB Project Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent 
of $8,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after December 1, 1988; or
Page  9
(b)
a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to 
the CIB Project Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower and Tianjin Municipality 
in the restructuring of light industry, by supporting the implementation of Tianjin 
Municipality's Development Program and Strategy for the Textile Dyeing and Finishing, 
Pulp and Paper and Packaging Subsectors. In particular, the Project aims to assist 
Tianjin Municipality in: (a) accelerating
policy and system reforms in industry; (b) modernizing and restructuring enterprises 
based on economic criteria; (c) strengthening technological infrastructure; and (d) 
improving internal enterprise management systems.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A
Financial Assistance
 
Financing of specific technological restructuring projects through Sub-loans to 
enterprises in the light industrial sector in Tianjin.
Part B
Institutional Support
 
Strengthening the institutions in Tianjin which support light industrial 
development and assisting Tianjin Municipality in the development and implementation 
of its light industrial strategy, through provision of equipment (including computer 
hardware and software), consultants' services and staff training in such areas as:
1.
(a)
Strengthening of support institutions for technological infrastructure, 
including sub-sectoral design and research institutes and vocational training schools; 
(b) preparing an
overall industrial strategy for Tianjin; (c) analyzing and recommending efficiency 
improvements in internal enterprise management systems in textile and pulp and paper 
subsectors; and (d) analyzing the efficiency of enterprise operations in the pulp and 
paper subsector, and making recommendations on the restructuring of the subsector, 
including prefeasibility of centralized pulping and waste paper processing plants.
2.
Upgrading of CIB staff at the Tianjin branch.
 
*               *               *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
 
October 1, 1994                                 
2,840,000
April 1, 1995                                   
2,950,000
October 1, 1995                                 
3,060,000
April 1, 1996                                   
3,175,000
October 1, 1996                                 
3,300,000
April 1, 1997                                   
3,425,000
October 1, 1997                                 
3,555,000
April 1, 1998                                   
3,690,000
October 1, 1998                                 
3,825,000
April 1, 1999                                   
3,975,000
October 1, 1999                                 
4,125,000
April 1, 2000                                   
4,280,000
Page  10
October 1, 2000                                 
4,440,000
April 1, 2001                                   
4,610,000
October 1, 2001                                 
4,785,000
April 1, 2002                                   
4,970,000
October 1, 2002                                 
5,155,000
April 1, 2003                                   
5,350,000
October 1, 2003                                 
5,555,000
April 1, 2004                                   
5,765,000
October 1, 2004                                 
5,985,000
April 1, 2005                                   
6,210,000
October 1, 2005                                 
6,445,000
April 1, 2006                                   
6,690,000
October 1, 2006                                 
6,945,000
April 1, 2007                                   
7,210,000
October 1, 2007                                 
7,485,000
April 1, 2008                                   
7,765,000
October 1, 2008                                 
8,060,000
April 1, 2009                                   
8,375,000
 
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to the balance 
outstanding on the Loan on the day of 
prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                             0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                             0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                               0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                            0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                            0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                             1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means, for the Tianjin Special Account, 
Categories (2) and (3) and, for the CIB Special Account, Categories (1) and (4), as 
Page  11
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to, for the 
Tianjin Special Account, $800,000, and for the CIB Special Account, $8,000,000, to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the respective Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; and
(d)
for the CIB Special Account, notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 
2 (b) of Schedule 1 to the CIB Project Agreement, payments for expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the CIB 
Special Account before the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible 
expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Accounts 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said
Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation for said 
Special Account, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into said Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of said 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into said Special Account such amounts as 
shall be required to replenish said Special Account with amounts not exceeding the 
amount of payments made out of said Special Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into a Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the 
following situations first arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals in 
respect of the 
respective Parts of the Project should be made by the 
Borrower directly from 
the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible  
Categories  
for said Special Account, minus the  amount of any 
outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to 
the respective Part of the Project, shall be equal 
to the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation for said 
Special 
Page  12
Account.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the respective Parts of 
the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in said Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of a 
Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may reasonably
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
1.
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
2.
The following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
 
"21. The term 'CIB Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in 
paragraph (c) of 
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement."
 
3.
The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the 
end of Section 6.03 are deleted  and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (f) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to the 
CIB Project 
Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the Loan: (i) 
have received no 
applications or requests permitted under sub-paragraphs (a) 
or (b) of said paragraph; or 
(ii) have denied any such applications or 
requests, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the 
right to submit such applications or approvals or to make 
withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or 
portion of 
the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan 
shall be cancelled."
