Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16324 LA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
March 5, 1997
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department 1
East Asia and Pacific Region



Currency Equivalents
(As of September 1996)
Currency Unit   =    Kip Nationale (KN)
US$1.00    =    KN 930
Weights and Measures
I meter (m)    =    3.2808 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)    =    0.62 mile (mi)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB   -  Asian Development Bank
ADT  -  Average Daily Traffic
ASEAN   -  Association of Southeast Asian Nations
AUSAID   -  Australian Agency for International Development
CDRI  -  Communications Design and Research Institute
CTC   -  Communication Training Center
DBST  -  Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
DCTPC   -  Department of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
DOC   -  Department of Communications
EAP  -  Environmental Action Program/Plan
EIA   -  Environmental Impact Assessments
ERR   -  Economic Rate of Retum
IAPSO   -  Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization
ICB   -  Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA   -  Intermational Development Association
ILO   -  Intemational Labour Organization
IRI  -  International Roughness Index
JICA   -  Japan Intemational Cooperation Agency
KfW   -  Kreditanstalt fMr Wiederaufbau
MCTPC   -  Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
MODD   -  Manpower and Organization Development Division
NAA   -  National Airports Authority
NCB   -  National Competitive Bidding
NDF  -  Nordic Development Fund
NEM   -  New Economic Mechanism
NPV   -  Net Present Value
OPEC   -  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCU   -  Project Coordination Unit
PIP  -  Project Implementation Plan
PMS  -  Pavement Management System
PTD   -  Planning and Technical Division
SBST  -  Single Bituminous Surplus Treatment
SESCML   -  State Enterprise for Survey and Construction Material Laboratory
SIDA   -  Swedish International Development Authority
SOE   -  State-Owned Enterprise
SRBCC   -  Savannakhet Road and Bridge Construction Company
STAP  -  Skills Transfer Action Plan
STENO   -  Science and Technology Organization
TPU   -  Transport Planning Unit
UNDP  -  United Nations Development Programme
VOC   -  Vehicle Operating Costs
Fiscal Year
October I - September 30
Acting Vice President      Mr. Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Director            Mr. Walter Schwermer
Division Chief/Manager     Mr. J. Shivakumar
StaffMember                Mr. Alain Labeau



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                   Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao P.D.R.)
Beneficiary:                Not applicable
Poverty:                    Not applicable
Amount:                     SDR 34.6 million (US$48 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard IDA terms with 40 years' maturity, with 10 years of
grace
Commitment Fee:             0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:             See para. 3.26.
Net Present Value:          US$19.5 million at 10% discount rate on roads improvement
component ( 57% of project costs).
Map:                        IBRD No. 28416
Project ID:                 No. 4210






LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Contents
Pag
Credit and Project Summary ............................1i
1.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ..........................I
A.    Economic Growth and Impact ............................1
B.    The Transport System .............................1
C.       Sector Development Strategy .............................2
D.       Lessons Learned from  Previous .............................4
2.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ........................                               ..5
A.       The Road Network and Traffic ............................................5
B.       Institutional Environment ............................................6
C.       Expenditure and Financing .............................................9
D.       Key Issues in the Highway Sector ...........................................                  11
F.       Long-Term  Policy and Institutional Reforms - A  Road Map .................... 13
3. THE PROJECT                                  .......... 14
A.       Project Strategy and Rationale for IDA  Involvement ................................ 14
B.       Project Objectives .....................................                                      14
C.       Project Description ......................................                                    15
D.       Environmental and Social Assessment .....................................                     19
E.       Project Cost and Financing .....................................                              20
F.       Implementation .....................................                                          21
G.       Status of Project Preparation .....................................                           23
H.    Procurement .....................................                                                25
I.       Disbursement .....................................                                            27
J.       Accounts and Audits .....................................                                     28
K.       Supervision Reporting and Monitoring .....................................                    29
This report is prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission carried out in January 1997. The task team
comprised Messrs.lMmes. Anil Bhandari (Team Leader); Denis Robitaille (Highway Engineer); Dieter Havlicek
(Transport Economist, Consultant); Jan Johnson (Economist, Consultant), Kevin Page (Operations Officer); Steve
Carapetis (Training, Consultant); Mostafa El-Erian (Sr. Legal Counsel); Gaye Lindsey (Disbursement Officer); Utpal
Mukhopadhyay (Environmental Specialist); Linda Schneider (Liaison Officer, Vientiane) Eva Monteblanco and Perry
Radford (Task Assistants). Staff and consultants from MCTPC included Messrs. Sommad Pholsena (Director, DOC);
Sengdarith Kattignasack (Project Coordinator, PCU); Guy Sarghat and Robert Kyriacos (Consultants). Peer reviewers
were Messrs. Dieter Schelling (Sr. Highway Engineer, AFTT2); Collin A. Gannon (Sr. Economist, TWUTD).
Messrs. J. Shivakumar and Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi are the Division Chief and Director, respectively, of the
operation.



- ii -
4.         PROJECT  JUSTIFICATION  .........................................................                                        30
A.    Choice of Improvement Option ......................                                                                30
B.  Benefits ......................                                                                                      30
C.   Economic Evaluation ......................                                                                         30
D.  Risks ......................                                                                                         31
E.   Sustainability ......................                                                                               32
V.         AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .................................................... 33
ANNEXES'
2.1        Potential and Actual Revenues From  Road  Users, 1995/96 .................................. 35
2.2    Summary Road Cost Responsibility & Road User Charge Contribution .............. 36
3.1        Project Objectives and Performance Indicators ..................................................... 37
3.2        Road Maintenance Expenditure .........................................................                                   38
3.3        Technical Audit .........................................................                                                39
3.4    Technical Assistance to Road Administration Division Terms of Reference ....... 41
3.5    Technical Assistance to Planning and Technical Division Terms of Reference ... 45
3.6    Technical Assistance to Project Coordination Unit Terms of Reference .............. 47
3.7        Training  Component Executive Summary .........................................................    48
3.8        Support to SESCML  - Detailed  Costs and Training .............................................. 50
3.9        Environment Action Plan .........................................................                                        51
3.10       Detailed  Cost Table (Local/Foreign  Component) .................................................. 53
3.11       Detailed Financing  Table .........................................................                                      54
3.12   Project Implementation and Procurement Plan (Summary Tasks) ........................ 55
3.13       Project Implementation  and Procurement Schedule .............................................. 56
3.14       Estimated  Disbursement Schedule .........................................................                               58
3.15       Supervision  Schedule .........................................................                                          59
4.1        Economic Analysis .........................................................                                              60
CHARTS
1.    Ministry of Communications, Transport, Post and Construction
Organization  Chart .........................................................                                           63
2.    Communication Department and Road Administration Organization Chart . 64
Map: IBRD No. 28416
i Annex number reflect the chapter numbers where they are referenced. Since Chapter one has no related
annex, the annexes begin with 2.1.



THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Growth and Impact
1.1         Lao PDR is poor, landlocked, mountainous and sparsely populated (4.9
million in 1995). The level of economic and social development is among the lowest in
the world, with a per capita income of US$350 per year (1995), a life expectancy of about
52 years and an incidence of poverty at 46%. Much of the country's basic infrastructure
has been destroyed through wars and lack of regular maintenance, which has resulted in
poor physical integration of the country's 16 provinces (plus the Vientiane Municipality
and the Special Zone of Xaysomboune). Over half of the Lao population lives in small,
scattered villages without regular access to transport means. Agricultural activities
generate 54% of GDP and employ 80% of the labor force.
1.2        In 1986 the Government launched the New Economic Mechanism (NEM)
to move the economy from a system of centralized planning to one with a market
orientation. Since then, external trade and most prices have been liberalized, subsidies to
state enterprises have been largely eliminated, and the exchange rate has been aligned
with the market rate. The Government's commitment to reform has been generally
positive. Strengthened public and private investment and economic incentives contributed
to a rise in per capita income of nearly 5% per annum in real terms. Inflation fell from
nearly 60% in 1989 to single digits in the early 1990s (6.8% in 1994) and the overall
fiscal deficit was reduced from 13.4% to 9.2% of GDP between 1990 and 1995. Growth
prospects are good for the remainder of the decade, with GDP expected to grow by about
7% per year.1
B. The Transport System
1.3         Lao PDR's transport system - roads, inland waterways and air transport -
is rudimentary, dilapidated and unreliable. Factors contributing to the decline are the
legacy of years of hostilities which destroyed a substantial part of the transport
infrastructure; weak institutions and human resources responsible for transport
infrastructure; and inadequate funds committed to the preservation of the country's
transport assets. Moreover, the rehabilitation of the system is very costly because of the
country's rough topography and its widely dispersed population. On the other hand, its
small economy places severe constraints on the resources that can be made available to
provide the population with an efficient, high quality transport system and services.
1.4         There is no railway at present. However, subregional cooperation studies
sponsored by the ADB, as well as Chinese, Malaysian and Thai interests, have examined
the eventual linking of the Chinese, Vietnamese and Thai railway systems through Lao
In real termns. Source: "Country Assistance Strategy for Lao PDR," Report No. 15284-LA, January
18, 1996.



- 2 -
PDR. Also, survey and design studies have already been carried out for a possible
connection of Vientiane to the Thai rail system.
1.5         Road Transport. Road transportation is the major mode of internal
communication, estimated to carry more than 90% of freight ton-km and 85% of
passenger-km. The country's road network, totals about 14,800 km according to official
statistics. However, except for some recent donor financed roads (mainly national), the
system has fallen into severe disrepair and normal maintenance is no longer economic on
over 50% of the network. Most of the provincial and district road networks consist of
tracks which are impassable during the rainy season.
1.6         River Transport. Sections of the Mekong River, comprising about 1,190
km, are navigable, depending on the season and other factors. River transport is mainly
complementary to road transport, but for many small communities it remains the only
viable means of transport for goods and people. River transport is of the small scale
artisanal type because seasonal constraints in depth, difficult channels and lack of
navigation aids prevent the efficient use of larger cargo vessels. Loading and unloading is
mainly by "gang and plank," since strong currents and extreme seasonal variations in
water levels make the construction of river ports uneconomic. Since the improvement of
the national road network the share of river transport is said to have shrunk to less than
10%.
1.7         Air Transport. There are two international airports in Vientiane and
Luang Prabang as well as about 17 other small airports and airfields distributed
throughout the country. A small national airline provides scheduled services and limited
international service to the region. In addition, charter services are available on demand.
The National Airports Authority (NAA) is an autonomous enterprise under the Prime
Minister's Office which is responsible for the four main airports (Vientiane, Luang
Prabang, Savannakhet and Pakse) and air traffic services.  With donor assistance,
rehabilitation and modernization of the entire system (including the air traffic control
system) has been started recently.
C. Sector Development Strategy
1.8   The Government's transport development strategy focuses on the restoration of
vital sections of the transport network, the provision of improved transport services and
policy reforms to increase sector efficiency and to facilitate trade and transport. As
regards physical targets, the Third Five Year Plan, 1991-1995 (Third Plan), gave first
priority to the transport sector (more than 51% of total public investment) and the
improvement of the national road network. Road improvement focused on the main
Road No. 13 and on providing road access to the southern agricultural areas such as the
Bolavens Plateau. In addition, the Government has sought to improve linkages with
Thailand and Vietnam, including Road Nos. 8 and 9 as "access to the sea," and to
promote transit trade via Lao PDR between China and Thailand. Further priorities were
interprovincial roads and the linking of provincial capitals to the national road network.



- 3 -
1.9          Implementation results of the Third Plan were mixed, mainly because the
physical and policy targets were ambitious in the first place, given the very limited
implementation capacity of the administration.  Apart from  the completion of a
substantial part of the main arterial Highway No. 13 and the rehabilitation of roads
allowing access to the agricultural area of the Bolavens Plateau (Nos. 13B, 16 and 20) all
2
the other Third Plan projects mentioned above have not yet been started. In the policy
area the Government has begun to simplify regulations for goods transport, to
commercialize and privatize state enterprises, and to encourage private sector
participation in transport infrastructure and the provision of services. However, a great
deal remains to be done, most important being the adoption of a Road Law and a Traffic
Law to simplify and replace the existing array of decrees, regulations and directives. In
addition, if Lao PDR is to fully exploit its central geographical position in Indochina as a
transit country for its neighbors, a stable legal framework must be created for the cross-
border and transit movement of goods, persons and vehicles. This is also one of the
targets of policy reforms defined under the Fourth Plan (para. 1. 10, below).
1.10         The Fourth Five Year Plan, 1996-2000 (Fourth Plan), proposes to continue
the network development begun under the previous plan and to deepen the agenda of
policy and institutional reforms.   The targets for the development of physical
infrastructure include:
*   continuation of the reconstruction/rehabilitation of the trunk road system;
* creation of international transit corridors to diversify the country's access to
the sea and to promote its role as a land bridge for neighboring countries;
(reconstruction of inter- and intraprovincial roads to improve access to rural
and remote regions); and
*   establishment of systematic maintenance (routine and periodic) to preserve
the new transport infrastructure.
Important targets for policy and institutional improvements include:
*   administrative and process reforms, notably:  improving traffic safety;
reforming the road classification system; devolving responsibility for certain
roads to local authorities; improving the Government's capability to manage
local contractors and consultants; strengthening capabilities for the
formulation and implementation of construction and maintenance projects;
*   acceleration of economic reforms relating to transport -- privatization,
financial discipline and accountability; and
*   regulatory measures, in particular adoption of a Traffic Law and a Road Law
and measures to facilitate cross-border movements and vehicle control.
However, the Mittaphab Bridge across the Mekong at Vientiane, not included in the Plan, was
completed during that period.



- 4 -
D. Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement
1.11        To date, IDA has funded three transport projects in Lao PDR, all in the
highway subsector: (i) the Southern Transport Project, which was closed on December
31, 1994 (Credit 1846-LA); (ii) the ongoing Highway Improvement Project (Credit 2218-
LA); and (iii) the ongoing Second Highway Improvement Project (Credit 2606-LA),
supporting the improvement of about 550 km of Highway No. 13. An Implementation
Completion Report (ICR No.1461), dated June 19, 1995, was prepared for the Southern
Transport Project. The main lessons learned from that first operation in the road sector
were that: (i) in view of the complexity of government and IDA procedures involved
with International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procurement, more technical assistance
should have been considered to supplement the Borrower's weak implementation
capacity; and (ii) future operations require careful planning in view of the limited
absorptive and implementation capacity of the Borrower. It should be noted that the
physical targets of the Second Highway Project had to be revised because a part of the
project funds was reallocated to Credit 2218-LA, owing to cost overruns and changes in
project design and scope. The projects have assisted and continue to assist in the creation
of a local contracting capacity for road construction and maintenance and, with the
support of technical assistance, are contributing to capacity building in transport planning
and road maintenance programming. Although this technical assistance has contributed to
the training and transferring of skills to Lao counterparts, the implementation capacity of
MCTPC still needs to be improved and therefore requires further assistance as well as
close supervision by IDA staff.
1.12        IDA's overall portfolio performance in Lao PDR has shown that careful
attention must be paid to project design and to realistic project cost estimates, as well as
to obtaining adequate and timely budget allocations for counterpart funds for recurrent
expenditures. In addition, the experience gained to date suggests that the success of
projects depends mainly on: keeping the projects small, simple and focused; establishing
only a few key objectives; confining interventions to a relatively small geographic area;
building-in adequate technical assistance and training to augment local capacity; and
ensuring adequate consultation of stakeholders and full ownership by the client.
Furthermore, owing to the constraints discussed above, results will take much longer than
normally expected. These considerations have been taken into account in the design and
implementation schedule of the proposed project.



- 5 -
THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Road Network and Traffic
2.1   Network. The official network comprises about 14,800 km and is classified into:
about 4,100 km of national roads; 5,800 km of provincial roads; and 4,900 km of district
roads, which largely consist of rural access roads. However, these statistics need to be put
in perspective. Ideally, the national roads should form the primary network, to be used by
the bulk of interprovincial and international traffic; provincial roads should provide the
main links with the national network and within each province; and district roads should
facilitate local transport and natural resource development. However, owing to past
hostilities and neglect, only a fraction of the system provides all-purpose use, another
fraction can be used only in the dry season or by means of special purpose vehicles and
the remainder has become dysfunctional for normal traffic purposes. This means that in
practice large parts of the country are cut off from regular commercial and social
interaction. It has been estimated that the full restoration of the entire system would cost
about US$1.3 billion, which is equivalent to 70% of the country's 1995 GDP (at market
prices).
2.2         Of the national roads, approximately 1,000 km have been rebuilt or
rehabilitated since 1990 to all-weather standard and another 1,000 km will be
rehabilitated by the end of the century. The remainder is in poor condition or can only be
used by special purpose vehicles during the dry season.
2.3         Road No. 13. The spine of the road system is National Road No. 13
(1,260 km), linking Pak Mong in the north, about 150 km from the Chinese border, with
Kong in the south, close to the Cambodian border, and passing through the major
urbanized areas of Luang Prabang, Vientiane, Paksane, Thakhek, Savannakhet and Pakse.
It is by far the most important export-import road link in the country. This road
facilitates the transportation of agricultural products to deficit (northern) areas and
provides access to natural resources, health services, education, employment and other
amenities. The Government's plan, supported by IDA and other donors, is to restore this
important highway to an all-weather standard by the end of the decade.
2.4         While the ongoing rehabilitation/reconstruction of the national roads will
permit national and international access to the country's most important centers of
economic activity and to provincial capitals, the situation regarding provincial and
district roads will remain critical for some time to come, since there are not enough
resources, in terms of funding and implementation capacity, with which to tackle the
reconstruction of the entire road network in the short, or even the medium, term. Thus,
only about 60% of the country's district centers have all-year access to their provincial
centers and 15% have no access even in the dry season.



2.5         Traffic. The official statistics about the vehicle fleet and traffic are not
accurate because of some weaknesses in the collection and processing of the data, the
isolation of certain regions, and (possible) underreporting. Studies for highway projects
have shown that traffic on rehabilitated roads increased very swiftly, by 15% to 25% per
year during the first few years, from a low base of about 50-100 vehicles per day. For
example, since the rehabilitation and upgrading of the 270 km Namkading-Savannakhet
section of Highway 13, the traffic level on this road stretch has increased by 25% per
annum and varies from 170 to 250 vehicles per day depending on the location (1996
survey), which is still very low by regional comparison. Heavy and medium vehicles
constituted 30% of this daily traffic, buses 4%, cars 41% and others 25%. Most of the
traffic (about 60%) is international and is concentrated around Vientiane Prefecture and
the southern/central part of the country.
2.6          Vehicles. Estimates and the accuracy of the data related to the stock of
vehicles in the country and its growth rate vary substantially. Depending on the source,
the stock of four-wheel vehicles in 1996 was estimated at about 32,000 comprising about
one-fifth of medium and heavy vehicles. Heavy vehicle stocks are believed to grow
between 3% and 12% per year and light vehicles are believed to grow between 7% and
13% per year. Since the liberalization of international trade, new purchases of vehicles
are mainly from Japan and other southeast Asian countries. Up to recent years, vehicle
utilization was low, ranging from about 15,000 km per vehicle per year for state transport
enterprises to about 30,000 km per vehicle per year for private operators. Load factors
were between 40% and 50% with an average load of 3.1 tons and an average load
capacity of 7 tons, which indicates that the vehicles were not only relatively small but
were also not well utilized. However, since the privatization of all except one state
owned transport enterprise, better utilization of the fleet is being witnessed.
B. Institutional Environment
2.7         Organization. The organization of the transport sector reflects the broader
government organization into three administrative levels: national, provincial and district.
Thus, there is a Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC)
at the central level and Divisions of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
(DCTPCs) at the provincial level. District administrations are responsible for local roads.
2.8         At the central level the MCTPC (Chart1) is evolving from an over-
centralized, top-heavy organization to a less centralized one. In a reorganization carried
out in 19933 the Government attempted to strengthen the MCTPC by separating the
policy functions from operations; giving more prominence to the planning and budgeting
fumctions; reducing the number of Vice Ministers from five to two and increasing the
day-to-day operating responsibilities of the departmental layer of the organization. There
are now four line departments reporting through the Vice Ministers to the Minister:
3  Prime Minister's Decree No. 07/PM of January 1993 and subsequent decrees by the Minister of
MCTPC (No. 1238/CTPC, No. 1240/CTPC and No. 2328/CTPC).



- 7 -
Communication, responsible for road and waterways management; Transport, Post and
Telecommunications; Construction; and Building and Urban Planning. Three other
departments, the Minister's Cabinet, the Personnel Department and the Department of
Finance provide overall support. The latter includes sections responsible for: Statistics;
Budgeting and Planning; International Relations; Accounting and Finance; Management
and Privatization; and Audits, as well as a Transport Planning Unit. The Cabinet's
Planning and Budgeting Section has branches in the various line departments.
2.9         At the provincial level the central organization is replicated in the 16
provinces by provincial DCTPCs, comprising five sub-divisions: Communication;
Transport and Post; Construction; Urban Planning; and Administration and Personnel.
However, the provincial DCTPCs lack adequate funding and qualified staff. At the
district level road management organizations are not yet fully established and rely mainly
on DCTPCs.
2.10        Planning, Budgeting, Control. The Ministry prepares two types of
documents: a five-year development plan for infrastructure projects and maintenance as
part of the Public Investment Plan process; and yearly budget proposals for the annual
appropriations process.  The Minister's General Office is responsible for the
establishment of planning procedures at the central (MCTPC) and the Department of
Finance is responsible for the preparation of the MCTPC budget to be submitted to the
Government's budget authorities (e.g., Ministry of Finance, State Planning Committee,
Committee for Investment and Cooperation). Regarding infrastructure, a "bottom up"
approach is followed. At the central level, the Planning and Budget Divisions of the
departments concerned collect the relevant information and the DCPTCs, in cooperation
with the Governors' offices, provide input for infrastructure development in the
provinces.
2.11        Because the "bottom up" approach has resulted in a large demand for
infrastructure, far exceeding available resources, prioritization is critical. However, some
projects and programs have been initially funded in the expectation that, once started,
they will continue to receive funding. The result has been that human and funding
resources have often been spread too thinly, local funding is inadequate and scheduled
works are not carried out in accordance with established standards of quality, costs and
time. Consequently, GOL has recently introduced new planning and budgeting
procedures. While these procedures are too new to be fully evaluated, they are designed
to introduce a more coherent and consistent set of criteria to more realistically plan
capital expenditures and maintenance expenditures. Procedures and systems need to be
developed and clear accountability at all levels for their implementation established.
2.12        Proposals by MCTPC to strengthen planning and budget preparation
procedures and to improve accountability at the central and provincial levels have not yet
been fully implemented. They are now included in the 1996-2000 Public Investment
Plan as part of the agenda for policy and institutional reform.



- 8 -
2.13        Road Management. Within the MCTPC, the management and delivery
of the main road infrastructure rests with the Communication Department. Reporting to
the Director of the Department are four line divisions: the Planning and Technical
Division; Waterways; Road Construction; and the Road Administration Division (RAD),
which handles maintenance with its three regional offices. The Department is responsible
for administration, budgeting, and planning, and for the supervision of the improvement
and maintenance of national and provincial roads carried out by the DCTPCs. The RAD
with its regional offices monitors maintenance programs for national and provincial roads
and assists the provinces with the implementation of road improvement and maintenance
programs (Char12).
2.14        To date, very little programmed periodic maintenance of roads has been
undertaken due, in part, to the absence of a maintainable network. The bulk of
maintenance activities has consisted of ad hoc spot improvements and emergency repairs,
carried out mainly by sate-owned enterprises (SOEs) and also, in recent years, by private
enterprises.  From now on, GOL intend to place more emphasis on systematic
maintenance of a core maintainable network which has been recently identified and
which comprises 6,324 km of national and important provincial roads. In addition, the
Ministry intends to progressively undertake the majority of routine maintenance by
negotiated/tendered contracts, and all of periodic maintenance by contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding. This will require further development of technical,
contracting and management skills through training, technical assistance and on-the-job
transfer of skills, and will require the development of standard bidding documents for
small works adapted to local conditions (para. 3.12). The Government is determined to
expedite the transformation of the contracting industry to a more competitive system.
However, given the resource and implementation capacity constraints, this transformation
is likely to be a gradual process.
2.15        Management of IDA-financed Projects. A Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) in the Communication Department was established under the ongoing Highway
Improvement Project to oversee the activities relating to IDA-financed highway projects,
including the monitoring of all contracts and disbursements. This unit has facilitated
communication within the country, with the other donors and with IDA. Currently, the
PCU is staffed with a Laotian engineer acting as the project coordinator, assisted by an
expatriate project engineer, a secretary and an accountant. The recent assignment of the
Laotian project coordinator is a step in the right direction and, as the coordinator gains
more experience and training, it is expected that the project management functions will be
fully internalized within the Department of Communication.
2.16        Road Design. Most of the road design work to date has been carried out
by the two MCTPC SOEs: the Communication Design and Research Institute (CDRI)
and the State Enterprise for Survey and Construction Material Laboratory (SESCML).
CDRI dominates the market, since it is better eqaipped. There are few other domestic
consulting firms in the country involved in the planning, appraisal, design and
supervision of road projects. To be competitive, SESCML needs to be strengthened



- 9 -
through the training of its staff, the upgrading of its current stock of equipment and the
purchase of additional equipment (para. 3.18).
2.17        Contracting Industry. The contracting industry consists largely of SOEs
which, up to recent years, were awarded contracts without competition using centrally
fixed unit prices. The prices were not regularly adjusted, and with time, the majority fell
below real costs. In addition, the flow of funds was irregular and contract payments were
slow.  The system  resulted in under-capitalized enterprises with old and poorly
maintained equipment and inadequate management, financial and administrative skills.
Recognizing the ineffectiveness of the system, the Government opted for a policy of
competitive bidding and of commercialization, which conferred a limited amount of
autonomy on the enterprises.   During FY1993/94, all provincial SOEs were
commercialized. Currently, 11 SOEs (two nationals and nine provincials) operate in the
road construction and maintenance industry. MOF intends to commercialize 8 of them
by 1998. In the private sector, about 30 enterprises have the capacity to work in the road
sector. It has been estimated the current absorptive capacity of all these enterprises to be
about US$19 million per annum in total.
2.18        Under previous IDA-financed projects, equipment and funds were
provided to set up "technical contract units" having a status similar to SOEs. Three of
these units were converted into one SOE - the Savannakhet Road and Bridge
Construction Company (SRBCC)- as part of the ongoing Second Highway Improvement
Project. The project provided two direct contracts totaling about US$5.5 million plus
technical assistance to help the enterprise develop into a viable candidate for
privatization. Despite expressions of interest by some local and foreign entities, no such
transaction has as yet taken place. The main reason seemed to be disagreement about the
company's valuation. However, the proposed financing arrangement would not qualify
the company as privatized in accordance with the modalities agreed under the Third
Structural Adjustment Credit (para. 3.38).
C. Expenditure and Financing
2.19        Expenditure. As mentioned previously (para. 1.8), the improvement of
transport infrastructure has been the Government's overriding priority. Thus, the 1991/95
Third Five-Year Public Investment Plan allocated 51% of a total expenditure of 536
billion Kip to the transport sector, which was equivalent to about 5.5% of the country's
GDP during that period. Road improvement and reconstruction represents more than
95% of transport sector investment. (Iakble2., below).
2.20        Almost all the Public Investment Plan expenditure was spent on
reconstruction/rehabilitation (notably of Road No. 13) and even the maintenance
expenditure was by nature capital expenditure, as the bulk of funds was spent on "spot
improvement," which includes anything from landslides to substantial road repair.
Systematic road maintenance (i.e., scheduled routine and periodic maintenance) is only
now being introduced (in the form of a pilot project). Although the emphasis on network
reconstruction/rehabilitation is justified at present and will also play an important role in
the future, it is necessary to establish a viable system for regular maintenance (which



- 10-
includes increasing budgetary allocations), at least for those roads that can still be
maintained.
Table2.1: Lao PDR Expenditure on Roads, 1991-95
(US$ million)
1991-92    1992-93    1993-94    1994-95    1995-96
Road Construction        34.1       43.1       53.0        55.1       80.1
Foreign             30.3       38.9       45.0       41.9        66.3
Local                3.8        4.2        8.0       13.2        13.8
Maintenance              3.0         3.8        3.5        6.6        9.7
Foreign             0.8        1.5         0.9        2.6        3.9
Local               2.2        2.3        2.6         4.0        5.8
Total Expenditure        47.1       46.9       56.5        61.7       89.8
Foreign             31.1       40.4       45.9       44.5        70.2
Local                6.0        6.5       10.6       17.2        19.6
Note:   The 1995 figures are budget estimates for 1994/95.
Sources: MCTPC; Lao Road Sector Plans; MOF data.
2.21        Funding. There are three major funding sources for capital and recurrent
costs: official external assistance from bilateral and multilateral donors (ODA); local
funding and private finance. ODA has been by far the most important source of funds.
Donors have contributed (1991/95) about 80% of capital expenditure and about 50% of
the funds spent on spot improvements. It is likely that the share of local funds will have
to increase in the future, since (i) donors are increasingly redirecting their assistance
toward other sectors (e.g., education, agriculture, rural areas), and (ii) loan repayments
will take an increasing share of the available local funds.
2.22        User Charges. Road user charges (RUCs) are defined as that tax
increment which road users pay above the general tax rate. RUCs are a part of taxes and
fees on road use in Lao PDR and can be separated into two components, charges on
vehicle ownership and charges on vehicle use. Many of the taxes such as import duties,
turnover taxes, and excises/contribution taxes also apply to non-transport items and
commodities. In addition, there are a set of license, inspection, and registration fees on
motor vehicles which parallel those fees on air and water craft. If all RUCs were fully
collected at the prevailing rates, about $13 million could be raised from the 1995/96
motor vehicle fleet. However, due to the increasing share of vehicles and fuel which
escaped tax and the lower than expected yield on road user fees, the level of 1995/96
RUCs revenues is in the order of $8 million (Annex 2.1). This level of taxes and fees on
vehicle use covers the maintenance costs of the core network in FY96/97. However, the
maintenance needs are estimated to increase to a stable level of about $15 million
beginning in FY2000/2001 (Annex32). Given the substantial investments in transport
infrastructure and the high economic (and financial) cost of its neglect, it is critical that



- I1 -
the Government reconsider its spending priorities and allocate adequate budget resources
each year for road maintenance.
2.23        In the short term, potential for increasing sector revenues seems limited
since joining ASEAN would imply the reduction of import duty rates. Consequently
domestic taxes will have to be raised to compensate. Over the longer run, vehicle fees
and annual road user tax can be gradually ratcheted upwards, particularly for heavy
vehicles which contribute about half of their road cost responsibility (Annex2.22). To
increase taxation efficiency and raise more revenue, the Government should consider
removing all tax exemptions on fuel and reducing the categories of vehicles enjoying tax
exemption to the minimum in order to reduce the opportunities for tax evasion. Also,
lack of resources in the Customs and Taxation Departments (i.e., lack of trained staff,
data collection and monitoring capacity, and audit systems) is leading to revenue losses
which exceed by far the needed investment in these departments. The Transport
Department in coordination with the Ministry of Finance should intensify efforts to
update and simplify the system for vehicle control and revenue collection. The system of
vehicle licensing should evolve toward establishment of a national vehicle registry with
consecutive plate numbering and simplification of the categories of colored plates.
Simplification and integration of the licensing and road user charge system would also
allow better monitoring of the active vehicle fleet.
2.24        It has also been suggested that road users should pay for the estimated
accumulated US$1.3 billion backlog of reconstruction/rehabilitation. Although attractive
from a purely fiscal point of view, such a policy would be counterproductive in the long
run. The likely long-term economic distortions in decisions about the location of
economic activity, factor and product prices, and vehicle choice, and other distortions
resulting from the required massive user charge increases, would far outweigh the short-
term fiscal advantage. Consequently, the reconstruction of the system should continue to
be financed through long-term borrowing, general taxation (including any surplus from
existing road user charges) and carefully chosen direct private sector participation.
D. Key Issues in the Highway Sector
2.25        Institutional Setup. Since 1991 there have been positive changes in
organizational arrangements for the delivery and management of national and provincial
roads. The Government has clearly opted for more decentralized system. However, the
current system in which each province takes care of its roads, including portions of the
national roads within the province, is expected to face difficulties in the efficiency of
managing the project cycle (planning, programming, budgeting and controlling) -
particularly because most provinces are small and lack the critical mass needed to
function effectively.
2.26        The proposals for administrative and process reforms envisaged for the
Third Five-Year Plan, if vigorously implemented, would go a long way to resolve many
of the institutional deficiencies mentioned here. In this context, particular action should
be taken to: (i) streamline and simplify the decision-making process within MCTPC by



- 12 -
clarifying responsibilities, delegating authority to the lowest appropriate level and at the
same time establishing effective monitoring and auditing mechanisms (including
management information system, MIS); (ii) clarify the relationship between the center
(including the regional RADs) and the provincial authorities and define each level's
rights and responsibilities; (iii) reform financial payment and reporting systems at the
center and in the provinces; and (iv) establish a well-functioning planning section for
road investments within the Department of Communication.
2.27        Road Maintenance. Although technical assistance has been provided for
some years, the organization and management of maintenance activities is still not fully
adequate for three main reasons.  First, the inadequate number of qualified and
experienced staff has constrained the development of an efficient road maintenance
management system. As a consequence, the budgeting, planning, contracting and
supervision functions are still rudimentary. Second, as reflected by the low level of
funding, Government has not accorded a high priority to maintenance activities in the
past. Third, the local construction industry is constrained by lack of adequate and
modem equipment, funds and qualified staff.
2.28          Under the  ongoing  Highway  Improvement Project, the  Road
Administration Division (RAD) under the Communication Department was established to
manage the maintenance of the national network. Recently MCTPC has readjusted its
position and has given RAD the responsibility to plan, budget, monitor and set standards
for the maintenance of all roads, leaving the contracting and supervision responsibilities
with the DCTPCs. However, RAD and its three regional offices, which were created to
manage the implementation of spot improvement programs on the core network, will still
provide technical assistance to the DCTPCs. Despite some improvement during the last
five years, all maintenance organization levels still lack sufficient financial and technical
resources and competent staff to carry out their tasks.
2.29        To break this cycle, planning, budgeting, supervision, and inspection must
be integrated (and responsibilities clarified) from headquarters down to regional offices
and provincial and district levels. Furthermore, it is critical that a stable, predictable
funding system for regular maintenance is introduced by means of forward budgeting or
multiple year entitlements keyed to RAD's approved rolling maintenance work plan, in
order to secure the timely, annual flow of funds that will ensure the consistency of the
operation.  An integral part of the system  should be regular technical audits by
independent experts who should monitor the quality and cost-effectiveness of the work
(para. 3.16).
2.30        Contracting. The Lao Government has issued directives that, in general,
works, goods and services contracts should be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding with at least three contractors/suppliers/firms or individuals (Decree 95/PM).
However, slow payment procedures, lack of funds when invoices are due for payment and
lack of competitive contractors are some of the obstacles that delay a successful
introduction of a National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedure. Therefore, there is a
need to further support the Lao Government's policy to introduce contracting procedures



- 13 -
based on competitive bidding. The long-term goal should be to contract out as much of
the civil works as possible on the basis of competitive bidding and keep only a limited
capability in-house to carry out works in emergencies and remote areas. This will mean
that institutional capacity needs to be built in MTCPC as well as in DCTPC for the
administration and management of contracts. To ensure a level playing field on the one
hand and a healthy contracting industry on the other, it is necessary to develop an arm's
length relationship with contractors and promote contractor mobility among provinces.
E. Long-Term Policy and Institutional Reforms - A Road Map
2.31        A possible long-term solution to the lack of adequate funding for road
maintenance would be to set up a Road Fund in which road user charges (vehicle
registration, licensing fees, specific levies on fuel, etc.) would be deposited. In terms of
institutional reforms, a long-term alternative would be to create an autonomous Road
Authority with an independent Board of Directors and three regional offices that would
be in charge of all national and provincial roads. However, such reforms would require
conviction on the part of the Government and road users; would take a long time to
achieve; and would require the Bank's involvement for many years to come. A dialogue
with the Borrower on the needed reforms has already been initiated and key officials are
being exposed to international experience through study tours and attendance at seminars
and conferences. The Bank's involvement in the sector will continue to assist in this
long-term reform process through seminars, consensus building, donor coordination and
support, institutional strengthening, training and strategic studies. Such an approach
would keep the proposed project simple and manageable and would permit the
Government to have full ownership of the proposed long-term reforms, to be
implemented at their own pace.



- 14-
THE PROJECT
A. Project Strategy and Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.1         The Government has recognized the importance of a well-functioning
infrastructure if the economy is to respond to market incentives. Its overall strategy
(shared by IDA) is to alleviate poverty through economic growth, expansion of social
services and provision of basic infrastructure. The project is consistent with this overall
strategy and, specifically, with the Bank's country assistance objectives in the transport
sector (CAS report 15284-LA of January 18, 1996), which are to assist in the
reconstruction of the North-South Road No.13 and the East-West axes of the national
road network; to improve maintenance of roads; to build institutional capacity; and to
enhance cost recovery. In line with the CAS, the project will reconstruct part of the last
section of Road No.13 from Banlak 35 (near Savannakhet) to Pakse, modernize road
maintenance practices (including contracting through competitive bidding), strengthen
contracting enterprises and promote private sector participation and further strengthen
institutional capacity through technical assistance and training.
B. Project Objectives
3.2         Project Objectives. The overall development objective is to support Lao
PDR's economic growth and transition to a market economy. The immediate project
objectives are to: (i) reduce transport costs through the upgrading of a southern leg of
Road No.13 and the construction of Road No.A-1; (ii) improve institutional capacity and
effectiveness in managing construction and maintenance activities at the central and
provincial levels; and (iii) introduce routine and periodic maintenance of roads by
contract using competitive bidding procedures.
3.3         Performance Indicators.   In concurrence with the Association,
Government has proposed key performance indicators to measure Project's input, output
and impact (Anne.J1). Measurable inputs will consist mainly of: (i) timely and
sufficient provision of funds by each of the parties involved; and (ii) provision of efficient
and effective technical assistance, consultancy services and training. Measurable outputs
will consist of: (i) the length of Roads No.13 and A-1 improved, along with
improvements to the pavement surface condition (roughness), traffic volumes, travel
speeds, travel times and decrease in vehicle operating costs (VOC); (ii) a study measuring
the impacts on the transport of persons and goods of the upgrading of Road No. 13
between Savannakhet and Pakse which will be carried out by the National Polytechnic
Institute of the National University before and after the construction period; (iii) the
length of roads maintained (routine, periodic maintenance and spot improvement); (iv)
the percent of roadworks undertaken by contract awarded through competitive bidding for
routine and periodic maintenance works; (v) number of staff-months receiving training;
(vi) percent increase of volume (annual turnover) of road design contracts carried out by
the SOE SESCML; and (vii) appropriate environmental supervision and monitoring of
the civil works in accordance with the Environmental Action Plan (EAP). Qualitative



- 15 -
assessment will be carried out to evaluate the success of: (i) the internalization of project
management; (ii) the establishment and effective usage of a simple Pavement
Management System (PMS) and Bridge Management System (BMS); (iii) the
development of medium- and long-term road planning capabilities; (iv) the establishment
of an efficient Environmental Unit within MCTPC; and (v) the effectiveness of technical
assistance and training. Qualitative assessment will also be carried out at the end of the
project to evaluate its sustainability and its outcomes (economic, social, institutional and
environmental).
C. Project Description
3.4         The project includes the following components over a five-year period:
Road Improvements. The project would finance: (i) the upgrading of about 200 km of
Road No.13 between Banlak 35 and Pakse to a bituminous surface; (ii) the construction
to a bituminous surface of 7 km of Road A- I which connects Roads No.9 and No.11 and
bypasses the city of Savannakhet; and (iii) the provision of consultant services for the
supervision of works.
Road Maintenance. The project will continue past IDA involvement to support the
development of institutional capacity in carrying out maintenance activities. This
component will comprise (i) a four-year slice of periodic maintenance of about 600 km of
high priority roads (including sections of Road No.13); (ii) a four-year program of
incremental routine maintenance of the core network (6,324 km) to be financed fully by
the local budget; and (iii) technical assistance for the organization and management of
MCTPC's road maintenance program. This would include measures to develop and
sustain the capabilities of MCTPC and its regional and provincial organizations (RAD,
DCTPCs) to plan, budget, implement and supervise road maintenance works, enhance the
use of BMS, and implement a simple PMS.
Capacity Building. In addition to the technical assistance for road maintenance
management described above, this component will finance: (i) technical assistance to the
Planning and Technical Division to assist and train staff in the preparation of medium-
and long-term road investment plans; (ii) technical assistance to MCTPC for project
implementation, coordination and monitoring; (iii) consultant services for feasibility,
design, engineering, and local transport sector studies and external audits; (iv) training of
engineering and management staff through fellowships, conferences, seminars, study
tours and short-term courses in-country and abroad; (v) technical equipment and training
to be provided to SESCML; (vi) vehicles and office supplies to be provided to MCTPC;
and (vii) incremental costs related to project supervision.
3.5         Road Improvements. The project would finance the upgrading to paved
standard 200 km of Road No.13 separating Pakse and Banlak 35, which is located 30 km
east of Savannakhet at the junction of Roads No. 1 1 and No.13.. The improvement to this
stretch of Road No.13 would include: minor corrections to the longitudinal profile;
subgrade strengthening; subbase and a crushed stone base course addition and topping



- 16 -
with a Double Bituminous Surface Treatment (DBST) over a 7 m wide carriageway. The
shoulders would be paved with a Single Bituminous Surface Treatment (SBST) over a
width of 1 m each. Additional drainage structures will also be installed where necessary.
Since it is located in a flat area, the road will not require realignment.
3.6         The project would also finance construction of a 7 km section of Road A-I
which links Road No.9 to Road No. 11 near Savannakhet. This short stretch of road will
enable heavy trucks and all transit traffic to bypass Savannakhet, thereby reducing noise
and dust pollution in the city and enhancing safety.
3.7         There are about 29 panel-steel bridges along Road No. 13 between Banlak
35 and Pakse. All are one lane bridges. These bridges were maintained passable and safe
with funds provided under the two ongoing IDA-financed highway projects. Recently,
AUSAID has committed grant funds for the reconstruction of two major bridges over the
Xebang Hieng and Xebang Nouane Rivers. In addition, the Government has indicated
that Japan has committed grant funds for the reconstruction of the 27 remaining bridges.
3.8         Road Maintenance. The road maintenance component of the project
addresses two main issues: (i) the financing of periodic and routine maintenance sub-
programs; and (ii) the provision of technical assistance to strengthen maintenance
management.
3.9         Maintenance Sub-programs.  The project would finance part of the
nationwide maintenance program for all national and provincial roads (Annx3.2) except
roads which are subject to major upgrading with other donor assistance. MCTPC
manages three maintenance sub-programs: routine, spot improvements and periodic.
3.10        Over a four-year period, the Government would finance 100% of the
US$10.80 million (excluding contingencies) incremental routine maintenance sub-
program component on the core road network which represents 6,324 km of national and
provincial roads. At least 60 percent of the volume of routine maintenance works will be
undertaken through contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding procedures
pursuant to the Borrower's Procurement Decree No. 95/PM, dated December 5, 1995,
and its implementing regulations.  The road segments for the first year routine
maintenance program are fixed in the list mentioned in the Five-Year Road Maintenance
Plan, dated January 1997. The additional road segments covered by each following
annual work program will be identified by RAD within the core network (6,324 km).
3.11        The periodic sub-program would also focus on only the maintainable core
road network. IDA funds amounting to US$7.6 million (excluding contingencies) and
Lao Government funds amounting to US$0.4 million would finance a four-year slice of
maintenance civil works on about 600 km of roads (mainly paved), which will be selected
on the basis of multiple criteria comprising economic evaluation, geographical
distribution, traffic volume, network connectivity and year-round accessibility. However,
the determination of the Economic Rate of Retum (ERR) will be mandatory for each
proposed segment to be financed with Project funds. The road segments for the periodic



- 17-
maintenance program will be selected on the basis of multiple criteria comprising a
mandatory economic evaluation, geographical distribution, traffic volumes, network
connectivity, and year-round accessibility. The economic evaluation will be carried out
through the use of a maintenance planning system satisfactory to the Bank. The road
segments covered by the program each year will be identified by RAD and submitted to
IDA for approval.
3.12        Maintenance Management.  In order to help RAD  carry out its
maintenance tasks, the project will continue past IDA-financed highway project support
in providing technical assistance at two levels. First, at the central level, three specialists
will be appointed. For a period of 36 staff-months, a Maintenance Management Adviser
(MMA) will further assist with the planning, budgeting, proposing of standards,
contracting, training, policy development and utilization of the Pavement Management
System (PMS). For a period of 3 staff-month, a Bridge Engineer (BE) will assist and
train RAD staff in utilizing the BMS introduced under the ongoing Second Highway
Improvement Project.  For a period of four staff-months, a Maintenance Training
Specialist will assist the development of short training courses specifically for RAD'
staff. Second, at the central and regional levels, a road maintenance specialist (RMS)
will assist the RAD and DCTPC staff with the preparation of routine and periodic
programs, contract preparation and supervision. In addition, the RMS will advise and
train domestic contractors on how to carry out the works. Detailed terms of reference are
provided under Annex 3.4. The Nordic Development Fund (NDF) would finance this sub-
component, estimated at US$1.8 million (excluding contingencies) including about
US$0.2 million for feasibility, design, engineering, and transport studies for the
preparation of programs and contracts.
3.13        Capacity Building. In order to improve the management of the road
sector by the Government, and particularly by MCTPC staff, the project would finance
the following sub-components.
3.14        Road Planning. For a period of 18 months, a Road Planner (RP,
engineer/economist) would be assigned to the Planning and Technical Division and will
assist the Department of Communication with the preparation of an investments plan,
including the following: data collection and recording; project preparation, analysis and
investment decisions; economic evaluation; and a monitoring plan. Detailed terms of
reference are provided under Annex 3.5. NDF would finance this sub-component,
estimated at US$0.36 million (excluding contingencies).
3.15        Project Monitoring. For a period of 12 months, a Project Coordinator
Assistant (PCA) would assist the local Project Coordinator (PC) with overall project
implementation, coordination and monitoring. Funds for additional short-term PCA
assignments (up to a total of 12 months) are also provided under the project. Detailed
terms of reference are given under Annex 3.6. NDF would finance this sub-component,
estimated at US$0.48 million (excluding contingencies).



- 18-
3.16        Engineering designs, Studies and Audits..  An aggregate amount of
US$0.35 million (excluding contingencies), financed by IDA, is provisioned under the
project for consultant services.  These services would include feasibility, design,
engineering, and local transport studies for the preparation of future projects and external
independent audits of project accounts. In addition, in order to help MCTPC and RAD
to improve the effectiveness of the Project, and in particular the routine and periodic
maintenance components, it was agreed that a technical audit (Annex 3.3, TOR) will be
carried out annually by an independent consultant (transport economist/engineer, 2 staff-
months/year). The main objectives of the audit will consist of reviewing: (i) actual
expenditures versus the approved program; (ii) timeliness of provision of funds; (iii)
supporting documents; (iv) that the quality and quantity of works are consistent with
contract specifications or works convention; and (v) effectiveness of technical assistance
under the Project. The technical audit will be presented to the MCTPC and IDA for
discussion with a view to strengthening contract management procedures.
3.17        Training.   An aggregate amount of US$0.5 million (excluding
contingencies), financed by IDA, is provisioned under the project to finance: (i) English
language training courses; (ii) an International Policy Round Table where Lao
Government high level officials would meet their counterparts from two/three Asian
countries in order to share views and experiences regarding road management and
financing; (iii) four two-day workshops/seminars for MCTPC high level officials
regarding transport policies, economic evaluation, procurement principles, management
principles, information systems, and financial analysis; (iv) a Human Resource
Development Strategy and Action Plan (HRDSAP) which will review and evaluate
training carried out and propose a training strategy and plan for the road sub-sector; (v)
fellowships for two candidates over two years; (vi) preparation and training of
Communication Training Center (CTC) trainers for three courses--"Transport Policy
Analysis and Planning Techniques," "Project Preparation, Analysis and Investments
Decisions" and "Environmental Impact of Road Projects"; and (vii) small equipment,
didactic materials and other short training courses. Details of the training programs are
given under Annex 3.7 and in project files. Implementation of this component will
require the employment of short-term consultant services.
3.18        Consulting Industry Support. IDA would finance the purchase of survey,
computer and software equipment, including training (about US$0.32 million excluding
contingencies) to be provided to SESCML, in order to increase its competitiveness.
Details are given under Annex 3.8.
3.19        Logistic Support (Goods and Operating Costs).  Goods. IDA would
finance purchase of vehicles and office supplies to help the Department of
Communications carry out project monitoring and supervision (about US$0.1 million
excluding contingencies). Operating Costs. IDA would also finance incremental
operating costs related to supervision, consisting mainly of vehicle operation and project-
related travel expenses, excluding Government officials' salaries (about US$0.2 million
excluding contingencies).



- 19-
3.20        In order to increase the effectiveness of on-the-job training, all terms of
reference for each technical assistance assignment financed under the project will include
the task of preparing Skills Transfer Action Plan (STAP), which will be monitored with
the help of a quarterly reciprocal review (TA and counterpart). Proposed performance
indicators for STAP and reviews are included in the PIP.
D. Environmental and Social Assessment
3.21        The project is expected to have no significant negative environmental,
ecological and social impacts, since no major changes will be made in the alignment of
Road No.13. The project does not involve resettlcment of any persons or any adverse
impact on ethnic minorities. The road is already wide and is gravel surfaced, and no land
acquisition will be required for paving the surface and reconstructing the shoulders. It
will not be necessary to encroach on forest lands or to cut trees. Primary forests have
already been cut during the original construction of the road and the secondary growth
consists of bushes and shrubs. Fresh encroachments into existing forests will not be
necessary. One possible impact of improving the road would be that this would encourage
further settlements along the road, which might possibly lead to increased cutting of trees
in the forests. The forest authorities will have to take necessary action in implementing
the existing policy to prohibit any further encroachment.
3.22        According to the Guidelines for ReduLcing Environmental Effects of Road
Projects, which have been formally approved and adopted by the Government, there are
two categories of road projects: those having no potentially significant environmental
impacts ( Category I ) and those with potentially adverse environmental impact (Category
II). The current project falls in the first category, requiring preparation of a simple
environmental action plan (EAP) listing the specific mitigation measures needed to
reduce potential environmental effects and identifying those responsible for the
implementation of these measures. Likely minor impacts of the project, such as soil
erosion, open borrow pits and water siltation, would bc mitigated in accordance with the
guidelines. An EAP has been prepared with the assistance of an Environmental Specialist
(Annex 3.9).
3.23        To further strengthen the sector's environment management capability, an
Environmental Unit is being set up in the Planning and Technical Division of MCTPC's
Communication Department, which will be responsible for future environmental impact
assessments (EIAs) of road projects, preparation of EA Ps and monitoring of mitigation
measures. An MCTPC staff member has already been identified who will receive
training under the project in environmental and social imypact assessment and monitoring.
Steps to implement the EAP (including any modifications) would be taken in
coordination with the Science and Technology Organization (STENO) which has already
initiated actions to set up an Environment Managemeni Agency that will ultimately be
responsible for clearing and steering such projects in the future. This office functions
directly under the Prime Minister and is in the process of issuing a General Decree
outlining the policies for environment management in Lao PDR.



- 20 -
E. Project Cost and Financing
3.24        Project Cost-. The project would have an estimated total cost of about
63.75 billion Kip (US$ 68.92 million equivalent), with 1996 as a base year for unit prices.
This amount includes the foreign exchange component, which is estimated at US$53.45
million or about 78% of total costs. Physical contingencies of 8% of the base costs of
civil works have been included for all relevant components. Inflation rates, in line with
Bank estimates, of 2.3% per year for foreign costs and of 7.7% in 1997 and 6.8% per year
from 1998 for local costs, have been considered. Based on Lao PDR legislation, the
import of goods and services under the project will be exempt from taxes and duties.
3.25        The cost estimate for the road upgrading component averages about
US$160,000/km (excluding contingencies) and is based on engineering analyses and
costs prevailing in the construction industry in Lao PDR. Estimates for maintenance
costs are based on the Maintenance Study and various consultants' reviews. Costs of
consultant services, technical assistance, equipment and training are based on current
market prices.
3.26        Financing. The proposed Credit of US$48 million equivalent will cover
about 70% of the total project cost, including about 88% of foreign costs. In addition, the
Lao Government has requested a credit of US$5.75 million equivalent from the Nordic
Development Fund (NDF) to finance consultant services and technical assistance. Parallel
co-financing under the NDF credit would be provided on the same terms and conditions
as the proposed IDA credit, with the major exception that procurement of goods and
services under the credit would be restricted to NDF members (Denmark, Finland,
Iceland, Norway and Sweden). The proposed IDA and NDF credits would be cross-
effective. The Government will contribute about US$15.17 million. Project cost and
financing arrangements are summarized in Table 3.1 in this text and details are provided
in Annexes 3.10 and 3.11.



- 21 -
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF COST ESTIMATES
US$ million             Kips billion
Component                Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total
A- Road Improvement
Roads No.13 and A-1                   5.02   28.43   33.45    4.64   26.30   30.94
Construction Supervision              0.52    2.08    2.60    0.48    1.92    2.41
Sub-total    5.54   30.51   36.05    5.12   28.22   33.35
B- Road Maintenance
Incremental Routine Maintenance       3.78    7.02   10.80    3.50    6.49    9.99
Periodic Maintenance                  2.00    6.00    8.00    1.85    5.55    7.40
Maintenance Specialists               0.36    1.44    1.80    0.33    1.33    1.67
Sub-total    6.14   14.46   20.60    5.68   13.38   19.06
C- Consultants' Services & Training
Planning & Project Management TA      0.17    0.67    0.84    0.16    0.62    0.78
Support to SESCML and MCTPC           0.06    0.36    0.42    0.06    0.33    0.39
Training (fellowships, seminars, etc.)  0.05    0.45    0.50    0.05    0.42    0.46
Engineering Designs, Studies & Audits  0.18    0.18    0.35    0.16    0.16    0.32
Incremental Op. Cost                  0.05    0.15    0.20    0.05    0.14    0.19
Sub-total    0.51    1.80    2.31    0.47    1.67    2.14
Total Base Cost                         12.19   46.77   58.96   11.27   43.27   54.54
Phys. Contingencies (8%)               0.86    3.32    4.18    0.80    3.07    3.87
Price Contingencies (average 9.8%)     2.42    3.36    5.78    2.24    3.11    5.34
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      15.47   53.45   68.92   14.31   49.44   63.75
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Financing Source                        Local         Foreign      Total
Government of Lao PDR                    5.37          9.80        15.17
International Development Association    8.84         39.16        48.00
Nordic Development Fund                   1.26         4.49          5.75
Total Financing                         15.47         53.45        68.92
F. Implementation
3.27         MCTPC will have the overall responsibility for project implementation
and for the development of the road and bridge maintenance management system,
through the Director of the Department of Communication (DOC). To carry out the
related tasks, specific assignments will be designated to the following DOC units: the
Construction Division (CD); the Project Management Unit (PMU); the Road



- 22 
Administration Division the (RAD); the Planning and Technical Division (PTD); the
Communication Divisions of the relevant DCTPCs: and the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU).
3.28        The CD would be responsible for the improvement of the Banlak 35 -
Pakse Road and Road A-I and would be assisted by a PMU to be established in
Savannakhet and staffed with a qualified engineer, an accountant and the necessary
support staff. The PMU would review and approve the works carried out by the
contractors and the supervising consultant. Tnhe Government has agreed to create and
maintain the PMU until the completion of the contracts.
3.29        The RAD and its three regional offices will continue to develop and
manage all maintenance sub-programs for the core network. At the central office, an
experienced Maintenance Management Adviser will provide assistance to the RAD with
maintenance planning, budgeting, policy development and implementation. A second
maintenance specialist will provide assistance in the implementation of the periodic
maintenance sub-program and will help with the preparation of contract documents, bid
evaluations, supervision, and training of contractors. The DCTPCs will provide qualified
staff to help the RAD prepare the maintenance sub-programs, procure the contracts and
supervise the works.
3.30        Overall project administration and coordination will be provided by the
PCU. This unit, which currently oversees the implementation of the two ongoing IDA-
financed highway projects, will be maintained during the proposed project and supported
with technical assistance (Project Coordinator Assistant, PCA). Recently, MCTPC has
appointed one of its staff as Project Coordinator (PC). Under the project, the PC will
receive on-the-job training by the PCA for a minimum of 12 months. If required, another
period of up to 12 months of assistance by the PCA will be financed. Accounting services
to the unit will be provided by the DOC Disbursement Division. Full integration of the
PCU in the existing MCTPC structure will be pursued under the project.
3.31        In addition to the Communication Department, the Personnel Department
and its Manpower and Organization Development Division (MODD) will be responsible
for implementing the specific training component.
3.32        The improvement of Roads No. 13 and No.A-l will begin at the end of
1997 and is expected to be completed in the year 2000.  Routine and periodic
maintenance works under the project would begin in FY1997/98 for a four-year slice of
the longer-term program. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002
and the Credit closed by June 30, 2003. Annex 3.12 shows the proposed implementation
schedule.



- 23 -
Implementation Arran,gements
'K                                      I~~P 
Planning    Planning &   Implementation
"    Prep4ation     X             Savannakhet
"   I       ''/;
/          ~~~~Construction
Maintenane                 Supervision of Road
Programs                    Nos. 13 &A-
G. Status of Project Preparation
3.33        Stakeholders' Workshop.   The Government and MCTPC  have
demonstrated a strong commitment to the project preparation and its implementation
phases. At the preparation stage, MCTPC organized a stakeholders' workshop in Pakse
which successfully discussed and sought consensus on the objectives, scope and
implementation arrangements for the project. Representatives of MCTPC, CPC, MOF,
the DCTPCs, the Lao Freight Forwarding Company, the Transporters' Association, the
Land and Water Taxi Company, and the Chamber of Commerce, as well as provincial
authorities, consultants and contractors, attended the workshop.
3.34        Project Implementation Plan. As a follow-up, an MCTPC team, with
technical assistance support, has prepared a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) (project
file). The PIP covers policy and legislative measures as well as the financial and human
resources needed to ensure efficient and timely implementation of the various
components of the project. The PIP will serve as the framework for the implementation
and monitoring of the project.
3.35        Road Design and Engineering. MCTPC has hired a local consulting
firm (CDRI) to carry out topographical surveys, materials identification, traffic counts,
detailed designs, preparation of bidding documents and all other activities related to the
improvement of Roads No.13 and A-1. Funds from the ongoing Second Highway
Improvement Project are financing the contract, and it is expected that all documentation
will be ready by April 1997. Meanwhile, MCTPC has launched the contractor pre-
qualification process. Award of the civil works contracts is expected in the last quarter of
1997.



-24 -
3.36        Maintenance Sub-programs. MCTPC  provided a five-year road
expenditure history accompanied by a comprehensive five-year expenditure plan for each
maintenance sub-programs (Anne&x3.2 ). RAD has prepared a list of priority roads which
will be part of the periodic maintenance sub-program (ref.: PIP). With current technical
assistance, contract documents will be finalized for FY1997/98.
3.37        Consultant Services. Steps for engaging consultant services financed
under the project have been identified and will be implemented by the PCU.
3.38        Privatization of SRBCC. The Government has confirmed its strong
commitment to privatize SRBCC (para. 2.18) which will be effective by December 31,
1997, according to the modalities adopted by the Government under the Third Structural
Adjustment Credit for the privatization of state-owned enterprises.
3.39        Road Numbering and Referencing  Systems. Among the main
recommendations of the National Transport Study carried out in 1990, the establishment
of an administrative road classification system along with its numbering and referencing
were proposed. Recognizing the importance of this proposal, the Government has begun
developing the systems. First, the Govermnent has prepared an administrative definition
of categories of road. Second, the rationale behind the numbering and referencing system
is under development and would be employed over the entire network, starting with the
national roads. The approval by Ministerial Decision (Khotoklong) of a numbering and
referencing systems of the road network and the numbering of the national roads is a
condition of effectiveness.
3.40        Donor Coordination. Other donors active in the transport sector are
ADB, AUSAID, SIDA, JICA, KfW, UNDP, ILO, OPEC and UNCDP. A transport sector
donor coordination meeting was held in Vientiane in February 1996 covering: (i) the road
sector; (ii) development plan 1996-2000; (iii) road maintenance; and (iv) capacity
building. At this meeting it was generally recognized that there was need for greater
coordination of donor activities to enhance benefits from road investments, reduce the
work load of MCTPC and avoid duplication of efforts. As a follow up, two others small
scale donors' meeting with main donors involved in the road sector were held, one in
October 1996 and the other in February 1997. During these meetings, a "sector
approach" opposed to the usual "project by project approach" was developed and
endorsed by all stakeholders.



- 25 -
H. Procurement
3.41           The Table 3.2, below, summarizes the project elements and their estimated
costs and proposed methods of procurement.
Table 3.3: Summary of Proposed Project Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent) /a
Procurement Method
Project Element                      ICB        NCB        Other        NIF        Total
1. Civil Works
1.1 Road Upgrading                39.40        -           -           -        39.40
(37.43)                                       (37.43)
1.2 Incremental Routine Maint.      -           -          -         12.72       12.72
1.3 Periodic Maintenance            -         9.42         -           -         9.42
(8.95)                             (8.95)
2. Goods
2.1 Support to SESCML & MCTPC       -           -        0.46 (b)      -         0.46
(0.46)                 (0.46)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Const. Supervision              -           -          -          2.86       2.86
3.2 TA (Plan,. Mgnt, Maint.)        -           -           -         2.90       2.90
3.3 Training                        -           -        0.55 (c)      -         0.55
(0.55)                 (0.55)
3.4 Eng. Designs, Studies & Audits  -           -        0.38 (c)      -         0.38
(0.38)                 (0.38)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Incremental Operating Cost (d)
-          .-       0.22 (d)      -          0.22
(0.22)                 (0.22)
TOTAL                               39.40       9.42        1.61       18.48       68.92
(37.43)     (8.95)     (1.61)                 (48.00)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
NIF: Not IDA Financed. Totals do not tally due to rounding.
a. Includes contingencies.
b. Includes national and international shopping and direct contracting
c. Services should be procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington, D.C., August 1981).
d. Excluding salaries.



- 26 -
3.42        Procurement Implementation. Procurement implementation timetables
are given under Annex 3.13. All procurement activities will be managed by the PCU
except for routine and periodic road maintenance, which will be handled by RAD (with
initial assistance from the PCU). The PCU is familiar with Bank procurement procedures
through its involvement in the previous highway projects. Goods and civil works will be
procured using the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits, January 1995, revised January 1996 and August 1996." The Borrower will be
required to use the Bank Standard Bidding Documents for goods and works under ICB,
Bank Standard Form of Contract for consultant services and the Standard Bid Evaluation
Form for evaluation of bids. Advertising through a Specific Procurement Notice in the
development business and/or well-known technical magazines, newspapers, and trade
publications of wide international circulation will be mandatory for contracts with
estimated values exceeding US$10 million. An understanding was also be obtained from
the Government that, for works and goods procured under NCB, standard bidding
documents, being developed by the Government with technical assistance from a
consultant, would be used subject to review and clearance by IDA.
3.43        IDA-financed civil works have been divided between ICB and NCB
packages. Bidders for works procured under ICB procedures would be pre-qualified in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. Eligible domestic contractors' bids will be evaluated
on a 7.5% margin of preference for ICB contracts. The NCB component takes into
account such factors as geographic spread, the size of individual contracts and the
objective of fostering the local contracting industry.
3.44        Civil Works. Works under the road improvement component would be
packaged in two lots totaling about US$39.40 million including contingencies and would
be procured using ICB. The first lot, of about US$20.4 million, will include 7 km of
Road A-1 and 100 km of Road No.13 south from Banlak 35 (located at the junction of
Roads No.11 and 13). The second lot, of about US$19.0 million, will include 100 km of
Road No.13 north from Pakse.
3.45        The periodic maintenance sub-program will consist of between five and 10
widely scattered contracts per year varying from US$100,000 to US$700,000 for a total
of US$9.42 million, including contingencies. NCB documents developed on the basis of
the IDA Standard Bidding Documents for Smaller Works and acceptable to IDA would
be used. Award of contracts will be based on post-qualification procedures acceptable to
the Association.
3.46        Goods. International shopping would be used for procurement of goods
valued above US$50,000 per contract, for an aggregate amount of US$360,000 including
contingencies. National shopping would be used for goods valued less than US$50,000
for an aggregate amount of US$ 100,000. Where feasible, vehicles and office supplies
would be procured through the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization
(IAPSO). For international shopping, at least three price quotations from no fewer than
two countries would be sought.



- 27 -
3.47        Consultant Services. All consulting services and technical assistance
(about 40 staff-months) financed by IDA would be procured in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to IDA, based on the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency
(August 1981). Consulting services and technical assistance (about 300 staff-months)
financed on a parallel basis by NDF funds would be procured in accordance with NDF
guidelines. In this regard, only firms or individuals having their headquarters in NDF
member countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden) are eligible. It was
agreed that joint NDF-IDA reviews and comments will be sought for all procurement
matters involving NDF financing.
3.48        Miscellaneous - Incremental Operating Costs.  Operating costs for
about US$220,000 including contingencies related to supervision, vehicle operation,
office supplies and project-related travel expenses, excluding Government officials'
salaries, would be procured through national shopping with price quotations from at least
three suppliers, where feasible.
3.49        Procurement Review. All IDA-financed civil works contracts procured
under ICB procedures will be subject to IDA's prior review. All civil works contracts
under NCB procedures estimated to cost more than US$250,000 will be subject to IDA's
prior review. This will cover more than 80% of the procurement for works (100 percent,
ICB for about US$39.4 million; 50 percent, NCB for about US$4.7 million). All IDA-
financed contracts for goods procured under international shopping estimated to cost
more than US$50,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review, covering 80% of the total
value of IDA-financed goods. The prior review threshold for consultant services will be
US$100,000 in the case of consulting firms and US$50,000 in the case of individual
consultants. However, all terms of reference, sole-source contracts, or contracts of a
special nature for consultant services would be subject to prior review. Selective post
review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels will be carried out during
supervision missions on about one in four works and goods contracts.
I. Disbursements
3.50        The Credit is expected to be disbursed fully by June 30, 2003. It will be
disbursed against the categories summarized in Table 3.4.
3.51        The estimated disbursement schedule (Annex 3.14) is based on the
detailed project implementation schedule. It shows schedules of estimated disbursements
under the proposed Credit and the standard disbursement profiles in the East Asian
Region for infrastructure projects. Disbursement is expected to be faster than the regional
profile because the upgrading of Roads No.13 and A-1 is expected to start immediately
after the effectiveness of the Credit. The pre-qualification process is already ongoing and
the detailed designs and contract documentation are expected to be completed in March
1997. The award of the contracts is expected in October 1997. In addition, MCTPC has
gained substantial experience under the past and ongoing IDA-financed projects.



- 28 -
Table 3.4: Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
Category               Amount of Credit    % Expenditure to be
(US$ million)     financed from IDA
1. Civil Works
(a) Road rehabilitation               31.78        95% of all expenditures
(b) Periodic Maintenance               7.60        95% of all expenditures
2. Goods                                  0.42        100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 90% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally.
3. Consultant Services, Training and      0.85        100% of all expenditures
Audits
4. Operating Costs                        0.20        100% of all expenditures
5. Unallocated                            7.15
Total                                  48.00
3.52        Full documentation would be required to support withdrawal application
for all civil works contracts above US$250,000; for all goods contracts above US$
50,000; for all contracts involving consulting firms above US$100,000; and for all
contracts involving individual consultants above US$50,000. Below these amounts,
disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The
contracts related to SOE expenditures would be retained by MCTPC and made available
for review by IDA supervision missions
3.53        To facilitate disbursements under the project, a Special U.S. Dollar
Account with an authorized allocation of US$3 million would be established in the
Banque pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao.  The account would be used for all
expenditures of less than US$600,000 equivalent, both foreign and local, under all
categories. Expenditures above US$600,000 may be submitted directly to IDA for
payment. Application for the replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted
monthly or when the amounts withdrawn equal 20% of the initial deposit, whichever
comes first.
J. Accounts and Audits
3.54        the implementing agency would establish and maintain separate accounts
for all expenditures under the project. These accounts would be audited annually by non-



- 29 -
governmental, independent and experienced auditors acceptable to IDA. The audits
would cover the Special Account and the Project Accounts, including a separate opinion
on the statements of expenditure (SOEs) to be used as a basis for disbursements. These
audits would be provided to IDA within four months of the end of each government fiscal
year and will be audited annually by non-governmental, independent and experienced
auditors acceptable to IDA.
K. Supervision Reporting and Monitoring
3.55        The Government has agreed to hold a project launch workshop soon after
the Credit is declared effective as well as to carry out annual implementation reviews by
June 30 of each year commencing in 1998. A mid-term review will be carried out by June
30, 1999. The launch workshop will be held in Vientiane. All implementing agencies
will be involved and representatives of project beneficiaries will be invited. IDA will be
represented by engineering, economic, financial, procurement and disbursement
specialists. Annual implementation reviews (by June 30 of each year commencing in
1998) and a mid-term review (by June 30, 1999) will be carried out during Project
implementation.
3.56        During the course of implementation the project will be supervised in
accordance with the supervision plan shown in Annex 3.15. Because this project
continues the ongoing highway projects and because it would deal with the same
implementing agency, the flow of supervision would be constant over the project life,
with slightly more emphasis following Board approval in order to expedite early project
activities. IDA supervision would require a total of about 70 staff-weeks during the life of
the project. Supervision missions, which would account for about 35 staff-weeks, would
always include a highway engineer, accompanied by other specialists as required.
3.57        MCTPC, through its PCU, will submit consolidated quarterly progress
reports on the physical and financial progress of the project, including procurement
information (paras. 3.40, 3.48), in a format acceptable to IDA. The reports would be
submitted by March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year,
commencing after the effectiveness of the project. MCTPC would support IDA staff in
the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report and submit its own project
evaluation report within six months of the Credit closing date. The Borrower will
provide consolidated quarterly reports on the physical and financial progress of the
project, including procurement information, in a format acceptable to IDA.



- 30-
PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Choice of Improvement Option
4.1         Four options were considered for the road improvement component of the
project: (i) routine and minimal periodic maintenance for the existing (gravel) road
including spot graveling and grading; (ii) routine and optimal periodic maintenance
including spot graveling and grading for the existing (gravel) road; (iii) paved road
(Double Bituminous Surface Treatment, DBST) plus routine and periodic maintenance
when required; (iv) paved road (asphalt concrete) plus routine and periodic maintenance
when required. It was found that the highest NPV and the highest incremental
benefit/cost ratio would be obtained with option (iii) (Annex 4.1, Table 3). Consequently,
the road improvement component has been based on that option. As far as the periodic
maintenance component of the project is concerned, about 600 km of priority roads will
be selected on the basis of a multiple criteria comprising mandatory economic evaluation,
geographical distribution, traffic volume, network connectivity and year-round
accessibility.
B. Benefits
4.2         The road improvement component included in the project will contribute
to: facilitating export/import and transit traffic; reducing total operating costs (of vehicles
and road); providing all-weather, year-round access to the important agricultural areas in
the southern part of the country; and linking the provincial capitals in that region to
Vientiane. Lower transport costs would also lead to better integration of the south with
the north. There would be additional (non-quantifiable) benefits from improved traffic
safety, institutional strengthening and training.
4.3         The road maintenance component, covering periodic maintenance on
about 600 km of high priority roads, will help preserve past investments in the road
infrastructure and reduce the cost of transport for goods and passengers. Equally
important, it is expected to be instrumental in introducing systematic road maintenance,
developing local maintenance capabilities, strengthening the organization of maintenance
at the central and provincial levels and improving their management efficiency.
C. Economic Evaluation
4.4         Traffic. It is not appropriate to base traffic forecasts on past and present
aggregate trends because, first, the major part of the network is not functional, which
means that a substantial part of normal traffic is suppressed, and, second, the existing
official traffic statistics are deficient. The National Transport Study team estimated that
over the long term normal traffic growth would be between 7% and 10% per year. This is
reasonable if compared with past and forecast GDP growth rates. Traffic counts carried
out on completed segments of Highway No. 13 have shown growth rates of up to 25%
per year. Without doubt, a substantial part of this growth has been generated by the road
improvements and it should be borne in mind that the traffic volumes are very low in



- 31 -
absolute terms, even with such high growth rates. Assuming GDP growth between 6%
and 8% per year, long-term sustainable growth could well be in the order of magnitude
forecast by the NTS. For purposes of economic evaluation, a traffic growth of 7% has
been assumed during construction and of 8% per year for normal traffic growth over the
life of the road (20 years). Generated traffic is assumed at 25% of the normal traffic in the
first year after completion.
4.5         Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis. The road improvement
component includes the cost of construction, construction supervision and physical
contingencies for a total of US$39.4 million. Works are assumed to be completed over a
three-year period, starting at the end of 1997. After completion, the road will receive
routine (every year) and periodic maintenance (every seventh year) totaling US$9.4
million over the lifetime of the road.  It has also been assumed that without the
investment the road would receive routine maintenance and minimal periodic
maintenance. This means that the road would not deteriorate to the status of a bad gravel
road. The economic evaluation has been carried out by means of the HDM-III model, by
adapting its parameters to values appropriate to conditions in Lao PDR.4 On this basis,
the Net Present Value (NPV) for the entire road improvement of 200 km, discounted at
10%, amounts to US$19.45 million and the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is 19.2%
percent (Annex 4.1, Table 1). Various scenarios were developed to test the likely effects
of variations in traffic, costs and benefits. The results show that the proposed road
improvement is justified, even under adverse assumptions. Only in the unlikely event of a
combination of adverse conditions (capital and recurrent increase by 40% and benefits
decrease by 40%) would the NPV and ERR become marginal--i.e., below 10%
(Annex.4.1. Table 2).
4.6         As regards the pilot periodic maintenance component, the final choice of
road segments to form part of the program and comprising about 600 km would attempt
to include only sections with a positive NPV (at a 10% discount rate) and an ERR greater
than 10%. The road segments tentatively chosen for the program comprise national and
provincial roads, paved and unpaved, with traffic volumes estimated between 80 and 150
ADT and with their condition ranging between IRI 6 and 10 on average for paved roads
and between IRI 8 and 15 for gravel roads.
D. Risks
4.7         The main project risks relate to the weak implementation capacity on the
part of the governmental agencies and of the domestic contracting industry and the need
for timely provision of local budgetary resources. Measures to mitigate these risks
include: (i) hiring of technical assistance for project implementation and monitoring, and
capacity building through on-the-job training (skills transfer would be closely monitored
to ensure the effectiveness of institutional capacity building, [para. 3.20]); (ii) hiring of
technical assistance to advise and assist domestic contractors in executing the works; (iii)
For details, refer to Project File.



- 32 -
implementation of the recommendations of a Public Expenditure Review (which is under
final review) to identify recurrent expenditure shortages, plan public investment in high
priority areas and obtain realistic budget allocations for capital and recurrent
expenditures; and (iv) the streamlining of internal processes to speed up the release of
such funds.
E. Sustainability
4.8          Effective maintenance and timely funding are the keys to sustainability of
the benefits expected from the improvement of Roads No. 13 and Al. The project is
designed to strengthen technical assistance and training which will enable the central and
local entities concerned to establish an effective organization and manage road
maintenance efficiently. In addition, a four-year slice of routine maintenance for the
entire core maintainable network will be funded by the Government as an integral part of
the Project. Furthermore, the civil works component has a robust economic rate of return
which makes it economically sustainable. The sustainability of the expected benefi.s is
further enhanced by the high degree of project ownership with the client and the strong
support of the major donors in the road sector.



- 33 -
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1      During negotiations, agreement was obtained from the Borrower on the
following:
Conditions of Effectiveness
a) the effectiveness of a Credit of SDR 4.0 million from the Nordic
Development Fund (para. 3.26);
b) the approval by Ministerial Decision (Khotoklong) of the numbering and
referencing systems of the Borrower's road network and the numbering of
its national roads (para. 3.39);
Agreements
c) a set of quantifiable performance indicators related to project objectives
and monitorable targets (para. 3.3, Annex 3.1);
d) that at least 60 percent of the volume of routine maintenance works will be
undertaken through contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
procedures pursuant to the Borrower's Procurement Decree No. 95/PM,
dated December 5, 1995, and its implementing regulations (para. 3.10);
e) the road segments for the first year routine maintenance program are fixed
in the list mentioned in the Five Year Road Maintenance Plan, dated
January 1997. The additional road segments covered by each following
annual work program will be identified by RAD within the core network
(6,324 km) and submitted to IDA for approval at least six months prior to
the planned commencement of the corresponding works (para. 3. 10);
f) the road segments for the periodic maintenance program will be selected
on the basis of multiple criteria comprising a mandatory economic
evaluation, geographical distribution, traffic volumes, network
connectivity, and year-round accessibility. The economic evaluation will
be carried out through the use of a maintenance planning system
satisfactory to the Bank. The road segments covered by the program each
year will be identified by RAD and submitted to IDA for approval at least
six months prior to the planned commencement of the corresponding works
(para. 3.1 1);
g) not later than June 30 of each year, a completion of an annual technical
audit of Project implementation will be carried out by an independent



- 34 -
consultant recruited in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines
(para.3.16);
h) the timely provision of the necessary counterpart budgetary funds for the
project (para. 3.26);
i) the privatization of SRBCC by December 31, 1997 according to the
modalities adopted by the Government under the Third Structural
Adjustment Credit for the privatization of state-owned enterprises (para.
3.38);
j) the procurement arrangements (para. 3.42);
k) the establishment and maintenance of separate accounts for all
expenditures under the project; these accounts will be audited annually by
non-governmental, independent and experienced auditors acceptable to
IDA (para. 3.54);
1) the carrying out of annual implementation reviews (by June 30 of each
year commencing in 1998) and a mid-term review (by June 30, 1999)
(para.3.55); and
m) the provision of consolidated quarterly reports on the physical and
financial progress of the project, including procurement information, in a
format acceptable to IDA (para. 3.57).
5.2      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
SDR 34.6 million (US$48.0 million equivalent) to the Lao People's Democratic
Republic. The credit would be for a term of 40 years including a grace period of 10 years.



35                                 Annex.2.1
LAO PDR
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Potential and Actual Revenues From Road Users 1995/96
(US$ million) /a
Road User Charge
Revenues
Est.
Potential  Receipts   Reasons for Estimated Losses and Shortfalls
Import Duty
Vehicles /b              1.5       1.0  Increasing Share of exemption from duty (41%)
Fuel /c                  1.8       1.1  Increasing share of tax-free imports (42%) and
underinvoicing
Turnover &
Consumption
(Contribution) Tax
Vehicles /b              0.6       0.4   As above.
Fuel /c                  6.9       4.2
Road Use Tax /d           2.0       1.1   Dramatic (25 to 100 times old rate) increased fees
led to high non-compliance.
Transport
Department /e
Fees and Charges          0.3       0.2   Vehicle registry not current; no monitoring.
Total Revenues           13.1       8.0
a/    920 Kip to I US$ in 1995/96.
b/    Potential vehicle RUCs assuming 90% non-exempt versus 59%.
c/    Assuming 225 million litres of fuel & lubricant consumption with 60% diesel and
lubricant consumed off road and assuming Customs Department actually processed 104
million litres of regular gasoline and 140 million litres of diesel in 1995/96 instead of the
64 million and 97 million litres recorded.
d/    Potential road use tax revenue was the Department of Taxation target for 1995/96 versus
actual receipts.
e/    Estimated net revenue after administration and salary expenses for district offices,
collecting fines, driving inspection, and vehicle registration fees based on Vientiane
Municipality targeted collections of 210.5 million in 1996/97 less 92.4 million Kip for
administration and 60% share of total light and heavy vehicle fleet.
Source: Customs and Taxation Department, Ministry of Finance; Vientiane Municipality
Vehicle Management Office and Finance Department
Annex number reflect the chapter numbers where they are referenced. Since Chapter one has no related annex,
the annexes begin with 2.1.



36                                      Annex 2.2
LAO PDR
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Summary Road Cost Responsibility & Road User Charge Contribution
RAD Allocated 2000/2001 Programme Costs
Compared with 1996 Road User Charge Rates and Vehicle Fleet
Road Tax Contribution *            Estimated Fleet Cost Responsibility
Cost per vehicle             Annual fleet cost share
Ratio of tax
US$ paid  $ paid                              contribution I   Million
per   per year   Fleet   Thousands US$ per    cost         km/yr     Fleet
thousand   per  Contribution    of    year per responsibility * travelled by  share
Vehicle Type  vehicle-km, vehicle  ($ million) vehicle-km  vehicle       vehicle type (million $)
Cars             73.31  733.08       6.42     21.24  212.40         3.45      87.60      1.86
Utility vehicles  24.68  370.20      4.86     21.27  319.11         1.16     197.10     4.19
Light trucks     40.36  605.42       1.70     23.94  359.06         1.69      42.21     1.01
Medium trucks    27.10  542.01       1.74     30.09  601.89         0.90      64.32     1.94
Heavy trucks     35.96  719.14       1.21     85.34 1706.81         0.42      33.77     2.88
Art. trucks       50.89 1526.84      0.49    101.10 3032.92         0.50       9.65     0.98
Buses            28.14  703.41       1.18     30.08  751.97         0.94      41.83      1.26
-w    ~       =I                 =        *     = 
Total       I         I       7      17.6                       1.2    |      476.51    14.1
* Hypothetical contribution of entire fleet if all paid statuatory taxes with no exemptions or evasion
Note: motorcycles and motor-tricycles exduded on the basis that most kilometers traveled are urban and not on core netwo



LAO PDR
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Objectives and Performance Indicators
Objectives                 Inputs                     Outputs               Base       Target            Means of              Timing          Risks and Critical       Outcomes and
Line       Value           Verification                              Assumptions               Impacts
Value
Reduce transport cost    Funds:                   Upgrading of 200 km of Road      -         200 km      PMU                   Quarterly reports                          Support economic growth
through upgrading of a   IDA  USS 37 48 M         No. 13 with following                    (PIP for details)
southem leg of road      GOL  USS I 98 M          characteristics                                                                                   Availability of
Route No 13 and          NDF: US$ 2 86 M            - Decreased VOC (2001)                US$ 40 99 M    PTD                   After completion     counterpart fund
construction of Road A-I                            - Roughness (IRI)             12           3 5       RAD jointly with
Activities                 - Travel speed (km/h)         35           S0        Transport Dept
-civil works            - [ravel time (hrs)            5            3                                                                         Positivc social impacts in
-works supervision      - Traffic volume (vpd)        250          400                                                                        facilitating accessibility
- Transport study              -           I         PTD                   Before & after                            to social services
Const. of 7 km of Road A-I                 7 km                             Construction
Length of road maintenance.                                                 Bi-annual Review
Improve institutional                                routine:  97/98                          2800       RAD                   Quarterly Reports
capacity and effectiveness  Funds                             98/99                           3200                                                  Absorptive capacity
in managing construction   IDA: USS 10.54 M                   99/00                           3700       Technical audit by    Annual Review        of local road
and maintenance          GOL: USS 13.18 M                     00/01                           4000       independent                                construction industry
activities               NDF USS 288 M              - periodic 97/98                           107       consultant
98/99                           156
99/00                           166                                                                        Creation and support to
00/01                           156                  __       __                                           private sector contracting
Introduce routine and    Activities               Increase usage of competitive                          RAD                   Yearly program &                           industry
periodic maintenance of   Civil works             bidding procedures for                                                       bi-annual reviews
roads through the use of    - Technical assistance  maintenance contracts.
competitively bid        - Corsultant Services     - routine                       .          60%
contracts                - Training                - periodic                                 100%                                                  Availability of
- Support to SESCML      Intemalization of project               Qualitative    PCU                   Bi-annual reviews    qualified counterpart
- Operating costs        management with DOC                     assessment                                               staff
Establishment of a PMS &               For all nat'l    RAD                 Bi-annual reviews
BMS                                    and prov'l
roads
Training.                                             MCTPC Personnel        Yearly program and                        Institutional development
- English trainees                         60        Dept & PCU            bi-annual reviews                         and sustainability
- Int'l Round Table
- Two-day seminars                         4
-HRDSAP                                    I
- Fellowships                              2
- Development of new
courses at CTC                            3                                                   Market opportunities
Increase capabilities and              Increase       PCU                   Annual Reviews
competitiveness of SESCML              volume of                                                                       Increase of local
road design                                                                    consultancy competition
contracts by
_ 50__ _..... .50%. (USS)  __                                                                                         X
Environmental Mitigation         .     Qualitative    PTD (environmental    Bi-annual reports                                                      W
Measures                               Assessment           unit)                                                                                  .



38                                                Annex 3.2
LAO PDR
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Comparison of Expenditure on Road and Bridge Maintenance 1991/92 to 1994/95 and
Planned Expenditures 1995/96 to 2000/01
Year        Road                           Road Maintenance USD Million                                Costs USD Million
Class     Routine   Periodic      Spot    Urgent    Sub-        Bridge      Total    Foreign    Local      Total
Impr.                Total
1991/92     National                                                  1.823    0.237      2.060      0.631     1.429      2.060
Provincial                                               0.970                0.970      0.186    0.784      0.970
Annual Total                                                                                                         3.030
1992/93     National                                                  2.121    0.125      2.246      1.338     0.908      2.246
Provincial                                                1.550               1.550      0.182     1.368      1.550
Annual Total                                                                                                         3.796
1993/94     National                                                  1.616    0.203      1.819      0.882     0.937      1.819
Provincial                                               1.669                1.669      0.045     1.624      1.669
Annual Total                                                                                                         3.488
1994/95     National                                                  2.850    0.312      3.162      1.954     1.208      3.162
Provincial                                               3.460                3.460      0.647    2.813       3.460
Annual Total                                                                                                         6.622
1995/96     National                                                  4.623    0.671      5.294      3.650     1.644      5.294
(planned)    Provincial                                               4.423               4.423      0.228     4.195      4.423
Annual Total                                                                                                         9.717
1996/97     CoreNat'l    0.925       1.916       2.854     0.139      5.834    0.250      6.084      4.305     1.779      6.084
(planned)    Core          0.215     0.435       0.182     0.032      0.865               0.865      0.764     0.094      0.865
Prov'l
non-core  Provincial   0.462                                      0.462                0.462                          0.462
non-core  National     0.196                                      0.196                0.196                          0.196
Annual Total                                                                                                         7.600
1997t98     Core Nat'l    1.876      5.777       0.611     0.281      8.546    0.250      8.796                           8.546
(planned)    Core         0.289      0.995       0.192     0.043      1.520                1.520                          1.520
Prov'l
non-core  Provincial   0.462                                      0.462                0.462                          0.462
non-ore  National      0.196                                      0.196                0.196                          0.196
Annual Total                                                                                                        10.974
1998/99     Core Nat'l    2.177      6.490       0.399     0.327      9.392    0.250      9.642                           9.392
(planned)    Core          0.336      1 704      0.123     0.050      2214                2.214                           2.214
Prov'l
non-core  Provincial   0.462                                      0.462               0.462                           0.462
nOR-cor   National     0.196                                      0.196               0.196                           0.196
Annual Total                                                                                                        12.513
1999/00     Core Nat'l    2.647      6.704       0.189     0.370      9.730    0.250      9.980                          9.730
(planned)    Core         0.414      2.710       0.123     0.062      3.310               3.310                           3.310
Prov'l
no-ce   Provincial     0.462                                      0.462               0.462                           0.462
non-coe  National      0.196                                      0.196               0.196                           0.196
Annual Total                                                                                                        13.948
2000/01     CoreNat'l    2.736       7.726       0.184     0.410     11.056    0.250     11.306                          11.306
(planned)    Core         0.484      2.207       0.046     0.073      2.809               2.809                           2.809
Prov'l
non-core  Provincial   0.462                                      0.462               0.462                           0.462
nn-core  National      0.196                                      O.196               0.196                           0.196
Annual Total                                                                                                        14.773
Total Needs 96d97-O0OI    15.208    36.666       4.903      1.788    58.565     1.250    59.815                          59.815
Committed GOLfunds                   1.833                            1.833               1.833
FurtherGOLsntldpsted      15.033                 2.233      1.786    19.052              19.052
Comm.
CommIed Donors            0.176     12.083       2.582               14.841    0.250     15.091
SlhortfaH                 0.0       22.750       0.088     0.002    22.838      1.000    23.838
Total National & Provincial Roads (from HIP Maintenance Study, 1993)             10,947 km
Core Network (National and important Provincial roads)                            6,324 km
Provincial Roads (not in Core Network)                                            4,623 km
District Roads                                                                    7,827 km
Assumed National Annual Maintenance Rate US$/km (Provincial Roads)               =  462,300 US$/km
Assumed National Annual Maintenance Rate US$/km (District Roads)                 =   195,675 US$/km



39                               Annex 3.3
LAO PDR
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL AUDIT
1.    The objective of the technical audit of is to allow an independent auditor (transport
engineer/economist) to form a professional opinion on the effectiveness of the routine and
periodic maintenance components as well as the technical assistance efficiency provided under
the Project. The audit, undertaken once a year in May/June for a period of two staff-month, will
focus on the following.
2.    Regarding the maintenance components, the audit will review the actual expenditures
versus approved budget, the timely provision of funds and the verification of the supporting
documents. The audit will verify, with the help of sample surveys, visits and controls in the
field, and by examining attachment, change orders, control test results and other relevant
documents and any other tests and controls that the Auditor may find necessary that control
teams have correctly verified that the quality and quantity of works are consistent with contract
specifications or works convention, as well as the interim certificates. Its reports will include
opinions that:
a) maintenance contracts have been prepared according to professional norms, and the
description and quantity of works accurately reflect reality in the field;
b) works contracts have been attributed in accordance with the procurement methods
specified in the credit agreements and officially agreed upon for the program;
c) the work progress monitoring and quality and quantity supervision procedures
provided for the contract have been followed correctly;
d) site journals, reports of site meetings, attachments journals are kept in accordance to
the norms of the profession;
e) the expenditures for maintenance works in the program are represented by assets,
goods and services having at least the value indicated and that any disbursement
claim under the loan agreements can be borne by an indication of the value of the
works done;
f) management of maintenance program is such that one can at any time verify all steps
between the works studies and reception and payment of the works studies underway,
works being attributed on - going works, completed works, paid for work and being
thus assured that expenditures on maintenance are well represented by works
programmed and executed of equivalent value; and
g) timely execution of the project in accordance with the agreed implementation
schedule.
3.    The audit would also provide an opinion on the effectiveness of the technical assistance
provided under the Project which comprises: Maintenance Specialists; Highway Planner and
Assisting Project Coordinator. In particular, the audit will concentrate on the ability of the
technical assistance to transfer its skills as well as the capacity and eagerness of the counterpart
staff to absorb on the job training.



40                               Anne.3
4.    Apart from the opinion, the Technical Auditor will also submit a " Management Report".
This report will include:
a) comments and observations on works management systems and the quality and
quantity control procedures examined during the Audit;
b) the main weaknesses detected during the Audit, and proposed remedial measures;
c) any other factors which would affect future audits; and
d) any other matter that the Auditor judges relevant (for instance lists of registered
enterprises, contracts attribution procedures, the combination of work lots, etc.).
5.    The technical audit will be presented to the MCTPC and IDA for discussion with a view
to strengthen the contract management procedures and efficiency of technical assistance.



41                             Annex 3.4
LAO PDR
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance to Road Administration Division
Terms of Reference
Background
1.    The Road Administration Division (RAD) of the Ministry of Communications,
Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC) is at the Central level, responsible for the
maintenance management of a core network of 6324 km, composed of national and strategic
provincial roads. A field organization is established within the RAD for maintenance
inspection, planning, and contract supervision. It consists of three maintenance regions, each one
headed by a Chief Maintenance Engineer (CME) with a deputy. The RAD reports regularly to
the Director of Communications (DOC) about progress of work costs and road conditions.
2.    During the last ten years, the road network has been in such a poor state that the limited
funds available for road works have been concentrated on construction, rehabilitation, and spot
improvements. Systematic maintenance, such as routine and periodic maintenance of
maintainable roads has been virtually non-existent. In addition to the current program of spot
improvements, it is now realized, with the increasing number of maintainable roads handed
over to RAD, that routine and periodic maintenance of these roads is of paramount importance to
preserve the capital invested therein.
3.    Accordingly, the Third Highway Improvement Project (THIP) has retained two programs
over a five year period (i) periodic maintenance of high priority roads based on defined selection
criteria; and (ii) Routine maintenance of the core network. The work will be contracted out to by
competitive bidding to contractors, both state Owned and Private Enterprises.
4.    The RAD is still a young and newly established division. From 1990 to 1994, it received
from IDA and NDF, technical assistance to develop the maintenance organization, improve
budgeting and monitoring procedures, assess funding requirements, and develop maintenance
management systems. IDA has continued funding the support. A Maintenance Management
Advisor has been providing support for the development management systems, planing and
follow - up of maintenance, etc. The RAD has also received other support concerning
maintenance techniques and practices in the field. A Pavement Management System (PMS) and
a Bridge Management System (BMS) are now installed by the Technical Assistance Consultant.
But local staff are not yet fully trained in its utilization and, as a result, it is not operational. Its
data are being transferred to a more simple and user - friendly system.
5.    The RAD capacity is still weak and further support is still needed, the more so as RAD's
experience in systematic maintenance is yet embryonic. It is necessary, at this point, to build -up
a tradition for systematic maintenance for the sake of sustainability of the newly constructed and
rehabilitated roads.
Objectives
6.    The primary objectives of the proposed technical assistance to RAD are to:



42                              Annx  3.4
*  Ensure cost-effective implementation of the THIP periodic maintenance program
through the project Technical Assistance (TA);
*  Provide advice and guidance to the RAD in its implementation of the routine
maintenance;
*  Pursue already initiated efforts to build within the RAD a sustainable capability to
plan, program, and monitor all types of maintenance and in particular periodic
maintenance; and routine maintenance;
*  Secure a successful transfer of skills, through a systematic Skills Transfer Action
Plan (see para. 8, below).
Composition of the Technical Assistance Team
7.    In order to meet the above objectives, the TA team will include:
* Maintenance Management Advisor (MMA); 36 months;
* One Field Road Restoration Specialists (RRS); 39 months;
* A Bridge Engineer (BE); 3 months
* Training Specialist 4 months
Skills Transfer Action Plan (STAP)
8.    The technical assistance contracts, undertaken by expatriate consultants, as ,is serving as
the primary vehicles for technology transfer. Past experience has shown that key skills are often
not transferred in an osmotic manner through day-to-day contact between expatriate consultants
and their local colleagues. Thus, technology transfer may better be achieved through a carefully-
constructed series of plans which stipulate clearly the goals, objectives and contents of each
aspect of the technology transfer process.
9.    In order to track the transfer of skill performance, a quarterly reciprocal evaluation based
on performance indicators will be made by the TA members and their counterparts.
Duties
10.   The Maintenance Advisor (MMA) As counterpart to the Head of the Road Administration
Division the MMA will assist him in his considerable number of activities. In addition, the
MMA will be more directly involved in the undertaking and the follow - up of the following
duties:
* Strengthen RAD capability to develop contract documentation suitable for periodic
and routine maintenance that conforms to the requirements of the World Bank and
other donors
* Analyze and strengthen individual section with the RAD;
* Organize, participate in and supervise training. The TA should allow RAD (and the
provincial engineers as well), to develop the organizational, coordination, monitoring
and supervision skills for all type of maintenance, and routine and periodic
maintenance in particular;



43                              Annex 3.4
* In conjunction with RAD (with the collaboration of the Road Restoration Specialist)
to develop technical specifications and post - qualification requirements applied to
bidding contractors;
* Prepare, in collaboration, with the RAD and Planning and Technical Division (PTD),
priority periodic maintenance programs
* In conjunction with RAD to annually update assessments of road culverts and bridge
conditions;
* Implement a simple pavement management system, including a road condition
diagnosis method assoc iated with a maintenance decision criteria;
*  Finalize the establishment of budgeting, cost control and auditing capacity and
system for the RAD organization;
* Periodically assess the capacity of contractors;
* Develop, in concert with RAD and the Planning and Technical Division, prioritized
maintenance rolling plans, which would be reviewed and adjusted every year;
* Report to Manpower and Training Division on quarterly transfer of technology
reports;
* Implement and assist in Technical auditing procedures; and
* Review of quality and quantity of executed work.
11.   The Road Restoration Specialist (RSS). The RSS will act as counterpart to the CMEs.
The RSS will work closely with them as with the Maintenance Supervisors of the Provinces and
will report to the Head of the RAD. The RSS will hold an on - line position on a specific periodic
maintenance contract, shifting to an advisory position as soon as possible. The RRS duties will,
inter alia:
* Assist the CMEs in the coordination and monitoring of routine and periodic
maintenance as well as spot improvements;
* Prepare the design for periodic maintenance projects and the related contract
documents;
* Review current specifications for equipment aggregate, and bitumen used in
resealing and make recommendations for improvement. Identify optimum periodic
maintenance treatments;
* Develop TOR for all RAD Staff;
* Supervise works carried out under a specific periodic maintenance contract, in close
collaboration with the CME s and DCTPC s supervisors;
* Assist the RAD and DCTPC s supervisors in undertaking road condition surveys;
* Assist and evaluate performance of selected contractors involved in periodic
maintenance;
* Provide on -the job training to counterpart staff. Assist the RAD in preparing
training program to contractors;
* Assist the RAD in post - qualifying contractors bidding for periodic maintenance
works;
* Ensure that technical auditing by the CME s are undertaken; and
* Manage the remaining funds of the Second Highway Improvement Project for bridge
rehabilitation.



44                              Annex 3.4
12.   Bridge Engineer (BE). The BE will act as the counterpart of a RAD bridge engineer. The
BE duties will be to, inter alia;
*  Prepare, organize and conduct a bridge condition survey of culverts and bridges on
the core network and enter the obtained data in the BMS;
*  Establish standard contract document for bridge maintenance and develop unit costs
for typical works;
*  Develop standard unit costs for bridge maintenance;
*  Provide on-the-job training to RAD bridge engineer and supervisors on bridge
inspection and identification of optimum maintenance. Prepare guidance manual
adapted to Lao PDR;
*  Develop within the RAD ability to use the BMS as a management tool involving
practical examples;
*  Prepare, designs for bridge maintenance works and related contract documents; and
*  Prepare, by the end of his mission a report briefing on his assessment of the situation,
the work achieved, the results obtained and his recommendations.
13.   Training Specialist (TS). The TS will liaison with the Director of the Communication
Training Center (CTC) and will work closely with all staff of RAD and the Manpower and
Technical Division (MTD) of the Ministry. Subject to the exigency of RAD the TS will develop
short course in the following areas:
*  Maintenance Management
  Pavement Evaluation and Design
*  Contract administrations and condition of contract
*  Project Management
-  Specific related management courses
*  A report briefing will be produce on each course given.



45                                Annex 3.5
LAO PDR
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance to Planning and Technical Division
Terms of Reference
Background
1.    Although attempts made in the past few years (National Transport Study [NTS] and TA to the
Transport Planning Unit [TPU]) to develop methods and skills for road planning, have introduced basic
capabilities within MCTPC, further development is still necessary. Currently, the plans prepared are an
indication of needs rather than the results of explicit priorities and project evaluations. Basic economic
concepts are not yet introduced. Methods for data collection and traffic forecasting techniques have not
been developed, and real construction and maintenance costs are unknown. Plans ignore long-term
considerations such as the interrelation between road construction and road maintenance. The concept of
cost-effectiveness up till now, has not made much headway in the public administration in general and in
MCTPC in particular. An economic "culture" needs to be instilled in the MCTPC, starting at the
decisionmnaking level and moving all the way down.
2.     Under this project, a renewed and more focused attempt is made to build up a sustainable
planning capability, but only in the road sector. Within the Department of Communication (DOC) of the
MCTPC, technical assistance (TA) will be provided to the newly created DOC Technical Planning
Division (TPD). An expatriate Highway/Planner/Economist will assist the Head of this Division in
developing the required road planning capacity. The Nordic Development Fund (NDF) will finance this
assignment.
Objectives
3.     The ultimate goal is to make the most of the scarce resources allocated to the road infrastructure.
In light of the above outlined current situation, this goal will be attained in pursuing the following
immediate objectives:
*  To inculcate in the TPD as well as in the other divisions of the DOC the basic concepts of
economic analysis and project evaluation;
*  To assist the TPD to conceive and further implement, a simplified rational system to develop
the investment and maintenance program; and
*  Using this system, to initiate the preparation of a five-year credible investment and
maintenance program, including the revision of the Five-Year Investment Plan 1996-2000
and the assistance for the preparation of the Five-Year Investment Plan 2001-2005.
Duties
4.     The Highway Planner (H+P): As a counterpart of the TPD's Head, the HP will assist him in the
undertaking and the follow-up of the following duties:
*  Prepare and provide formal training to the DOC engineers and others in transport economics,
transport planning and computer-based methods, as well as hands on experience with the specific
methods for data monitoring, traffic forecasting and project evaluation.
*  Help RAD in developing a simplified maintenance decision methodology based on a limited
number of parameters related to the surface condition and the structure condition of the road.
*  Use the simplified version of the World Bank's HDM based on the road data that can realistically
be obtained.



46                                Annex 3.5
*  Develop real and true construction and maintenance costs based on a thorough monitoring of field
works.  This task will be undertaken in conjunction with the RAD and with the close
collaboration of the RAD.
*  Prepare credible five-year rolling investment and periodic maintenance plans.
*  Assist the TPD in developing a road data base confined to the parameters required for the
application of the above maintenance decision policy and the HDM model. This will be limited
at this point to the core network consisting of the national roads and some provincial roads. Other
basic information should include, whenever possible, the history of the roads, such as the dates of
original construction, major resurfacing, and strengthening, quarry locations, and quality and
quantity of available materials.
*  Assist the TPD in initiating roughness measurement using the existing Bump integrator.
*  Select "witness sections" of the road network recently constructed for a thorough monitoring of
its behavior over time, in view of better evaluation and improvement of the methods and
techniques in use. This task will be undertaken in coordination with the laboratory and the RDA.
*  Transfer his skills to his counterpart, the Head of the TPD in accordance with an agreed Skills
Transfer Action Plan.
*  Review the vehicle inspection, licensing and registration systems in use and propose
solutions to improve theirs effectiveness.



47                                 Annex 3.6
LAO PDR
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance to Project Coordination Unit
Terms of Reference
Background
1.    Overall project administration and coordination will be provided by the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU), which has already overseen the implementation of the two preceding IDA-financed highway
projects. Recently, MCTPC has appointed one of its staff as Project Coordinator (PC).
2.     Under the THIP, the PC will receive technical assistance in the form of on-the-job-training from
an experienced expatriate, designated as Project Coordinator Assistant (PCA), for a period of 12 months.
The assignment will commence as soon as the IDA Credit for the project is approved. If required, another
period up to 12 months will be provided.
Scope of Work
3.     The PCA will assist the PC in overall project coordination, including:
*  Follow-up of project progress;
*  Planning and scheduling project activities;
*  Providing project monitoring and control (procurement, disbursement, audits, etc.);
*  Providing advice on and review of the preparation of bid documents for equipment as well as
participating in bid evaluation and award of contracts;
* Providing project accounting and submission of withdrawal applications to IDA;
* Assisting with the organization of the training component;
Preparing consolidated quarterly reports; and
* Assisting in the preparation of the project completion report.
Monitoring Skills Transfer Performance
4.     Sound and competent coordination and management are critical to the success of project
implementation. While the TA is provided it is also important to track the transfer of skills performance.
For this reason, a quarterly reciprocal evaluation of each party--the PC and the PCA by the other party--
will be carried out. Each party will prepare, separately, its own evaluation report and submit it to the
DOC and the Bank for a common review and taking corrective actions, if deemed necessary. The
evaluation will be based on the rating, on a three-point scale, Good - Fair - Poor, of some pertinent
indicators (details in PIP).



48                                 Annex 3.7
LAO PDR
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Training Component
Executive Summary
Background
1.     Lao PDR has changed its national economic development strategy from a command economy to
one based on the workings of market forces. This has presented policy level officials, managers and
trainers, major professional skills and attitudinal challenges.
2.     In terms of staff numbers, Lao PDR is not seriously short of trained administrators, managers and
trainers in its road agencies, enterprises and training institutions. The problem is that many of these
people gained their training and experience with outmoded technology in a policy, planning and operating
environment that has been abandoned.
3.     To address the need for human resource development and training, the project would propose the
following two strategies: A. Short-term: modernizing policy and decision approaches, management and
organizational systems and analytical and implementation methodologies; B. Long-term: preparing a
Human Resource Development Strategy and Action Plan (HRDSAP) based on a systematic assessment of
all training needs.
A. Short-term Strategy
4.     English Language Courses. Apart from professional and technological skills needs, an urgent
need is for a major upgrade of English language working ability at all levels. The proposed project should
allocate funds to help both the Communications Training Center and the Vientiane University College to
upgrade their performance in this area. An amount of US$70,000 is proposed for this assistance.
5.     Policy Issue of High Level Staff. Three items are included for policy and decision making
officials: English language training; an international policy round-table and a series of four discussion
group seminars. Thefirst item will provide intensive English language programs over two years for a
total of about US$10,000. The second item will be a high level sharing of experience with two to three
countries in the Asia region. This would be in the form of a two-day round table and would include policy
and decision level officials from each of the three ministries and agencies involved in the prioritizing of
road investments. The estimated cost of this item is about US$30,000. The third item will be discussion
groups and seminars to expose the high level officials to modern concepts and procedures. These
seminars would be presented in LAO PDR over a period of two years to coincide with missions by senior
World Bank staff. The cost of this item would be approximately US$10,000 per seminar or US$40,000
total.
6.     Planning and Decision Making. Planners and statisticians are the key people in the central and
provincial transport systems who generate the reports, documents and advice on which policy and decision
makers base their decisions. There are from 10 to 15 key areas for training this group apart from language
training. The training would be through a series of short, two to four week courses, presented locally by
experts in the respective topics. The proposed project would include an item of US$160,000 for TA to
prepare detailed curricula and course content outlines for those courses. At the same time the TA would
prepare the actual course materials and train recruited trainers for the three top priority courses: "Transport
Policy Analysis and Planning Techniques," "Project Preparation, Analysis and Investment Decisions" and
"Environmental Impact of Road Projects."



49                                Annex 3.7
7.     Domestic Consulting Enterprise Development. Among the factors that constrain the development
and improvement of enterprises and private companies is the relative paucity of expertise in technical
areas and contract and financial management. A possible response to these constraints would be the
buying of technical assistance or for the provision by an aid agency TA. In this regard, the project would
include an amount of US$320,000 for training, equipment and technology for developing modem survey
and road design capacity and capability for the SOE SESCML (Annex 3.7).
8.     Miscellaneous Items. Provision is made for US$20,000 for the purchase of training materials,
reference books and training equipment that may be needed for any of the various items referred to above.
In addition, an amount of US$60,000 is to be included as an uncommitted item.
B. Long-term Strategy
9.     Training Needs Assessment. Two ongoing technical assistance programs include assessment of
the need for training in both the MCTPC and the DCTPCs. These will be most important inputs to the
preparation of a detailed training strategy for the road sub-sector. The proposed IDA project should
include as a high priority component (US$20,000) for TA to take the outputs of those assessments and
prepare a longer-term Human Resource Development Strategy and Action Plan (HRDSAP).
10.    Fellowships. The proposed HRDSAP should identify MCTPC's priority areas for post graduate
study. The project should include two fellowships to support two candidates in appropriate courses; the
estimated cost of those will be US$90,000 for two people over two years.



50
LAO PDR
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Support to SESCML
Detailed Costs and Training
.COSTS                                                                    US
2 pcs total stations                                                     20,000
Additional equipment for survey                                           8,000
GPS equipment, detail survey                                             55,000
GSP pathfinder (for control and inventory)                               25,000
2 portable computers                                                     12,000
3 PC for computer-aided design                                           15,000
I backup station                                                          1,600
I plotter                                                                 6,000
1 portable printer                                                         900
I stationary printer                                                      1,000
Miscellaneous equipment and software                                     10,000
3 licenses NovaCAD (or equiv.) including survey program                  25,500
Installation, preparation and training (see details below):
35 staff-week at 4,000                                               140.000
TOTAL                        320,000
TRAINING                                                         Staff-Weeks
1.0 SURVEY
1.1 Introduction in map and survey methods                                 0.5
1.2 Total station. Measuring principles, the use of coding, memory storage, etc.
1.3 Terrain models. Field training                                         1.0
1.4 Storing, calculation and editing of field data. Basic AutoCad for editing of  1.0
terrain models
1.5 GPS. The use of GPS equipment including field training                 3.0
1.6 GPS for inventory                                                      1.0
2.0 AUTOCAD
2.1 Training course in AutoCad including some introduction in DOS and Win. 95  1.0
3.0 COMPUTER-AIDED DESIGN METHODS
3.1 Introduction. Input data, various methods.                             0.5
3.2 Horizontal and vertical alignment                                      1.0
3.3 Road standard description, cross-sections, quantity calculation and print out  1.0
3.4 Drawing and plotting                                                   0.5
4.0 PROJECT TRAINING
4.1 Carrying out the field survey by using GPS and total station             6
4.2 Inventory                                                                2
4.3 Storing, editing and computer management                                 2
4.4 Design                                                                  14
5.0 PREPARATION                                                              2
6.0 INSTALLATION OF HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE                                   2
S-W                                              TRAINING TOTAL            35



51                                Annex 3.9
LAO PDR
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Action Plan
Environmental Mitiyation Measures
I.    The preparation and implementation of civil works contracts will be in accordance with the
requirements delineated in the Guidelines for Reducing Environmental Effects of Road Projects, which
have been formally approved and adopted by the Government. In addition, the following details would
apply specifically to the upgrading of Road No.13 and construction of Road A-I:
*  Design standards for roads would be prepared for conditions suitable for the area. The proposed area
is flat to rolling and the design speed would be 80 kmlhour and the maximum gradient would be 5%.
*  Typical cross-section standards would have a maximum cut slope of 1:1/2 (vertical to horizontal) with
provisions for flattening the batter, if instructed by the supervising engineer, in areas where soils are
soft. Adequate maintenance funds would be available at least in the first few years after construction
so as to allow for removing any material that may slip down. Cut off drains would be provided in
adjacent high ground above the cut to minimize water running down, and erosion of the slope.
  The design of the road drainage system would be such as to ensure that storm runoff is not
concentrated to such an extent that it causes erosion. This means that on sideline cuts sufficient cross
toad drains, or culverts would be provided and the outlets designed to reduce the water velocity and
prevent erosion.
*  Quarries or borrow pits would preferably be part of the initial design of the road so that the locations
can be selected to avoid environmentally sensitive areas, or areas where runoff and erosion cannot be
controlled. Environmental damage can be controlled if the design, size and method of operation of
quarries to be used are specified in the contract documents.
  When storing, handling and preparing asphalt mixes, the supervision team would ensure that the
contractor take the following precautions:
Q  Stockpile sites for drums would stock at a reasonable level and be kept clear of undergrowth
and rubbish.
0  Drums containing cleaning oil would be stacked on end with the filling hole upwards and
tilted to prevent water accumulating on the top of the drum.
0  Drums of bitumen emulsion may be stacked end on end or on their sides, but if stored for any
length of time the drums would be rolled regularly. When filling a bitumen distributor tank or
kettle in preparation for heating, it is essential to check and ensure that there is no water in the
tank prior to loading, as this will cause a violent expansion of the bitumen with consequent
frothing and boiling over. Necessary precautions must also be taken for the manufacture of
cut-back bitumen to avoid all possible fire hazards,
0  The supervising engineer would designate the areas where spoil is to be disposed of,
especially in the steep country. The area would be first roughly leveled or benched to prevent
future slipping.
o Traffic signs and directional features are to be prominently displayed on the road when it is
completed. Safety measures such as guardrails would be considered at particularly dangerous
locations.
2.     The contracts documents would include the following clauses (Environmental Clauses for
Contract Documents):



52                                Annex 3.9
*  Notwithstanding other obligations, if in the opinion of the Supervising Engineer (SE), damage is
being done to the environment by the works under construction the Engineer may instruct the
Contractor to cease work immediately, or change the approach or method of work.
*  There would be a provisional sum in the Bill of Quantities for any work deemed to be required by the
Supervising Engineer to remedy any unexpected environmental problems which may arise as a result
of the works. He would instruct the Contractor to carry out the required work.
*  The Contractor shall ensure that full consideration is given to the control of environmental aspects and
that all provisions of the design and specification requirements relating to pollution of the
environment and protection of adjacent land and waterways are complied with.



LAO PDR
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table (USS million)
Total               1997                 1998               199                Z0W               Z001               ZWZ
Component           Locai |Foreign I Toteil Laoal I For I Tds    Local I   For. I Tdal  Laal I Fa. I TZi  Locai I For.  Total  LalI Fo.  Tda   Loca I For|
A- Road Imprwvement
Roads No.13 and NoA-1      5.02  28.43  33.45   0.25   1.42    1.67  1.51  8.53  10.04  2.26  12.79  15.05   1.00  5.69  6.69  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00
Suprvision                 0.52   2.08   2.60   0.03  0.10    0.13  0.16  0.62  0.78  0.23  0.94   1.17  0.10  0.42  0.52  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00
Subotal        5.54  30.51  36.05   0.28  1.53    1.80  1.66  9.15  10.82  2.49  13.73  16.22  1.11  6.10  7.21  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00
B- Road Maintenance
Roubneand Recurrent        3.78   7.02  10.80   0.19  0.35    0.54  0.76   1.40  2.16  0.76   1.40  2.16  0.95   1.76  2.70  0.95   1.76  2.70  0.19  0.35  0.54
Periodic                   2.00   6.00   8.00   0.10  0.30    0.40  0.40  1.20  1.60  0.40   1.20   1.60  0.50   1.50  2.00  0.50   1.50  2.00  0.10  0.30  0.40
MainteniceSpeidalists      0.36   1.44   1.80   0.06  0.24    0.31  0.12  0.48  0.59  0.12  0.48  0.59  0.06  0.24  0.31   0.00   0.00  0.00  000   0.00  0.00
Sub-total       6.14  14.46  20.60   0.35  0.90    1.25  1.27  3.08  4.35  1.27  3.08  4.35  1.51  3.50  5.01   1.45  3.26  4.70  0.29  0.65  0.94                 tn
C- Consulnts' Srv. & Train.
Plan. & Proj. MaUag. TA    0.17   0.67   0.84   0.04  0.17    0.21  0.08  0.34  0.42   0.04  0.17  0.21   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00
Erg. Des., Stidies&Audits  0.18   0.18   0.35   0.00  0.00    0.00  0.02  0.02  0.04  0.05  0.05  0.11   0.05  0.05  0.11  0.05  0.05  0.11  0.00  0.00  0.00
Training                   0.05   0.45   0.50   0.00  0.00    0.00  0.01  0.11   0.13  0.01  0.11   0.13  0.01  0.11  0.13  0.01   0.11   0.13  0.00  0.00  0.00
SUPpOrt to SESCML & MCTPC  0.06   0.36   0.42   0.00  0.00    0.00  0.06  0.32  0.38  0.01  0.04  0.04  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0M   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00
Incremental Op. Cost       0.05   0.15   0.20  0.007 0.027   0.034  0.007 0.027 0.034  0.007  0.027  0.034  0.007  0.027  0.034 0.007  0.027  0.034  0.012 0.022  0.034
Sub-total       0.51   1.80   2.31   0.05  0.20    0.24  0.18  0.81  0.99  0.12  0.40   0.52  0.07  0.19  0.26  0.07  0.19  0.26  0.01  0.02  0.03
Total Bae Cost              12.18  46.78  58.96   0.68  2.62    3.29  3.11  13.05  16.16  3.89  17.21  21.09  2.69  9.79  12.48  1.52  3.45  4.96  0.30  0.67  0.97
Phys. Contingences (8%)    0.86   3.32   4.18   0.04  0.17    0.21  0.21  0.89   1.10  0.27   1,23  1.51  0.20  0.72  0.91  0.12  0.26  0.38  0.02  0.05  0.08
PriceConfingencies(%)&     2.43   3.36   5.78   0.06  0.07    0.13  0.43  0.62  1.05  0.56  1.22  1.78  0.72  0.94  1.66  0.53  0.43  0.96  0.13  0.08  0.20
TOTAL PROJECT COST          15.47  53.45  68.92   0.78  3.58    3.63  3.76  14.90  18.31   4.72  19.14 24.38  3.60  10.99  15.05  2.16  3.93  6.30  0.45  0.75  1.25
22.45%  77.55%
La Base year: 1996.
!b.Average 9.8% (Local: 7.7% in 1997 and 6.8% per year thereafter; Foreign: 2.3% per year).
Local inflation has been adjusted for exchange rate purchasing power parity.



54                                Annex 3.11
LAO PDR
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Detailed Financing Table
Component                    Base Cost    IDA        NDF       GOL
A- Road Improvement
Roads No.13 and A-1                            33.45   31.78                 1.67
Construction Supervision                        2.60               2.60
Sub-total              36.05   31.78       2.60      1.67
B- Road Maintenance
Routine and Recurrent                         10.80                        10.80
Periodic                                       8.00      7.60               0.40
Maintenance Specialists                         1.80               1.80
Sub-total              20.60     7.60      1.80    11.20
C- Consultants' Services & Training
Planning & Project Management (TA)             0.84                0.84
Engineering Designs, Studies & Audits          0.35     0.35
Training (fellowships, seminars, etc.)          0.50     0.50
Support to SESCML & MCTPC                      0.42      0.42
Operating Cost                                  0.20     0.20
Sub-total                2.31     1.47      0.84     0.00
Total Base Cost                                  58.96   40.85       5.24    12.87
Phys. Contingencies (8%)                        4.18     3.15      0.00      1.03
Price Contingencies (average 9.8%)              5.78    4.00       0.51      1.26
TOTAL PROJECT COST                               68.92   48.00       5.75    15.16



55                                 Annex 3.12
Cf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
a                                              1                         -
Cl)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
as~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
[ 8XisS~~~~~1    I      111It
i) l   a      t
X-   2   : S                               t- _- a:   m0 I- I-  - R  - a     a- a-oI  
0        X                                     0              005
CY                                                                                a
tL                                                            CL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  C 
A~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
'00 ~~*~ifi
0 ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~  



56                                            Annex 3I13
LAO PDR
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation and Procurement Schedule
Task Name                                                                    Duration        Start        End
Component 1: Road Improvement                                                   984.5     10/21/96      7/28/00
Contract I ( ) and Contract2( )                                         984.5     10/21/96      7/28/00
Design Engineering and preparation of BD                            115     10/21/96      3/28/97
Complete Engineering Design and BD                             95     10/21/96      2/28/97
MCTPC reviews Engineering Design and BD                        10       3/3/97      3/14/97
Bank Approves Engineering Design and BD                        10      3/17/97      3/28/97
Prequaliflcation of Contractors                                     110      10/25/96     3/27/97
MCTPC finalizes prequalification documents                     25     10/25/96     11/28/96
IDA reviews prequalification documents                         10     11/29/96     12/12/96
MCTPC issues prequalification documents                        10     12/13/96     12/26/96
Contractors prepare prequalification document                  30     12/27/96       2/6/97
MCTPC receives prequalification documents                       0       2/6197       2/6/97
MCTPC evaluates prequalification documents                     15       2/7/97      2/27/97
IDA approves prequalification evaluation                       10      2/28/97      3/13/97
MCTPC advises results to prequalified contractors              10      3/14/97      3/27/97
Works Bidding and Award of Contract                                 120      3/28/97      9/11/97
MCTPC finalizes bidding documents                              30      3/28/97       5/8/97
IDA approves bidding documents                                 10       5/9/97      5/22/97
MCTPC Issues bids to prequalified contractors                   5      5/23/97      5/29/97
Pre-bid Meeting and Site Visit                                  5      5/30/97       6/5/97
Prequalified contractors prepare bids                          30       6/6/97      7/17/97
Opening of bids                                                 0      7/17/97      7/17/97
MCTPC evaluates bids                                           20      7/18/97      8/14/97
IDA approves bid evaluation                                    10      8/15/97      8/28/97
MCTPC awards work contract                                     10      8/29/97      9/11/97
Supervision Cycle                                                 932.5        1/1/97     7/28/00
Prepare short list and LOI                                     20       1/1/97      1/28/97
Bank comments on short list and LOI                            10      1/29/97      2/11/97
Letter issued to consultants                                    5      2/12/97      2/18/97
Consultant prepare proposal                                    30      2/19/97       4/1/97
Evaluate proposals, select best offer                          20       4/2/97      4/29/97
Bank Reviews Evaluation                                         5      4/30/97       5/61Fj7
Award contract to consultants                                   5       5/7/97      5/13/97
Consultants Mobilize                                           20      5/14/97      6/10/97
supervision of contract (Contract 2)                        797.5      6/11/97      6/30/00
Supervision consultant certifies final payment                 20      6/30/00      7/28/00
supervision of contract (Contract 1)                        492.5      6/11/97      4/30/99
Supervision consultant certifies final payment                 20      4/30/99      5/28/99
Implementation of Contracts (Contracts I & 2)                       730      9/12/97      6/29/00
Contractor mobilization period                                 20      9/12/97      10/9/97
Contractor starts work                                          0      10/9/97      10/9/97
Contractors complete all works                                710     10/10/97      6/29/00
Component 2: Periodic Maintenance                                               680.5     10/21/96      5/31/99
First Year Work Program (Slice 1997-98)                                   420     10/21/96      5/29/98
Design Engineering and preparation of BD                           87.5     10/21/96      2/19/97
Complete Engineering Design and BD                           62.5     10/21/96      1/15/97
MCTPC reviews Engineering Design and BD                        10      1/15/97      1/29/97
Bank Approves Engineering Design and BD                        15      1/29/97      2/19/97
Works Bidding and Award of Contract                                141.5     2/28/97      9/15/97
MCTPC finalizes bidding documents                              40      2/28/97      4/24/97



57                                             Annex 3.13
IDA approves bidding documents                                  10      4/25/97       5/8/97
Task Name                                                                     Duration         Start        End
MCTPC Issues bids to prequalified contractors                    5       5/9/97      5/15/97
Prequalified contractors prepare bids                           34      5/16/97       7/2/97
Opening of bids                                                  0       7/2/97       7/2/97
MCTPC evaluates bids                                          2215       7/3/97       8/4/97
IDA approves bid evaluation                                     10       8/4/97      8/18/97
MCTPC awards work contract                                      20      8/18/97      9/15/97
Implementation of Contracts                                         184.5      9/15/97      5/29/98
Contractor mobilization period                                  12      9/15/97      10/1/97
Contractor starts work                                           0       10/1/97     10/1/97
Contractors complete all works                               172.5       10/1/97     5/29/98
Second Year Work Program (Slice 1998-99)                                 455.5        9/1/97      5/31/99
Design Engineering and preparation of BD                             130        9/1/97     2/27/98
Complete Engineering Design and BD                             110       9/1/97      1/30/98
MCTPC reviews Engineering Design and BD                         10       2/2/98      2/13/98
Bank Approves Engineering Design and BD                         10      2/16/98      2/27/98
Works Bidding and Award of Contract                                   85        3/2/98     6/26/98
MCTPC finalizes bidding documents                               20       3/2/98      3/27/98
IDA approves bidding documents                                  10      3/30/98      4/10/98
MCTPC Issues bids to prequalified contractors                    5      4/13/98      4/17/98
Prequalified contractors prepare bids                           25      4/20/98      5/22/98
Opening of bids                                                  0      5/22/98      5/22/98
MCTPC evaluates bids                                            10      5/25/98       6/5/98
IDA approves bid evaluation                                      5       6/8/98      6/12/98
MCTPC awards work contract                                      10      6/15/98      6/26/98
Implementation ofContracts                                          181.5      9/18/98     5/31/99
Contractor mobilization period                                  10      9/18/98      10/1/98
Contractor starts work                                           0       10/1/98     10/1/98
Contractors complete all works                               171 5       10/2/98     5/31/99
Component 3: Capacity Building                                                    1303        1/2/97    12/31/01
T.A. Procurement (All)                                                     195        1/2/97      10/1/97
MCTPC Prepares LOI and a Short List                                   20        1/2/97      1/29/97
GOL Finalizes LOI and a Short List                                    15       1/30/97     2/19/97
IDA Approves LOI and a short List                                     10       2/20/97      3/5/97
MCTPC Issues LOI to Approved Consulting Firms                          5        3/6/97     3/12/97
GOL Receives Consultant's Proposals                                   40       3/13/97       5/7/97
MCTPC evaluates Consultants Proposals                                 25        5/8/97      6/11/97
GOL Finalizes Evaluation Report                                       15       6/12/97       7/2/97
IDA Approves Evaluation Report                                        10        7/3/97     7/16/97
GOL Negotiates Contract                                               20       7/17/97     8/13/97
GOL Awards Contracts                                                   5       8/14/97      8/20/97
Consultants Mobilize                                                  30       8/21/97      10/1/97
Consultants Arrive                                                     0       10/1/97      10/1/97
Project Management TA (Ist Phase)                                          261       10/1/97     9/30/98
Project Management TA (2nd Phase)                                          848       10/1/98     12/31/01
Planning TA                                                                390       10/1/97      3/30/99
Maintenance Management Advisor                                             848       10/1/97     12/29/00
Road Restoration Specialist                                                848       10/1/97     12/29/00



58                                 Annex 3.14
LAO PDR
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
FY       Semester    Disbursement in    Cumulative    Cumulative   Disb. Profiles
Ending         Semester       US$ million        %          Lao PDR
All Sectors
1997     Dec 97               2.4             2.4            5              0
June 98             6.2              8.6           18             3
1998     Dec 98               6.3             14.9           31             10
June 99             9.1             24.0           50             14
1999     Dec 99               9.1             33.1           69             18
June 00             5.3             38.4           80             26
2000     Dec 00               4.8             43.2           90             38
June 01             1.9             45.1           94             50
2001     Dec 01               1.4             46.5           97             58
June 02             1.0             47.5           99             66
2002     Dec 02               0.5             48.0           100            74
June 03                                                           82
2003     Dec 03                                                             86
June 04                                                           90
2003     Dec 04                                                             98
June 05                                                          100



59                                      Annex 3.15
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Supervision Schedule
Bank Supervision Input. The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to
regular supervision at headquarters for procurement review, correspondence, and reviews of
reports, which is estimated at seven staff-weeks per year.
Staff-
Approx. Dates                   Activity                     Skill Required       weeks
September 1997       Supervision Mission:
- Project launch workshop          Highway Engineer
- Review procurement activities    Transport Economist          4
- Review preparation of
maintenance sub-programs
March 1998           Supervision mission
- Review progress of consultant    Highway Engineer
- Review progress of civil works   Transport Economist          4
- Review maintenance activities    Training Specialist
- Review training activities
- Review accounting systems
September 1998        Supervision mission
- Inspect civil works              Highway Engineer             3
- Review environmental monitoring  Environmental Specialist
- Annual review of maintenance
sub-programs
- Review progress of consultant
March 1999           Supervision mission                  Highway Engineer             3
Transport Economist
September 1999       Supervision mission                  Highway Engineer             2
March 2000           Supervision mission                  Highway Engineer             3
Transport Economist
September 2000       Supervision mission                  Highway Engineer             2
March 2001           Supervision mission                  Highway Engineer             3
Transport Economist
September 2001       Supervision mission                  Highway Engineer             2
March 2002           Supervision mission                  Highway Engineer             3
Transport Economist
September 2002       Supervision mission                  Highway Engineer             2
June 2003            ICR mission                          Highway Engineer             4
Transport Economist
Training Specialist
Environmental Specialist  I



60
Annex 4.1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Economic Analysis
HDM Manager - Project Summary
Project Name: Third Highway Improvement Project
Run Name: Paving Gravel Road #13
Run Date: 26/01/97
Road Name: Road 13, Savannakhet-Pakse
Road Length: 200.0 km
Currency: Million Dollars
WITHOUT PROJECT CASE                              WITH PROCJECT CASE                        ECONOMIC COMPARISON
Do the mimimum, Routine                           Paved Road #13, DEST
ECONOMIC ECONOMIC ECONOMIC                        ECONOMIC ECONOMIC ECONOMIC   DECREASE DECREASE ECONOMIC
YEAR     ADT OPER  IRI   AGENCY         USER    TOTAL       ADT OPER  IRI   AGENCY         USER    TOTAL       AGENCY       USER       NET
COSTS    COSTS    COSTS                           COSTS    COSTS    COSTS          COSTS    COSTS BENEFITS
1997 I   249        12.3      0.24      9.05      9.29 1   249         12.3      0.24      9.05      9.29 I      0.00       0.00      0.00
1998     266        12.0      0.24      9.65      9.79      266        12.0      8.75      9.55    18.30        -8.51       0.00     -8.51
1999     285        12.0      0.24    10.21    10.45       285        12.0      8.75     10.21    18.96 I    -8.51         0.00     -8.51
2000      305       12.1      0.24    10.94    11.18        305       12.1       9.01    10.94    19.95 I    -8.77          0.00     -8.77
2001 |   329        12.1      0.24    11.85    12.09        388 CONS  4.2        0.09      9.02      9.11 |       0.15      4.61      4.77
2002 I   355        12.2      0.24    12.84    13.08        419         4.3      0.09      9.81      9.90         0.15      4.96      5.12
2003 I   384        12.2      0.24    13.91    14.15 1   453            4.4      0.09     10.65    10.73 I        0.15      5.36      5.51
2004 I   414        12.3      0.24    15.07    15.31        489         4.5      0.09    11.56    11.64           0.15      5.78      5.94
2005 I   448        12.3      0.24    16.32    16.56        528         4.6      0.09     12.55     12.63 I       0.15      6.24      6.39
2006 I   484        12.4      0.24    17.68    17.91        570         4.8      0.09    13.63    13.71 I         0.15      6.72      6.87
2007       522     12.4      0.24    19.14    19.38        616 RESE  4.9        3.66    14.80    18.45          -3.42      7.24      3.82
2008 I   564        12.5      0.24    20.72    20.96 I   665            5.0      0.09     16.07    16.16          0.15      7.79      7.95
2009      609       12.5      0.24    22.44    22.67        718         5.1      0.09    17.46    17.54           0.15      8.38      8.53
2010 |   658        12.6      0.24    24.29    24.52        776         5.2      0.09    18.97    19.05 |         0.15      9.01      9.16
2011 |   711 RESU 12.6        2.48    26.29    28.77 |   838            5.4      0.09    20.61    20.70          2.40       9.67     12.07
2012 I   768         9.2      0.24    23.53    23.77         905        5.5      0.09    22.41    22.49 I         0.15      5.01      5.16
2013      8 829     11.2      0.24    28.49    28.72        978         5.7      0.09    24.36    24.45           0.15      8.61      8.77
2014      895       12.2      0.24    32.36    32.60 |  1056 RESE  5.7           3.66     26.49    30.15 |    -3.42    10.88          7.46
2015      967       12.6      0.24    35.63    35.86    1140            5.8      0.09    28.64    28.73           0.15    12.46      12.61
2016 I  1045        12.6      0.24    38.62    38.86    1232            6.0    -2.50      31.16    28.66 I        2.73    13.41    16.14
Average             12.1                                                6.5
Total (undiscounted)          7.00   398.92   405.93                            32.67   327.92   360.59         -25.67   126.13   100.46
Total (at  10.0 %)            2.82   147.86   150.68                            24.36   124.19   148.55         -21.54    40.99    19.45
Project NPV at  10.0 t Discount Rate:   19.45
Project Internal Rate of Return (S):   19.2



61
Annex 4.1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 2: Economic Analysis
HDM Manager - Sensitivity Analysis
Run Name : Paving Gravel Road #13
Run Date   26/01/97
Road Name: Road 13, Savannakhet-Pakse
Currency : (million Dollars)
Third Strategy   - Paved Road #13, DBST
Study 1 Study 2 Study 3 Study 4 Study 5 Study 6
Discount Rate (%)          10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0     10.0   10.0
Multiplicative Factors
for Net Benefits
Agency Capital            1.00      1.20      1.00     1.20      1.30      1.40
Agency Recurrent          1.00      1.20      1.00      1.20     1.30      1.40
Vehicle Operation         1.00      1.00      0.80      0.80     0.70      0.60
Travel Time               1.00      1.00      0.80     0.80      0.70      0.60
Exogenous Cst-Bnf         1.00      1.00      0.80     0.80      0.70      0.60
Net Present Value         19.45    15.14    11.25        6.95     0.69    -5.56
Rate of Return (e)         19.2      16.3      15.7     13.1      10.3       7.6



62
Annex 4.1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 3: Economic Analysis
HDM Manager - Economic Analysis
Run Name   Paving Gravel Road #13
Run Date   26/01/97
Road Name: Road 13, Savannakhet-Pakse
Benefit Cost Ratios and Incremental Benefit Cost Ratios
First      Second      Third        Fourth      Fifth
Strategy   Strategy   Strategy   Strategy   Strategy
-Decrease in
User Costs (B)               0.00       5.49        40.99       47.34        0.00
-Increase in
Agency Costs (C)             0.00       1.36        21.54       32.01        0.00
-Net Present Value
(B-C)                       0.00        4.14       19.45       15.33         0.00
-Benefit Cost Ratio
(B/C)                       0.00        4.05        1.90        1.48         0.00
-Incremental                Strategies:   5 -> 1 =   0.00
Benefit Cost Ratio                         1 -> 2 =   4.05
(dB/dC)                                   2 -> 3 =   1.76
3 ->4 =   0.61
First Strategy:  Do the mimimum, Routine
Second Strategy: Paved Road #13
Third Strategy:  Paved Road #13, DBST
Fourth Strategy: Paved Road #13, Hot Asphalt Mix
Fifth Strategy:  Not Used



Lao People's Democratic Republic
Third Highway Improvement Project
Ministry of Communications, Transport, Post and Construction
Organization Chart
Minister
(Two Vice Ministers)
Cabinet        _                _                     Personnel
(General Office)                                         Department
l___ _  Finance
Department
Communication       Transport        Post & Tele-            Building &        Railway           Rural
Department        Department      communications         Urban Planning    Development      Development
Department            Department        Committee        Committee
Schools and            Provincial
Institutes          Departments
(DCTPCs)
Source: MCTPC



Lao People's Democratic Republic
Third Highway Improvement Project
Communication Department and Road Administration Division
Organization Chart
MCTPC
Communication
Department
Administration                       Disbursement
Division    J                       Division
|   Planning &    | |  Construction    Road Aministration    |   Waterways    l l    Provincial
Technical            Division           Division (RAD)            Division             DCTPC
Divisionll
Regional RAD          Regional RAD          Regional RAD         Communication
|  North   l  l      Central     l   l       South      | |   Subdivision
Source: MCTPC



IBRD 28416
[   -i U   t                                   104'                                  CHINA                                    CHINA
-2>   ., CHINA   )                %,                                                                MYANMAR          ,      k.
N    ~~~~~~~CHINA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  'N ~~~~~~~22
LAO PEOPLE'SGf2
fPh gy L r_                           VIETNAM                                                EM P.
MYANMAR                                          a                                  5                                                                       VIETN
:/) '  4  @ ;t   %'                                           /         THAILAND            S"U'H
CHINA
M-fg                                                                                                                                    SEA
/  )    \  g<>   Som Neu9JJ   t   .   CAMBODIA
-20 K2ng;|-    Pak B..g   /        P.V(         h   PA/*1S,            \ ~       )   S)                       25    jF J            GllY of
-,                                       ~                                        rw LThailand
,SAYABCl9 g rbn  \2, 
1066
THAI,LAND                           <!sIr-8eg                                                         ,SOT
VQNTIANE-~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                SOUTH
)   Ng,t                                             '                                      CHINA
-18'                               - X n C k h u m e g   Nlnk Nd agu                                         SEA
5$i Kenethoojf YENTIAN r 1> 9>< VIETNAM
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Roads:                                                                          B.. Lk-siph
-       Proposed Project Rood  1t    Airports                                                                                             L
-6'                               Previous Pro1et FRood        Selected Towns                                                                                                 6-
-       Poved National          (   Provnce Headquarters                                                           SAIAVAJ5IE
- U,poved Nahonal      65    Natio-al Capitols                                                       __I_-
Paved Province               Province Boundaries                                                                    i  e
Jnpoved Province      -- r- InteraIonol Boundaries                                                                     S.,knc
Notonol Rood Numi,bers
28     Province Rood Numbers                                                                       -CHAMPAAK
KILOMETERS            50           01- IIMPA(                                           Atpe
rhenpe sk
MILES 0                50               100
X  6 (     X         ~~~ATTAPE U 
The boundries,  lors, deno.nivtions .lt                                                                                                                \*j.f
ond ony tsher iom-oti- sho-e o
thiu mop do nut reply on the prt oKh
_14  The World Bash Grovp, eop judgreent                                            CAM ODI
nh hele9  utotus of ny territor                                                 CAMBODIA
uny evd-,se-evt ar -cceptence af such                   /
boundaries.                        u0                  J                            iou                                                                                L.4-
JANUARY 1997









IMAGING
Report No.:           16324   LA
Type:      SAR



