                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 27285

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (IDA-29430)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 34.6 MILLION (US$48 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                           LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                                         FOR A

                          THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                      May 26, 2004




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective November 14, 2003)

                     Currency Unit = Kip Nationale (LAK)
                              Kip 1 = US$ 0.0001
                             US$ 1 = Kip 10,478

                            FISCAL YEAR
                     October 1      September 30

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       ­   Country Assistance Strategy
CDRC      ­   Communications Design and Research Institute
CTC       ­   Communications Training Center
DCA       ­   Development Credit Agreement
DCTPC     ­   Department of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
DOR       ­   Department of Roads
EIRR      ­   Economic Rate of Return
ICB       ­   International Competitive Bidding
IDA       ­   International Development Association
IRI       ­   International Roughness Index
JICA      ­   Japanese International Cooperation Agency
Lao PDR   ­   Lao People's Democratic Republic
LCB       ­   Local Competitive Bidding
MCTPC     ­   Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
NDF       ­   Nordic Development Fund
NPV       ­   Net Present Value
NPV       ­   Net Present Value
PCU       ­   Project Coordination Unit
PMD       ­   Project Monitoring Division
RMF       ­   Road Maintenance Fund
RMP       ­   Road Maintenance Project
SAR       ­   Staff Appraisal Report
SDR       ­   Special Drawing Rights
SESCML    ­   State Enterprise for Survey and Construction Material Laboratory
SIDA      ­   Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
SHIP      ­   Second Highway Improvement Project
SOE       ­   State Owned Enterprise
SRBCC     ­   Savannakhet Road and Bridge Construction Company
THIP      ­   Third Highway Improvement Project
VPD       ­   Vehicles per day



                   Vice President:       Jemal-ud-din-Kassum
                 Country Director        Ian C. Porter
                  Sector Manager         Jitendra N. Bajpai
  Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Maria Margarita Nuñez

                       LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                     THIRD HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            40
  Map. Third Highway Improvement Project. IBRD 32881. April 2004

Project ID: P004210                                                  Project Name: LA-Third Highway Improvement Project
Team Leader: Maria Margarita Nunez                                   TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 22, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: LA-Third Highway Improvement Project                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-29430
   Country/Department: LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                   Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (98%); Central government administration
                            (2%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Municipal governance and
                            institution building (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/02/1996                                     Effective: 09/20/1997                09/12/1997
     Appraisal: 12/02/1996                                         MTR: 06/30/1999                  12/22/1999
      Approval: 04/08/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Lao PDR/Ministry of Communications; Transport; Post and
                                           Construction
                      Other Partners:      Nordic Development Fund

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russell Cheetham
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Sector Manager:                 Jitendra N. Bajpai                             Jayasankar Shivakumar
Team Leader at ICR:             Maria Margarita Nunez                          Alain Labeau
ICR Primary Author:             Maria Margarita Nunez


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
         The overall strategy of the Government of Lao People's Democratic Republic (PDR) was to
alleviate poverty through economic growth, expansion of social services, and provision of basic
infrastructure. The support of the International Development Association (IDA) and the Nordic
Development Fund (NDF) to the Third Highway Improvement Project (THIP) was consistent with the
Government's strategy and with the World Bank's 1996 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives in
the transport sector. These objectives included alleviating poverty and improvement of the living standards
for the Lao people.

         At the time of preparation of the THIP, IDA had funded three projects in the highway sub-sector in
Lao PDR. The focus of the projects was to improve the efficiency of the country's transport system
through specific road improvements and to strengthen the Government's institutional capabilities to
maintain the national highway network. While the rehabilitation of Road No. 13, the backbone of the road
system, was to be completely supported by IDA and other donors, provincial and district roads were to
remain in a state of disarray, incapable of providing all weather access to standard traffic. Also, regular
road maintenance was not performed in the maintainable road network and the organization and
management of maintenance activities was deficient.

         As stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the development objective of the THIP
(SDR 34.6 million) was to support Lao PDR's economic growth and transition to a market economy. The
project's immediate objectives were to:
          i. Reduce road transport costs throughout its territory and upgrade priority roads;
         ii. Implement routine and periodic road maintenance programs on the basis of cost-effective
             competitive bidding procedures; and
        iii. Improve effectiveness of its overall institutional capacity to manage road construction and
             maintenance activities, at both the national and provincial levels.

         The NDF Credit No. 183 (SDR 4 million) co-financed the THIP and provided consultant services
to implement all components.

3.2 Revised Objective:
         The original development objectives of the project did not change during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
         The project consisted of the following components:

         A. Road Improvements and Maintenance Works. This component financed:
          i. Upgrading of about 200 km of Road No. 13 between Banlak 35 and Pakse to a bituminous
             surface;
         ii. Construction of a 7 km stretch of Road No. A-1, which connects Roads No. 9 and No. 9B
             (formerly No. 11) and bypasses the city of Savannakhet;
        iii. Implementation of a Road Maintenance Program including: (a) periodic maintenance of about
             600 km of high-priority roads throughout the country; (b) routine road maintenance of an
             aggregate of about 13,700 km throughout the borrower's core road network of about 6,324 km
             during the period 1977-2001; and
        iv. Provision of goods (including vehicles), office supplies, equipment and consulting services to
             support the above activities.



                                                     - 2 -

        B. Institutional Strengthening. This component included:
         i. Strengthening the Ministry of Communications, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC),
            with consultant services, by: (a) enhancing its capacity for overall project implementation; (b)
            strengthening its capacity to organize and manage the implementation of the Road Maintenance
            Program; (c) assisting and training MCTPC Planning and Technical Division personnel in the
            preparation of medium-term road investment plans; (d) assisting MCTPC with the feasibility,
            design, engineering, and local transport sector studies; and (e) assisting MCTPC in accounting
            and independent external auditing;
        ii. Training MCTPC managerial and engineering staff through fellowships, conferences,
            seminars, study tours and short-term courses offered locally and abroad; and
       iii. Provision of goods (including vehicles), office supplies and technical support equipment in
            support of the above activities.

3.4 Revised Components:
        In February 1996, before the THIP, the DCA of the Second Highway Improvement Project (SHIP)
was amended, to bridge the financial gap of the First Highway Improvement Project. The civil works
under the SHIP included upgrading and rehabilitation of the selected sections of Highway No. 13 South,
Route No. 11, and construction of Road No. A-1, which was formerly part of the THIP. The THIP was
revised and its scope updated without amendment to the DCA.

        Following torrential rains in August 2002, many national roads sustained heavy damage. In
October 2, 2002, the DCA of the THIP was amended to reallocate Credit amounts to the works, consultant
services and operating costs categories, and to include emergency upgrading works of high priority roads.
Most of the reallocation (92% or SDR4.8 million) was devoted to additional activities, summarized as
follows:

         i. Financing variation orders reflecting changes made on the designs and the scope of works on
            the original design of Road No. 13 South, aimed at providing road furniture for pedestrian
            safety; slope protection in selected sections; a small bridge and drainage, and improving three
            access roads connecting the District capitals;
        ii. Carrying out emergency reconstruction of national roads due to the extensive damage caused
            by the August rains. The reconstruction provided immediate access to traffic after the rains,
            repaired culverts, road side drains, and protected slopes; and
       iii. Completing the training program for managers and engineering staff of MCTPC, and support
            incremental operating cost caused by increased scope of activities undertaken by the
            implementing agency.

        All additional and emergency works pursued the original objectives of the THIP. The additional
works were undertaken as an extension of the ongoing contract No. 1 and the emergency works were
awarded following national competitive bidding and were completed before the credit closing date.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
        The project was not reviewed by the Bank Quality Assurance Group at the time of appraisal. The
ICR rates quality at entry as highly satisfactory for the following reasons:

         i. The project objectives were consistent with the Government's priorities in the transport sector,
            with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, and with the previous Bank interventions that
            contributed to the development of the highway sector;



                                                      - 3 -

         ii. The Government and MCTPC, the implementation agency, demonstrated strong commitment
             to project preparation and organized a workshop of all stakeholders to discuss and define the
             project objectives, scope, and implementation arrangements;
        iii. Using funds from the SHIP and consultant services, MCTPC completed the detailed design
             and preparation of bidding documents for the component that shared the major cost of the
             project (upgrading of a section of Roads No. 13 and No. A-1);
        iv. The administrative road classification system, along with the rationale for numbering
             and referencing, was established. The road numbering and reference systems of the
             road network and the numbering of the national network were approved by Ministerial
             decision;
         v. The Five Year Road Maintenance Plan and the list of priority road sections under the First
             Year Routine Maintenance Program were prepared by MCTPC for THIP and financed through
             SHIP, and 60 percent of the contracts were identified to follow competitive bidding
             procedures; and
        vi. MCTPC with technical assistance, prepared a realistic project implementation plan. All
             procurement steps for consultants and for the pre-qualification of contractors were identified.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
         The project has been highly successful in alleviating physical constraints to internal
communication, trade and transport. Such access is an essential part of the enabling environment for
equitable growth. At the time of the New Economic Mechanism (1986), launched by Government to move
from a system of centralized planning to one of market orientation, many villages did not have regular
access to transport means. The focus on all-weather roads was appropriate as road transportation
comprised the major mode of internal communication, carrying more than 90% of freight ton-km and 85%
of passenger-km. Detailed performance indicators are provided in Annex 1. The project's focus on routine
and periodic maintenance, and the development of the institutional capacity to carry out maintenance
effectively, is equally important for the provision of reliable access over time. With over half of GDP
generated by agricultural activities, sustained access between farming areas and markets is critical.
Attainment of the specific objectives articulated in the DCA is discussed in turn below.

         Reduce road transport costs throughout its territory by constructing and upgrading priority
roads. The upgraded section of Road No. 13 South between Banlak 35 and Pakse now provides all
weather access to important agricultural areas in southern Lao PDR. The improved road reduced transport
costs, which lowered vehicle operating costs and travel times for a substantial number of road users. The
upgrading of 200 km of the road allowed an increase in travel speed from 35 km/h to 80 km/h and a
reduction in travel time from five hours to less than three hours. The improvement from gravel to bitumous
surface reduced the roughness level of the road from 12 to 3.1 m/km IRI (International Roughness Index),
slightly better than the 3.5 original target. Traffic increased from 250 vehicles per day (vpd) in 1997 to 460
vpd in December 2003, yielding a growth rate slightly higher (15%) than projected in 1997.

         The project exceeded expectations, as the economic re-evaluation confirms the good economic
justification of the project, showing an EIRR of 20.8 percent and a NPV of US$28.8 million, at 10 percent
discount rate. Savings in vehicle operating costs were estimated at US$38.79 million. (Please refer to
Annex 3.)




                                                        - 4 -

         Implement routine and periodic road maintenance programs on the basis of cost effective
competitive bidding procedures. In 1997 the Government made two important decisions: (i) to place
greater emphasis on systematic maintenance of the core maintainable network in lieu of continued
expansion of the network; and (ii) to progressively introduce competitive bidding of periodic and routine
maintenance work contracts.

         The project also exceeded expectations in this area, as both routine and periodic maintenance
programs were about 60 percent larger than planned for the period 1997-2001. The actual length subjected
to periodic maintenance was 933 km, compared to the SAR estimate of 585 km. The actual length
subjected to routine maintenance was 21,761, compared to the SAR estimate of 13,700. The re-calculated
ERR of 44.7 percent and the NPV of US$112.2 million (10 percent discount rate) confirm the high returns
of maintenance works.

         The government was willing to introduce a competitive bidding system in the roads sector, which
expedited the transition of the contracting industry from the force account and State Owned Enterprise
(SOE) structure to private contracting. During project negotiations, it was agreed that at least 60 percent
of the volume of routine maintenance works and 100 percent of periodic maintenance works would be
undertaken through contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding. At the end of the project, an
estimated 70 percent of routine maintenance and 100 percent of periodic maintenance was subject to
competitive bidding. Furthermore, in 1997 there were about 30 private contractors with an absorptive
capacity estimated at US$12 million per year, working in the roads sector. In 2003 after three years, of the
routine and periodic maintenance programs under THIP and RMP, there are more than 130 contractors, of
which some 70 are performing well and are financially stable, with a combined absorptive capacity
estimated at US$30 million per year, an increase of 150% over 1997. The adoption of competitive bidding
was faster than anticipated and the transition of the contracting industry from a SOE system to private
ownership and management is continuing, although the pace of the transition has slowed recently.

         Improve the effectiveness of its overall institutional capacity to manage road construction and
maintenance activities, at both the national and provincial levels. The institutional strengthening of
MCTPC has been facilitated by the long term support from IDA and other donors. During implementation
of the THIP the institutional strengthening component improved the capacity of MCTPC to schedule
routine and periodic maintenance; introduce competitive procurement processes; manage the new
competitive contracting system; incorporate the Provincial departments in project management; and
increase participation of the local private sector in road construction and transport services. The approach
to capacity building was to provide technical assistance through consultants, on the job training, studies
abroad and training courses.

         With support from international consultants, MCTPC prepared routine and periodic maintenance
programs for the national road network. The establishment of the road maintenance program initially ran
into difficulties, due to the new concepts introduced in 17 provincial departments. Implementation of the
program improved with time, as a result of strenuous efforts made by MCTPC to manage the works
contracts and on the job training of selected provincial department staff. Also, standard bidding documents
for national competitive bidding were prepared and used for the THIP funded contracts.

         The THIP provided the basis for the creation of a sustainable framework for road maintenance. It
was instrumental in establishing the dialogue on maintenance between the Government and the Bank and
supported the preparation of the medium and long term investments plans that were used for the overall
road maintenance program. Under the project, a road maintenance program was agreed where routine
maintenance was entirely financed by the Government. As dialogue and understanding of the maintenance


                                                       - 5 -

issues deepened, the Government decided to establish the Road Maintenance Fund and institutionalized
adequate funding. IDA was involved in helping to establish the fund, finance actual periodic maintenance
and bring other donors (SIDA and NDF) to the table.

         As a result of a proposal from IDA, a Project Monitoring Division (PMD) replaced the project
coordination unit (PCU) mid-way through the project. Initially, as in previous IDA projects, a PCU was
established in the Department of Roads (DOR) to oversee the activities related to IDA financed highway
projects, including monitoring of all contracts and disbursement. The PCU was supposed to function until
all the project tasks were active and incorporated within MCTPC. As commonly practiced, a consultant
was funded by the THIP to assist the PCU Coordinator. In 2000, MCTPC created the PMD to take over
the functions of the various PCUs and coordinate and monitor all donor-funded projects. Further
consultant assistance was regarded unnecessary as project management was already mainstreamed into
MCTPC. The new PMD within MCTPC has been functioning fairly smoothly and gaining
capacity, and has fairly adequate budget for its actual duties.

4.2 Outputs by components:
         Road Improvement and Maintenance Works. This component is rated highly satisfactory
overall. The construction quality of the completed works is excellent. Finishing details including
landscaping and slope protection along the routes received adequate attention, and the newly improved road
is of superior quality.

         The main physical component of the project, upgrading of 200 km of Road No. 13 between Banlak
35 and Pakse to a bituminous surface standard pavement, was completed in March 2002. The
improvements included minor alignment corrections, subgrade strengthening, and a flexible pavement
structure construction with a double bituminous surface treatment over a seven meter carriageway and one
meter paved shoulders. The civil works were carried out by two contracts awarded through international
competitive bidding. The additional works approved under the amendment to the Credit Agreement were
included in the original works Contract No. 1 and included a bridge, box culverts, several access roads
connecting district capitals with the main road, and road safety measures, which were all completed
satisfactorily.

         The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) provided grant funds for the reconstruction of
44 bridges along Road No. 13S. Of those 44, 35 bridges were in the road sections of the project. The
bridges were completed in 2001, but the approaches of about six bridges still have unacceptable levels of
settlement, despite MCTPC's repeated requests that the contractors correct the approaches.

         Construction of a seven kilometer stretch of Road No. A-1. The construction of Road A-1
between Roads No. 9 and No. 9B that bypasses the city of Savannakhet, was funded with savings from the
SHIP and the works were completed in March 2001. The THIP was revised and the scope updated without
amending the DCA; it is therefore not presented as an output of the THIP (for details, please refer to the
ICR for the SHIP).

         Implementation of the Road Maintenance Program. The Road Maintenance Program included:
(a) periodic maintenance of about 600 km of high-priority roads; and (b) routine road maintenance of an
aggregate of about 13,700 km, for the 1997-2001 period. The project financed a four year slice of periodic
maintenance of the core road network on 933 km, reaching about 350 km more than originally planned.
The road segments were selected on a multiple criteria basis, comprising economic evaluation, geographic
distribution, traffic volumes, priority for network connectivity and year round accessibility. The types of
works included were resealing, re-gravelling, road markings, erosion protection of slopes, and major


                                                     - 6 -

maintenance. The works were let entirely to local contractors.

        Systematic routine maintenance works were performed on 21,716 kilometers of the core road
network, more than double the originally planned amount. Two hundred fifty-five contracts were let, of
which 169 contracts were tendered (66 percent), 29 (12 percent) were implemented by groups of organized
villagers and the rest negotiated or assigned by direct contracts. The works were completed successfully
and procurement, supervision and evaluation were executed as agreed. The outputs of the Road
Maintenance Program are presented in the following table:

                             THIP Road Maintenance Program. 1997 - 2001
                                         Routine                                 Periodic
           Period            SAR Projections    ICR Actual         SAR Projections        ICR Actual
        1997-1998               2,800 km          4,718 km             107 km              230 km
        1998-1999               3,200 km          5,980 km             156 km              369 km
        1999-2000               3,700 km          5,911 km             166 km              164 km
        2000-2001               4,000 km          5,152 km             156 km              170 km
           Total                13,700 km        21,761 km             585 km              933 km
     Average per year           3,425 km          5,440 km             146 km              233 km
  Increase over projections                        58.8%                                    59.5%


        The torrential rains of August 2002 caused extensive damage to the national roads. An emergency
upgrading program restored the roads to their original condition and provided immediate access to traffic,
and permanently repaired the road surface, culverts, road side drains and protect the slopes. The
emergency works were carried out in 2003 under three NCB packages, comprising 26 contracts throughout
the country. All the emergency works were completed on time, with satisfactory quality and within budget.

        Provision of goods (including vehicles), office supplies, technical support equipment and
consultant's services. Goods, supplies and equipment required for the management, operation and
maintenance of the road network, were procured satisfactorily. All goods purchased under the project are
being fully utilized and adequately maintained.

        Safeguards. No major environmental impacts, land acquisition or resettlement were expected of
the project. During construction and operation, mitigation measures were implemented for air and water
pollution, noise and soil erosion. Actions were taken to minimize social disruption and traffic accidents.
MCTPC made considerable efforts to protect the environment and satisfactorily implemented the
environmental action plan.

        Institutional strengthening. Technical assistance was provided to supplement MCTPC's
implementation capacity given the demands of the project. This component was completed satisfactorily.
The training component was very effective in transferring technology and know-how, and exposed the staff
to new concepts of road maintenance and construction methods.

        Capacity enhancement for overall project implementation. The PCU established under previous
IDA projects was coordinated by a foreign consultant, and in 1997 MCTPC filled the position with a local
coordinator. The THIP included support for the PCU through an advisor to reinforce the skills and
capacity of the unit, and supposed to stay until all functions were actively incorporated within MCTPC. In
2000, the PMD was created under the DOR, to combine the previously scattered coordination units of the
various donors in the road sector, thus, mainstreaming project management within MCTPC. The
organization of the new division provided for integration of the functions into the organization,


                                                      - 7 -

improvement of monitoring and reporting, avoiding duplication, fostering donor coordination and offering
opportunities for career growth and staff professional development.

         Capacity building to organize and manage the implementation of the Road Maintenance
Program and to prepare medium-term road investment plans. The main thrust of the capacity building
program was to prepare procedures for periodic and routine maintenance and train MCTPC's staff. The
road maintenance handbook and maintenance activities codes are part of the training materials developed.
By 2001 the foreign advisers team for Maintenance Management was reduced from three to one. While the
weak capabilities of MCTPC were a challenge in 1997 and 1998, MCTPC prepared satisfactory medium-
and long-term investment and maintenance programs and performance continued to improve up to the end
of the project and into the RMP. Before 1997, periodic maintenance of roads was poorly programmed, and
the bulk of maintenance activities consisted of ad hoc spot improvements and emergency repairs, carried
out mainly by SOEs. During project implementation MCTPC procured all periodic maintenance using
competitive bidding procedures and the routine maintenance through negotiated and tendered contracts.

         MCTPC assistance to conduct feasibility, design, engineering, and local transport sector studies
and to prepare future road projects. A study to assess the impact of upgrading the road section
Savannakhet-Pakse on the Lao PDR transport infrastructure and services was carried out. After initial
delays the report was completed and it was decided to proceed according to the recommendations for
investment. Technical equipment complemented by training was provided to the State Enterprise for
Survey and Construction Material Laboratory (SESCML). The objective was to develop domestic
capabilities in new survey and road design methodologies. The impact of this support on local consultancy
competitiveness is perceived as slim, because to date, only three engineering consulting firms are active in
the country. Additionally, MCTPC was assisted by international consultants in the supervision of the Road
No. 13S works contracts. On-the job training of local supervision staff and seminars, took place from
1998 to 2002. With assistance from consultants, MCTPC prepared the overall maintenance program
which provided the basis for sustainable funding, competitive procurement procedures, and mainstreamed
project management and monitoring.

         Accounting and independent external auditing capabilities and technical audits. Separate
accounts for all expenditures under the project were established. The accounts were reviewed annually by
independent auditors. Four technical audits to strengthen the effectiveness of contract management and
technical assistance were carried out in June 1998, September 1999, December 2001 and January 2003.
The auditors made recommendations for resolving outstanding issues that were monitored during
subsequent audits. The audits were well received by MCTPC and regarded highly by Bank staff as a
source of credible and independent professional opinion on the quality of the process and end-products of
activities financed by IDA. A set of recommendations was prepared and the majority addressed and
responded to by MCTPC. Examples of the observations are: need for enhancement of contract
management and site supervision, lack of timely progress reporting from the provinces, and poor condition
of the contractors' plant and equipment.

         Training of MCTPC managerial and engineering staff through fellowships, conferences,
seminars, study tours and short-term courses locally and abroad. In addition to the on-the-job training
from foreign consultants on maintenance management, supervision of works, and project monitoring,
engineering and management, staff from MCTPC participated in individual training activities. The
overseas and domestic training programs were completed satisfactorily. Domestic training was provided by
the Telecom and Communications Training Institute (TCTI), Vientiane University College, and the
University of Laos. Construction of the students living quarters of the TCTI, was satisfactorily completed.




                                                    - 8 -

         The following table shows the results of the training program under the project by number of
events and participants. Twenty-two training events were organized for central and provincial government
staff, a 100% increase from the original plan. A total of 440 persons received training, 367 persons
attended domestic training events and 73 people received training abroad, of which 38 participated in study
tours. Of the total people trained, 8 percent were provincial staff members and 7 percent were women
staff members. Women (about 8 percent) attended the English Language courses and one of the long-term
fellowships for post-graduate was conferred to a woman division director. It is worth noting that in 1997
the management team of DOR did not include women professionals, and in 2003 at least five female staff
held managerial positions as Division Director or Deputy Director. Additionally, in 1997, a limited number
of staff (about 15 people) were conversant in the English language, and by 2003, more than 50% (70
people) were able to communicate well in English.

         The following planning and decision-making courses were carried out by four international
trainers, supported by the TCTI.

         ·       Road transport policy analysis and planning techniques;
         ·       Project preparation, analysis and investment decisions;
         ·       Environmental impact of road projects; and
         ·       Organizational structure and development, and delegation of decision making.

                            Training Program, 1997- 2003 - Number of Events
        Course / Activity         SAR Projection          ICR Actual        No. Participants
 English language                         -                    7                  206
 International Round Table               1                     2                    -
 Two day seminar & Study                 4                     6                  90
 Tour
 Human Resource Dev Strategy             1                     1                  72
 Fellowship for post-graduate            2                     2                  11
 Planning and Decision                   3                     4                  61
 Making
 Total                                   11                   22                  440


         Provision of goods (including vehicles), office supplies and technical support equipment in
respect of the foregoing. Goods, supplies and equipment required for Institutional Strengthening, were
procured satisfactorily. All goods purchased under the project are being fully utilized for the intended
purposed. Vehicles, computers and office supplies were provided to MCTPC and operational costs directly
associated with project implementation were also financed. The availability of operational funds greatly
simplified project implementation.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
         Road Upgrading. The Borrower performed an economic re-evaluation of the upgrading of 200
kilometers of Road No. 13S from Banlak 35 to Savannakhet using a methodology similar to that at
appraisal and using HDM-4 evaluation techniques. The with-project and without-project scenarios were
compared to determine the effects of introducing the project. The assumed economic life was the same as
in the original appraisal, covering a 20-year span, and the assumptions in the SAR were modified on the
basis of updated information.

         The economic construction costs were derived primarily from the financial costs of civil works and
consultancy services. The actual implementation period was used as the basis for allocating annual capital



                                                     - 9 -

costs. Updated routine maintenance costs were derived from MCTPC's data. As assumed during appraisal
in the without-project case, the road would require re-gravelling and regular annual routine maintenance.
In the with-project case, it would require resealing and regular annual routine maintenance. The economic
road user costs (vehicle operating and time costs) were used to evaluate the annual periodic maintenance
projects. The main quantifiable benefits of the project included: (i) savings in road user costs for existing
traffic due to a better road surface; and (ii) lower maintenance costs due to improvements in road
conditions. Typical road user unit costs, in US$ per vehicle-km, for different roughness levels are
presented in Annex 3.

         The upgrading consisted of paving the road with a double bituminous surface treatment over a 150
mm crushed stone base, to a width of 7.0 m. The unit cost for upgrading was estimated in the SAR at
US$209,670 per km, and the actual unit cost is US$157,785 per km (in calendar 2002 dollars).

         At appraisal, traffic after completion of road works was projected to be about 400 vpd, while
actual traffic after the completion of road works is 460 vpd, 15 percent higher than projected. Details on
project timing and current traffic composition are presented in Annex 3.

         Road roughness before the upgrading was about 12 IRI; it decreased after the upgrading to about
3.1 IRI. Car and truck speeds were 50 km/hour and 30 km/hour before road works. Travel speeds
increased to 80 km/hour and 60 km/hour, respectively, after the upgrading. Travel time between Banlak 35
and Savannakhet was five hours before the upgrading and less than 3 hours after the upgrading.

         For the upgrading of 200 kilometers of Road 13S, an EIRR of 19.2 percent with a NPV of US$
9.45 million, at a 10 percent discount rate, was estimated in the SAR. The economic re-evaluation shows
an actual EIRR of 20.8 percent and a NPV of US$28.80 million (at a 10 percent discount rate). Savings in
vehicle operating costs were estimated at US$38.79 million. The ex-post economic evaluation of the
project road suggest that the original assumptions were accurate and confirmed the good economic
justification of the investment.

         Road Maintenance Program. The project provided funding for four-year programs of periodic
maintenance and routine maintenance. An economic evaluation at the project level was mandatory for all
periodic maintenance contracts. The economic evaluation was determined using HDM-3 on an annual
basis, at a 10 percent discount rate. The basic characteristics and economic results of the contracts,
including the average unit costs, are presented in Annex 3.

         The economic evaluation for the road maintenance program shows an overall EIRR of 44.7 percent
with a NPV of US$112.2 million, at a 10 percent discount rate. The strong economic evaluation results of
the road maintenance program confirm the high economic justification of maintenance works found
worldwide. The ICR economic evaluation for the road upgrading program and the road maintenance
program shows an overall EIRR of 26.9 percent with a NPV of US$141.0 million; these figures support
the robust economic justification of the project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
         N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
         The institutional development impact was substantial. The THIP introduced through its various
components: changes and institutional reforms for prioritizing maintenance of the existing network over its
expansion; secure financing for the maintenance of the road network, and the adoption of sound business



                                                     - 10 -

practices; a road reference system for the whole network; an initial axle-load control system; and increased
staff skills in several capacities. MCTPC substantially developed its institutional capacity for project
implementation, organization and management of the road maintenance program. It can prepare road
investment plans, conduct sound procurement processes, and prepare feasibility and engineering studies.It
has sound accounting practices and has regularly conducted technical audits. The local private road sector
industry also improved as a result of the project, as noted in Section 4.1 above. The institutional
strengthening of MCTPC is attributed mainly to the long-term actions and interventions of IDA and other
donors to the transport sector of Lao PDR.

         The project created a sustainable base for future funding of road maintenance including the road
maintenance fund and subsequent IDA and other donor-funded initiatives. MCTPC's divisions, through
consultant's assistance, prepared the medium and long term investments plans that were used for the overall
road maintenance program, and established a set of road asset management tools that have been integrated
in the on-going RMP (Cr. 3481-LA).

         As previously mentioned, MCTPC created a Project Monitoring Division (PMD) to coordinate and
monitor all donor-funded project activities. Following PMD's establishment, further consultant assistance
was considered unnecessary. With project management being mainstreamed into the Ministry, its former
system of having one PCU for each individual project is no longer needed.

         The technical audits contributed greatly to enhancing the MCTPC's capacity to evaluate project
outputs using independent professionals. The technical audit was conducted by international experts, and
included training of counterpart staff of MCTPC, providing them with the technical capacity to carry out
similar duties in the future and to effectively address the audit's comments.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
         2002 Flooding. The widespread flood damage caused by the heavy rains of July and August of
2002 limited the potential benefits of the transport sector in the economy and had a negative impact on the
financial projections for road conservation. The exceptional flooding caused serious damage to the road
network, particularly in northern Lao PDR. Traffic was interrupted on several roads and some sections of
road partially disappeared. Damage to the roads was estimated at US$5 million, and IDA agreed to
allocate about SDR2.6 million in 2002-2003 for rehabilitation, repairs and upgrading. Funding was also
provided by the Road Maintenance Fund (US$1.4 million) and other donors (US$1 million).

         Privatization of SRBCC. The privatization of the Savannakhet Road and Bridge Construction
Company (SRBCC) was to take place by December 1997, according to the modalities established in the
Third Structural Adjustment Credit for the privatization of state-owned enterprises. Seven state-owned
road construction enterprises were to be fully commercialized following the legislation and mechanisms
approved in 1994. All seven enterprises were offered for sale but qualified buyers were found for only
three of them. These enterprises were privatized through sales to private sector companies and management
or employee buy-outs. For the remaining enterprises where a management buy-out failed in 1999, including
SRBCC, qualified buyers have not materialized. The MCTPC is willing to continue with the
commercialization and privatization of the road construction industry in Lao by taking any future
opportunity that may arise. The final outcome remains beyond the control of the Government and MCTPC.

         Currency devaluation. During the implementation period, the local currency (Lao Kip) suffered
an eight-fold devaluation to the USD and the contracts for road works were signed in local currency and the



                                                     - 11 -

credit was allocated in Special Drawing Rights (SDR). This generated savings that were used to include
emergency upgrading and additional activities.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
         Administrative and Implementation Capacity. The Government has made great efforts to
increase its domestic capacity at the national level. It embraced an ambitious capacity building program for
MCTPC that included improvement of functional capacity and staff training, however, effective knowledge
transfer and strengthening, especially at the provincial level, was low.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
         None to report.

5.4 Costs and financing:
         At appraisal the total project cost was estimated at US$68.92 million (including physical and price
contingencies of US$9.96 million), of which IDA's share was US$48 million equivalent. The actual cost of
the THIP is US$63.78 million, of which US$45.42 million was financed by IDA, US$12.60 million from
the Government and US$5.71 million co-financed by the Swedish International Development Cooperation
Agency (SIDA) and the Nordic Development Fund (NDF). The civil works for the road improvements and
maintenance works were estimated at appraisal to cost US$52.25 million, whereas the actual cost is
approximately US$56.21 million ­ an increase of about 7.6 percent. This increment was to cover the
additional periodic maintenance, the additional works on road No. 13S and the nationwide emergency
upgrading works.

         The IDA funds for consultants and training also increased 17 percent, from US$1.27 million to
US$1.48 million. The NDF funds for technical assistance also registered a slight increase of 2 percent and
the SIDA co-financing amount --which came later in the project's life-- increased the technical assistance
(TA) in the amount of US$850,000. These later funds were to support TA for road maintenance.

         Savings from the Credit were used to cover additional works. As noted above, significant savings
were generated because the road works contracts were specified in Lao Kips while the Kip was suffering
significant devaluation during implementation of the THIP. These savings added to the resources which
helped to finance the additional activities described in Section 3.4 of this ICR.

         The Credit closed as originally scheduled on June 30, 2003.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
         Sustainability is rated highly likely for the following reasons:

         i. The Government's demonstrated high commitment to, and application of, a long-term strategy
             for road asset management;
         ii. The shared appreciation of the importance of maintenance by the central, provincial and local
             government levels;
        iii. The high priority given by an active donor community to road asset maintenance in Lao PDR;
             and
        iv. The improved institutional capacity at the central level to manage the road network
             maintenance program.




                                                       - 12 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
         All road works financed by the project were carried out properly and are fully operational. The
THIP provided the basis for the creation of a sustainable funding mechanism for road maintenance. It
provided a sound basis for the Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) and subsequent IDA and SIDA funding of
the Road Maintenance APL. MCTPC's divisions, with consultant assistance, prepared the medium and
long term investments plans, manuals for road projects evaluation, reporting systems and database
collection plans.

         The road sections under the project were included in the Government's long-term maintenance
program, partially funded by IDA's RMP and endorsed by other donors. This program represents a
10-year commitment of the Government of Lao in the road sector. The RMF was established to secure
financing and an efficient pricing policy. It guarantees regular flow of funds for maintenance of the road
network and an efficient pricing policy by directly charging road users for damage they cause to the road
assets. The users are charged through a fuel levy.

         The enhanced institutional capacity and the new organization and management for project
implementation and road maintenance also facilitate the transition to regular operation. Project
management has been mainstreamed into MCTPC, with the functions described having been integrated into
the organization, thus improving monitoring, reporting, efficiency, and facilitating donor coordination and
opportunities for professional development.

         Nonetheless, a major concern is the lack of implementation capacity and contract management in
the provinces, which will require a concerted long-term effort to improve. From efforts to reform civil
service and public administration to reinforcing project supervision, development of a professional civil
service is required in order to continue building institutional capacity and consolidate and retain a cadre of
qualified staff. Additionally, further strengthening of human resource capacity in project supervision, and
contract monitoring and follow-up of technical audit recommendations is needed for capacity enhancement
at the national level.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
         IDA's performance at the identification stage was rated Highly Satisfactory (HS). The task team
ensured that the project objectives were consistent with the Government and IDA strategies. IDA assigned
a qualified team to the project with an appropriate skill mix that delivered a well designed project, focusing
on the sector's highest priorities, including maintenance of the existing network, promotion of private
participation and capacity building for asset management, and reforms for mainstreaming monitoring and
management of project implementation. The preparation of the project permitted transfer of technical
knowledge to the Lao counterparts. Project documents and the Project Implementation Plan were
adequately detailed and of high quality. These efforts greatly contributed to the successful implementation
of the project within time and budget.

         IDA's inputs to preparation were highly satisfactory. From the First and Second Highway
Improvement Projects it was learned that the design practices and cost-estimating procedures were the
weakest areas for implementation in Lao road projects. For the THIP, IDA's project preparation team
found that the quality of design and engineering studies required substantial improvements, especially for
upgrading the main road. IDA reviewed and commented heavily on the design and engineering studies done


                                                     - 13 -

by a local consulting firm.

         The SAR assessment of the Government's commitment to the project and of the implementing
agency capacity was on the mark. The economic analysis indicated that the proposed highway
improvement and the periodic maintenance would be feasible. The projects' main risks and benefits were
identified correctly. IDA had a consistently good working relationship with the borrower during
preparation and appraisal. The overall rating of IDA performance during lending was highly satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
         IDA's performance during project supervision was consistent and highly satisfactory. From 1997
through 2001, the most active period of the project, it benefited from supervision by the same team as in
preparation and from a single task manager for all ongoing infrastructure projects in Lao PDR. This
arrangement reduced Bank supervision costs and contributed to consistent approaches to road sector issues,
procurement and disbursement.

         From 2001 until the closing date in June 2003, project supervision of the transport portfolio was
assigned to two new task team leaders each responsible for different projects. They coordinated missions
and carried them out on a regular basis. They continued to deliver a consistent message, and maintained a
dialogue on key issues with the Government. The task teams worked closely with MCTPC and provided
extensive assistance and technical guidance. In fact, IDA's assistance in terms of staff weeks was far
greater than planned. The SAR conservatively estimated that 31 staff weeks would be required to supervise
the project. By Credit closing, actual staff weeks spent amounted to 75.2, an increase of over 100%, even
though the closing date was not extended. (Annex 4 details IDA's staffing requirements for the project.)

         The task team showed responsiveness and flexibility in approving the needed modifications. The
team expeditiously dealt with problems in 1999 and promptly responded to the emergency upgrading of
national roads caused by the torrential rains of August 2002. The Bank staff gave timely attention to client
demands while adhering to agreed procedures and maintaining steady progress on the ground and in
monitoring quality.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
         Overall IDA performance is rated highly satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
         The performance of the Borrower during the preparation stage was satisfactory. MCTPC staff,
and the local counterpart team assigned to the project were very committed and assumed ownership of the
project. The technical reports and proposals, properly identified and addressed key issues following the
advice received from the external consultants. However, the originally prepared design and cost estimates
were weak and required substantial input from IDA and consultants before attaining satisfactory results.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
         The Government's implementation performance was highly satisfactory. The central government
demonstrated strong commitment as reflected in their forthright support to the ambitious long-term road
sector strategy and by the substantial allocation of the financial resources required to achieve the high
standards set by MCTPC, and by promoting sound policy initiatives that were positive for the development
of the sector. MCTPC assumed responsibility to ensure quality during implementation, helped to
implement capacity building activities and complied with the covenants and agreements.




                                                     - 14 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
         Overall project management was highly satisfactory. Despite initial limitations and challenges
posed by the lack of qualified human resources, deficient technical expertise, and a rigid organizational
structure, the overall support during implementation provided by MCTPC was extraordinary.

         The implementing agency had strong leadership that consistently maintained its commitment to
project . The leadership was very responsive in taking corrective implementation measures, and dealt
effectively with the outstanding operational issues, such as, those encountered in 1999. The efforts and
commitment to the sector reflect the dedication of the MCTPC staff at the central and provincial level.
MCTPC suggested changes and rapidly adjusted to the modifications introduced by the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
         The overall performance of the Borrower and MCTPC is rated highly satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

         Six important lessons can be drawn from this project.

         A well designed project is fundamental to its success. THIP was a well-conceived and designed
project which addressed one of the most critical road sector needs of Lao PDR and created conditions for
its sustainability. The Bank team, with an appropriate skill mix, provided focus on the high priority
maintenance needs of the sector over capacity expansion, and supporting business practices including the
participation of the private sector and institutional capacity strengthening. The project concept was kept
simple and manageable.

         Knowledge transfer begins at preparation. Lessons drawn from previous projects were applied
during preparation of the THIP. These include: up-front technical assistance to supplement and enhance
borrower's capacity; careful planning and review of the civil works final design and budgeting; and a
manageable scale of investments. The preparation of the project transferred technical knowledge to the Lao
counterparts, facilitating its successful implementation. The project was completed within the planned time
and budget.

         Strong and committed leadership is essential to achieving outcomes. The project inherited from
the beginning a committed, competent and experienced leadership. This helped in trouble-shooting
throughout the implementation period. Qualified counterpart staff were identified and assigned to the
project. The leader was prompt and responsive in taking corrective implementation measures, and dealt
effectively with outstanding operational issues. Leadership remained committed to the project objectives
and sought full support of the Laotian government in project implementation. Moreover, project leadership
promoted the development of local contractors and strengthened government institutions in procurement
and contract management.

         Project implementation is mainstreamed into MCTPC. Previous IDA projects were managed
by a Project Coordination Unit, assisted by a foreign consultant. In 1997, MCTPC filled the coordinator's
position with a local professional, supported by an advisor. The advisor stayed until all functions were
actively incorporated within MCTPC. In 2000, the Project Monitoring Division was created under the
DOR, by consolidating all coordination units that were supported by various donors in the road sector. The
new division succeeded in integrating all functions including, project monitoring and reporting, donor
coordination and staff professional development.




                                                      - 15 -

         Technical audits are an effective instrument for enhancing quality. The timely and independent
professional opinions provided by the auditors during implementation allowed MCTPC to identify and
resolve many issues early in the project. This was the first time that technical audits were implemented in
Lao PDR, and they definitely enhanced Government's capacity to supervise, not only the construction
companies, but also the consulting firms in charge of the supervision of the works and TAs. An added
benefit was the auditors' mandate to monitor and comment on implementing agency's procedures, as well as
the IDA's contribution during project implementation. However, it is recommended that the terms of
reference for future technical audits be improved in order to focus more on technical aspects, and the same
auditor should be maintained for the duration of the project.

         Gradual introduction of competitive bidding practice was highly successful. The implementing
agency was able to compare and contrast its experience in contracting practices with the local private
construction industry and with state-owned enterprises, and eventually began to appreciate the benefits of a
competitive approach, in terms of reduced costs and shorter construction periods. Small local construction
companies were encouraged to participate, which in turn led to an expansion of the industry. By bidding
medium and large size works competitively while continuing to carry out small emergency works, SOEs
avoided abrupt transitions and were allowed to modernize and gradually adjust to the new contracting
environment.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Third Highway Improvement Project - Implementation Completion Report. June 2003.
LAO PDR - Ministry of Communications, Transport, Post and Construction - Department of Roads.

NOTE. Selected tables and appendices are included as part of the ICR. The complete set of supporting material and annexes provided by
MCTPC are available in the THIP project files.


1        Introduction
The Government of Lao PDR (GOL) vision for the transport sector is to provide river and air transport and
make the road network trafficable all year round from the center to the province and between districts in
order to support production, distribution, national integration and security. Carrying the vast majority of
freight and passenger traffic, roads also support regional and international trade and play a critical role in
rural areas, where they support agriculture and tourism and enable the rural population to gain access to
essential social services.

The Government of Lao P.D.R. has been consistently active to promote economic growth and alleviate
poverty through national policies, regional co-operation and bilateral co-operative ties. As a result,
self-sufficiency on some major agricultural products has been reached and small-scale industries have
considerably increased in the national and regional centers. International tourism has considerably
increased. The Gross Domestic Product in the Capital area has grown to US$ 795, manyfold over 1996.
Educational and health services have also improved. However, regional imbalances in the country remain
and one of the main reasons is the accessibility in road transport sector. The average National GDP (US$
362) is only half of that prevailing in the Capital. Rural sector provides for ¼ of the GDP even though the
rural population is 83% of the total.

Vehicle ownership has increased threefold in 13 years. The majority of the total fleet of vehicles (near
200,000) is light motorcycles and tuk-tuks (80%). About 13 % of the fleet are light motor cars, 5% trucks
and less than 2% buses (MCTPC 5-year investment program).



                                                                 - 16 -

The road network connecting the Capital to the Provinces and international connections are constantly
being improved. The vehicle ownership and traffic has increased accordingly proving that the investments
have been justified. This has brought out several new issues that are currently a serious threat to the road
network assets namely safeguarding the investments through proper road maintenance management,
exercising strict law enforcement on excessive overloading and improving traffic safety.

Up to date, majority of the funds (about US$ 500 million during the past decade) for the road sector have
been allocated to main national network (about 2500 km of rehabilitation and reconstruction). The local
network (Provincial, District and Rural Roads) has remained under-funded. The challenge of improving the
local road network and especially providing rural access is immense. It is estimated that half of the rural
population lives with limited or nonexistent access to markets and basic social services. This prevents the
development of the agricultural sector from subsistence farming to market orientated system, development
of efficient land use, local small industries and improving the educational, health and public services of the
rural population. Without these incentives it would be extremely difficult to eradicate the illegal and mainly
environmentally harmful, practices that are exercised at the moment to provide additional income. The
Government has endorsed a national strategy for feeder road (roads linking rural settlements to National
and Provincial Road network) construction enhancing local capabilities for their management including
maintenance management of the upgraded feeder roads.

In current KIP terms, annual road sector expenditures have been considerably increasing in recent years,
both for road construction and maintenance focusing on the main national road network. The increase has
been financed partly by GOL and mostly by external sources. Despite the many positive advances achieved
in the road maintenance management and implementation the road network keeps deteriorating at an
alarming pace. The GOL present budget allocation for maintenance represents only 12 % of the total needs
(KIP 16 billion versus KIP 130 billion (Rate of Exchange KIP/US$ = 7,500).

To accomplish this vision, the Ministry of Communication Transport Post and Construction (MCTPC) has
developed in full consultation with the main stakeholders a strategy for the road sector, which is outlined in
the document Strategic Directions for the Development of the Road Sector of June 2000. The strategy is
based on the following nine measures:

    a) Develop road sector institutions and an integrated management system;
    b) Provide balance in funding allocation across the road system and give funding priority to
         preserving the capital value of road sector assets;
    c) Enforce measures to protect road sector assets from overweight vehicles;
    d) Establish a sustainable domestic funding base;
    e) Provide an environment suitable for a sustainable domestic contracting industry;
    f) Provide "focal sites" with access to agriculture support and health and education services, and
         connect all provincial and districts centers to all-weather network;
    g) Minimize environmental and social impacts;
    h) Improve traffic safety; and
    i)   Encourage community participation in the planning and execution of road sector activities.
         The Third Highway Improvement Project (THIP) concept was to develop a more systematic
         approach to road maintenance, develop the capacity and capability of staff at all levels of the
         MCTPC organization and, through road improvements (upgrading of 200 km of road 13 South) to
         have a functional highway system from the North to the South of the country.

The THIP, through its various components, introduced and supported the changes and institutional reforms,


                                                      - 17 -

which are outlined below.

    a) Securing financing and an efficient pricing policy- A cost recovery policy - where users pay for
        the services they receive. To achieve this objective, GoL has now established a Road Maintenance
        Fund (RMF) that will guarantee a regular and eventually adequate flow of funds to maintain the
        entire road network. Simultaneously, the Road Maintenance Fund will introduce an efficient
        pricing policy by directly charging road users through the fuel levy in a measure proportional to the
        marginal cost of their journey.

    b) Giving maintenance priority - The paradigm shift in GOL policy means that the unbalanced
        allocation of resources between new investment/rehabilitation and maintenance will be corrected on
        the basis of optimal socio-economic and affordability criteria. The preservation of the existing
        network will receive priority over its expansion.

    c) Adopting sound business practices- The capacity strengthening and institutional restructuring
        actions will allow for clarifying managerial responsibilities and objectives among the various
        departments and between the center and the provinces. The introduction of an effective road
        management system, financial management procedures, accounting and auditing processes will
        result in a more efficient expenditure of the funds.

    d) Involving stakeholders- Stakeholders are now involved at all levels. Road user and private sector
        interests are represented on the RMAB. Moreover, through an awareness campaign, road users
        at-large will be informed on their rights, their duties and the way user charges are spent. Local
        communities will actively participate in establishing the priorities for maintenance and will actively
        contribute to it. Additionally, GOL will initiate a more effective donor coordination process, thus
        avoiding overlapping of activities and leveraging the effect of resources.

    e) Axle Load Control - A reduction of overloading through the implementation of a national strategy
        will require the Government to review its existing regulations on licensing fees and overloading
        fines.
Details of the current road network are shown in appendix A.

2       Project Background and Design
The THIP supported the Government's overall road maintenance initiative for the period of 1996-2003
strengthening the policies of the Government that increased the allocations for road maintenance.

The THIP is a natural continuation of a series of IDA / NDF financed Highway Improvement Projects that
have been of primary importance to create a favorable attitude towards the recognition and importance of
road maintenance in Lao PDR these were:

      Southern Transport Project 1988 - 1995 (Credit 1846-LA), US$ 14.1 million
      HIP (Credit No 2218-LA), 1991­ 1997, US$ 49.2 million (including NDF credit No 4/90, US$
      5million)
      SHIP (Credit No. 2606-LA), 1994- 2000, US$ 22.0 million (including continued NDF financing)

The THIP (Credit No. LA-2943), 1997 ­ 2002, US$ 48 million (including NDF credit No 183, 5.55 US$
million) preparations started with appraisal and identification mission in January 1997. The THIP outline
was based on established Government policies, lessons learnt from the previous projects and various
studies and data collected by the Department.


                                                     - 18 -

The Project was completed in June 2003, the original credit closing date. This report has been compiled
with the assistance of the various Divisions within the Department of Roads, and reflects the Borrower's
view of the implementation of the Project. It has been endorsed by the Government.

The emphasis was placed on the Project to:

        ·     Increase the effectiveness of the Country's road network by completing to paved standard road
              13S and the bypass in Savannakhet.
        ·     Move away from the spot improvement program of the SHIP to a more structured periodic
              maintenance program.
        ·     Develop routine maintenance programs.
        ·     To develop the capacity and capability of staff through institutional strengthening.
        ·     Continuing strengthening if the local contracting industry.

The Staff Appraisal Report was submitted in January 1997 leading to the signing of the Development
Credit Agreement in June 1997. The loan period was six years, to June 2003.

The actual expenditure within the road sector during this period to 2002 is shown in table 1.

                  Table 1     Lao PDR Expenditure on Roads 1991-2001 (USD Millions) MCTPC source

                         1991-02  1992-03  1993-04  1994-05   1995-06  1996-07   1997-08  1998-09  1999-00  2000-01 2001-02
 Road Construction        34.1     43.1     53.0     55.1       80.1    51.6      38.2     27.4     22.1     48.8    34.1
                 Foreign  30.3     38.9     45.0     41.9       66.3    43.8      35.4     22.6     18.2     45.4    32.2
                  Local    3.8      4.2     8.0      13.2       13.8     7.8      2.8       4.8     4.0      3.4      1.9
Maintenance                3.0      3.8     3.5       6.6       9.7     3.5       2.6       7.8      4.8      8.4     7.3
                 Foreign   0.8      1.5     0.9       2.6       3.9     2.2       1.5       4.8     2.9      4.0      4.0
                  Local    2.2      2.3     2.6       4.0       5.8     1.3       1.1       3.0     1.9      4.4      3.3
Total Expenditure         47.1     46.9     56.5     61.7       89.8    55.1      40.8     35.2     27.0     57.2    41.4
                 Foreign  31.1     40.4     45.9     44.5       70.2    46.0      36.9     27.4     21.1     49.4    36.2
                 Local     6.0      6.5     10.6     17.2       19.6    9.1       3.9       7.8     5.9      7.8      5.2


The average road roughness by kilometers values are shown in table 2 (Analysis of data from Location
Referencing and Road Condition Survey, Montgomery Watson Harza, 2001).

                               Table 2   Roughness data of National and Provincial Roads 2001

    IRI (m/km)             <2              2-4              4-6              6-8             8-10            >10
 kilometers               1,052           1,459            7,433             790             618            1,709
 Total                  13,060 km


Of the roads surveyed 76% are less than an IRI of 6. This reflects a reasonable road condition for a
majority of the road network.

3          Compliance with Loan Covenants
The following covenants and agreements were well formulated and had a positive impact on the timely
implementation of the project without compromising the Project objectives and outputs. The only obstacle
in fulfilling these conditions was item f) table 3 below, this was due to the economic uncertainty of the
strength of the local currency.

Table 3      Loan Covenants. [See Original Document on the Project Files].

The graphs below shows the volatile currency exchange rate relationship and the Consumer Price Index
over this period (Source BCEL Bank and National Statistics Centre of Lao PDR). [See Original Document
on the Project Files].



                                                             - 19 -

4       Project Components
The project included the following components:
4.1     Road Improvements
The project financed
    a) The upgrading of about 200 km of Road 13 South between Banlak 35 and Pakse to a bitumen
        surface standard and some of the local roads which connected to road 13 South and the Districts.
    b) A bypass road A-1 between Roads 9 and 9B in Savannakhet (later removed and funded under
        SHIP)
    c) Consultancy services for the supervision of the works
4.2 Road Maintenance
The project continued to support the previous IDA involvement in road maintenance and comprised of;
    a) Funding for the four year program of periodic maintenance program;
    b) Support for the four year routine maintenance program, in all aspects except funding of the works;
    c) Technical assistance for the organization and management of the road maintenance program.
4.3     Capacity Building
In addition to the technical assistance described above this project component financed:
    a) Technical Assistance to the Planning and Technical Division to assist and train staff in the
        preparation of medium and long term road investment plans;
    b) Technical Assistance to Planning and Monitoring Division for project implementation,
        co-ordination and monitoring;
    c) Various consultancy services for feasibility, design, engineering, and local transport sector studies
        and external audits
    d) Training of engineers and management staff through fellowships, conferences, seminars, study
        tours and short courses in country and abroad
    e) Technical equipment and training provided to SESCML
    f) Logistical support in the form of goods and operating costs to assist MCTPC to carry out project
        monitoring and supervision

4.5     Project Costing and Financing
Table 4 below sets forth the categories of items financed out of the proceeds of the credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the credit of each category and the actual expenditures for item to be financed in each
category.
Table 4 Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit. [See Annex 2 on Project Costs and Financing].

Table 5 gives an indicative estimate of the local and foreign expenditures on the project.
Table 5   Local and Foreign Expenditures by Donor [See Annex 2 on Project Costs and Financing].

The procurement arrangements, estimated and actual are shown in the table 6
Table 6   Procurement Arrangements [See Annex 2 on Project Costs and Financing].

About 90% of the planned costs, 43.38US$ millions have been disbursed. Most of the savings were from
the unallocated portion of the credit.

Table 7   Local and Foreign Expenditure by Component [See Annex 2 on Project Costs and Financing].


5       Implementation Results and Outputs
5.1     Road Improvements
    a) The upgrading of about 200 km of Road 13 South between Banlak 35 and Pakse to a bitumen


                                                    - 20 -

    surface standard and,
    b) A bypass road A-1 between Roads 9 and 9B in Savannakhet (removed and financed SHIP)

    This component was financed under Category 1 -29.44 US$ million.

                                        Table 8    Analysis on Road Improvement Project
     Contract                Signed            Commenced         Completion Date     Mode of Contract   Final Costs (US$
                                                                                                           millions)
 Contract No1 LSJV      30th April 1998         July 1998         31 March 2002           ICB                 14.4
   Contract No2         30th April 1998         July 1998         31st Jan 2002           ICB                 16.8
    CTIETCC

    The average cost per kilometer for construction was US$ 144,000 and 168,000. The average
    production rate of completed road per month of contract was 2.17 and 2.22 km respectively.

    Initially in the first two years of the project, contract 1 had many problems. Three independent
    contractors, as a joint venture, had three independent sections. Each brought along his own
    organization and had independent planning, decision making and equipment, resulting in slow progress.
    However the situation improved, over time, and the project was successfully completed in an adjusted
    time period, due to the incremental quantity by 34% of the works.

    c) Consultancy services for the supervision of the works
    This component was financed under Category 3 -2.66 US$ millions
    The supervision was carried out successfully by international consultants with appropriate attention
    paid to the strengthening of local supervision capacity. Supervision costs were 8% of the total costs of
    the works.

5.2       Road Maintenance
    a) Funding for the four year program of periodic maintenance program
          This component was financed under Category 1 -13.31 US$ millions. Details in appendix J. [See
    Original Document on the Project Files].
          The works were completed successfully and the procurement and evaluations were executed in
          accordance with the loan agreement.
          Due to heavy damaged by excessive rains in 2002 agreement was reached to use funds for
          Emergency Works Three packages comprising of 26 contracts were completed successfully.

                                    Table 9    Analysis of Periodic Maintenance Contracts

Works                                  1997/1998         1998/1999           1999/2000         2000/2001
Periodic Maintenance
                 Number of contracts       8                 14                 11                  7
                         Kilometers       230               369                 164                170
            Average km per contract       29                 26                 15                 24
          40 contracts were let covering 933 km. On average 23 kilometers per contract for the program was
          achieved.

    b) Support for the four year routine maintenance program
          Systematic routine maintenance was carried out on the national road network (Referred to as core
          road network in SAR but later changed to National Road Network).

                                    Table 10 Analysis of Routine Maintenance Contracts

Works                                1997/1998         1998/1999          1999/2000         2000/2001        2001/2002
Routine Maintenance
               Number of contracts      52                65                 70                52               75
                       Kilometers      4718              5980               5911              5152             5152




                                                              - 21 -

             Average km per contract     91                   92                84                  99                   69
       Percentage competitively bid      67                   58               63                   76                   75
           Overall on the 5 year program 314 contracts were let covering 26,913 km. On average individual
           contracts covered 86 kilometers. Details in appendix J. [See Original Document on the Project
           Files].

     c) Technical assistance for the organization and management of the road maintenance program
           The technical assistance was carried out successfully by international consultants with appropriate
           attention paid to the strengthening the capacity of the RAD and DCTPCs

5.3        Capacity Building
Appendix G refers.
     a) Technical assistance to the Planning and Technical Division to assist and train staff in the
           preparation of medium and long term road investment plans
           Five and ten years programs were developed. These were used for overall development plans. This
           was satisfactorily completed.
     b) Technical assistance to Planning and Monitoring Division for project implementation,
           co-ordination and monitoring
           This had a positive impact on the coordination of the components of the project. Internalization
           was reached at the end of the TA assignment
     c) Various consultancy services for feasibility, design, engineering, and local transport sector studies
           and external audits
           Technical Audits were carried out in an efficient manor and many of the recommendations were
           implemented section 6.4 refers. Other services were procured in accordance with the loan
           agreement.
     d) Training of engineers and management staff through fellowships, conferences, seminars, study
           tours and short courses in country and abroad
           Throughout the loan period both formal and on the job training has been conducted. This had a
           positive impact and contributed to the capacity building of the project. Within MCTPC at the start
           of the project, in 1997, a limited number of staff, 15, were conversant in English. By 2003 this had
           risen to over 50%.
     e) Technical equipment and training provided to SESCML
           The support to this firm is believed to have contributed to the strengthening of the local
           consultancy industry; however no detailed assessments have been undertaken to verify this.
     f) Logistical support in the form of goods and operating costs to assist MCTPC to carry out project
           monitoring and supervision
           Support items to the value of USD 0.37 million were successfully procured.

5.4        Technical Audit
The objectives of the technical audit were to strengthen the effectiveness of both contract management
procedures and efficiency of technical assistance. The audits were carried by two independent consultants,
one in the first two years and one in the last two years. Details are appended in the following table (Details
taken from respective Final Reports).

                                               Table 11     Technical Audit Summary

  Date of Audit issue of                 Date of Audit                No of salient issues raised    No of actions implemented
       Final Report
 September 1998                          June/July 1998                           7                              5
 November 1999                       October/November 1999                       20                              15
 March 2002                          November/December 2001                       9                              7
 April 2003                           January/ February 2003                      8                              6




                                                                - 22 -

The main themes of the Technical Audit observations were:

    a) Enhancement of knowledge of contract management;
    b) The need to strengthen site supervision;
    c) Quantity and quality verifications;
    d) Not all in good condition of contractor plant and equipment, especially surfacing equipment;
    e) Lack of timely progress reporting from the Provinces;
    f) Lack of the systematic collection of road condition and bridge data;
    g) The need for increasing human resource development to manage current and future programs.
    The Audits had a positive impact on the project, with most recommendations being implemented.

5.5     Transfer of Knowledge Plans
These were approved as a standard format and implemented in both the PMD and RAD.

6       Environmental and Social Assessment
The screening process for environmental procedures falls initially into two categories (MCTPC
Environmental Guidelines).

Category I Projects with potentially no environmental impacts
These are projects that only involve routine maintenance, periodic maintenance or major improvements
within the existing roadway without involving a change of class or category of the road and not located in
environmentally sensitive areas.

Category II Projects with potentially adverse environmental impacts
These are all other construction/improvements/rehabilitation projects whether on the existing or modified
alignment within the existing right of way. All projects involving improvements / construction outside the
existing roadway especially all roads located in, or affecting, environmentally sensitive areas must be
included.

The road improvement project did not have any tangible negative impacts as

    ·   No resettlement or adverse impacts on ethnic minorities were involved.
    ·   No land acquisition was necessary.
    ·   No encroachment on forest lands was necessary as the existing alignment was used.

However in order to mitigate any possible detrimental environmental impacts an Environmental Action
Plan has been formulated, appendix D (based on SAR, works undertaken and concerns expressed by stake
holders).

7       Benefits of the Project, Performance Indicators and Sustainability

7.1     Benefits to the Project
The most important benefit to the project was the development and recognition of road maintenance for
preservation of road assets. Other tangible benefits were;

    § Roadusersdirectlybenefitedfromreducedvehicleoperatingcosts;
    § Ontherehabilitatedsectionstherewasanincreasedreliabilityinthemovementofgoodsand
        passengers;



                                                     - 23 -

    § Reduceddustemissionontherehabilitatedsectionsandthosesectionssealedintheperiodic
        maintenance sections;
    § Developmentofthelocalconstructionindustrythroughthisproject.
    § Theabovecontributedtoanincreaseineconomicactivitiesthatweredependantonthetransport
        routes. This directly benefited agricultural and commercial development.
    § Positiveimpactsonpovertyalleviation;
    § Developmentoflocalcontractorsthroughtheperiodicmaintenanceprogramme;
    § Positiveimpacts onthecapabilityof Ministrystafftoundertakemanagerialandtechnical
        responsibilities;
    § PositiveandfrequentdialoguebetweenMCTPCandtheProvinces;
    § Increaseinawarenessoftheneedforco-ordinationof donors;
    § Theprojecthasbeeninstrumentalintransformingaforceaccountsystemintoatransparent
        competitive bidding system;
    § Improvedabilityofthedomesticcontractingindustry

On the rehabilitated sections , Savannakhet (Ban-Lak 35) ­ Pakse a target rate of Economic Internal Rate
of Return (EIRR) of 19.2 % with a NPV of 19.45 US$ millions at a 10% discount rate was estimated. in
SAR. Recent analysis shows an EIRR of 20.8%, and a NPV of 28.80 US$ millions (10% discount rate)
was achieved. Savings in vehicle operating cost were estimated at 38.79 US$ millions. Full economic
analysis shown in appendix K. [See Original Document on the Project Files].

The periodic maintenance programme produced the following returns (Data from RAD shown in appendix
L). [See Original Document on the Project Files].

             Year                 Total NPV at 12% discount USD Millions    NPV at 12% discount per km of works US$
           1997/1998                             42.31                                     183,956
            1998/1999                            18.25                                     49,459
            1999/2000                            36.19                                     220,670
           2000/2001                             30.31                                     178,294


7.2     Performance Indicators
A comprehensive set of performance indicators were developed for the Project, appendix B refers. All
targets were achieved.

7.3     Sustainability
The institutional development and training carried out under this Project provided a continuing basis for a
reasonable amount of sustainability in management at both central and provincial level. The project worked
within the organization structure of the Ministry, which on completion, allowed minimum disruption with
incumbent government staff.
However, the dependence on foreign assistance, primarily funding, will continue to prevail for the
foreseeable future due to;
    a) The gap in revenue and road maintenance needs;
    b) The age of the pavement and the need for structural repairs;
    c) The lack of qualified permanent staff , especially at Provincial level;
    d) The slow establishment of qualified local consultants and contractors;
    e) The need for improved quality of works;
    f) The gradual need to upgrade pavements due to increased development and traffic densities.

While the Project addressed many of these issues, it cannot been seen in isolation with relation to other
projects. It has had a major impact in the transition and transparency for maintenance, tendering procedures



                                                            - 24 -

and the realization of the need for sustainable funding. The Road Maintenance Fund initial development
was during the outer years of this Project. Appendix L (data from RMF) shows the projection of estimated
revenues collection and expenditures from 2003-2010, together with actual revenues for 2002. The trend is
for the divergence of revenues with expenditure.

8        Performance
The project covered many aspects in the road sector and involved several Divisions of the MCTPC. In
order to have an aggregated view of the Project interviews were conducted and questionnaires completed

8.1      Bank's Performance
The World Bank responded to promptly and adequately to request through the duration of the project.
There were minimal delays in receiving clearances for works program. This was especially highlighted in
the Emergency Works program which was unforeseen during adverse climatic conditions in 2002. This
flexibility in approach was well received by the Borrower and strengthened the existing good will and
mutual respect. From 1997 the World Bank has undertake an estimated twelve supervision missions
averaging approximately two per year. The mission were well staffed and well timed for the size of the
components of the Project .Issues were tackled promptly, aide memoires produced timely and relevant
issues followed up diligently. The replacement task managers, during the project cycle, seemed to have
been fully briefed and were knowledgeable concerning the status of the components. The Provincial
comments suggested that more introductory meetings should have been conducted to give a better
understanding the Project. The Ministry's view, on aggregate was the World Bank's performance can be
rated highly

8.2      Borrower's Performance
The Borrower has not identified any significant defects, obstacles or lack of performance during the
Project. The formulated project, as detailed in the DCA, was little change during the Project cycle, giving
the impression that there was close cooperation during the initial developed. As the project time line
developed the capacity and capability of staff to undertake increased volumes of work developed. Formal
training was conducted and proved successful, but some times not targeted at the right staff in the
organization.

The rapid development in language and computing skills during this project was noticeable, giving rise to
meaningful dialogue with donors.
In general, the project objectives outputs and activities were well formulated and balanced.
This has attributed to a positive outcome of the Project and the development of future Projects.

9        Lessons Learnt and Recommendations
The salient lessons learn on the Project were;
    a) Attention needs to be afforded when preparing the project preparation. This proved successful for
         the development of THIP.
    b) Qualified counterpart staff need to be identified at the onset on the program with, during the
         Project duration, continuity of service;
    c) The need for standardization of specification covering all aspects of construction and maintenance;
    d) A strict prequalification evaluation to ensure works are completed on time and to the quality
         specified;
    e) A more critical assessment of the performance of Technical Assistance needs to be made with
         recommendations of removals and possible reduction in services as Ministry staff become trained;
    f) The commitment of local funds for the Projects need to be viewed with possible imbalance of
         excessive inflation and unfavorable exchange rates addressed;


                                                     - 25 -

    g) The need to have systems to manage the road infrastructure practically and economically;
    h) The Technical Audit, in general, had a positive impact on the Project. This should be included in
         all future Projects. Where possible the same Auditor should be used for continuity;
    i)   Through the loan project cycle systematic data collection in line with the SAR should be
         implemented so that the ICR can be completed efficiently and effectively;
    j)   The development of local contractors needs to have a more structured approach; financial and
         technical resources need to be considered to foster this approach;
    k) Construction quality has a great effect on the works lifetime cycle, therefore procurement of good
         contractors and good supervision are major determinates.

10       Conclusions
The Third Highway Project has been carried out according to the schedule and within the budget. It has
achieved the major relevant object with few shortcomings. Therefore overall the performance can be rated
satisfactory.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Nordic Development Fund (NDF) - Credit No. 183

The Nordic Development Fund (NDF) co-financed THIP through its Credit No. 183 for SDR 4 million
(US$5.55 million equivalent) to provide consultant services for implementation of all component activities,
an agreement with Lao PDR was signedFebruary 6, 1997. aNDF's participation in the project was part of
the Government's road sector strategy and complementary to the activities financed by IDA. NDF did not
carry out a full-fledged evaluation of its contribution to the THIP (NDF 183). The evaluation is part of the
on-going sector-wide evaluation of all NDF-financed transport sector projects. The results of this
evaluation, which are not yet official, will be available for consultation in NDF. According to NDF's
evaluation guidelines, those projects that are not subject to full evaluation, which is the case for NDF-183,
are required to prepare a Project Fact Sheet which is attached for reference.

NDF 183 - PROJECT FACT SHEET

Project name:                     Third Highway Improvement Project
Country:                          Laos
Lead Agency:                      IDA
Date Board Approval:              26.11.1996
Date first disbursement:          27.2.1998
Actual Closing Date:              30.6.2003
No. of disbursements:             112

NDF Credit no:                    183
Borrower:                         Lao People's Democratic Republic
Implem. Agency:                   Min.of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC)
Date Credit Agreement: 6.2.1997
Original Closing Date:            31.12.2000
Original Credit amount:           SDR 4.000.000
Disbursed amount:                 SDR 3.829.474
No. of contracts:                 3


Service charge /comm. fee paid regularly: Yes




                                                     - 26 -

Special account used? Yes                    Special commitment used? No

Main Nordic suppliers (name and contract amount):
1.      Kampsax (Denmark), SweRoad (Sweden), Finnroad (Finland)

Distribution of contracts between Nordic countries:
Denmark 48% Finland 16%            Iceland 0%     Norway 0% Sweden 35%

Nordic content in procurement: 75%

Progress reports received:       quarterly

Agreement with Lead Agency, dated: 23.10.1991

NDF participation in supervision missions (dates): 1-2 times per year, latest visits 2/2003 and 11/2003.

Contact person(s):
Borrower
Ministry of Finance, Ms Viengthong Siphandone, Director General, Tel/Fax: +856 21 412 142

Implementing Agency
Ministry of Communication Transport, Post and Construction, Vice Minister Sommad Pholsena, Tel: +856
21 414 209, Fax: +856 21 414 210

Lead Agency
The World Bank, Country Office, Tel: +856 21 414 209, Fax: +856 21 414 210

Completion Report Request Date: 27.10.2003

Completion Report Received? Yes

Comments: Project was included in the NDF Transport Sector Evaluation (2003).

Main conclusions in Project Completion Report:

Effectiveness:
The project achieved the major objectives. This has been verified by using the comprehensive set on
performance indicators developed for the project. Based on this, the project can be characterised as
satisfactory.

Efficiency:
In terms of efficiency the project was carried out within the budget. The closing date was extended more
than 2.5 years due to lack of capacity of the implementing agency. Constraints within the project included
weak Government capabilities to cope with an increasing workload while introducing new work approaches
and systems development. Problems in regard of weak implementation capacity of local contractors was at
times a great concern, but the efforts to find solutions contributed to developing the capacity of the road
sector, both the public sector capacity and that of the local private entrepreneurs. Efficiency has varied
substantially between the different sub-components.




                                                      - 27 -

Relevance:
The project is found to be highly relevant as the road maintenance and development of the capacity of the
road sector authorities is a national priority.

Impact:
The most important impact of the project was the recognition and development of road maintenance for
preservation of road assets. Other tangible positive impacts were:

    - road users directly benefited from reduced vehicle operating costs
    - on the rehabilitated sections there was an increased reliability in the movement of goods and
      passengers
    - reduced dust emissions on the rehabilitated sections and those sections sealed
    - increase in economic activities that were dependant on the transport routes, agricultural and
      commercial development
    - positive impact on poverty alleviation
    - development of local contractors through the periodic maintenance programme
    - positive impact on the capacity of the Ministry staff to undertake managerial and technical
      responsibilities
    - increase in dialogue between MCTPC and provinces
    - increase in the awareness of the need for co-ordination of donors
    - the project has introduced a new and transparent competitive bidding system
    - improved ability of the domestic contracting industry

The road improvement component did not have any tangible negative impacts as no resettlement or adverse
impacts on ethnic minorities were involved, no land was necessary and no encroachment on forest land was
necessary because the existing alignment was used. A full description of expected negative impacts and
mitigation measures is given in the PCR.

Sustainability:
The institutional development and training carried out during this project provided a reasonable continuing
basis of sustainability in management at both central and provincial level. The project worked within the
organisation structure of the Ministry, which on completion, allowed minimum disruption with incumbent
government staff. However, the dependence on foreign assistance, primarily funding, will continue to
prevail in the near future due to the following reasons:

    a) the gap in revenue and road maintenance needs
    b) the age of the pavement and the need for structural repair due to i.a. increased traffic
    c) the lack of qualified permanent staff , especially at provincial level
    d) the slow establishment of qualified local consultants and constructors
    e) the need for improved quality of works


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
         The US$850,000 contribution from SIDA was not planned or reflected in the staff appraisal
report. During implementation SIDA began to take an active role in institutional strengthening on road
maintenance. No formal evaluation was performed for these activities. However, the Final Results Analysis
Report of the Lao-Swedish Road Sector Project 1997-2000 is included as a reference document for this
ICR and is available in Bank project files.




                                                     - 28 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
 1. Reduce transport costs by                 Projected characteristics on the 200 km  Actual characteristics on the 200 km
     upgrading a southern leg of Road         upgraded in Route No. 13:                upgraded in Route No. 13:
     No.13 and constructing Road No. A-1
                                               * Reduced VOC (2001)                     * Reduced VOC (2001)
                                               * Roughness (IRI) = 3.5                  * Roughness (IRI) = 3.1 (average)
                                               * Travel speed (km/hour) = 35            * Travel speed (km/hour) = >80
                                               * Travel time (hours) = 3                * Travel time (hours) = <3
                                               * Traffic volume (vpd) = 400             * Traffic volume (vpd) = 460

 2. Improve institutional capacity and        Total length of maintained roads:        Total length of maintained roads:
     efectiveness in managing construction     * Routine maintenance = 13,700 km        * Routine maintenance = 21,761 km
     and maintenance activities                * Periodic maintenance =     585 km      * Periodic maintenance =     933 km

 3. Introduce routine and periodic            Increased usage of competitive bidding   Increase usage of competitive bidding
     maintenance of roads through the use     procedures for maintenance contracts     procedures for maintenance contracts
     of competitively bid contracts            * Routine maintenance: 60%               * Routine Maintenance: 66% in average
                                               * Periodic maintenance: 100%             * Periodic Maintenance: 100%


Projected data were taken from the Staff Appraisal Report.
Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Upgrading the section of Road No. 13
between Banlak 35 and Pakse to a bitumen       * Upgrading length = about 200 km        * Upgrading length = about 200 km
surface standard.


2. Routine maintenance of the core road       Total length of maintained roads:        Total length of maintained roads:
network under a four-year program              * Routine maintenance                    * Routine maintenance
                                                 1997-1998 = 2,800 km                      1997-1998 = 4,718 km
                                                  1998-1999 = 3,200 km                     1998-1999 = 5,980 km
                                                  1999-2000 = 3,700 km                     1999-2000 = 5,911 km
                                                  2000-2001 = 4,000 km                     2000-2001 = 5,152 km
                                                      TOTAL = 13,700 km                       TOTAL = 21,761 km


3. Periodic maintenance of high-priority roads
under a four-year program                      * Periodic maintenance                   * Periodic maintenance
                                                  1997-1998 = 107 km                       97-98 = 230 km
                                                  1998-1999 = 156 km                       98-99 = 369 km
                                                  1999-2000 = 166 km                       99-00 = 164 km
                                                  2000-2001 = 156 km                       00-01 = 170 km
                                                      TOTAL = 585 km                       TOTAL = 933 km


4. Increased local skills to improve          Number of people trained:                Number of people trained:
institutional capacity through training        * English language: 60                   * English language: 68
                                               * Human resource development: 1          * Human resource development:      1
                                               * Fellowships: 2                         * Fellowships: 2

                                              Number of events carried out:            Number of events carried out:
                                               * International round table: 1           * International round tables: 2
                                               * Two-day seminars: 4                    * Two-day seminars: 6
                                               * New courses at Communications Training * New courses at CTC: 4
                                              Center (CTC): 3


1End of project
Projected data were taken from the Staff Appraisal Report.




                                                                 - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                   Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                   Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                          Component                                US$ million   US$ million
A - ROAD IMPROVEMENTS
­ Roads No. 13 and A-1                                               33.45          34.58             88
­ Construction supervision                                            2.60            2.66           102
B - ROAD MAINTENANCE
­ Incremental routine maintenance                                    10.80          10.40             96
­ Periodic maintenance                                                8.00          11.23            166
­ Maintenance specialists                                             1.80            2.23           124
C - CONSULTANTS' SERVICES AND TRAINING
­ Planning and project management TA                                  0.84            0.87           104
­ Support to SESCML and MCTPC                                         0.42            0.39           106
­ Training (fellowships, seminars, etc.)                              0.50            0.68           112
­ Engineering designs, studies, and audits                            0.35            0.43           102
­ Incremental operating costs                                         0.20            0.31           135


Total Baseline Cost                                                  58.96          63.78
 Physical Contingencies                                               4.18
 Price Contingencies                                                  5.78
                            Total Project Costs                      68.92          63.78
                     Total Financing Required                        68.92          63.78


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                             1
                                                        Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                 ICB                NCB                2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                        Other
1. Works                                39.40               9.42          0.00         12.72      61.54
                                       (37.43)              (8.95)      (0.00)         (0.00)    (46.38)
2. Goods                                0.00                0.00          0.46         0.00        0.46
                                        (0.00)              (0.00)      (0.46)         (0.00)     (0.46)
3. Services                             0.00                0.00          0.93         5.76        6.69
                                        (0.00)              (0.00)      (0.93)         (0.00)     (0.93)
4. Miscellaneous                        0.00                0.00          0.22         0.00        0.22
                                        (0.00)              (0.00)      (0.22)         (0.00)     (0.22)
   Total                                39.40               9.42          1.61         18.48      68.91
                                       (37.43)              (8.95)      (1.61)         (0.00)    (47.99)
The detailed costs as presented in the Table 3.3. of the SAR.




                                                         - 31 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category              ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                               34.58              11.23               0.00            10.40             56.21
                                         (32.93)            (10.70)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (43.63)
   2. Goods                               0.23                0.00               0.16            0.00              0.39
                                          (0.23)             (0.00)            (0.14)            (0.00)           (0.37)
   3. Services                            0.00                0.00               1.11            5.76              6.87
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.11)            (0.00)           (1.11)
   4. Miscellaneous                       0.00                0.00               0.31            0.00              0.31
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.31)            (0.00)           (0.31)
       Total                              34.81              11.23               1.58            16.16             63.78
                                         (33.16)            (10.70)            (1.56)            (0.00)           (45.42)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
      managing the project



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.        IDA      Govt.    CoF.
A. ROAD
IMPROVEMENTS
Roads No. 13 and No. A1       31.78        1.67                     32.93         1.65                  103.6     98.8
Construction supervision                                2.60                                 2.66                          102.3
B. ROAD
MAINTENANCE
Incremental routine maint.                10.80                                   10.40                           96.3
Periodic maintenance           7.60        0.40                     10.70         0.53                  140.8    132.5
Maintenance specialists                                 1.80                                 2.23                          123.9
C. CONSULTANTS'
SERVICES &TRAINING
Planning and project                                    0.84                                 0.87                          103.6
management TA
Support to SESCML and          0.35                                  0.37         0.02                  105.7
MCTPC
Training & seminars            0.50                                  0.68                               136.0
Engineering design,            0.42                                  0.43                               102.4
studies, and audits
Incremental operat. cost       0.20                                  0.31                               155.0
Physical&price conting.        7.15        2.29                                                          0.0      0.0

   Actual costs by component under Cofinancing include NDF ($4.9 million) and SIDA ($0.85 million).




                                                         - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Road Upgrading

        The Borrower performed an economic re-evaluation of the upgrading of Road No. 13 using a
methodology similar to that used at the time of appraisal and THE HDM 4 model. The with-project and
without-project scenarios were compared to determine the effects of introducing the project. The
assumptions in the appraisal report were modified on the basis of updated information. The re-evaluation
assumed a 20-year life span, the economic life assumed in the appraisal.

        The economic construction costs were derived primarily from the financial costs of civil works and
consultancy services. The actual implementation period was used as the basis for allocating annual capital
costs. Updated routine maintenance costs were derived from Department of Roads (DOR) data. As at
appraisal, it was assumed that in the without-project case, the road would require regular annual routine
maintenance and regravelling, and in the with-project case, the road would require resealing and regular
annual routine maintenance. The economic road user costs (vehicle operating costs and time costs) were
based on existing studies and those used to evaluate the annual periodic maintenance projects in DOR. The
main quantifiable benefits of the project included: (i) savings in road user costs for existing traffic due to a
better road surface; and (ii) lower maintenance costs due to improvement in the maintainable condition of
the road. The table below presents typical unit road user costs, in US$ per vehicle-km, for different
roughness levels.

                                       Typical Road User Costs (US$/vehicle-km)
                   Roughness                              Light      Medium      Heavy      Articulated
                      (IRI)       Car   Pickup    Bus     Truck         Truck    Truck           Truck
                        2        0.12      0.12   0.67     0.24           0.27    0.47            0.65
                        4        0.12      0.12   0.69     0.25           0.28    0.49            0.68
                        6        0.13      0.12   0.74     0.27           0.30    0.54            0.73
                        8        0.13      0.13   0.85     0.30           0.32    0.58            0.78
                       10        0.14      0.14   1.00     0.33           0.35    0.64            0.86
                       12        0.15      0.15   1.16     0.37           0.39    0.70            0.94
                       14        0.16      0.16   1.32     0.40           0.42    0.76            1.03
                       16        0.17      0.17   1.48     0.44           0.45    0.83            1.11


        The upgrading consisted of paving the road with a double bituminous surface treatment over a 150
mm crushed stone base, to a width of 7.0 m. The unit cost for upgrading was estimated in the SAR at
US$209,670 per km, and the actual unit cost is US$157,785 per km (in calendar 2002 dollars). The
following table presents the unit cost comparison between the estimated, contract, and accrual costs, which
shows that the actual costs are 75 percent of the estimated costs, and actual costs are 103 percent of
contract costs.


                                   Unit Costs (Calendar 2002 US$ per km)

 Estimated Cost    Contract Cost    Actual Cost     Actual/ Estimated         Actual/ Contract
     209,670         153,785         157,785                0.75                   1.03


        Contracted and actual construction times, which show that actual construction time was 7 percent
higher than the contract estimate, are shown below:




                                                       - 33 -

                                                       Project Timing
                                  Contract construction time (months)           42
                                  Actual construction time (months)             45
                                  Actual/Contract                              1.07


         At appraisal, the estimated annual traffic growth was 7 % during construction, 8 % over the life of
the road and a generated traffic of 25% in the first year of completion. In the SAR, the estimated traffic
after road works was around 400 vehicles per day (vpd) and the actual traffic after road works is 460 vpd,
15 percent higher than projected. The table below shows current traffic composition.

                                              Road Traffic After Road Works
                                                                         Light    Medium  Heavy
                               Total        Car       Pickup      Bus    Truck     Truck  Truck
                  AADT          460         53            117      76      133        59    22
                  Percent      100%        12%           25%     17%      29%       13%     5%


         Road roughness before the upgrading was about 12 IRI, and road roughness after the upgrading
decreased to about 3.1 IRI. Car and truck speeds were 50 km/hour and 30 km/hour respectively before
road works and increased to 80 km/hour and 60 km/hour respectively after the upgrading. Travel time was
five hours before the upgrading and less than 3 hours after the upgrading.

         For the section of Road No. 13 to be improved, an EIRR of 19.2 percent with an NPV of US$9.45
million, at a 10 percent discount rate, was estimated in the SAR. The economic re-evaluation shows an
actual EIRR of 20.8 percent and an NPV of US$28.80 million (at a 10 percent discount rate). Savings in
vehicle operating costs were estimated at US$38.79 million.

         The ex-post EIRR of the project road is higher than the ex-ante estimate because of higher than
expected actual traffic after road works (15 percent lower) and lower actual improvement costs (75% lower
than estimated costs). The ex-post economic evaluation of the project road confirmed the good economic
justification of the investment.

Road Maintenance Program

         The project provided funding for four-year programs of routine and periodic maintenance. An
economic evaluation at the project level was mandatory for all periodic maintenance contracts. The
economic evaluation was determined using HDM Manager on an annual basis, at a 10 percent discount
rate. The table below presents the basic characteristics and economic results of the different contracts.




                                                          - 34 -

                                                      Length Width Traffic Unit Cost IRR  NPV
            Year          Contract      Road Work      (km)  (m)  (AADT) (US$/km)    (%) (US$ M)
            2000/ N/LOUNAM/01/0001/PM    Resealing      12    8     506    40,101    46    3.7
            2001 C/VIENT/01/0001/PM      Resealing      30    8    2745    11,849    61    8.2
                  S/CHA/01/0001/PM       Resealing      35    8     372    10,963    53    6.7
                  C/SAYA/01/0001/PM     Regravelling    45    7     332     5,030    68    3.6
                  C/BOLK/01/0001/PM      Resealing      13    9     954     7,817    78   11.6
                  S/KHA/01/0001/PM       Resealing      35    9    1127     9,417    63    8.7
            1999/ S/SAL/01/9900/PM       Resealing      20    7     955    12,002    21    0.5
            2000 N/OUD/01/9900/PM/SIDA   Resealing      15    8     231    19,106    33    2.7
                  N/LOUNAM/01/9900/PM    Resealing      20    8     210    16,592    18    0.6
                  C/LOUPRA/01/9900/PM    Resealing      20    7     417    22,732    58    3.9
                  N/XIAN/01/9900/PM      Resealing      60    7     97     13,033    36    3.6
                  C/VMUC//01/9900/PM     Resealing      14   9,8   2854    13,652    50    3.3
            1998/ N/LOUNAM/01/9899/PM    Resealing       8    8     195    22,413    23    0.4
            1999 N/OUD/01/9899/PM        Resealing      15    8     215    16,566    25    1.7
                  N/LOUPRA/01/9899/PM    Resealing      17    8     410    12,204    31    0.9
                  N/LOUPRA/02/9899/PM    Resealing      20    8     398    56,135    21    0.5
                  C/LOUPRA/03/9899/PM   Regravelling     4    7     310    57,658    65    1.6
                  N/SIE/01/9899/PM      Regravelling   100    7     80      1,679    70    6.0
                  N/HOU/01/9899/PM       Resealing      13    7     200    33,386    30    0.5
                  C/VIENT/01/9899/PM     Resealing      46    8     294    10,369    27    2.5
                  C/VMUC/01/9899/PM      Resealing      12    8     99     12,417    35    0.8
                  S/KHA/03/9899/PM      Regravelling   70.6   7     215     2,199    196  10.4
                  S/SAL/02/9899/PM       Resealing      13    7     310    16,359    14    0.1
            1998/ N/LOUPRA/01/9798/PM    Resealing      15    7     85     36,793    14    0.2
            1997 N/LOUPRA/02/9798/PM    Regravelling    25    6     120    12,651    41    1.7
                  N/HOU/01/9798/PM       Resealing      15    7     150    38,668    16    0.4
                  C/VMUC/01/9798/PM      Resealing      38    8     280    15,196    53    7.4
                  C/KHA/01/9798/PM      Regravelling    10    7     358    16,460    196   8.3
                  C/VPRV/01/9798/PM      Resealing     34.4   8     320     3,777    45    0.9
                  S/SAL/01/9798/PM      Regravelling    76    7     154     3,756    79    5.6
                  S/KHA/03/9798/PM      Regravelling   70.6   7     203     5,390    91    5.5


         The corresponding average unit costs are 13,103 US$/km for regravelling works and 19,633 $/US
for resealing works.

         The economic evaluation of the road maintenance program shows an overall EIRR of 44.7 percent
and an NPV of US$112.2 million (at a 12 percent discount rate). The economic evaluation results of the
road maintenance program confirm the high economic justification of maintenance works found worldwide.
The ICR economic evaluation for the road upgrading program and the road maintenance program shows an
overall EIRR of 26.9 percent and an NPV of US$141.0 million, which indicates the robust economic
justification of the project.




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08/23/1996                2    Highway Engineer (2)
                                        1    Environment

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/21/1997                2    Highway Engineer (2)
                                        1    Legal Counsel
                                        2    Consultants

 Supervision

              12/16/1997                2    Highway Engineer (1); Civil          S               S
                                             Engineer (1)
              06/10/1998                1    Highway Engineer (1)                 S               S
              12/07/1998                5    Highway Engineer (1); Pavement       S               S
                                             Specialist (1); Road and Highway
                                             Specialist. (1); Transport
                                             Economist (2)
              05/31/1999                2    Highway Engineer (1); Pavement       U               S
                                             Specialist (1)
              12/22/1999                3    Task Team Leader (1); Financial      S               S
                                             Management Specialist (1); Civil
                                             Engineer (1)
              04/06/2000                3    Task Team Leader (1); Pavement       S               S
                                             Specialist (1); Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1)
              05/05/2001                3    Task Team Leader (1); Lead           S               S
                                             Highway Engineer (1); Highway
                                             Engineer (1)
              12/15/2001                3    Task Team Leader (1); Highway        S               S
                                             Engineer (1); Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1)
              05/18/2002                3    Task Team Leader (1); Senior         S               S
                                             Highway Engineer (1); Senior
                                             Operations Officer (1)
              10/17/2002                3    Task Team Leader (1); Lead           S               S
                                             Highway Engineer (1); Lead
                                             Economist (1)
              03/21/2003                2    Task Team Leader (1); Lead           S               S
                                             Highway Engineer (1);
                                             Consultant (1)

 ICR
              10/08/2003                2     Highway Engineer (1);
                                              Consultant (1)




                                              - 36 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            69.9                         156.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 17.1                           23.4
  Supervision                           75.2                         283.4
  ICR                                     7.0                          32.3
  Total                                169.1                         495.1




                                            - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Country Assistance Strategy for the Lao People's Democratic Republic. World Bank Report No.
   15284­LA. January 18, 1996.

2. Staff Appraisal Report. Third Highway Improvement Project. World Bank Report No. 16324­LA.
    March 1997.

3. Country Assistance Strategy for the Lao People's Democratic Republic. World Bank Report No.
    19098­LA. March 1999.

4. Final Report. The Project for Reconstruction of Bridges on the National Road Route 13 (Phase II)
    Xebangfai - Pakse 40 Bridges. LAO PDR. Ministry of Communications, Transport, Post and
    Construction. Consultants: Oriental Consultants Co. Ltd. Contractor: Hazama Corporation. February
    2001.

5. Final Project and Final Result Analysis Report. Lao -Swedish Road Sector Project 1997 - 2000
    (Including Extension Phase). LAO PDR. Ministry of Communications, Transport, Post and
    Construction. Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency. June 2001.

 6. Lao PDR Country Procurement Assessment. The World Bank. Report No. 25334­LA. January 2002.

 7. Project Completion Report. Consulting Services for Technical Assistance and Construction
    Supervision of Third Highway Improvement Project. National Road 13 South, Savannakhet - Pakse.
    LAO PDR. Ministry of Communications, Transport, Post and Construction. April 1998 - May 2002.
    Vol. I. Text Project Completion Report. Vol II. Consulting Services. Vol. III. Civil Works.

 8. Implementation Completion Report (IDA-26060). Second Highway Improvement Project. World Bank
    Report No. 23838. June 2002.

 9. Lao PDR Public Expenditure Review. Country Financial Accountability Assessment. Joint Report
    World Bank, International Monetary Fund, and Asian Development Bank. Report No. 24443­LA.
    June 2002.

10. Technical Audit Final Report. Road Maintenance Program (RMP). Third Highway Improvement
    Project (THIP). LAO PDR. Ministry of Communications, Transport, Post and Construction. Daud
    Ahmad, PAISS, LLC. April 2003.

11. Evaluation of NDF Co-Financed Transport Projects and NDF's Engagement in the Transport Sector in
    General. Country Visit to Lao PDR 05-09/05/2003. Debriefing Note. May 2003.

12. Implementation Completion Report. Third Highway Project (THIP). Credit No. LA-2943 (including
    NDF Credit No. 183). LAO PDR. Ministry of Communications, Transport, Post and Construction.
    Department of Roads. June 2003.

13. Implementation Completion Report (IDA-25790). Luang Namtha Provincial Development Project.
    World Bank Report No. 25112. June 2003.




                                                  - 40 -

- 41 -

