Report No. PIC3842
Project Name              Lao PDR-Third Highway Improvement Project
Region                    East Asia and Pacific
Sector                    Transportation
Project ID                LAPA4210
Borrower                  Government of Lao PDR
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Communication, Transport,
Post and Construction (MCTPC)
Contact: Mr. Math Sounmala
Deputy Director of Cabinet
Project Management
Lane-Xang Ave, P.O. Box 2158
Vientiane, Lao PDR
Tel: 856 21 41 41 32
Fax: 856 21 41 41 32
Date this PID Prepared    April 1996
Project Appraisal Date    January 1997
Projected Board Date      May 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.   General Facts.   Lao PDR is poor, landlocked, mountainous and
sparsely populated (4.6 million in 1995). Its inadequate infrastructure
and communications make for poor physical integration of its 16
provinces provinces (plus the Vientiane Municipality and Special Zone of
Xaysomboune). Over half of the Lao population lives in small and
scattered villages without regular road transport. Agricultural
activities generate 56t of GDP and employ 809 of the labor force.    With
a per capita income of US$ 320, a life expectancy of about 50 years and
an incidence of poverty at 46w, the level of economic and social
development is among the lowest in the world.
2.   Economic Performance.   The decade-long involvement in the Vietnam
war and its civil war destroyed much of the country's basic
infrastructure. Following the unsuccessful implementation of a
socialist political philosophy, the Government launched in 1986, the New
Economic Mechanism (NEM) to move the economy from a system of
centralized planning to one with a market-orientation. Since then,
external trade and most prices have been liberalized, subsidies to state
enterprises have been largely eliminated, and the exchange rate has been
aligned with the market rate. Government's commitment to reform has been
generally positive. Strengthened public and private investment and
economic incentives contributed to a rise in per capita income of nearly
5t per annum in real terms. Inflation fell from nearly 60t in 1989 to
single digits in early nineties (6.2w in 1993) and overall fiscal
deficit was reduced from 13.4w   to 7.8w of GDP between 1990 and 1993. In
line with the economic reforms, Government carried out a National
Transport Study (NTS) to take stock of the transport sector, set
priorities and lay the foundation for the establishment of a transport



planning capability within the Ministry of Communications, Transport,
Post and Construction (MCTPC). As a follow-up to this new planning
orientation, the Government completed a study entitled 'Policy
Development for MCTPC and Programs up to the Year 2000,' which has
proposed transport investment priorities for the next five years and
revised policies for MCTPC.
3.   Road Transport.   Road transportation is the major mode of internal
communication, carrying more than 90% of freight ton-km and 85% of
passenger-km. River transport is light, the Mekong and tributaries
being considered not navigable by large vessels or barges: freight ton-
km and passenger-km are both about 10%.   There is no railway system in
Lao P.D.R.. The country's road network, totaling some 14,800 km ,
comprises 4,800 km of national roads, about 5,500 km of provincial and
district roads, and about 4,500 km of local roads. National roads are
those of strategic importance for national economic development in
supporting international and interprovincial trade, tourism, and
national security; provincial and district roads are those of strategic
importance for regional development in linking to the national road
network within each province; and rural roads are those ensuring
equitable access to markets and social services and development of
natural resources. Most of the provincial and district road networks
consist of tracks which are impassable during the rainy season.
4.   National Road Network.   About 9 of the national roads have adequate
surface condition and about % are under construction.    The remaining
50%, many of which were constructed more than 50 years ago, are
inadequate or do not conform to acceptable design standards. They need
to be reconstructed in order to bear the heavy commercial vehicles now
in use. A large proportion of these roads are practically impassable
during the five-month rainy season and so degraded that normal
maintenance is no longer economic.
5.   Road No. 13. The spine of the road system is national Route No. 13
(1,260 km), linking Pak Mong located in the North, about 150 km from the
Chinese border, with Kong in the South, close to the Cambodian border,
and passing through the major urbanized areas of Luang Prabang,
Vientiane, Savannakhet and Pakse. It is by far the most important
export-import road link of the country. This road facilitates
transportation of agricultural products from surplus (southern) to
deficit (northern) areas and provides easier access to natural
resources, health services, education, employment and other amenities.
Government's plan is to restore this important highway to all-weather
standards by the end of the decade. The Association's first credit for
highways, the Southern Transport Project (Credit 1846-LA), financed the
rehabilitation of about 280 km of Road No.13 between Savannakhet and
Pakse to gravel standard. The project was successfully completed and
closed on December 31, 1994. This was followed by the Highway
Improvement Project (Credit 2218-LA), which involves rehabilitation and
upgrading of the Nmakading - Savannakhet section of Road 13 (270 km) to
paved standards, and the Second Highway Improvement Project (Credit
2606-LA), which includes the upgrading of about 50 km of Road No.13
between Savannakhet and Pakse to paved standards, as well as providing
assistance to road maintenance throughout the country. Since the
rehabilitation, the traffic level on this road stretch has increased by
-2 -



% per annum and varies from 170 to 0 vehicles per day depending on the
location (1994 survey). Heavy vehicles constitute 50% of this daily
traffic, buses 20%, cars 16% and others 16%.
6.   Organization and Management of Road Sector. The delivery and
management of the road and river transport systems and improvement of
traffic safety is the main responsibility of the Communications
Department of MCTPC. This department is responsible for administration,
planning, construction and maintenance of the national roads and for
overseeing construction and maintenance of the provincial roads through
the provincial Department of Communications, Transport, Post and
Construction (DCTPC) in each province. Technical assistance and support
to the provinces is provided by three regional organizations under the
Road Administration Division (RAD). Government has undertaken a review
and assessment of the organization and management structure of MCTPC. In
the coming years, further changes are expected in the tasks and
functions of the Communication Department and RAD. Responsibility for
programming, budgeting and execution of road programs is expected to be
delegated to the provinces under supervision of MCTPC.
Project Objectives
7.   The principle objectives of the project are: (a) reduced transport
costs through reconstruction and upgrading of the southern leg of Route
13; (b) improved institutional capacity for management of road
maintenance; and (c) improved efficiency and effectiveness of
construction and maintenance activities through increased use of
contracts based on competitive bidding procedures.
Project Description
8.   The project components are: (a) Road Improvement. Reconstruction of
Route No.13 between Savannakhet and Pakse - about 230 km would be
improved to a bituminous surface standard including rehabilitation of
about 40 bridges; (b) Road Maintenance. Spot improvement of about 2,000
kms, periodic maintenance of 700 kms, and routine maintenance of about
2,600 kms; (c) Institutional Strengthening. This component would finance
(i) technical assistance to the MCTPC's Road Administration Division
(RAD) which has to manage an expanded road network on an annual basis.
This would include measures to sustain RAD's capability to plan, budget,
implement and supervise road maintenance works, enhance its use of
bridge maintenance management system and introduce a basic pavement
management system; (ii) technical assistance to the Transport Planning
Unit (TPU) to further develop its capability in medium and long term
transport planning; (iii) technical assistance to MCTPC for project
implementation, coordination and supervision; (iv) consultant services
for feasibility, design, engineering and local transport sector studies
including development of long term strategy for dealing with
institutional and financial issues (para. 18); and (v) training of
engineering and management staff through fellowships, conferences, study
tours and short term courses in-country and abroad.
Project Cost and Financing
9.   The total project cost is anticipated to be US$ 65 million of which
-3 -



IDA is expected to finance US$ 40 million and Government about $5.0
million. Co-financing may be available from the Nordic Development Fund
(NDF) amounting to about $7.0 million. This would leave a financing gap
of $13.0 million which may have to be provided through increased IDA
funds.
Project Implementation
10. The project will be implemented by MCTPC which is also the
implementing agency for the two ongoing highway projects financed by
IDA. In order to help MCTPC with this task, the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) and the Transport Planning Unit (TPU) will be maintained and
strengthened. Additionally, MCTPC will continue to assign its own staff
as resident engineers to specifically supervise the implementation of
civil works. The Road Administration Division, within MCTPC, will
continue to be responsible for the planning and implementation of spot
improvement and road maintenance component with the help of technical
assistance.
Project Benefits, Sustainability and Risks
11. The project will contribute towards reducing vehicle operating
costs, providing all-weather, year-round access to the southern part of
the country and linking the provincial capitals in that region to
Vientiane. Lower transport costs would also lead to better integration
of the agriculturally rich south with the relatively poor regions of the
north. There would be additional benefits from reduced maintenance
costs, improved traffic safety, institutional strengthening and human
resource training. The economic rate of return for the road improvement
component (about 70% of total cost) is estimated as 16 percent.
12. Effective maintenance is the key to sustainability of the benefits
expected from improvement of Route 13. The project is designed to
continue the assistance and training required to improve organization
and management of road maintenance. Furthermore, the civil works
component has high and robust economic rate of return which makes it
economically sustainable. Sustainability of the expected benefits is
further enhanced by the high degree of project ownership with the Client
and strong support of the major donors in the road sector.
13. The main project risks relate to lack of adequate implementation
capacity; and timely provision of local budgetary resources. Measures to
mitigate these risks include: (a) hiring of technical assistance for
project implementation and monitoring, and capacity building through on
the job training. The transfer of skills would be closely monitored to
ensure effectiveness of institutional capacity building. The possibility
of a twinning arrangement will also be discussed during project
preparation; (b) carrying out a Public Expenditure Review to identify
recurrent expenditure shortages, plan public investment in high priority
areas and obtain realistic budget allocations for capital and recurrent
expenditure in the road sector; and (c) incentives to streamline the
internal processes to speed up the release of such funds. Discussions
will also be held early in the project preparation phase, to expose the
increased costs of inadequate maintenance and options to address such a
situation.
-4-



Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Sector
14. To date, IDA has funded three transport projects in Laos, all in
the highway subsector: (i) the Southern Transport Project, which was
closed on December 31, 1994 (Credit 1846-LA); (ii) the ongoing Highway
Improvement Project (Credit 2218-LA); and (iii) the ongoing Second
Highway Improvement Project (Credit 2606-LA). These projects have
assisted and continue to assist in the creation of a local contracting
capacity for road construction and, with the support of technical
assistance, are contributing to capacity building in transport planning
and road maintenance programming. Although this technical assistance
has contributed to train and transfer skills to Lao counterparts, the
implementation capacity of MCTPC remains weak and still needs further
assistance as well as close supervision by IDA's staff.
15. IDA's overall portfolio performance has shown that careful
attention has to be given to obtaining realistic budget allocations for
counterpart funds for both capital and recurrent expenditures. In
addition, experience gained under previous and ongoing projects suggests
that the success of projects lies mainly on: keeping the projects small,
simple and focused; establishing only a few key objectives; confining
interventions to a relatively small geographic area; and building in
adequate technical assistance and training to augment local capacity.
Furthermore, due to capacity limitations, policy and institutional
reforms and project implementation will take much longer than normally
expected.
Poverty Category
16.   The project does not include a specific program of targeted
interventions to reduce poverty. However, it has indirect impact on
poverty alleviation through the reduction of transport costs, improved
access and mobility, integration of the northern part of the country
with the south and through the creation of additional jobs for semi-
skilled and unskilled labor on construction contracts during
implementation.
Environmental and Social Aspects
17. The physical improvements to be financed under this project will
have little or no adverse environmental or social impacts. As the
physical works consist of rehabilitation of the existing road on its
current alignment and as all the residential units are located outside
the right of way, no land acquisition nor any involuntary resettlement
of project affected persons is required. The mitigation measures
delineated in the report on 'Guidelines for Reducing the Environmental
Effects of Road Projects in Lao PDR' dated March 1994 and prepared under
IDA credit (79-LA) would be applied to this project. The project has
been assigned a category 'B' for Environmental Assessment purposes.
Program Objective Categories
18.   The primary program objective category is environmentally
sustainable development. Secondary program objectives are economic
- 5 -



management and private sector development.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 6 -



