Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2943 LA
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Highway Improvement Project)
between
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 20, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2943 LA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated  June 20, 1997, between LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC (the “Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
“Association”).
WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of
the Project;
WHEREAS: (B) The Borrower intends to obtain from the Nordic
Development Fund (the “NDF”) a credit (the “NDF Credit”) in an amount
equivalent to five million five hundred sixty thousand dollars ($5,560,000)
to assist in the financing of Parts B (1) (a), (b) and (c) of the Project,
on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the “NDF Credit
Agreement”) to be entered into between the Borrower and NDF; and
WHEREAS: (C) The Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the “General Conditions”) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
             “Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
      agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in
      the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for
      goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b)
      for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import
      of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
      Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
      Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
      (c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
             “Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the
      right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall
      have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a
      continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association
      determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the
      Credit will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be
      financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
      Association determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out
      of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were
      engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the
      Credit during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without
      the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to
      the Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of
      expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been
      eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any
      time, the Association determines that the procurement of any contract to
      be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the
      procedures set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement
      and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract
      which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
      proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the
      Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association
      may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to
      make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such
      notice, such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled.”
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms, wherever used in this 
Agreement, have the following meanings:
(a)
"BCEL" means the Borrower's Banque du Commerce Exterieure Lao;
(b)
“DCTPC” means, collectively, the Borrower’s provincial Divisions
of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction;
(c)
"Environmental Guidelines" means the Guidelines for Reducing
Environmental Effects of Road Projects approved by the Borrower pursuant to
its Prime Ministerial Decree No. 05/PM dated January 16, 1995;
(d)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12)-month period corresponding
to any of the Borrower's financial years, which period commences on October
1 and ends on September 30 in each calendar year, and the term "Fiscal
Years" means collectively each of said Fiscal Year;
(e)
"MCTPC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Communication,
Transport, Post and Construction, and any successor thereto;
(f)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established within
MCTPC pursuant to MCTPC's Decree No. 0074, dated January 14, 1994;
(g)
"Road Maintenance Program" means the Borrower's four (4)-year
(1997-2001) rolling annual programs for the routine and the periodic
maintenance of the roads within its territory, which programs are approved
Page  3
by the Borrower on an annual basis to include the necessary budgetary
allocations and public investments for the financing thereof, as such
programs may be adjusted from time to time in agreement with the Association; 
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement; and
(i)
“SRBCC” means the Savannakhet Road and Bridge Construction
Company, a state-owned public enterprise of the Borrower established and
operating pursuant to the Business License No. 475 issued by the Borrower’s
Ministry of Finance dated December 6, 1994.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-four
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 34,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in United States dollars a separate special deposit account in
the BCEL on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the “accrual date”) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be
set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate
set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the
currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies
as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing September
Page  4
15, 2007 and ending March 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on March 15, 2017 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for
three (3) consecutive years  the level established annually by the
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
      (A)
Requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
                    each such installment not yet due until the principal
                    amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and
      (B)
Requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the
                    principal amount of the Credit as of the first
                    semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a)
                    above falling six months or more after the date on
                    which the Association notifies the Borrower that the
                    events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred,
                    provided, however, that there shall be a grace period
                    of a minimum of five years on such repayment of
                    principal.
     (c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of
some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
     (d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through MCTPC, with due
diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, economic, engineering, financial and environmental
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds (including
foreign exchange), facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project and the Road Maintenance Program.
       (b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for
the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Page  5
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
       (a)
Prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date, or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
      (b)
Afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)
The Borrower shall:
             (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Accounts for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
     (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than four (4) months after the
                  end of each such Fiscal Year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
                  the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
    (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
      (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                    paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                    reflecting such expenditures;
     (ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the
                    Association has received the audit report for the
                    Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the
                    Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
                    orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                    evidencing such expenditures;
     (iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine
                    such records; and
      (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                    the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                    Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                    separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal
                    Year, together with the procedures and internal
                    controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                    upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Page  6
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)
The NDF Credit Agreement shall have failed to become effective
by September 1, 1997, or such later date as the Association may agree;
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes, to the satisfaction of the Association, that
adequate funds for Parts B (1) (a), (b) and (c) of the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
(i)   Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, the
                   right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the
                   NDF Credit shall have been suspended, canceled or
                   terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
                   of the NDF Credit Agreement; or
(ii) Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
                  the Borrower establishes, to the satisfaction of the
                  Association, that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or
                  termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
                  to perform any of its obligations under the NDF Credit
                  Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
                  available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
                  and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                  Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower
shall have adopted by Ministerial Decision (Khotoklong) the numbering
and referencing systems for its road network and the official numbering
of its national roads.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III and
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this
Agreement shall terminate, or on the date twenty (20) years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box No. 46
Vientiane
Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFINANCE
4369
Vientiane
MOF LS
Page  7
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By /s/ Hiem Phommachanh
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
     Amount of the
          Credit Allocated           % of
            (Expressed in
       Expenditures
Category
           SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)
Works               28,380,000
      95%
(2)
Goods
                300,000
      100% of foreign
                          expenditures, 100% of
                          local expenditures (ex-
                          factory cost) and 90%
                   of local expenditures
            for other items procured
                          locally
(3)
Consultants’    
   620,000
      100%
services including
       audits) and training
(4)
Operating costs
   150,000
      100% 
(5)
Unallocated
        5,150,000
              _________
Page  8
TOTAL
             34,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)
The term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;
      (b)
The term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for
such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
(c)
The term “Operating costs” means payments made for
expenditures on account of the operation and maintenance of road services
vehicles, buildings and equipment and the supervision of road services
personnel under the Project, and for expenditures by PCU personnel for
supplies, transportation and communications, but excluding any salaries
of any such personnel.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(i) goods under contracts valued at less than the equivalent of fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000) each; (ii) works under contracts valued at
less than the equivalent of two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000)
each; (iii) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at
less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) each;
(iv) contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than the
equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) each; (v) overseas and local
training; and (vi) Operating costs; all under such terms and conditions as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (i) reduce
road transport costs throughout its territory by constructing and upgrading
priority roads; (ii) implement routine and periodic road maintenance programs
on the basis of cost-effective competitive bidding procedures; and (iii)
improve the effectiveness of its overall institutional capacity to manage
road construction and maintenance activities, at both the national and
provincial levels.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Road Improvement and Maintenance Works
1. 
Upgrading about two hundred kilometers (200 kms) of the Banlak 35-
Pakse Road No. 13 to bituminous surface standard.
2.
Constructing about seven kilometers (7 kms) stretch of Road No. A-1,
connecting Road No. 9 and Road No. 11.
3.
Implementing the Road Maintenance Program by carrying out: (a)
periodic road maintenance of about six hundred kilometers (600 kms) of
high priority roads throughout the Borrower’s territory; and (b) routine
road maintenance on an aggregate of about thirteen thousand seven hundred
kilometers (13,700 kms) throughout the Borrower’s core road network of
about six thousand three hundred twenty-four kilometers (6,324 kms) during
the period 1997-2001.
Page  9
4.
Provision of goods (including vehicles), office supplies, technical
support equipment and consultants’ services in respect of the foregoing.
Part B: Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Strengthening MCTPC , through the provision of consultants’ services,
by: (a) enhancing its capacity for overall Project implementation; (b)
strengthening its capacity to organize and manage the implementation of the
Road Maintenance Program; (c) assisting and training MCTPC Planning and
Technical Division personnel in the preparation of medium-term road
investment plans; (d) assisting MCTPC personnel to conduct feasibility,
design, engineering and local transport sector studies and to prepare
future road projects; and (e) assisting MCTPC to develop its accounting
and independent external auditing capabilities.
2.
Training of MCTPC managerial and engineering staff through fellowships,
conferences, seminars, study tours and short-term courses locally and abroad. 
3.
Provision of goods (including vehicles), office supplies and technical
support equipment in respect of the foregoing.
*   *   *  *  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996
(the “Guidelines”) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to works to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of nineteen million dollars
($19,000,000) or more each.
(c)
Preference for Domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to works to be carried out by domestic
contractors.
(d)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of fifty
million dollars ($50,000,000) or more shall include the provisions for a
dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding documents for works
referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
Page  10
(e)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to
cost the equivalent of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) or more shall be
advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts
under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of seven hundred
thousand dollars ($700,000), up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of nine million four hundred twenty thousand dollars
($9,420,000), may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Except as provided in paragraph 3 below, goods estimated to cost
more than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of three hundred
sixty thousand dollars ($360,000), shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures, and goods
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000) per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures, all
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from United Nations Agencies
Vehicles and office supplies may be procured from the United Nations
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or
to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) or more the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or more the procedures in
Paragraph 2 of Annex 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the “Consultant Guidelines”). For complex, time-
based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of
contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifi-
Page  11
cations thereto as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) each;
or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) each.
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to:
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection
of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to the equi-
valent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or above; or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000) or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
For the purpose of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and without any
limitation or restriction upon any of the provisions of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the following
Implementation Program:
1.
The Borrower shall maintain the PCU within MCTPC until completion
of the Project. The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is headed by an
experienced and qualified coordinator, and shall continue to vest the PCU
with such responsibilities, funds, staff and other requisite resources as
shall be required to enable it to undertake the overall supervision and
coordination of the Project.
2.
Not later than December 31, 1997, the Borrower shall organize and
carry out a technical workshop, based on terms of reference acceptable to
the Association, for the timely and efficient commencement of Project
implementation activities.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
Carry out the Road Maintenance Program with due diligence and
efficiency, and ensure that at least sixty percent (60%) of the volume of
routine maintenance works under the Program shall be undertaken on the basis
of competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association;
(b)
Not later than March 31 in each Fiscal Year, beginning in
Fiscal Year 1997-98, furnish to the Association for its approval the
proposed annual periodic road maintenance work program under the Road
Maintenance Program for the next Fiscal Year, and ensure that only road
segments selected on the basis of multiple criteria comprising a mandatory
economic evaluation, geographical distribution, traffic volumes, network
connectivity and year-round accessibility. The economic evaluation shall be
based on the use of a maintenance planning system satisfactory to the
Association;
(c)
Not later than March 31 in each Fiscal Year, beginning in
Fiscal year 1997-98, furnish to the Association for its approval the
proposed annual routine road maintenance work programs under the Road
Maintenance Program for the next Fiscal Year, and ensure that the road
segments for the first year routine maintenance are those that are
specified in the MCTPC’s Five-Year Core Road Network Routine Maintenance
Plan. The additional road segments covered by each following annual work
program will be identified by MCTPC’s Road Administration Division within
the core network of six thousand three hundred twenty-four kilometers
(6,324 kms) as defined in the Five-Year Road Maintenance Plan issued by
said Division in January 1997;
Page  12
(d)
Take all action necessary to ensure that all road improvement,
construction, maintenance and periodic spot improvement works under the
Road Maintenance Program are at all times carried out in conformity with
the Environmental Guidelines, and otherwise in a manner which ensures that
any adverse environmental impact is effectively mitigated in a timely
manner satisfactory to the Association; and
(e)
Not later than October 31 in each Fiscal Year, shall review
with the Association the progress achieved, during the immediately
preceding Fiscal Year, in carrying out the Road Maintenance Program and
the adequacy of its financing and related budgetary allocations, and
thereafter shall promptly take such remedial action, satisfactory to the
Association, as shall be necessary to achieve the objectives of said
Program.
4.
Not later than June 30 in each Fiscal Year and until the completion
of the Project, the Borrower shall cause to be carried out, through an
independent consultant, a technical audit of Project implementation.
5.
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1997, complete the
privatization of the SRBCC in accordance with the modalities adopted by
the Borrower under the Third Structural Adjustment Credit for the
privatization of its state-owned enterprises (IDA Credit No. 2811-LA).
6.
Without any restriction or limitation upon any of the provisions of
the General Conditions or of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through
the PCU:
(a) 
(i) furnish to the Association not later than June 30 and
                  December 31 in each Fiscal year, commencing in Fiscal
                  Year 1998, a semi-annual progress report on the
                  implementation of the Project, of such scope and in
                  such detail as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) not later than December 31 in each Fiscal Year, organize
                  and carry out annual Project review meetings and prepare
                  an annual progress report on the implementation of the
                  Project, based on terms of reference satisfactory to the
                  Association, to be reviewed at these meetings; and
     (iii) as part of each said annual review, prepare and carry out
                  a follow-up time-based action plan, satisfactory to the
                  Association, to remedy any deficiencies in Project
                  implementation identified during such review; and
(b)
Furnish to the Association, not later than thirty (30) days
after each March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 in each Fiscal
Year, based on terms of reference acceptable to the Association,
consolidated quarterly report on the financial condition of the Project,
including the status of the procurement of goods and services required
for Project implementation.
7.
Without any restriction or limitation upon the provisions of Section
9.06 of the General Conditions or upon any of the provisions of this
Agreement: (a) not later than June 30, 1999, the Borrower shall conduct,
on the basis of terms of reference acceptable to the Association, a
comprehensive mid-term review of the progress achieved to date by the
Borrower in implementing the Project; and (b) promptly thereafter, taking
into account the Association's recommendations pursuant to such review,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and shall take all remedial measures needed to achieve the objectives
thereof.
8. 
The Borrower shall:
(a)
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2001,
Page  13
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
Review with the Association, by December 31, 2001, or such
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term “Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3)
and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement in respect of the Project;
(b)
The term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to
the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(c)
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to
three million dollars (3,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent
to one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of four million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 4,000,000).
2.
(a) Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
(b) Each payment (including a payment under a letter of credit) for
an eligible expenditure in an amount equal to or less than the equivalent
of six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000) shall be made exclusively out
of the Special Account. The Association may from time to time, by notice
to the Borrower, revise the threshold amount specified in the preceding
sentence.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into
the respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                    shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
                    into the Special Account at such intervals as the
                    Association shall specify.
      (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Page  14
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
                    and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                    this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
                    which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                    such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                    Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
                    into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                    shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                    said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                    out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
                    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
                    from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible
                    Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
                    as shall have been justified by said documents and
                    other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
(a)
If, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
If the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement,
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the
Special Account;
(c)
If, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
Page  15
amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
