Report No. 354a-UNI                                                                   FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
Gusau Agricultural Development Project
N igeria
September 6, 1974
Agriculture Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CIUEWNCY EQUIVAETS
Current Unit: Naira (N)
US$ 1       N N o.66
N 1        US$ 1.52
N 1     = Kobo (k) 100
WEIGHTS AND MEASJ:
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures used in this report are metric:
1 metric (a) ton   -   0.98 long ton
1 long ton         3  1.6 m ton
1..ong ton        2-,240 lb
1 heotare (ha)    =   2.47 acres (ac)
1 acre (ao)            0 0.405 ha
1 kilometer (km)       0.62 miLe
ABBREVIATIONS
ABU       t  Ahmadu Bello University
CAP       s  Cotton and Agricultural Processors Ltd.
ERLS      s  Extension Research Liaison Service
FDA       :  Federal Department of Agriculture
FMG       s  Federal Military Government of Nigeria
FMANR     s  Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
GPEC      S  Gusau Prooject Executive Committee
GPMU      s  Gusau Project Management Unit
IAR       S  Institute of Agricultural Research
ICB       s  International Competitive Bidding
LBA       s  Licensed Buying Agent
MAZ       s  Ministry of Agriculture
MITC      s  Ministry of Industry, Trade and Cooperatives
MOH       I  Ministry of Health
MOW           M Ministry of Works
NAB       I  Nigerian Agricultural Bank
NPMC      s  Nigerian Produce Marketing Company
NSMB      s  Northern States Marketing Board
NWS       s  North Wkbstern State Government
PID       s  Produce Inspection Division
PaEu      s  Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
SLA       s  Sokoto Local Authority
ISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



NIGERIA
NORTH-E WESTERN- STATL
Gusau Agricultural Development Project
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..............................  i - iii
I.    INTRODUCTION           ...............................                   1
II.    BACKGROUND ...........................................    2
A.    General  .........         ................................        2
B.   Agriculture in Northern Nigeria .................    2
C.    Agricultural Policy  .............................    3
III.  PROJECT AREA ........................                                      4
A.   General  .........................................                  4
B.    Institutions  ....................................                 5
IV.    THE PROJECT           ................................                   6
A.    Description  .....................................                 6
B.    Detailed Features  ...............................                 6
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  ....                ........   10
A.   Project Costs  ..........           .........................    10
B.   Proposed Financing ..............................   11
C.   Procurement .........................                             12
D.    Disbursement .......              ..................    13
E.    Budgetary Control Funding Procedures
Accounts and Audit .....               ............    14
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND IMANAGEMENT ..........             ................    15
A.    Organization  ...................................    15
B.  Staffing ....................................  17
C.    Staff Training .................................. t8
D.    Farm inputs - Procurement and Distribution
and Credit Procedures .....................  19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. Grimshaw and Payne (Bank) and Calkin, Glynn, Manning, Singh, Upchurch
and Yates (consultants).



Table of Contents (Continued)
VII.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMERS' BENEFITS
AND FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS TO GOVERNMENT ....    ......... 21
A. Yields and Outputs                 .        .         21
B.   Markets and Prices .......    ......................   22
C.   Farmers' Benefits .............. ................  23
D.   Financial Implication to Government ............  24
VIII.   ECONOMICS BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....     ............  25
IX.   RECOMMENDATIONS      .....................................   27
ANNEXES:
1.  Farm and Crop Development
Table  1:  Seed cotton purchases by NSMB
Table  2:  Groundnut purchases by NSMB
Table  3:  Rank order of monthly rainfall at Gusau
Table  4:  Rainfall histogram for project area
LTable  5:  One hectare cotton budget
Table  6:  One hectare sorghum budget
Table  7:  One hectare maize budget
Table  8:  One hectare groundnut budget
Table  9:  One hectare cowpea budget
Table 10:  Seed cotton production projections
Table 11: Sorghum production projections
Table 12: Maize production projections
Table 13: Groundnut production projections
Table 14: Cowpea production projections
2.  Project Area, Institutions, and Existing Processing and Marketing
Table 1: Summary of phasing of Project Development Program
3.  Research and Seed Multiplication
Table 1: Cotton seed multiplication
Table 2: Summary of yields of promising maize varieties and hybrids
Schedule 1: Seed Multiplication Demonstration Farms
4.  Agricultural Roads
Table  1:  Road construction:  Output rates
Table  2:  Road construction:  Unit plant and operating costs
Table  3:  Road construction:  Capital costs for plant, equipment
and materials
Table  4:  Road construction:  Labor and plant operating costs
Table  5:  Road maintenance unit cost
Figure 1: Typical Agricultural Road Cross Section



Table of Contents (Continued)
5. Water and Soil Conservation
Table 1: Water and soil conservation development costs
6.  Organization, Staff Requirements and Training
Schedule 1: Organization Organogram
Schedule 2: Establishment of Project Management Unit
Schedule 3:  Job Description and Qualifications of Senior Staff
Table    1:  Staff requirements:  Project Administration Head
Office Unit
Table    2:  Staff requirements:  Technical Services
Table    3: Staff requirements:  Credit Services
Teble    4: Staff requirements: Market Services
Table    5:  Staff requirements:  Engineering Services
7. Farm Inputs
Table  1:  Basic cost assumptions on farm inputs
Table  2:  Seasonal fertilizer requirements
Table  3:  Seasonal requirements for seeds, insecticides and
battery sets
Table  4:  Summary of fertilizer subsidies, seasonal cash
sales and credit requirements
Table  5: Farm equipment requirements
8. Farm Credit
Table 1: Illustrative cash flow for Revolving Credit Fund Subloans
9.  Project Evaluation
Table 1: Evaluation Unit Costs
10. Project Costs
Table  1:  Summary of project costs
Table  2:  Vehicles, plant and equipment - Capital cost
Table  3:  Houses, building, furnishings and construction material costs
Table  4:  Staff salaries and allowances
Table  5:  Running costs of vehicles and plant
Table  6:  General Service Costs
11. Proiect Financing
Table  1  Details of project financing
Table 2: Illustrative cash flow for NWS
Table 3: Disbursement schedule for Bank loan



Table of Contents (Continued)
12.  Marketing and Prices
Table  1:  Cotton seed requirement
Table  2:  Cotton marketing costs
Table  3:  Cotton Production ginning capacity
Table  4:  Groundnut marketing costs
Table  5:  Diagram of market layout
Table  6:  Production of major food crops
Table  7: Millet and Sorghum prices
Table  8:  Projected supply and demand for selected foodstuffs
Table  9:  Estimated producer prices of maize and sorghum
Table 10:  Estimated producer prices for cowpeas
Table 11:  Groundnuts - Farmgate prices
Table 12:  Seed cotton - Economic and producer price cacculations
13.  Economic Benefits
- Table 1: Economic costs & returns
Table 2: Project Benefits
Table 3: Net economic costs & benefits due to incremental from
labor and farm equipment
Schedule 1: Returns to farmers using work oxen
Schedule 2: Returns to tractor users
MAPS
1. Project location
2. Project area



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
APPRAISAL OF GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG) has requested Bank
assistance to finance an agricultural development project in the North Western
State of the Federation. The project was identified by a Bank mission in
November 1972, and was subsequently prepared by the Bank in collaboration
with the North Western State Authorities. This report is based on the find-
ings of an appraisal mission that visited Nigeria in S"ptember and October
1973.
ii.       Under the present economic circumstances and associated industrial
growth, industry and the urban population are becoming more dependent on the
rural population for assured food and industrial crop supplies, and at the
same time the gap in income earnings between urban and rural communities is
becoming ever wider. The northern States of Nigeria and their rural popula-
tions are the main producers of grain crops for human consumption and of
industrial crops for processing industries, and yet their per capita income
of about US$40 per annum is the lowest in the Federation.
iii.      Except for the extreme northern areas, mainly north of 120 latitude,
the soils and climate of the northern States are generally suitable for ex-
tensive annual crop production. Research workers and the more responsive
farmers using improved inputs have adequately shown the response of improved
seeds to economic applications of fertilizers, and the viability of insecti-
cides for pest control purposes. Due to the disruptions caused by the civil
war (1966-68) and its aftermath, the lack of planning resources, and until
recently considerable financial constraints, very little had been done to
improve the production of the small farmer. Even now experienced manpower
to plan and implement rational developments in agriculture is in extremely
short supply. The Federal and State Governments recognizing the need to
increase the production from the small farm sector, 70%_of_thepopulation,
now plan to accelerate the development of agriculture throughout Nigeria.
This project refers to one of three projects in northern Nigeria that the
Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG) would develop with the Bank's
assistance.
iv.       The project area (3,800 km 2) is centerd around Gusau in part of
the Sokoto Division of the North Western State. The area supports a popula-
tion of about 620,000 people (9% of the State's population) including some
68,000 families farming on average 3.5 ha each. The net annual family income
including the value of produce consumed on the farm is currently about US$266.



- ii -
The population is expanding, the soils are rapidly declining in fertility,
and the people are under constant pressure to increase output. As such,
conditions are ripe for project action and farmer response is expected to be
high.
v.        The project would cover physical infrastructure, support services
and farm inputs; including 1,000 km of low cost agricultural roads; 85 earth
dams and 160 ponds to provide water supplies to humans and livestock; a
project administrative center at Gusau, 4 development unit centers and 40
farm service centers; develop two seed multiplication farms to produce im-
proved high yielding seed; and would expand and create new training facili-
ties for project staff and farmers. The project would also provide better
support services in the form of a tenfold increase in extension staff, in-
troduce new credit and marketing services to the farmers; and the associated
staff houses, offices and transport facilities required to support these
services. The project would procure farm inputs to sell to farmers for cash
or credit. An evaluation unit would be established to evaluate the opera-
tions and benefits of the proposed investments.
vi.       The project would be managed by a special Management Unit respon-
sible to an Executive Committee, both to be established by a gazetted order
of the North Western State Executive Council. The committee would be chaired
by the Permanent Secretary of the State's Ministry of Agriculture. The Manage-
ment Unit would be suitably staffed through transfer of existing Government
staff or personnel presently under training. Deficiencies in specialized
technical skills and high level management staff, unavailable in Nigeria,
would be made up through international recruitment.
vii.      The proposed Bank loan of US$19 million would be made to the Federal
Government of Nigeria for a term of 20 years, including a five-year grace
period. The loan would be 51% of total project costs, estimated at US$37.4
million, and would cover all the foreign costs estimated at US$17.7 million
and 7% of local costs equivalent to US$1.3 million. The US$19 million Bank
loan would be onlent to the North Western State Government (NWS). NWS would
provide US$17.0 million or 45% of total project costs, and the remaining
project costs estimated at US$1.4 million, or 4%, would be contributed by
participating farmers in the form of cash payments for seasonal inputs and
down payments on farm equipment.
viii.     Procurement of vehicles, plant equipment, fertilizers, insecticides,
farm tractors and implements, having a value of more than US$25,000 would be
through international competitive bidding (ICB), and would have an estimated
value of US$11.4 million. Contracts for civil works such as houses, offices
and warehouses valued at US$5.4 million would not be suitable for ICB, due to
the dispersed locations and small size of individual contracts, and would be
awarded under locally advertised competitive bidding. Foreign firms and
suppliers who are well represented in Nigeria would not be precluded, but
bonafide domestic contractors would receive a 7-1/2% preference in bid evalua-
tion. Construction of roads, water supplies and soil conservation works esti-
mated at US$6.7 million would be carried out on force account due to the shortage



- iii -
of suitable medium-scale contractors who normally would undertake this work,
however, petty contractors would be employed to the maximum extent feasible.
A large part of project costs, an estimated US$7.6 million, would be for labor,
staff salaries and allowances, vehicle maintenance and operation, general ser-
vices and project evaluation, and as such would be unsuitable for competitive
bidding. Internationally recruited staff would be employed under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
ix.       Proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed to cover:  (a) 100%
Or the CIF costs of directly imported vehicles, tractors, heavy plant and
equipment, or 75% of the cost of these items if locally procured - US$2.0
million; (b) 100% of the CIF costs of directly imported farm tractors and
equipment, ox drawn equipment, spraying machines, fertilizers, insecticides,
battery sets and seeds, or 71% of these items if procured locally - US$3.5
million; (c) 100% of the cost of expatriate staff - US$1.6 million; (d) 60%
of the cost of buildings, houses, furnishings, and construction materials
and labor for roads, dams and soil conservation works - US$3.2 million; (e)
60% of local staff costs - US$2.8 million; (f) 60% of the cost of the field
evaluation unit - US$0.5 million; and (g) US$5.4 million to cover unallocated
expenses. Disbursements of the Bank loan would be against import documen-
tation, contracts and certified records of expenditure, the latter would be
scrutinized from time to time by the Bank during supervision missions.
x.        The principal direct benefits would, through the output of 41,000
project farmers, be from project year 5 the annual incremental production
of 14,000 tons of seed cotton (64,000 bales of lint), 9,000 tons of groundnuts,
11,000 tons of sorghum, 21,000 tons of maize, and 1,500 tons of cowpeas; the
project would indirectly benefit a further 27,000 farm families through pro-
vision of better communications, water supplies and markets. Including the
non-farming population, some 620,000 people would one way or other receive
some benefit from the project, not Ieast the project would provide additional
employment - equivalent to 8,000 manyears per annum. Intangible benefits
would include the provision of a basic infrastructure on which health and
other social services could be developed, expansion of local trade to the
non-farming population, and the strengthening of institutions including the
Local Authority, and the State Ministry of Agriculture. The project establisheci
evaluation unit would provide considerable information to support the future-
planninL!p_ Federal and State agricultural Rolicies.  The project would train
Nigerian staff-in-maniigement and technical aspects applicable to rural devel-
opment.  The economic rate of return is 16% a 10% reduction in commodity
prices would reduce the rate of return to 9% and the project would still be
viable (9% rate of return) if production targets were reduced to 70% of those
projected. The net fa-rm income for farmers directly affected by the project
would increase from YS$266\ to US$360 per annum at full development, and the -
net per capita income 6E the total farming population would rise from US$41 /
to US$55 inferring an annual income growth rate of 6% per annum, compared
to the present no growth situation, and is achievable provided that the
physical inputs and management needs are provided.
xii.      On the basis of the assurances that were obtained during negotiations,
and set out in Chapter IX, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$19
million.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises a loan application made to the Bank by the
Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG). The purpose of the loan would
be to assist Nigeria's North Western State Government (NWS) to finance an agri-
cultural development program involving 68,000 small farmers in the Sokoto
Administrative Division. The project would involve the construction of vital
cro- extraction roads and water supplies, and would provide farmers with the
technical, marketing, and credit services, and inputs needed to insure sig-
nificant increases in production and farmer incomes. Currently, the latter
are low, about US$266 per family, or US$41 per capita.
1.02      The project is deliberately large; this is essential in order to
make a meaningful impact in such a large and populous country. On the other
hand, the risks that do exist are minimized, provided competent management is
available because the technical innovations proposed have been proven, the
farmers are hardworking, and the production induced by the project is in high
demand on domestic and export markets. The project concept could be applied
throughout most of northern Nigeria. One important role of the project would
provide a practical training ground for Nigerian staff in the technical and
administrative management of projects of this type.
1.03      The project is within the frame of policies outlined in Nigeria's
"Perspective Plan for Agricultural Development to 1985." In particular, it
follows FMG policies to increase production of both food and industrial crops
to supply Nigeria's rapidly increasing urban populations and industries in-
cluding intensive livestock production enterprises, particularly in the
southern States. The project would assist to develop sound agricultural
credit systems tailored to provide credit to large numbers of small farmers.
It would provide also a much needed base for the expansion and improvement
of health and other social 'services currently planned by the State Government;
the project road development program would be a vital first phase to facili-
tate the improvement of these social services.
1.04      This report refers to similar projects at Funtua (NC State) and
Gombe (NE State). These projects were appraised concurrently and are similar
in nature; while administratively totally separate, they have common production
policies, techniques and services. The three projects represent a first, but
very substantial, step by the Federal and State Governments to increase the
production and raise the living standards of large numbers of peoples in the
relatively less developed and environmentally harsh northern States.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The 12-State Federal Republic of Nigeria has a total area of about
914,000 sq km, and in 1971, a population estimated at 68 million. About 35%
of GDP estimated at US$9.1 billion in 1972/73, is generated in the agriculture
sector! which employs 70% of the labor force. In 1972/73, total domestic
exports amounted to US$2.1 billion, of which petroleum represented about 82%
(US$1.8 billion). The main agricultural exports are cocoa, groundnuts, and
groundnut oil and cake. Oil palm products used to be exported, but with in-
creasing domestic consumption and a general decline in the industry, palm
oil is no longer exported, and palm kernel exports are dwindling. Cotton,
once a major export, is now fully utilized by the local milling industry and
local supply cannot meet demand. By and large, Nigeria is self-sufficient
in food: food imports are estimated at US$2.6 per capita.
2.02      Nigeria can be divided into three major agricultural and ecological
zones (see map): a southern wet forest zone, south of the confluence of the
Benue and Niger Rivers, mainly growing perennial tree crops, including cocoa,
oil palm and rubber; a central dry forest zone known as the middle belt which
is underpopulated and tsetse infested, but has a high potential for annual
food crops and livestock; and a northern zone, covering about 50% of the
country. with a tree savannah ecology, and which supports Nigeria's cattle
population, and produces its main cereal crops, and groundnuts and cotton.
B. Agriculture in Northern Nigeria
2.03      North Western State is one of four States in northern Nigeria which
have very similar agricultural and ecological systems. The four have also
a closely associated history of institutional development and agricultural
policies, as prior to 1968, the whole region, including two other States, was
administered as one from a regional capital at Kaduna. Thus, a description
of the North Western State, its policies and problems, would apply closely
to the situation in North Central, North Eastern and Kano States.
2.04      North Western State, with a population of about 7.5 million, lies
between latitudes 8-14° north and 3-1/2 - 7-1/2° east, and comprises about
166,000 sq km. Within the State there is considerable climatic variation,
and rainfall varies from 1,250 mm in its south to less than 750 mm on the
border with Niger. Much of the State has an assured monomodal rainfall (4-5
months) of at least 750 mm per annum; although the distribution within the
total is sometimes erratic, leading to "drought" years such as occurred in
1973. Most of the State has a tree savannah ecology, and in those areas of
higher tree densities, the incidence of tsetse is high and trypanosomiasis is
a constraint to livestock production, as well as being a human health problem.



- 3 -
The proposed project which would be centered on Gusau covers about 2% of the
State and includes 8% of the population.
2.05      The major crops are annuals such as millet and sorghum, the prin-
cipal cereals, and groundnuts, cotton, and cowpeas. Minor crops include maize,
tomatoes, chilies, cassava and yams. Livestock plays an important role in
the economy and include cattle, sneep, goats and poultry. The Fulani people,
who are nomadically inclined, owns most of the livestock, and have a consider-
able impact on the arable farmer. Traditionally, cotton and groundnuts have
becn the north's main cash crops and are likely to remain so, but as the
savannah areas of Nigeria are generally well suited for cereal production,
they could play an important role in the future in producing cereals for the
expanding market created by intensive livestock industries and urban popula-
tions of the south.
C.  Agricultural Poliua
2.06      Agricultural production in the State is virtually stagnant, and
any increase that is occurring is due to population growth. Although signi-
ficant improvements in crop yields have been demonstrated to be technically
and economically feasible by the research institutions, very little has been
done to help the farmer to obtain and use the innovations necessary to improve
his production. Until very recently, NWS had no clear-cut policy for increas-
ing production, and, in the absence of specific plans to implement the policy,
the Ministry of Agriculture (MA) still tends to function on a basis of main-
taining the status quo. The extension service is weak and poorly staffed,
credit and marketing institutions barely exist, planning is poor, and the
expertise needed to implement successfully major agricultural and rural devel-
opment projects is in very short supply.
2.07      Nigeria's manufacturing industries that are based on farm products
such as cotton and groundnuts, and the rapidly expanding urban population
(estimated to be increasing at 5% annually) are totally dependent on the
small traditional farmer for their raw'materials and food supplies. These
farmers, as throughout Nigeria in general, are very poorly serviced, do not
use improved and drought resistant varieties and have very limited access to
fertilizers and agro-chemicals. Production is, therefore, irregular and is
governed by the vagaries of climate and other influences, such as pest attack,
that remain beyond the farmer's control. Given the foregoing, the small
farmer is unable to bank on producing an assured surplus.
2.08      FMG is becoming increasingly aware of the need to rectify the
current situation, and in its discussions with the Bank and NWS has agreed
that, in the short term, at least the quickest way of improving farm produc-
tion and incomes would be to provide a concentration of support services to
areas of reasonable potential and dense farm population. In such areas, farm
sizes cannot increase and farmers, with declining land fertility, are facing



-4-
the problem of maintaining, let alone increasing, production. Such farmers
are likely to respond well to any improvements that may be offered to them.
For the longer term, it will be important to develop programs to open up
areas of unused land, particularly in the now tsetse-infested middle belt,
for settlement by farmers and graziers.
2.09      The project appraised in this report would provide a package of
services to existing farming communities with the objective of increasing
production of cash and food crops; it would train agricultural, credit,
marketing, administrative and engineering staff, and would develop NWS
agricultural planning capacity. The increase in farm incomes, generated by
project actions, would be significant. Further background information is
available in Report 416(a) titled "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Niger,ia" dated August 5, 1974 with special reference to Vol III on
"Problems'.and Prospects of Food Production."
III. PROJECT AREA
A. General
3.01      The project area covers 3,800 km  or about 2% of the total area
of the North Western State. It comprises part of the Sokoto Administrative
Division. Map shows area location within Nigeria.
3.02      The annual rainfall is about 900 mm and is confined entirely to a
5-month period from May through September. Under reasonable management and
utilization of improved seeds and fertilizers, good yields can be achieved
under the prevailing climatic regime. Due to the seasonality of rainfall and
the underlying granitic basement complex, groundwater is severely restricted,
and with increasing land pressures stream flow has markedly diminished and
water supplies for human and livestock resources are a limiting factor to
development.
3.03      The project area is occupied by the people of the Hausa tribe, and
by mid-1974 is estimated to have some 68,000 farm families that support a
total project area population of 620,000. The social structure is significant
because of the relative strength and influence of the hierarchical structure
of the Local Authority. The project comes within the jurisdiction of the
Sultan of Sokoto whose hereditary authority is delegated through salaried
district and village heads. The latter are responsible for village level
administration of land tenure arrangements based on Islamic law and on cus-
tomary usufructory rights.
3.04      Information on farm size is scant but it is estimated that the
average size farm holdings is 3.5 ha. There are some larger farms (over 50



- 5 -
ha) within the project area, but these are relatively few. Cropping patterns
(see Annex 1) are dominated by sorghum and millet as food grains, and cotton
and groundnuts as the major cash crops. Numerous minor crops are grown.
3.05      The project area is well served by main roads, and has a railhead
at Gusau. However,crop extraction and other minor roads are virtually non-
existent, and communities are seasonally cut off from each other and the
outside world. Transportation of farmer produce and inputs is therefore
difficult and expensive. Further project area data are in Annex 2.
B. Institutions
3.06      State institutions that would be concerned with the project and
their relevant responsibilities are described in Annex 2. They include: the
1Ministry of Agriculture (MA) that would have the responsibility for carrying
out the project; the Ministry of Works (MOW), responsible for State-financed
public works programs; the Ministry of Health (MOH), responsible for all
aspects of human health in the State; the Ministry of Industry Trade, and
Cooperatives (MITC) responsible for cooperative development; and the Sokoto
Local Authority (SLA). The project area comes under the control of the SLA,
whose functions include the collection of tax in respect of people and cattle
(haraji and jangali, respectively) and the administration cf land allocation.
The Gusau and Kaura Namoda Development Boards are responsible for the provi-
sion of services such as feeder road construction and maintenance, dispens-
aries, and primary education as a complement to State Government activities
in these fields.
3.07      Another institution that would be concerned with or affected by
the project and which is described in Annex 2 would be the Institute of Agri-
cultural Research (IAR) which was created in the early 1960's from the Re-
search Division of the then Northern Nigeria Ministry of Agriculture, and
which now is a semi-autonomous body linked with Ahmadu Bello University (ABU;
(at Annex 3).
3.08      Institutions concerned with crop marketing and processing are the
Northern States Marketing Board (NSMB) which as purchasing agent of the Federal
Nigerian Produce Marketing Company (NPMC) is responsible for organizing the
domestic purchase, through its Licensed Buying Agents (LBA), of controlled
crops such as cotton and groundnuts at prices predetermined by FMG; and the
Cotton and Agricultural Processors Ltd. (CAP) which was formerly the British
Cotton Growers' Association (Nigeria) Ltd. and which has had a monopoly for
ginning Nigerian cotton since exports began over half a century ago. CAP
has ginneries throughout the cotton-growing zones of the northern states.
The present ginning agreement between CAP and NSMB expires in 1976 and for
this reason assurances were obtained from NWS during negotiations that any
future ginning arrangements would not adversely affect the production, market-
ing or ginning of cotton within the project area.  The Produce Inspection
Division (PID) of MA has important responsibilities for grading controlled
produce. Crop processing, marketing and grading arrangements are described
in Annex 2.



- 6 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The project would be carried out over a five-year investment period
1975/76-1979/80, and would involve:
-    constructing about 1,000 km of low cost agricultural roads,
85 earth dams, 160 tapkis (ponds), and associated soil con-
servation structures;
-    constructing an administrative center in Gusau, 4 development
unit centers, and 40 farm service centers;
-    expanding Gusau seed multiplication farm and the new
development of an additional farm at Kaura Namoda;
-    expanding training facilities at Gusau and constructing
a new project training center at Kaura Namoda,
-    provision of adequate farmer extension, credit and market-
ing services, including staff, vehicles and equipment;
-    provision of seasonal and medium-term loans to farmers
for the purchase of crop inputs and farm equipment;
-    establishing a project evaluation unit; and
-    preparation of plans for the continued provision of project
services after the investment phase of the project is com-
pleted.
4.02      The project would be managed by the Gusau Project Management Unit
(GPMU) which would carry out the day-to-day management operations. GPMU
would be responsible to the Gusau Project Executive Committee (GPEC) for
budgetary and policy control.  A committee would be set UpDto coordinate
project activities at Federal level. Details at Chapter VT.
B. Detailed Features
4.03      A summary showing the expected scheduling of project activities
is at Annex 2, Table 1; it includes the construction program, the rate of
village involvement, and the number of farmers affected by the project
annually.



- 7 -
4.04      Agricultural Road Development.  The project would provide a network
of 1,000 km of agricultural roads, of a design adequate to allow light traffic
during most of the wet season, and heavy trucks during the dry season. The
roads would permit the efficient evacuation of farm produce, the timely supply
of inputs, the effective movement of project service staff, and much improved
general access to farms and hamlets. This basic infrastructure would allow
other Government programs including health and education to expand into areas
which currently are inaccessible. Annex 4 gives details of construction
methods, specifications, and plant and equipment requirements. In view of an
acute shortage of local contracting capacity, and the probable lack of interest
of foreign contractors in work of this sort, construction would be undertaken
by force account through a project operated and managed field construction
unit which would make some use of petty contractors and would thereby assist
in their development. Maintenance of roads and dams would be the responsi-
bility of the Gusau and Kaura Namoda Development Boards. In order to build
up their operational effectiveness, the Boards' road maintenance staff would
be seconded to the project for training and operational control. The project
would provide, during the investment period, funds for purchase and operating
required equipment.
4.05      Water Development.  The project would set up and operate a unit to
construct some 85 small and medium size earth dams, each of a minimum capacity
of 100,000 m3, equipped with simple systems to reticulate the water away from
the reservoir. The reservoirs would supply water for human and livestock needs
and would be located in strategic areas. They would also be used to supply
water for compaction purposes during road construction. In addition, some
160 tapkis (ponds) would be developed to provide a better distribution of water
for livestock for all but the last 3 months of the dry season. In a very few
instances, the dams and tapkis, where land and water availability allows,
would be used for the irrigation of village vegetable production. Abundant
dam sites are available. Annex 5 provides detail on design and specifications.
4.06      Soil Conservation.  In association with the water development
program, soil conservations measures would be undertaken within the catchmen..
areas of the dams (about 5 km2 each). These would include the construction
of cutoff ditches, artificial waterways and contour ridging and be aimed to
reduce siltation of the dams and control erosion. Further soil conservation
measures would be taken in providing the farmers with marker ridges to assist
in contour realignment of crop ridges. During the project investment period,
some 2.700 km2 or 70% of the project area would be so protected; these programs
should be continued beyond the investment period. Annex 5 provides the de-
tails of this project component.
4.07      Building Development.  The project would include construction of
houses, offices and stores needed for project services. It would include the
construction of 210 houses of various sizes, a project office, 4 development
center offices, a railhead store and other facilities. In addition, 40 farm
service centers, each including a 500-ton capacity warehouse would be con-
structed, and improvements made to two market depots associated with existing



-8-
cotton ginneries. Those houses and buildings not required by MA after the
project investment period would be taken over by other Government depart-
ments operating within the area.
4.08      Seed Multiplication Farms.  The project would make improvements to
the existing seed multiplication farm at Gusau; and would develop a new seed
farm at Kaura Namoda. Investments would include farm buildings, water supplies,
farm machinery and equipment. These seed farms would, in association with
larger farmers, provide project and other State farmers with improved seeds,
act as demonstration and research centers, and provide practical training in
farm management. Details are at Annex 3, Schedule 1. During loan negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained from NWS that not later than one month from
loan effective date management responsibilities for Gusau seed farm, together
with its assets and staff, would be under the care of GPMU; and that additional
suitable land for the expansion of Gusau seed farm and land for the Kaura
Namoda farm would be made available to the project.
4.09      Training Facilities.  The project would expand boarding accommoda-
tion at the Gusau training center from 20-40 trainees and construct a new
center at Kaura Namoda, also catering for 40 residential trainees. Initially,
the centers would be used for project staff training, but progressively em-
phasis would be on farmer training.
4.10      Farmer Support Services.  The project would expand and intensify
support services for farmers. It would increase the farmer extension person-
nel ratio from the current 1:2,430 to 1:290. This would involve an increase
i in extension agents from 28 to 230.  The extension personnel would include,
besides basic extension agents, personnel specialized in livestock husbandry,
seed multiplication and farm management, farmer training, and farm equipment.
The tractor hire service now operated by MA at a loss would be phased out,
and gradually replaced by project sponsored and assisted private operators.
A credit service would be established to operate a project controlled credit
revolving fund and the contingent services to farmers (para 6.20). A market-
ing service would also be established to improve market liaison, quality
control, price information, produce weighing and to control traders. The
credit and marketing services would employ some 220 staff of various grades;
of these only about 10, mainly produce examiners are now employed by MA.
Consequently, the majority of personnel employed in these services would
receive in-service training from the project (details are at Annex 6).
4.11      Other MA services such as veterinary, fisheries and forestry would
continue to work within the project area, and would coordinate their activi-
ties with GPMU.
4.12      Farm Inputs.  Under the project, seasonal inputs would be made avail-
able to farmers for cash and credit. Such inputs and equipment are estimated
to amount, during the project investment period, to 25,000 tons of fertilizer,
3,000 tons improved seeds, 650 tons insecticides, 30,000 ultra low volume
insecticide sprayers, 5,000 ox carts, 5,000 ox plows and 50 tractors and



- 9 -
associated implements. Inputs and equipment would be sold for cash or credit
at the farm service centers. Details are at Annexes 7 and 8.,,
4.13      Project Evaluation.  A field evaluation unit would be established
to collect relevant data necessary for the evaluation of project actions and
resultant social and economic benefits. Much of the data would be processed
by the evaluation section of the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU)
to be established by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(-MANR) and financed under Funtua Agricultural Development Project loan.
The field evaluation unit would receive technical direction from PNEU, but
would be administered by the project (Annex 9 for details).
4.14      Provision would be made for the necessary support items such as
motor vehicles, equipment, etc. to ensure that the objectives of the project
are fulfilled. Details at Annex 10.
4.15      Post Project Development.  During the project investment period,
MA and GPMU would draw up detailed plans and arrange for the allocation of
staff to allow project services to continue undisrupted to farmers within the
project area after the end of the investment period. Presupposing no radical
changes in NWS organization extension and development services would be handled
by MA's regular provincial organization suitably strengthened; the field evalua-
tion unit would be absorbed by M4A Planning Unit; NSMB would take over market
control and liaison, and the Gusau and Kaura Namoda Development Boardsor any
other appropriate agency would maintain roads and water supplies provided under
the project. Assurances that the the roads and dams would be maintained were
obtained during negotiation.
4.16      During the project the evaluation section of PMEU would consider
various alternatives for the future use and operations of the revolving credit
fund and the supply of farm inputs. It is important that by 1980 credit and
farm supplies should be commercially orientated, and that the institutions
involved should be relatively independent of Government with control in the
hands of participating farmers. Prior to negotiations the intention was tc
set up a Farmer Finance Company to control and operate the revolving credit
fund. During negotiations FIG indicated that it would prefer to postpone
the formation of such a company to a time when (a) further evaluations of
farmer credit institutions and requirements had been made by PMEU during the
first three years of the project; and (b) evidence, if any, of improvements
in the performance of the existing cooperative system under new Federal policy
and guidance. The exclusion of the proposed Farmer Finance Company should have
no adverse effect on the project during the development period, provided that
firm plans are made for the proper transfer of the fund to the appropriate
institution prior to the project's completion. Thus, PMEU would play an
important role in evaluating the problems and requirements for future com-
mercial services to project farmers.



- 10 -
V.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A.  Project Costs
5.01      Project costs are estimated to total N 24.6 million (US$37.4 million)
of which the foreign exchange component would be N 11.6 million (US$17.7 million)
or 47% of total costs.
5.02       The breakdown of project costs is detailed in Annex 10 and is sum-
marized in the following table:
Summary of Project Costs
%             --- N million ---    ---US$ million ----
Distribution    Total  Foreign  Local   Total  Foreign   Local
Inves tment Cos ts
Vehicles, plant
& equipment           (  7           1.7     1.3      0.4      2.6     2.0       0.6
Houses, buildings,   22(
furnishings & con-
struction materials ( 15             3.6      1.1     2.5      5.4      1.7      3.7
Operating Costs in Development Period
Vehicle & plant
operating             (  7           1.6     0.7      0.9      2.4      1.1       1.3
General services         (  5           1.3      0.4     0.9      2.0      0.6       1.4
Staff:  Local            ( 12           3.0       -      3.0      4.6       -        4.6
Expatriate Man-   28(
agement               (  3           0.8     0.8       -       1.2      1.2       -
Expatriate Technical(  1             0.3     0.3       -       0.4      0.4       -
Farm Inputs
Incremental farm inputs( 13             3.3      2.3      1.0     5.0      3.5       1.5
Fertilizer subsidy   23( 10             2.4      1.7     0.7      3.7      2.6       1.1
Evaluation
Field Evaluation Unit  2  2             0.5      0.2     0.3      0.8K    0.3        0.5
Contingencies
Physical                 (  4           0.9      0.4     0.5       1.4     0.6       0.8
25
Price                    ( 21           5.2      2.4     2.8      7.9      3.7       4.2
Total Project Costs                 24.6    11.6    13.0    37.4    17.7        19.7
Distribution %                        100       47      53      100       47        53



- 11 -
5.03      Project costs include a 5% physical contingency, and a variable price
contingency 11 over the proposed five-year loan disbursement period. Contingen-
cies amount to N 6.1 million (US$9.3 million) or 25% of total project costs.
Costs are based on current quotations for vehicles, plant, equipment, materials
and farm inputs; on current contract rates for building construction; and on
up-to-date salary and wage scales inclusive of allowances. Costs of expatriate
staff are based on current international salaries, and include standard benefits
and allowances. In the case of farm inputs, only incremental requirements are
*sted. Participating farmers would, as now, receive a 50% subsidy on tihe cost
of phosphatic and nitrogenous fertilizers and the costs of this subsidy is in-
cluded in project costs. Project costs include import duties and taxes (inter-
nationally recruited staff salaries are estimated net of tax). Total taxes
amount to N 1.2 million (US$1.8 million). Analysis of the costs, Annex 10,
Table 1, shows that 8% (N 1.9 million) is for project administration; 25%
(N 6.0 million) is for extension, credit and market services; 19% (N 4.4 million
is for road, soil and water conservation; 23% (N 5.7 million) for incremental
farm inputs and fertilizer subsidies; 2% (N 0.5 million) for project evalulation;
and 25% (N 6.1 million) for contingencies. Internationally recruited staff
costs are estimated at 4% of total costs, about one third of which would be
for specialized technicians currently unavailable or in critically short sup-
ply in Nigeria.
B. Proposed Financing
5.04      It is proposed that IBRD make a loan of USQ19 million to FMC,
repayable at 8% over 20 years including a five-year grace period for principal
during which interest and commitment ciharges on the loan would be paid.
Equivalent to 51% of total project costs the loan would cover all foreign
costs, estimated at US$17.7 million (N 11.6 million), and 7% of local costs
amounting to US$1.3 million (N 0.9 million).  The US$19 million would be
onlent to the NWS and during negotiations it was agreed that the subsidiarv loan
agreement between FM4C and NWS would have been approved by the Bank.
5.05      NWS would provide N 11.2 million (US$17 million) or 45% of total
project cost as its contribution to project investmenit and operating costs.
NWSG Tne remainder of project costs estiLated at N 0.9 million (US$1.4 million)
or 4% would be contributed by participating farmers in the form of cash pur-
chases of seasonal inputs and down payments on farm equipment.  Details of
the project financing plan are shown at Annex 11, Table 1, and are summar-
ized in the following table:
1/   Based on Central Projects' guidelines for treatment of project costs.
Total price contingency equivalent to 28% of baseline costs.  FCr'il_-zr
costs which have increased out of proportion to other costs, were ameaded
at negotiations to reflect current prices, and because the average cur-
rent 1980 prices have been projected to be about the same as current
1974 price, price contingencies for fertilizers have not been included.



- 12 -
Summary of Proposed Financing
Total      IBRD        NWS      Farmer
… _____________-- N'000… -------------
Investment Costs
Vehicles, plant and equipment           1,752.7    1,330.7      422.0        -
Buildings, construction material,
houses and furnishings               3,574.7    2,144.8   1,429.9        -
Operating Costs in Development Period
Vehicle & plant operating               1,611.9        -      1,611.9       -
General Services                        1,265.7        -      1,265.7       -
Staff:  Local                           3,052.9    1,831.7   1,221.2        -
Expatriate management            784.0       784.0        -         -
Expatriate technical             255.0       255.0       -          -
Farm Inputs
Incremental farm inputs                 3,275.0    2,325.3      238.1      711.6
Fertilizer subsidy                      2,437.3        -      2,437.3       -
Field Evaluation Unit                     494.1      296.5      197.6       -
Contingencies
Physical                                  925.1      448.4      441.1        35.6
Price                                   5,206.1    3,083.6   1,923.2        199.3
Total N'000                      24,634.5   12,500.0  11,188.0        946.5
US$'000                          37,444.4   19,000.00 17,005.7    1,438.7
Distribution %                            100         51         45          4
5.06      It was agreed that as from the date of loan negotiations retroactive
financing of up to US$150,000 would be made for the employment of key personnel
(para 6.09).
C. Procurement
5.07      Procurement of vehicles, plant, equipment, fertilizers, insecticides,
farm tractors and implements, where orders or contracts had a value of more
than US$25,000, would be through international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with IBRD guidelines. Such procurement is estimated to have a
value of about N 7.5 million (US$11.4 million). Domestically manufactured
goods would be allowed a 15% preference when comparing domestic bids with
those of foreign manufacturers. Contracts for the construction of buildings,
houses, and the purchase of construction materials and furnishings valued



- 13 -
at N 3.6 million (US$5.4 million) would not be attractive to foreign con-
tractors, due to the dispersed location of the work and the small size of
individual contracts and orders, and would be awarded under locally advertized
competitive bidding. In the latter case, foreign firms and suppliers would
not be precluded from bidding as such work would be advertized in at least
one local newspaper, but bonafide domestic contractors would receive a 7-1/2%
preference in bid evaluation. Construction of roads, water supplies and soil
conservation works estimated at N 4.4 million (US$6.7 million) would be carried
out on force account due to the shortage of suitable medium scale contractors
who normally would undertake this work, however petty contractors would be
em} oyed to the maximum extent feasible.  A large part of project costs, an
estimated N 7.6 million (US$11.6 million), would be for labor, staff salaries
and allowances, vehicle maintenance and operation, general services, and
project evaluation, and as such generally be unsuitable for competitive bid-
ding. Those items not included specifically under procedures for ICB or
local competitive bidding would be purchased through local commercial channels.
The remaining N 6.1 million (US$9.3 million) of project costs would be contin-
gencies. Nigeria has no preferential import tariff arrangements and competi-
tion between foreign manufacturers on the domestic market is keen.
D. Disbursement
5.08      The proceeds of the Bank loan (US$19 million) would be disbursed
over five years (1975/76-1979/80) to cover 51% of total project costs and
would be expended against the following categories:
100% of the cif cost of directly imported vehicles,
heavy plant, and equipment (Annex 10, Table 2) or 76%
of the cost of these items if locally procured totalling
US$2.0 million (N 1.3 million);
100% of the cif cost of directly imported farm tractors
and equipment, ox drawn equipment, spraying machines,
fertilizers, insecticides, battery sets and seeds (Annex
7, Tables 2-5) or 71% of the cost of these items if pro-
cured locally totalling US$3.5 million (N 2.3 million);
100% of the cost of internationally recruited staff
(Annex 10, Table 4) totalling US$1.6 million (N 1.0 million);
60% of the cost of buildings, houses, furnishings, and
construction material and labor for roads, dams and
soil conservation works (Annex 10, Table 3) totalling
US$3.2 million (N 2.2 million);
60% of local staff costs (Annex 10, Table 4) totalling
US$2.8 million (N 1.8 million);



- 14 -
60% of the cost of the field evaluation unit
(Annex 9, Table 1) US$0.5 million (N 0.3 million);
and
an unallocated amount totalling US$5.4 million (X 3.6
million) to cover physical and price contingencies.
5.09      Disbursements of the Bank loan would be against import documentation,
contracts and certified records of expenditures. For disbursements made against
certified records of expenditures, documentation would not be submitted for
review as a matter of course, but would be retained by the project management
unit for scrutiny by Bank supervision missions. Any surplus loan funds after
the completion of the project would be used to further develop the project
area providing expanded services to farmers.
E. Budgetary Control Funding Procedures Accounts and Audit
5.10      Budgets.  Annual budgets would be prepared by GPMU and approved
by GPEC for inclusion in the MA development budget. The initial budget
would use as its base the cost estimates set out in this report, but would
be amended where necessary to tie in with changes in costs and project poli-
cies and development schedules. Major changes in policies and procedures
would have to be approved by GPEC and the Bank. GPMU would, thereafter,
amend its monthly cash flow statement indicating costs, revenues and working
capital requirements. These monthly statements would be submitted to GPEC
for monitoring but GPMU would be authorized to operate on such monthly state-
ments unless officially informed to the contrary by the Chairman of GPEC.
Assurances that the above arrangements would be employed were obtained from
NWS during negotiations.
5.11      Funding Procedures.  On the basis of the annual budget approved by
GPEC, NWS would make the necessary allocations in its annual development
budget to cover its contribution to project costs as well as about 25% of
the remaining annual costs of the project to meet working capital require-
ments, the latter amounting to about N 0.6 million. In order to insure an
adequate flow of funds to the Project, assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that when necessary adequate guaranteed draw down procedures would
be made by NWS with a bank of its choice to allow GIMU full access to funds
within the limitation of the approved annual budget. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, NWS would furnish the Bank with satisfactory evidence that a
project bank account, with adequate funds, had been established.
5.12      Accounts and Audit.  Accounts for GPMU would be kept under acceptable
commercial accounting procedures. However, such accounts would be set up to
facilitate the retrieval of cost accounting and project evaluation data, as
well as for audit control. All the accounts would be audited annually by in-
dependent auditors, mutually acceptable to NWS, FMG and the Bank. Audited
annual accounts, balance sheets and operating statements for GPMU would be



- 15 -
submitted simultaneously to NWS, FMG and the Bank within four months of the
closing of the financial year. During negotiations, assurances to these
effects were obtained.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Oranization
6.01      The project being the first of its kind in the State would have to
be carefully controlled. Because of its size and reponsibilities for various
development aspects not normally associated with any one Government Ministry,
it would need a degree of autonomy not normally Riven to Ministerial Depart-
ments.- Thus, the project would be implemented by the Gusau Project ge-
ment Unit (GPMU), headed by a Project Manager who would be responsible to the
Gusau Project Executive              PEG); the chairman of which would be the
Permanenfety of the Ministry of Agriculture oE NWS.  GPMU would have                :2
its headquarters at Gusau, the main center of the project area, GPMJ would   .
coordinate its activities with other similar projects at a Federal level
through a Federal CoordinatinRommittee. As a condition of loan effectiveness,
the North Western State Executive Council would gazette an order, acceptajble
to FMG and the Bank, establishing GPMT, setting out its terms of reference
and responsibilities.  Assurances to this effect were obtaTLned during nego-
tiations (a draft proposal for the order is shown at Annex 6, Schedule 2).
6.02      Gusau Project Executive Committee would, inter alia, determine
policy, coordinate project activities with those of associated State Ministries
and Departments, ezrcise budgPt-ry n   audit-e*utrol, approve the appointment
of professional grade staff, and review and set salary scales. GPEC would meet
at least once a quarter and would comprise:  the Permanent SretJariMA_as
Chairman, and representatives of_the Ministries of Finance, Local Government,
Works and EcQn     1auL  4gX NWS Water Board, a representative of the Federal   (f
Department of Agriculture, Chief Agricultural Officer for the North Western
State, and two members residing in the project area to be appointed by the
Military Governor. The Project Manager would be Secretary of GPEC.
6.03      A Federal Coordinating Committee would be established to review the
progress of the Gusau and similar projects in the northern States, It would
provide coordination between other Bank-financed agricultural projects oLf
similar nature in northern Nigeria, and would insure a full exchange of ideas
and results. In its review of project progress, it would be aided by the
evaluation section of the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PIEU) set
up under the Bank loan for the Funtua Agricultural Development Project.  The
committee would meet at least twice a year and would comprise: The Director
of the Federal                                   as            ChaCief- Agricultural
Planning OfficerJFDA)_-as Secretary; a representative from the respective
project executive committees;,Project Managers of Gusau, Gombe and Funtua.-
Director of the Institute of Agricultural Research, the Head of PMEU evalua-
tion section; representatives of NAB and _N21liC; and representatives of the
Federal Ministry of Finance. During negotiations assurances were obtained



- 16 -
that a Federal Coordinating Committee would be established, with terms of
reference and composition satisfactory to the Bank, within 3 months of loan
effectiveness.
6.04      Project Administration would fall under the direct responsibility
of the Project Manager for all operational procedures and actions. He would
be responsible to GPEC. The GPEC, in consultation with the Project Manager,
would appoint one of the senior project staff as Deputy Project Manager. The
Project Manager would be assisted by: Chief Administrative Officer, Chief
Accountant, Chief Technical Officer, Chief Engineer, Chief Marketing Officer,
and Credit Manager (Annex 6, Schedule 3 provides details of the tasks of key
personnel). A summary showing the functions of the project's six operational
sections follows:
(a) Administration Section would be responsible for all project
personnel matters, staff transportation, registry, security and
public relations.
(b) Finance Section would be responsible for project accounts,
procurement, stores, internal audit, budget control and
would set up systems to provide accurate cost accounts for
evaluation and management purposes.
(c) Technical Services Section would be responsible for farm
extension advice, staff and farmer training, seed multipli-
cation, farm management advice to larger farmers, and tractor
hire services. The main development effort would be through
the extension service and structurally it would consist of
four development unit centers based on the towns of Chafe,
Kotorkoshi, Bungudu and Kaura Namoda, each headed by a Devel-
opment officer, 1/ who would supervise agricultural assistants
(AA) posted to service centers in each of the 40 villages of
the project area. Each AA would supervise an average of four
field supervisors (FS) who would live in the hamlets
associated with each village and who would work with the
hamlet farmers and their committees. In this way, the ex-
tension system would be tailored to the traditional village
structure.
(d) Credit Services Section. Credit services would work parallel
with the extension services. Credit Officers would be posted
to Development Unit Centers, and two Credit Assistants to each
farm service center.
1/   Normally the minimum grade of the officer filling this post would be
that of agricultural officer. However, in the early stages of the pro-
ject, it is likely that most of the posts would be filled by agricultural
superintendents.



- 17 -
(e)  Market Services Section would monitor the existing marketing
system, liaise and provide market information for buyers and
farmers, control the activities of Licensed Buying Agents (LBA),
and supervise the work of produce examiners (PE). A Marketing
Supervisor would be assisted by two Marketing Assistants posted
to each Development Unit Center and a Produce Examiner would be
posted to each market. Market Services would be responsible
for the logistics involved in procurement of farm inputs and
for their distribution and handling. As such, the produce
examiner would carry out the functions of store keeper when the
markets are closed.
(f)  Engineering Services Section would be a specialized service
responsible for land use planning, road construction, water
development, soil conservation, building supervision and work-
shop management. It would prepare tender documentation for
procurement of engineering equipment and supplies, supervise
building contractors, and implement all construction aspects
of the project not undertaken by contractors. It would main-
tain project vehicles and equipment.
6.05      Field evaluation would be directed by the Evaluation Section of
PNEU. The field enumeration staff would be administratively responsible to
the Project Manager. Details of the field unit are at Annex 9.
B. Staffin'
6.06      Both Federal and State Governments recognize the need for qualified
and experienced staff to administer the project and assure high technical
standards in its field implementation. The northern States are generally short
of qualified personnel to fill key project management and senior technical
posts, and the demand for personnel with such expertise is high. 7NWS is fully
aware of the problem of staffing the project adequately and is prepared to rn-
cruit staff internationally where qualified Nigerian personnel are not avail
Medium level technical and administrative staff needed for the project are
erally available in Nigeria, though not necessarily in the North Western StaLe.
Most lower level staff needs would be met from within the State: existing
civil servants; or the output of existing training schemes; or staff recruited
and trained directly by the project.
6.07      Management Staff.  International recruitment is expected to be
necessary for the Project Manager, Chief Accountant, Credit Manager, Chief
Engineer, and Chief Marketing Officer.  The Chief Administrative Officer and
Chief Technical Officer would be Nigerian appointments. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that the qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment of appointees to the above posts would be mutually
acceptable to the Bank and to NWS. A condition of effectiveness would be that
the Project Manager, Chief Administrative Officer, Chief Accountant, Chief
Engineer and Chief Technical Officer had been appointed.



- 18 -
6.08      High Level Technical Staff.  Nigeria is critically short of expe-
rienced technical personnel. Given the shortage of experienced and available
technical staff it is likely that a farm manager, a seeds officer, a land use
planner. a road engineer, a mechanical engineer, a water and soil conservation
engineer and a senior evaluation officer would have to be recruited inter-
nationally. During negotiations assurances were obtained that their quali-
fications and terms and conditions of employrment would be acceptable to the
Bank and NWS.
6.09      Medium Level Staff.  Professional officer (e.g., Agricultural Offi-
cer) or senior technical officer (e.g., Agricultural Superintendent) grades
would be recruited from within the State or from other States in Nigeria.
All field technical, credit and marketing service staff would be required to
be Hausa speaking. Medium and lower level staff exist, although many are
assigned currently to nonproductive posts. During negotiations assurances
were obtained from NWS that a minimum of 2 Agricultural Officers, 12 agri-
cultural superintendents and 41 agricultural assistants or experienced
agricultural instructors would be made available to the project during the
first two years.
6.10      Where possible project staff, particularly agricultural staff, would
be appointed to the project as Government employees on full pensionable service.
Expatriate staff and other Nigerian staff such as engineers, credit and market-
ing personnel would be appointed on three year contracts renewable on negotia-
tion. Salaries would generally follow acceptable Government scales. Every
effort would be made to avoid transfer of staff away from the project, except
on the grounds of unsuitability, and assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that transfers of senior staff into and from the project organization
would be undertaken only after consultation with GPEC.
6.11      Project staff of technical grades (or equivalent) and above would be
provided with project housing both at Gusau and in the field. Nontechnical
grades such as field supervisors (FS) and produce examiners (PE), as well as
clerks, drivers, messengers etc.would be expected to find their own accommoda-
tion in the towns and villages. At the discretion of project management,
staff would be provided with project transport. Project staff would qualify
for normal Government allowances. Annex 10, Tables 3-4 gives details. Due
to expected delays in construction of houses, costs are included for renting
private accommodation (Annex 10, Table 6).
C. Staff Training
6.12      GPMU would undertake the training of lower level staff through
special courses at project training centers (para 4.09). The training of
higher level staff would be undertaken on an inservice basis. GPMU would pay
particular attention to training selected staff to fill managerial positions
as these are vacated by internationally recruited personnel (see Annex 6,



- 19 -
Tables 1-5 for possible schedule) and would undertake as requested to train
staff to be employed for other NWS development projects. Such staff would
receive practical management training on the project and would have the
opportunity of decision making at various levels within the project, but
would retain executive responsibility for their own section of the project.
NWS and the Bank would ensure that adequate training of potential management
staff was undertaken, and GPM4U management would report regularly on the pro-
gress of project training.
D. Farm Inputs - Procurement and Distribution and Credit Procedures
6.13      The project would be responsible for the procurement, distribution
and sale, for cash or credit, of fertilizers, seeds, insecticides, sprayers,
oxdrawn equipment, tractors, and other necessary farm supplies; and would
decide on the suitability and composition of any package of inputs offered
to farmers. It is expected that 75% of seasonal inputs and 100% of farm
equipment would be sold on credit. The value of inputs sold during the
project life is estimated at N 4.9 million for fertilizer, N 1.7 million for
insecticides, seeds, and batteries; and N 1.6 million for farm equipment, a
total of N 8.2 million. The net cash requirement for inputs would be N 5.7
million of which N 2.4 million would be the NWS subsidy on fertilizers.
Annex 7 describes farm inputs and their procurement.
6.14      Project marketing services would be responsible, on advice of the
technical staff, for the procurement of farm inputs and for the logistics
involved in their handling within the project area.
6.15      Currently NWS subsidises nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers
by between 30 and 50% of their cost delivered MA store. The actual rate
depends on the efficiency and cost of NWS handling. Under the project
farmers would receive nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizer at 50% of cost
cif farm service center. Such a subsidy is justified (a) as an incentive
for farmers to use fertilizer, 1/ and (b) to compensate for generally low
marketing board prices for statutory marketed crops. During loan negotiatio
assurances were obtained that the present subsidy on nitrogenous and phos-
phatic fertilizers would be maintained. Currently insecticides receive a
50% subsidy. However as usage is insignificant at present and the benefits
of their use clearly discernible and profitable insecticides would be sold
to farmers at their full cost.
Farm Credit
6.16      The organization of the delivery and recovery of farm credit is
described in Annex 8. The net incremental credit requirement and gross credit
disbursed during the five year project period is estimated at N 2.6 million,
and N 4.4 million respectively.
1/   The gross cost of fertilizer is high in northern Nigeria, and to induce
the farmer to use more fertilizer subsidies are an added incentive.
Fertilizer subsidies are general throughout Nigeria.



- 20 -
6.17      GPMU would set up a revolving credit fund to be operated by the
Credit Services Section of the project. Prior to the beginning of each
planting season, a schedule of proposed lending terms would be furnished by
GPMU to GPEC, which after consultation with appropriate Nigerian authorities
and the Bank would apply the lending terms for the said season. Interest
rates for sub-loans would be between 5-9-1/2%, and would be determined on a
basis of the category of farmers or type of inputs to be provided. Assurances
to these effects were obtained during negotiations.
6.18      As a basis for preparing crop budgets shown at Annex 1, it is as-
sumed that GPMU would lend at a flat service rate of 10%, a charge that can
be afforded by the farmers and would include sufficient margin to cover bad
debts etc. Repayments would be made for seasonal loans within 12 months;
sprayers over 2 years; ox drawn equipment over 3 years; and tractors and
implements over 4 years. Except in cases of crop failure, when a moratorium
would be declared by GPEC, a borrower not repaying his loan by the due date
would be charged a penalty of 1% per month. Funds have not been specifically
provided under the loan for cash credits to cover the employment of farm
labor, as it is considered that any additional labor requirement will be
met from within the family unit, particularly as the project is directed
towards the small family operatee farm holding. However, in the light of
current changes in Nigeria, specifically the advent of compulsory free
education, the need for hired labor may increase. During the project life
GPMU in association with PIMEU would establish the parameters, if any, for
cash credits, and the logistics involved in their disbursement and collec-
tion. If the findings are positive, the Government and the Bank would agree
on the utilization of local funds or disbursements from undisbursed portions
of the Bank loan.
6.19      The revolving credit fund is an intimate part of the project, and
of necessity has to evolve into a more permanent institution so that farmers
can utilize its funds after the project is completed. Such an institution
might take the form of cooperatives, farmer finance companies, or branches
of state or national credit banks. So as to ensure a proper transfer of
responsibilities the evaluation section of PMEU would, as one of its duties,
determine the future institutional form of the fund, taking into account the
performance of existing lending institutions and the needs of the farmers
(see para 4.16).
6.20      Operating procedures, which are described in Annex 8 would be
subject to modification as necessary, would be devised by the project credit
service but would include the following essential components: lending would
be limited to input items carried by the project at its farm service center
stores, and be in amounts specified on a simple farm management plan drawn
up for each borrower by extension service staff. Sale of items would be
recorded on a bookkeeping machine. As the farm service centers develop into
the main markets for cash crops, farmers would be encouraged to repay their
debts to GPMU at time of sale. All borrowers would nave a laminated identity
card containing their photograph, serial number, and signature or mark to
facilitate identification and record keeping.



- 21 -
6.21      The creditworthiness of each loan applicant would be certified by
his hamlet or village head, or a project approved farmers association; this
would be part of the mutual guarantee policy that GPMU would pursue. Under
this, once a year GPMU would review all hamlet accounts, and where defaults
were found the village, hamlet or farmer association authorities, whichever
the smallest unit, would be informed of their defaulters and urged to collect
from defaulters, unless due cause is presented for default. If defaults
were not made good, GPMU would withhold credit to all farmers in the default-
ing unit. It is believed that this technique would be a powerful influence in
avoiding default, under northern Nigerian circumstances. Provision would be
lade to extend credit to groups or to village farmer associations if farmers
wish to pool the input requirements and assume joint liability for the credit.
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETS_ FAMEMRS' BENEFITS AND
IN~dANCIAL IMPLICATION TO GOVERNMENT
A. Yields and Outputs
7.01      The complexity of cropping mixtures and patterns in the project
area make yield variations between farms inevitable and substantial. It has
been assumed, however, that by project maturity in 1980 project area farmers
would fall into one of two categories for each of the five crops that would be
influenced by the project. The categories would be determined by the extent to
which the farmer had taken up improved practices. Details are given in Annex 1.
Yield improvements and increases in gross production due to project actions
are summarized for each of the five crops:
-       Before Development---     ----After Development----
Area  Av. Yield  Total Prod.    Area  Av. Yield  Total Prod.
(ha)   (kg/ha)  ('000 mi tons)   (ha)   (kg/ha)  ('000 m tons)
Seed Cotton   41,500      230            9       49,500      460           23
Sorghum        75,000     600           45       69,000      820           56
Maize i         1,000      700            1      12,500   1,740            22
Groundnuts    37,000      430           16       38,750      640           25
Cowpea          2,500     200            0.5      5,000      410            2
7.02      Yield improvements are conservative and fall well within experimental
and field results obtained in northern Nigeria and other similar ecological
zones elsewhere in West Africa.   The proposed crop inputs to achieve these
expected increase have been well tested, and are economic. Further details
are at Annexes 1 and 3.



- 22 -
B. Markets and Prices
7.03      Currently, food crops grown in the project area are marketed via
rural markets. Marketing is not efficient since although local competition
may be strong, the market open to the farmers is very small and only a
fraction of the national market. The main defects spring from the fragmented
nature of the market and farmers' lack of both accurate information and
bargaining power; the project would seek to rectify this position (details
are given in Annex 12, paras 38 and 39).
7.04      Following an FMG announcement in early 1973, statutory marketing
of cotton and groundnuts together with other cash crops in Nigeria is under-
going a series of organizational changes which include: (a) federal respon-
sibility for producer price determination and support price policies; this
could lead eventually to subsidization of primary and secondary marketing
operations by FMG; (b) abolition of produces taxes; (c) closer relationship
between world and producer prices and thus an end to indirect taxation through
accumulation of surpluses by the Marketing Boards; and (d) the Northern
States MIarketing Board (NSIB) becoming an agent for the Nigerian Produce
Marketing Company (NPMC), the latter wholly owned by FGN now being the price
controlling and setting organization within the statutory system. The
reforms are being effected, and the 1974 producer prices reflect the actual
world market situation and should provide considerable production incentives.
7.05      As there is need for considerable improvement in primary marketing,
the project would take various measures to improve marketing in general.
More specifically, the project would provide improved weighing and measuring
devices and village storage facilities, and would relocate markets to improve
the ease of crop marketing. For the statutory crops a number of marketing
reforms would be necessary, such reforms initially to be confined to the
project areas include: (a) timely announcement of producer prices (b) pro-
vision of adequate funds to LBA for produce purchase; (c) establishment and
enforcement of quality standards; and (d) disciplining of inefficient or
dishonest LBA and produce inspection staff.
7.06      During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(i) NWS would cause NSMB to pay particular attention to
efficient produce buying within the project area; and
(ii) where necessary encourage groups of farmers to
operate as Licensed Buying Agents within the
Project Area.
7.07      Producer prices for industrial and export crops, such as cotton
and groundnuts, are expected under the new FMG policies to improve during the
early years of the project, but would then be expected to decline by 1980 in
line with prices projected by the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections
Department. Food crop prices are expected to decline somewhat from present



- 23 -
levels in consequence of more intensive cereal production in the project area
but are expected to remain substantially above world (export parity) prices.
The crop budgets shown in Annex 1 and farmers' budgets discussed below use
projected 1980 producer prices, expressed in 1974 constant Naira, as shown in
the following table:
Present and Future Prices for Project Crops
(N/metric ton)
Cotton   Groundnuts   Maize    Sorghum    Cowpeas
fob        fob         cif       cif         cif
Nieria~n Port
1972                        490         156         50         47
1973                        520         220          80        77
1980                        636         156          69        63
Financial Producer Price
1972                        110          68           -         -           -
1973                        130          93           -         -          95
1980                        203          93          86        90          91
Economic Producer Price
1980                        268         129          76        74          99
C. Farmer Benefits
7.08      Farmers participating in project activities would obtain substantial
direct income benefits through utilizing project services and inputs. Addi-
tional indirect benefits due to improved roads, water supplies, soil conser-
vation and marketing would accrue to all farmers within the project area.
7.09      Estimated direct benefits have been calculated on a per ha basis
for the five principal crops.  The summarized crop budgets below indicate
the overall benefits of improved technology over traditional practices, and
in particular show the possibilities of maize as a major cash crop within the
area.



- 24 -
Level of Technology
Traditional      Intermediate
- __________N ------------
Net Return/ha, excluding
Labor Costs
Cotton                         41.6           94.0 (1.82) /1
Groundnuts                     35.5           64.3 (0.92)
Sorghum                        50.0           79.3 (2.32)
MLaize                         60.4          135.6 (3.8)
Cowpeas                        16.5           49.6 (1.82)
/1   (  ) incremental return to incremental labor requirement
(N/manday).
7.10 The report has made no attempt to produce a typical farm budget
since farm sizes and production combinations vary considerably throughout
the project area, and any such budget would not be realistic. Instead,
expected farmer benefits have been derived from a series of crop budgets
for 1 ha units of production. Project actions would result in measurable
additions to net family incomes totalling N 4.2 million per annum in 1979.
Studies undertaken in areas similar to the project show net farm incomes
including income from livestock and the value of produce consumed to be in
the order of N 145 (US$220) per family or about N 27 (US$41) per capita.
The net income for the five project crops accounts for about N 143 (US$217)
per family. The additional net income derived from the improved output of
tne five crops would be N 62 (US$94) per family, an increase of 43%. The
average per capita income would increase from US$41 to US$55. Such an im-
provement infers a growth in net farm income of 6% per annum and would appear
feasible given efficient project management.
D. Financial Implication for Government
7.11      The cash flow for NWS is summarized in Annex 11, Table 2.  The aver-
age cost to NWS inclusive of loan servicing, would be about N 2.5 million
annually until 1995. Tnereafter the cost would be reduced to N 1.0 million
annually. Considerable reduction, in Government support finance, could be
made if and when the fertilizer subsidy is reduced or totally removed; such
savings would amount to N 1.1 million annually. NWS could further recoup
up to N 2.6 million when the revolving credit fund is institutionalized,
thereby allowing NWS to retire part or all of its capital. The recent aboli-
tion of produces taxes on statutdry crops throughout Nigeria, including cotton
and groundnuts, would result in NWS receiving no tangible financial benefits
from the project.



- 25 -
7.12      The Federal Government would, through secondary or tertiary mul.
tiplier benefits, conservatively estimated for Nigeria at between 8 to 20t,
collect indirect taxation revenues of about N 0.7 million annually.
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project's principal direct benefit would be the incremental
increase in farm production that it would generate, and which would result
dire. .:ly in higher incomes for some 41,000 farm families and better living
standards for a further 27,000 who would benefit through the improved
infrastructure and marketing arrangements within the project area. If the
non-farming population, traders, laborers, etc., are included, then about
620,000 people would in one way or other receive primary or secondary benefits
through project activities. The economic rate of return from investment in
the project is estimated at 16%. Important assumptions used in the calcula-
tion at Annex 13 are:
(a)  a shadow wage rate of N 0.40 per 6-hr manday, as against the
official rate of N 0.60;
(b)  the exclusion of identifiable taxes from economic costs;
(c)  a shadow foreign exchange rate of US$1.27 per N 1.00 as
against the official rate of US$1.52 per N 1.00;
(d)  economic farmgate prices for 1980 in 1974 constant Naira
as projected by the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections
Division (para 7.07) based on export parity for groundnuts
and cotton and import substitution for maize, sorghum and
cowpeas; and
(e)  the exclusion of water and associated soil conservation
development costs and the cost of the field evaluation unit
since the benefits attributed to them are intangible.
8.02      If no adjustment is made for t' shadow rate of foreign exchange,
the economic rate of return would be reduced to 8%. It is possible that
the project might not meet the proposed production targets for a number of
reasons, including poor management, lack of farmer response, and the possible
failure of delivery of farm inputs due to uncontrollable circumstances; and
as such it is important to test the economic rate of return against various
levels of reduced production and the associated reduction in farm inputs,
allowing all other factors to remain constant. This analysis is set out
below:



- 26 -
Production Levels as Percentage of Estimated Project Output
100%    90%    80%    70%    60%    50%
Economic rate of
return (%)               16     14      12      9       6      2
8.03      Such a sensitivity analysis indicates that the project would remain
viable even when production targets fall short by as much as 30%.  Production
at levels lower than 70% of target would infer the need for restructuring of
overhead investments, including reductions in staff and associated invest-
ments. A comprehensive sensitivity analysis is shown at Annex 13.
8.04      The project would have important secondary benefits that would
accrue both to the people of the project area, and for the State and
Federation as a whole. The more important ones would be for:
(a)  the people of the project area would benefit from (i) a general
improvement in communications and public utilities, due to
project actions initiating change and providing a basis for
extending, by other Government institutions, social improvements
including health and education; (ii) an expected increase in
local trade that would offer better opportunities of employment
for the non-farming population; and (iii) strengthening of
local institutions including the local authorities and local
departments of Government;
(b)  the North Western State would benefit principally through part
of its population being stabilized and becoming more productive.
Increased net employment accounting for 8,000 man-years per
annum would result from projected actions. The State would be
able to use the project to test new development ideas that could,
if successful, be easily transposed together with trained staff
to other areas. The Ministry of Agriculture would be streng-
thened, and would derive from the project new credit and marketing
techniques that could be easily applied to other State farmers.
The project would set up a seed multiplication center that
would provide seed to other farmers elsewhere in the State.
Finally, the project would produce additional raw material
and would demand additional input resources to support the
growth of the State's industrial expansion;
(c)  the Federal Republic of Nigeria would benefit from annual net
incremental foreign exchange earnings amounting at full
production to N 4.2 million (US$5.7 million).   Project
evaluation through the project-established evaluation unit
would provide a wealth of information that could assist in
determining Federal agricultural policy, and resource and
financial allocations throughout Nigeria.



- 27 -
8.05      Even though the economic rate of return appears favorable, in the
long run indirect tangible benefits and intangible benefits may prove far
more valuable than direct tangible benefits. Improved farm management
practices and profits to farming would far outlive the project. A step would
be taken in the right direction to reduce income disparity and to ensure a
more even food supply for Nigeria's urban populations and expanding commercial
livestock industries. Perhaps most importantly the people of the project
area would have the peace of mind that would come from more assured water
supplies in the dry season, the added confidence in an improved marketing
sys, m, the satisfaction of a little more money to spend, and the hope that
they and their children would live a little better in the future.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations an assurance was obtained from FMG that the
Federal Coordinating Committee would be established with terms of reference
and composition satisfactory to the Bank within 3 months of loan effectiveness
(para 6.03).
9.02      During negotiations assurances were obtained from NWS that:
(a)  any future ginning agreement would not adversely affect
present arrangements as to the production, marketing or
ginning of cotton within the project area (para 3.08);
(b)  management responsibilities for Gusau seed  farm together
with its assets and staff would come under the care of GPMU;
and that suitable land would be made available for the ex-
pansion for Gusau seed farm and for the development of
Kaura Namoda seed farm (para 4.08);
(c)  Gusau and Kaura Namoda Development Boards or any other
appropriate agency would maintain roads and water supplies
provided under the project (para 4.15);
(d)  GPEC would be responsible for approval of GPMU annual budgets
and monthly cash flow statements, and GPMU would be authorized
to operate on such monthly statements unless officially in-
formed to the contrary by the Chairman of GPEC (para 5.10);
(e)  when necessary adequate guaranteed draw-down procedures would
be made with a bank of its choice to allow GPMU full access
to funds within the limitation of the approved annual budget
(para 5.11);
(f)  audited annual accounts for GPMU would be prepared by inde-
pendent auditors, mutually acceptable to NWS and the Bank,
and would be submitted simultaneously to the Bank, NWS and FMG
within 4 months of the closing of the financial year (para 5.12);



- 28 -
(g) the qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of the Project Manager, Chief Accountant, Credit
Manager, Chief Engineer, Chief Marketing Officer, Chief
Technical Officer and Chief Administrative Officer would be
acceptable to the Bank and NWS (para 6.07);
(h) a farm manager, a seeds officer, a farm management advisor,
a land use planner, a road engineer, a mechanical engineer,
a water and soil conservation engineer and a senior evaluation
officer would be appointed with qualifications and terms and
conditions of employment acceptable to the Bank and NWS
(para 6.08);
(i) a minimum of 2 agricultural officers, 12 agricultural super-
intendents and 41 agricultural assistants or experienced
agricultural instructors would be made available to the
project during the first two years (para 6.09);
(j) transfer of senior staff into and from the project would be
undertaken only after consultation with GPEC (para 6.10);
(k) the present subsidy on nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers
would be maintained (para 6.15);
(1) interest rates for subloans would be between 5-9 1/2%, and
prior to the beginning of each planting season a schedule of
proposed lending terms would be furnished by GPMU to GPEC
which in consultation with appropriate Nigerian Authorities
and the Bank would apply the lending terms for the said
season (para 6.17); and
(m)  (i) NWS would cause the NSMB to pay particular attention
to its efficient produce buying within the project area,
and (ii) where necessary encourage groups of farmers to
operate as Licensed Buying Agents within the project area
(para 7.06).
9.03      Retroactive financing would be available for the employment of key
personnel (para 6.07) appointed as from date of loan negotiations amounting
to no more than US$150,000 (para 5.06).
9.04      Conditions of effectiveness of loan would be that:
(a) NWS would furnish the Bank with satisfactory evidence that
a project bank account with adequate funds had been estab-
lished (para 5.11);
(b) North Western State Executive Council had officially estab-
lished GPEC and GPMU with terms of reference and responsibilities
mutually acceptable to the Bank and NWS (para 6.01); and



- 29 -
(c) the Project Manager, Chief Administrative Officer, Chief
Accountant, Chief Engineer, and Chief Technical Officer
would have been appointed (para 6.07).
9.05      On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the project
would be suitable for a US$19 million loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricultural Development Project
Farm and Crop Development
A. General
1.        The major crops in the project area are sorghum and millet, cotton,
groundnuts and cowpeas. Minor crops include maize, svgarcane, chilies and
okra. Production data for cotton and groundnuts are compiled from purchases
by the Northern States Marketing Board (NSMB) (Tables 1 and 2). No pro-
duction data are available for other crops; nor is there other than qualita-
tive information on farmers' yields, farm sizes or cropping patterns.
However, a detailed economic survey of three villages in a similaj,social
and ecological area has been carried out and published recently. -   For this
reason, the survey has been used as a basis for the formulation of assump-
tions on present and projected farming activities.
2.        Cattle, sheep and goats are kept throughout the project area by
farmers, and in substantially larger numbers by semi-nomadic pastoralists
(Fulani). The latter utilize fallow land (a rapidly diminishing resource),
forest and grazing reserves, and crop residues for their livestock. They
exist in an increasingly uneasy symbiosis with settled cultivators as
pressure on land increases with rising populations. Livestock management
systems are generally poor and productivity is low. There are no reliable
data on stock numbers.
3.        Cultivations are carried out mainly by hand hoe and cutlass.  How-
ever, a small, and unquantified number of farmers are known to own work
oxen and equipment. The MA tractor hiring service plows and ridges land
for farmers at subsidized rates but its overall impact is negligible.
B. The Influence of Climate on Cropping
4.        From May to October, the widest range between mean monthly maximum
and minimum temperatures is 1000 to 70° F (380 C to 210 C). At project area
altitudes of 600 to 900 m cold spells do not cause any problems and rainfall
is the major factor for limiting crop growth. Monthly and annual data for
1/   An Economic Survey of three villages in Zaria Province, Samaru
Miscellaneous Paper 37, 1972: D. W. Norman



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Cusau Agricultural Station are given at Table 3. Instead of presenting
these in the traditional manner, they have been arranged in rank order to
provide an estimate of probability. Thus the modal value (half above and
half below) provides a demonstrable 50% probability not normally associated
with arithmetic average. However, for a basically subsistence agriculture
a more stringent requirement is appropriate and an 80% probability has been
chosen. At this probability rainfall is still quite adequate for crop
growth though the farmer can expect no rain in April and October, and
therefore his cropping season, compared to other more favorable areas is
reduced from 6 to 5 months. Rainfall distribution is critical to favorable
production, and the bumper crop years have always been associated with
seasons with extended rainfall at the beginning and end of season. Basically
the farmer is a pretty busy fellow who has limited resources for carrying
out his land preparation and subsequent cultivation. Thus eight years out
of ten he can expect sufficient rain in I-lay to allow timely cultivation and
subsequent planting operations (see Table 4). If the sequence is broken
then late planting particularly of cotton and sorghum occurs, which result
in low yields. Thus provision of oxdrawm equipment should allow for more
timely land preparation. In addition to the ever present risk of shortfall
of rain, the farmer in the Gusau area must also expect heavy rainfall
especially in August. Therefore if the farmer has not been able to sow
early enough in May he would run the risk, with poor plant cover, of suffering
from severe soil erosion and run-off. Attention should be paid to improve-
ment in soil and water conservation practices.  As a final comment, the
distribution pattern of the actual past few years is worthy of attention.
Against the modal annual value of 35.7 in (907 mm) the last 5 years have
all been lower but not markedly so. In fact, one of the most productive
agricultural seasons, 1969-70, was from the quite modest annual total of
33 in (838 mm). But what has happened during the past 2 years is that
September rainfall in 1972 was the lowest for over 40 years, that is a
probability occurrence of only 2 1/2 times in 100. As if this was not
enough, the same probability applied to the May 1973 rainfall, rainfall
amounted to only 0.2 in for a month for which half of the year's exceeded
4 in. But examination of the actual yearly rainfall does support the view
that the area has been singularly unfortunate without, however, supporting
the view that the area is becoming drier.
C. Farming Systems
Farm Size
5.        Although no detailed surveys have been carried out, field observa-
tions tend to verify estimates based on population and proportion of cropped
land derived from study of aerial photography mosaics of the area. These
point to a mean farm size of 3.5 ha.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Size of Farm Family
6.        The Norman study -/ reports an average farm family of 8.5.  This
is not considered to be typical of the project area, where local opinion
and published statistics point to an average farm family approximating 6.5.
Composition is assumed to be as follows:
Small      Large       Female       Male          Total
Child      Child       Adult        Adult       Residents
1.7        1.0         2.2          1.6           6.5
Labor Availability
7.        Labor availabilitT,in mandays per day, on the basis of manday
equivalents used by Norman - would be as follows:
Small     Large      Female      Male
Child     Child      Adult       Adult       Total
Farm family                  1.7       1.0        2.2         1.6         6.5
Manday equivalents            -        0.5        0.75        1.0
Available mandays             -        0.5        1.65        1.6         3.75
In the Zaria study -  male adult labor accounted for 80 percent
of the total family labor input; female adult labor was insignificant.
Thus, assuming 50 percent availability of labor from the large child in an
average farm family, daily labor availability would approximate 2.0 mandays.
8.        Labor requirements assessed by Norman 1/ on traditional methods
of cultivation, which imply mixed cropping and low yields, appear to be low
relative to data on similar crops grown under comparable conditions in other
areas. Substantially higher labor requirements have been assumed for pro-
posed project crops as shown in the imodel crop budgets (Tables 5 through 9).
9.        Adequate labor profiles are not available and, while it appears
that total labor availability (at 2.0 manday equivalents per day) is adequate
for the average small farm there may be seasonal labor shortages, particularly
at planting and weeding periods in some seasons. However, the project would
appeal primarily to the more vigorous and efficient farmers and for this
reason, labor availability is not regarded as a serious constraint to
development.
1/   op cit.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Cropping Patterns
10.       Intercropping is commonly practiced in a wide variety of combin-
ations. The cropping pattern of a "typical" farm, on the basis of adjusted
areas of sole crops might be as follows (ha):
Sorghum & other Cereals              1.50
Cotton                               0.70
Groundnuts & Cowpeas                 0.70
Others & Fallow                      0.60
Total                          3.50
11.       This pattern may be expected to change as a result of the project
which would promote sole cropping and the introduction of improved produc-
tion practices for cotton, sorghum, maize, groundnuts and cowpeas, and would
result in changes in areas planted to different crops. Overall farm size
would not be affected by the project, however, the amount of land in fallow
each year is likely to decrease. This decrease in fallow is currently
resulting in marked decline in soil fertility, particularly in areas furthest
from the homesteads which receive no farm yard manure. Some of these defi-
ciencies would be made up in the short term by supply of fertilizers, and
in the long term through the introduction of pasture. A summary of changes
in cropping patterns follows:



ANNEX 1
Page 5
---CURRENT CROPPING-----  ----PROJECTED CROPPING YEAR 5----
Percent of                        Percent of
Total    Gross    Cropped       Total    Gross        Cropped
Crop           Farmers   Area(ha) Area         Farmers   Area(ha)   Area
Cotton:
Traditional  55,000   40,000       17         39,000   19,500          8
Advanced       1,000    1,500       1         20,000   30,000         13
Sor6.mum:
Traditional  68,000   75,000       31         40,000   44,000         19
Advanced        -         -        -          35,000   25,000         10
Maize:
Traditional   5,000    1,000       -          12,500    2,500          1
Advanced        -          -       -          10,000   10,000          4
Groundnuts:
Traditional  41,000   37,000       16         25,000   18,750          8
Advanced        -         -        -          20,000   20,000          8
Millet:
Traditional  68,000   34,000       14         75,000   32,500         14
Cowpeas:
Traditional  20,000    2,500         1        20,000    5,000          2
Miscellaneous
(including fallow  -    47,000       20           -       30,750        13
238,000    100.0                238,000       100.0
12.       The anticipated effect of the project on the five crops selected
for development, viz cotton, sorghum, maize, groundnuts and cowpeas is
considered in subsequent paragraphs. Proposed improved practices are
defined, and their likely impact analyzed in terms of area, numbers of
growers and production on a crop by crop basis.
D. Cotton
Background
13.       Cotton of the improved Allen type (Gossypium hirsutum) has been
grown in the project area for the past half century. Production fluctuates
widely due to the effects of climate and producer price. The mean level in



ANNEX 1
Page 6
recent years approximates 9,000 tons of seed cotton, some 6 percent of mean
total production from the northern States (Table 1), and 33% of the Sokoto
Province production.
14.       Seed of improved varieties produced at the Institute of Agricultural
Research (IAR) at Samaru is bulked up at the Daudawa seed multiplication
farm (see map) before distribution to farmers throughout the northern States,
although some seed is now bulked at the Gusau seed multiplication farm.
15.       Seed supplies are provided free by the NSMB at a series of dumps
throughout the project area. Seed for planting is treated at the ginnery
against Bacterial Blight (Xanthomonanas malvacearum) which is endemic to
the area. Any one of three dressings: mercurial (3 percent) at 1:180;
copper (45 percent) at 1:180; or Bronopal (12 percent) at 1:170, are effec-
tive and may be used.
Variety
16.       The present variety, S71 has been selected to yield highly and
to meet the needs of the textile industry. Under farmers' conditions, yields
average no more that 210 kg of seed cotton per ha, about 10% of the variety's
yield potential. Its main characteristics are shown below:
Ginning percentage                        34 to 36
Fibre length (32nd of an inch)            31 to 33
Fibre strength (g per ton)                20.9
Yarn strength (40's) CSP /1               2386
/1   Count Strength Product.
Recommended Production Practices
17.       Research carried out by IAR at Samaru and at outstations has given
rise to a set of recommended practices for the crop. These presuppose a
low level of technical assistance to farmers and do not reflect optimal
production conditions. More advanced techniques including the use of ultra
low volume (ULV) spraying for insect control are being tested under farmers'
conditions at several sites in the northern States. They are likely to be
fully approved for use on a field scale under the conditions proposed for
the project in the near future. Given adherence to the full package of
improved practices outlined below, average yields of seed cotton for farmers
using the package are predicted to approximate 630 kg/ha.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
18.       Land should be ridged on the contour at 0.91 m (3 ft) centers, and
20-25 cm (8-10 in) high. Ridges should be completed to allow for planting
in mid June. 6-8 seeds should be sown 2.4 cm (1 in) deep at 45 cm (18 in)
along the top of each ridge. 100 kg of boronated single superphosphate
should be applied broadcast before ridging (0.7 kg/ha of boron). At the
relative low yield of 630 kg/ha projected for project farmers, it would be
uneconomic to apply nitrogenous fertilizer, as under the prevailing climatic
conditions the yield response to nitrogen is limited. However, some of the
better farmers, who plant early, might apply 100 kg/ha of calcium ammonium
nitrate, as a top dressing, three weeks after planting. Plants should be
thinned to two per stand about three weeks after planting and preferably
afte- a good rain, to minimize the effects of root disturbance. Weeding and
ridge maintenance should be undertaken before weed competition is serious.
Normally three weedings are required.
19.       The cotton crop is attacked by a range of pests at different
stages in the growing period.
(a) Period between germination and flowering:
No major pests, Aphis gossypii may occur but seldom
build up to serious proportions. Empoasca spp occur
but as the cotton is bred for jassid resistance no
serious damage is caused.
(b) Period of flowering and boll growth:
Pests of vegetation include the mirid Campylomma which
can be serious, Lygus which is less serious, Sylepta
derogata (F) (the cotton leaf roller), various grass-
hoppers, leaf hoppers, and leaf eating beetles occur in
August and September and are of varying seriousness
depending on the season. Pests of the flowers and bolls
include stainers, mainly Dysdercus superstitiousus (F)
but also D. Fasciatus, and the red bollworm Diparopsis
watersi (Roths) which are usually more serious than the
American bollworm Heliothis armigera (Hb), the spiny
bollworm Earias insulana (Boisd) and Earias biplaga (Wlk),
the False codling moth Cryptophlebia leucotreta (Meyr) and
the pink bollworm Pectinophora gossypiella (Sound).
(c) Pests of bolls after the rains:
Bollworms (particularly the red) and adult stainers
increase until the bolls have matured.
20.       Ideally insecticidal applications should be timed according to
pest identification in the field. Since spotting of eggs demands considerable
skill and where pest identification may not occur, a precautionary spray



ANNEX 1
'Page 8
starting at 6 weeks after germination would ensure the protection of the
earlier bolls. Thereafter a succession of sprays would be undertaken and
it is likely that the advanced farmers would repeat the sprayings about
6 - 8 times.
21.       Harvesting should begin in October and be continued at regular
intervals to prevent boll spoilage. Picking should aim to avoid dirt, trash
and stained or damaged lint in order to qualify seed cotton for purchase as
Grade 1. All plants have to be uprooted and burnt by March 1, and no cotton
can be planted until June 1.
Project Proposals
22.       Increased production is expected to derive partly from increased
area planted but mainly from the adoption of new techniques.
23.       Area expansion over the project period is expected to be from
42,000 ha in 1975 to 50,000 ha in 1979, an increase of 4 percent annually.
This would come mainly from natural population growth but there would be
some area redistribution. It is estimated that the average farmer currently
grows 0.7 ha of cotton. At the end of the project period those using
"advanced" techniques are expected to handle about an average of 1.5 ha,
and those continuing to use traditional methods 0.5 ha, providing an overall
average of 0.83 ha per farmer.
24.       Adoption of new techniques would be at one level.  The use of sole
cropping, fertilizer and ULV spraying for insect control is described as
"improved". Such measures would result in yields averaging 630 kg seed
cotton per ha. Since the rainfall distribution is more critical than some
other areas in northern Nigeria, it is unlikely that many farmers will ever
plant early, as food crops have priority and are planted first. Currently
little or no spraying is carried out due to lack of supply of inputs and
very limited and sparsely located supplies of water required for the
conventional high volume water based insecticides. During the last three
seasons ultra low volume sprayers (ULV) have been tested within the project
area and have proven successful. They are also being used in an IDA finan-
ced project in Malawi, as well as in other East African countries with
success. In East Africa the option for the use of high volume sprayers
exist; in the project area, due to difficulties in locating good groundwater
any large expansion of production using high volume spraying techniques is
out of the question. During the 1971/72 season in Mozambique 11,000 ha
of ULV sprayed cotton averaged 666 Kg/ha as against 36,000 ha of unsprayed
cotton averaging 262 Kg/ha. The insecticide to be used would be endosulphan,
and would be applied at a rate of 3 liter/ha per spray.
25.       Nlajority of farmers plant late and as such even under ideal
conditions of management, the cotton crop would not yield at optimum levels
since the top bolls would not set. However, in order to assure the setting



ANNEX 1
Page 9
of the bottom bolls it is essential that the farmer commences spraying
before the flower buds appear. As a crop insurance this should be at 5 weeks
after germination and continue at 10 day intervals for as much as 6 weeks,
but depending on the likelihood of continued crop production confined almost
entirely to the setting of the bottom bolls. The following table sets out
the proposed levels of technology:
Level of Technology       Traditional        Improved
Variety                 Improved           Improved S 71
Pl-it population/ha    18,000              36,000
Fertilizer
application/ha          nil              50 kg boronated single
superphosphate
Insecticide
control/ha              nil              3-4 sprays ULV
insecticide
endosulphan
Anticipated yield of
seed cotton kg/tha       10                  630
Tables 5 and 10 provide per hectare budget, and phasing of uptake of
improved practices.
E. Sorghum
Background
26.       Sharing with bulrush millet, 1/ the role of the traditional grain
staple of the Hausa people, sorghum is grown widely throughout the project
area. White to yellowish grained, open headed Guinea race types, known
locally as Farafara, predominate. The grain is normally ground to a coarse
flour and eaten as porridge. The stalks, which are seldom less than four
meters in height, are used for a variety of purposes of which building and
fencing are among the most important.
1/        Research work to date has yielded little information on methods for
improving yields of millet, and existing varieties do not show
economic responses to fertilizer, therefore the project would not
at this stage take action to improve the production of millet.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
27.       Under the traditional system of cultivation, mean yields are said
to approximate 600 kg of threshed grain per ha, but they vary widely in
response to intensity of intercropping, soil and climatic effects. No data
are available on sorghum production in the project area. Nevertheless, it
is safe to conclude that the crop is grown on all holdings, alone or in a
variety of mixtures.
28.       Norman's studiesl/ indicate that sorghum occupied approximately
30% of total area planted and, whilst most commonly grown in a two crop
combination with bulrush millet, was also planted alone or with up to four
additional crops. Using this as a basis, it can be calculated that some
75,000 ha of sorghum are planted in the project area which, at an average
yield of 600 kg/ha, would produce some 45,000 tons or about 7% of estimated
production from North Western State.
29.       Although its effects have not been quantified, the parasitic weed
Striga hermontheca is probably the most significant pest of sorghum. Others
include a range of stalk borers, but particularly Busseola fusca, and Sorghum
Midge Contarinia sorghicola. Major diseases include Downy Mildew, Sclerospora
sorghi, a variety of leaf diseases causing spotting and striping, and a
number of smut diseases, mainly of the genus Sphacelotheca. The latter are
to a considerable extent controlled by seed dressing with copper fungicides
which are readily available commercially.
30.       As befits a staple grain, sorghum is normally planted on the main
farm in close proximity to the homestead. Prior to planting land is plowed
and ridged by hand hoe or occasionally mechanically, at approximately 0.9
meters between rows and varying distances within rows according to inter-
cropping practices. Sorghum is planted in the project area in May/June,
after such crops as early millet. Two or three weedings and earthings-up
are normally carried out. The crop flowers at the onset of the dry season,
in late September/early October, and matures, utilizing residual soil
moisture, by late November/December.
31.       The stalks are cut near ground level and stacked in the field after
removal of the heads, which are bundled and stored in mud plastered granaries
(rumbus) in the farm compound. Heads are removed from the granaries as
required for domestic consumption or for sale following threshing. Storage
losses are variable, one estimate is that on average 20% of the crop is lost
in store, and though control methods involving granary sanitation and the
use of insecticides have been developed, they are not commonly used.
Recommended Practices
32.       Research on sorghum has been carried out in the northern States of
Nigeria for the past 20 years. Higher yielding varieties have been selected
from local types. A number of dwarf varieties and hybrids have also been
developed. This work has been accompanied by investigations including time
_/   op. cit.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
of planting, spacing, and fertilizer responses. Improved local varieties
grown under improved agronomic practices showed yield gains over tradi-
tional types of six to 25 percent (averaging 18.6% or about 240 kg/ha) in
over 90 trials planted at different sites in main sorghum production areas
up to 1970. Such increases are of little interest to farmers. The main
thrust of sorghum research is now directed towards production of high yielding
dwarf varieties and hybrids. Material now available has a yield potential
under field conditions of around 2,500 kg/ha and 4,000 kg/ha from dwarf
varieties and hybrids respectively. The grain from these types is not yet
widely acceptable for human food in rural areas but it can be sold readily
in urban areas for human and livestock food.
Project Proposals
33.       Total sorghum production in Nigeria has been estimated to approx-
imate four million tons per year, of which between five and ten percent is
marketed. Prices have risen overall in the past three years. However, any
major production increase could be expected to result in a marked fall in
price. This situation is unlikely to arise in the near future - in the
light of the ineffectiveness of existing extension, input supply and credit
services in the northern States as a whole. Within the proposed project
area, however, there are good opportunities for promoting some increase in
sorghum production, utilizing available technology and proposed project
services, despite the fact that many farmers are likely to continue to
grow at least some local sorghum under traditional cultivation methods. In
addition to the switch from traditional to improved varieties of sorghum
that is envisaged, it is also believed that a substantial amount of land
which in the past has been used to grow sorghum will, under the project, be
used for maize, see para 38.
34.       One level of improved technology has been assumed based upon
results from field trials and research recommendations.
Level of Technology             Traditional          Improved
Variety                         local               dwarf
Plant Population/ha             19,200             34,800
Fertilizer application           nil               100 kg of calcium
in kg/ha                                         ammonium nitrate + 100
kg single superphosphate
Anticipated yield of
threshed grain                   600              1,200
35.       In addition to the major elements indicated, farmers would be
advised on field preparation, planting methods and other improved practices
by project extension staff. Tables 6 and 11 provide details of per hectare
budget and production projections.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
F. Maize
Background
36.       Although well known, maize is presently a minor crop in the project
area. Cultivated mainly in crop mixtures on swampy areas (fadamas) primarily
as a vegetable for eating green - boiled or baked on the cob - it is unlikely
that total area exceeds 1,000 ha.
37.       High yielding, short season maize varieties and hybrids have been
developed recently by IAR and other researchers in the northern States.
Their promising performance under Northern Guinea zone conditions have
created marked interest in maize as a grain crop for the area. Trials at
Gusau under different levels of plant population and fertilizer rates
using variety (096) Bulk 3 gave yields ranging from 1,500 to over 5,600 kg/ha
of threshed grain depending on the level of treatments applied. Assuming
a discount from research findings to farmer field of 50%, this suggests an
obtainable farmer yield between 750 and 2,800 kg/ha.
Project Proposals
38.       These facts and the observation that the yellow grained varieties
produce meal which is an acceptable (some say a preferred) substitute for
sorghum meal in traditional porridge in North Western State, indicate that
the probability that the maize area and production could be increased
markedly under the project. Recent trends in maize prices, the burgeoning
urban population in the southern States, and the increasing demand for
livestock feeds and for industrial maize products provide further justifica-
tion for maize promotion under the project. Probable area increases are
expected to be at the expense of sorghum and millet, and would occur mainly
on the farms of more progressive farmers. The expected change in maize area
is shown in Table 12. This indicates an expected increase in maize area
from 1,000 to 12,500 ha of which 10,000 ha would be grown at improved levels
on plots averaging 1 ha, and 2,500 ha (20 percent) would be grown under
traditional systems on 0.10 ha plots. About 22,500 farmers are expected to
grow maize within the project (Table 7 shows per hectare budget).
39.       Levels of technology selected for application in the project area
have been based on field trials and practices advocated by workers at the
IAR. They are summarized in the following table.



ANNEX 1
Page 13
Levels of Technology           Traditional          Improved
Variety /1                     local              composite
Plant population/ha            19,200             34,800
Fertilizer (kg/ha)              nil               150 kg of calcium
anmonium nitrate + 150 kg
of single superphosphate
Projected yield of shelled
grain in kg/ha                  720             2,000
/1   Presently recommended varieties such as 096 (Bulk 3) and hybrids of
Biu Yellow (BY) with other parents, such as BY x C-20, may well be
superseded by 1974.
G. Groundnuts
Background
40.       Groundnuts (Arachie hypogea) are grown throughout the project area
but are of greatest commercial importance in drier, northern locations which
are climatically less well suited to cotton production. Production levels
may be inferred from purchases by the NSMB which have averaged 16,000 tons
annually in recent years (Table 2).
41.       The Nigerian groundnut crop is grown primarily for oil and average
kernels contain about 47% oil with a Free Fatty Acid (FFA) content of 2 to
3 percent. Yields of groundnuts grown under traditional systems, which
include multiple intercropping, wide spacing and late planting, vary con-
siderably but are probably of the order of 425 kg/ha of shelled nuts. At
this yield level and accepting the above production assumption, area plante,
on a sole crop basis is about 37,000 ha. The high labor requirement and
the present comparatively unattractive return from the crop probably limit
groundnut plot sizes to about 0.6-0.7 ha on farms which grow the crop for
sale to the NSMB.
42.       A long series of agronomic trials and a number of selection and
breeding programs by staff of the IAR have resulted in the formulation of
a package of recommended practices for groundnut production. These regularly
lead to a doubling of kernel yields over traditional practices. More



ANNEX 1
Page 14
advanced technology, including the use of fungicidal sprays to control
cercospora leaf spot disease is still under investigation and may be
available for dissemination in the near future. However, a number of
questions still attach to the technical and economic viability of certain
advanced techniques.
43.       For these reasons, only one level of improved technology has been
suggested. This approximates to the practices recommended by ERLS. The
practices proposed, which are outlined below, would be fostered by the pro-
vision of a physical package of inputs including seed, seed dressing,
fertilizer and advice. This would follow the lines of a successful groundnut
seed production project in neighboring Kano State.
44.       The proposed level of improved technology would incorporate timely
planting, i.e. shortly after the first rains, on land which has been prepared
as for cotton (para 18). Fertilizer, single superphosphate at 75 kg per ha,
should be applied as a band in the old furrows before splitting to make new
ridges. Seed would be of the variety S61 which should be shelled shortly
before planting and dressed with Aldran T or Fernasan D against seed and soil
borne diseases. Seed should be planted at two every 23 cm (9 in) on the
top of the ridges i.e., a seed rate of 40 kg/ha. By so doing, the foliar
cover achieved would be invaluable in preventing run off during the heavy
rainfall in August. Furthermore, after the early weeding and earthing, such
ground cover would reduce the frequency of weeding which must cease once
pegging 1/ starts. Harvesting should begin immediately the crop reaches
maturity.  Pod damage should be avoided by careful lifting.  The crop should
be dried by inverting plants on the ridge i.e. with pods uppermost for about
six days. Thereafter the pods should be handpicked and transported to an
appropriate site for decortication. Care is needed, particularly in lifting,
drying and picking to avoid the creation of conditions favoring the develop-
ment of the fungus Aspergillus flavus, responsible for the carcingogen,
aflatoxin, which has been transmitted on mouldy groundnuts.
Project Proposals
45.       The improved groundnut technology proposed for the project is
already well established. Its rate of spread has been limited largely by
the inadequacy of technical assistance and input supply services. For these
reasons, the rate of uptake under the project is expected to be rapid. By
Year 5 (1979), some 20,000 farmers (44 percent) are expected to be usilng
the improved technology.
1/   Shoots which eventually bear the groundnut turn down into the soil
prior to pod formation.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
Level of technology             Traditional          Improved
Variety                         local              IAR selected
Plant population/ha            27,000              48,000
Fertilizer                       -                 75 kg/ha of single
superphosphate
P-ojected yield
kernels kg/ha                   425              850
Details on crop budget and production projections are shown at Tables 8 and
13.
H. Cowpeas
Background
46.       Cowpeas (vigna unguiculata) occupy an important place in tradi-
tional Nigerian diets both in the North and South. They provide valuable
vegetable protein for subsistence farmers and some cash income when surplus
production is sold. The crop is seldom planted sole and normally forms one
part of a number of crop mixtures of varying complexity. Under these
circumstances yields vary widely. Further, because of the range of insect
pests to which it is susceptible both before and after flowering, yields
rarely average more than 200 kg/ha of shelled peas. Local varieties have
both upright and spreading characteristics; those producing a pale (whitish)
colored seed are preferred.
47.       Research on the crop has isolated major insect pests and established
the importance of their control for increased production. Major pests
include Ootheca mutalilis, a leaf eating beetle, Alcidodes leucogrammus, a
weevil which, in both the adult and larval forms, causes stem girdling,
Maruca testulalis, the larva of which bore into and feed on young flowers
causing them to drop, Rezotrachelus varium, a weevil which lays its eggs
in green pods wherein the larvae feed and pupate within the seeds. Further,
a number of bugs in the order Hemiptera feed on green pods causing premature
drying and shrivelling.
48.       Improved practices, including sole cropping, the use of improved
upright varieties, phosphatic fertilizer and insecticidal spraying result
in ten fold yield increases over traditional yields. The latter treatment
on sole cropped cowpeas is the most significant. Present recommendations



ANNEX 1
Page 16
are for six weekly sprays containing 20 percent DDT and two percent gamma
BHC at the rate of 5.5 liters of concentrate mixed in 109 liters of water
per ha. This recommendation is under review following investigation of
ULV teclniques.
Project Proposals
49.       No data are available on the area presently planted with cowpeas
but it is unlikely that the crop is grown widely in sole stand. The project
would introduce cowpeas as a sole crop to those farmers who wished to grow
cotton using improved and advanced techniques since such farmers would
already own ULV sprayers and be competent in their use. It is not expected
that large plots would be planted, and a mean size of 0.25 ha has been
assumed.
50.       One level of technology is proposed.  Its main element is summarized
below and is compared with the traditional system.
Traditional       Improved
Cropping                     Mixed            Sole
Variety                      Local            Local
Type                      Upright or          Upright
spreading
Spacing                   Variable           30 cm x 2.5 cm
Fertilizer                Nil                50 kg single
superphosphate/ha
Insect control            Nil                ULV spraying as
recommended by IAR
Average yield             200                900
shelled peas (kg/ha)
51.       It is expected that uptake of improved technology would closely
follow cotton development since materials, equipment and techniques for
spraying cowpeas approximate those used for cotton, and the benefits are
considerable. For these reasons it is expected that most farmers with
one season's experience of spraying cotton would also grow cowpeas with
project advice and assistance. Furthermore, a small proportion could be
expected to introduce improved technology to their cotton and cowpea crops
simultaneously (for detailed budget and crop projections see Tables 9 and
14).



ANNEX 1
Page 17
I. Summary
52.       Absence of basic data on actual farming systems, let alone the
profitability from individual crops, severely hampers assessment of project
effects on a farm family income and therefore no attempt has been made to
formulate model farm budgets for before and after farm development, since
they would be purely hypothetical and as such could lead to wrong con-
clusions. Instead comparative data on a per hectare basis is shown in the
following tables.
Level of Technology               Traditional       Intermediate
------- N A I R A -------
Net Return/ha - (With
all Labor Costed)
Cotton                         18.43               59.29
Groundnuts                      (2.87)             14.31
Sorghum                        16.00               40.05
Maize                          23.97               91.24
Cowpeas                        (9.50)              16.42
Net Return/ha - (All
Labor Costs Excluded)
Cotton                         41.63               94.01
Groundnuts                     35.53               64.31
Sorghum                        50.00               79.25
Maize                          60.37               135.64
Cowpeas                        16.50               49.62
Level of Technolog                Traditional       Intermediate
------N per/Manday---------
Net Return to Labor
Cotton                          0.72                 1.08
Groundnuts                      0.37                 0.51
Sorghum                         0.59                0.81
Maize                           0.66                 1.22
Cowpeas                         0.25                0.60
Net Incremental Return to
Incremental Labor Requirements
Cotton                                               1.81
Groundnuts                                          0.99
Sorghum                                             2.25
Maize                                                3.76
Cowpeas                                              1.84






ANNEX 1
Table 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPIMENT P0JOt
Seed Cotton Purchases by the Northern States Mar%t A  Board by Years (long tons) 1
Northern               Sokoto
Year                   States                Frovince
1960/61               148, 962                28,697
1961/62                83,373                 10,847
1962/63               144.,004                31,285
1963/64               128,585                 26,215
1964/65               128,684                 21,661
1965/66               127,296                 27,522
1966/67               146,368                 23,905
1967/68                75,519                 12,157
1968/69               166,276                 36,331
1969/70               271,597                 $9,201
1970/71               111,389                 25.425
1971/72                  -                    19353
1972/73 2/
Mean                  139,277                 26,883  3/
Mean as % of
northern States
purchases                 100                     19
y Derived from the National Agricultural Develo,pmnt Committee, Report of
the Study Group on Cotton and other Fibers$ .9go8 1971.
v Etimate.
t/ Of which the project area produces about 40%,



ANNEX 1
Table 2
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT ROJECT
Groundnut Purchases by the Northern States Marketing Board by Years (long tons) 1/
Northern               Sokoto
Year                   States                Province
1960/61               619,051                 85,923
1961/62.              687,987                 84,002
1962/63               870,795               106, 849
1963/64               802,500               113,782
1964/65               675,884                90,797
1965/66               921,358                97,,141
1966/67             1,053,668               134,125
1967/68               665,372                 85,968
1968/69               753,626                76,206
1969/70               633,782                70,986
1970/71               280,173                43,294
1971/72               301,775                42,109
Mean as % of          688,831                 85,932 2/
northern States
purchases                 100                    12
1/ Derived from National.Agricultural Development Committee, Report of the
Study Group on Groundnuts,, Lagos 1971.
2/ Of which about 18% is produced from the project area.



ANNzEX 1
Table 3
N810ERIA
NORTH WESTFRN STATE
GUSAU AOjRICULTURAL DEVFLOMENT PROJECT
Rank Order of Monthly Rainfall at Gusau (inches) over 40 Years
p           March     April     Mav       June      July      Aug.      Sept.    Oct.          p       Annual
.025       0          0         0.64      0.80      1.23      5.03      2.43      0          1.000     28.86
.(50       o          0         0.80      2.70      3.33      6.09      3.04      0           .975     30.31 (1970;
.075       0          0         1.38      2.71      3.83      7.58      4.83      0           .950     30.41
.100       0          0         1.56      2.74      3.92      7.67      4.88      0           .925     31.39
.125       0          0         1.57      2.84      4.01      8.81      4.89      0            9goo    31.50 (1971
.150       0          0         1.70      2.99      4.23      8.82      5.12      0.03        .875     31.65
.175       0          0         1.72      3.04      4.75      8.82      5.17      0.04        .850     32.12
.200       0          0         1.95      3.o4      5.38      9.01      5.22       0.08       .825    32.54
.225       0          0 02      2.05      3.10      5.41      9.08      5.26       0.08        800     32.56
.250        0         0.11      2.21      3.22      6.o6      9.73      5.30      0.12        .775     33.08 (1969
.275        0         0.13      2.23      3.30      6.o8      9.98      5.64       0.13       .750     33.34
.300       0          0.16      2.37      3.34      6.51     10.03      5.75       0.13       .725     34.54
.325       0          0.19      2.40      3.83      6.52     10.24      6.17      0.26        .700     34.5? (1972,
.350       0          0.21      2.47      3.99      6.59     10.38      6.43       0.32       .675     35.5o (1964
.375       0          0.23      2.56      4.31      6.64     10.51      6.146      0.37       .650     35.96 (1966:
.400       0          0.27      2.71      4.46      7.10     10.51      6.76      o.14        .625     36.40 (1967.
.495       0          0.29      2.75      L.55      7.27     11.92      6.81       0.142      .600     36.52
.450       0         0.30       2.86      5.04      7.41     11.03      6.91      0.46        .575     36.5L
.475        0         0.34      2.88      5.07      7.74     11.31      7.01       0.63       .550     36.76
'>,700      o         0.36      2.92      5.08       7.80     11.53      7.12      0.74       .525     36.82
2525       0          0.)45     3.02      5.11      7.86     11.75      7.16       0.79       .500     38:54 (1965'
,a50     0         0 o   o.54  3.43  ~  5.17   ~  7.94    12.04       7.30      1.03       .475     38.b?
5          o          0.57      3.52      5.55      8.20     12.42      7.96      1.04        .450     39.23 (1968:
.600       0          0.61      3.52      5.62      8.22     12.52      8.13      1.04        .425     39.35
.625       .0.03      0.67      3.62      5.68      8.22     12.64      8.45      1.06        .400     39.46
.650       o.o6      0.71       3.70      5.71      8.27     12.70      8.47      1.18        .375     39.47
.675       0.08       0.76      3,90      5.81      8.31     12.74      8.77      1.53        .350     39.50
.700       0.18       0.86      3.91      5.84      8.63     12.94      8.95      1.62        .325     39.82 (1963.
.725       0.19       1.01      3.95      5.88      8.90     13,03      9.12      1.75        .300     39.82
.750       0.23       1.11      4.o7      6.13      9.02     13-24      9.21      1.75        .275     40.13
.775        0.28      1.13      4.22      6.30      9.17     13.70       9.69      1.88       .250     40.,55
.Boo       o.a8       1.30      4.22      6.37      9.89    1-.83      Jo.Ž14     1.9>        .,       av.
.825       0.39      1.53       4.24t     6.h2     10.59    114.14     10.44      1.99        .200     4o.30
.850       o.46       1.64      4.71      6.81     10.90     14.72     10.51       2.05       .175     40.88
.875       0.51       2.28      4.95      6.84     11.21     14.76     15.51       2.30       .150     41.12
.900       o.68       2.140     5.51      6.93     11.39     16.21     10.84       2.35       .125     41051
.925       1.15       2.40      5.60      7.06     11.52     16.42     10.86       2.38       .100     42.53
.950       1.17       2.49      5.73      7.09     11.97     16.83     10.88       2143       .075     44,16
.975       1.62       3.03      6.19      7.21     12.18     18.44     11.69       4.25       .050     49.12
1.000        1.70      6.92      6.27      7.64     12.23     20.41      12.34      4.96       .025     49.39
9a01     35.02    130.01    195.32    306.43    473.58    302.72      43.52             1,496.41
Arithmetic (av.)
Inches    0.22      0.87      3.25      4.88      7.66     11.84       7.57      1.09                37.41
mm        5        22        81       122       192        296       189        27                  934
50%
Inches    0         0.40      2.97      5.09      7,83     11,64       7,14      0.76                35.83
mm                 10        75       129       199        296       181        19                  909
80%
Inches    0         0.01      2.00      3.07      5.39      9.04       5.24      o.o8                24.83
mm                   -       51        78       137       230       133          2                  631



ANNEX 1
NIGERIA                                        Table 4
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RAINFALL EXPECTATION FOR GUSAU (MANR FARM)
Based on 40 Years
SUCCESSION OF CROP PLANTING, MATURATION AND TIME TO HARJESTING
MILLET-          .-
GUINEA CORN
INCHES/MONTH                         |GROUNDNUTS                                     M.M./MONTH
12 -                                                          COTTON                   305
10                                                                                     254
8                                                                            Bn-8 203
6                                                                                   -152
4 --102
2                                                                                   -5
0                                                                                     0
APRIL      MAY      JUNE      JULY     AUGUST  SEPTEMBER  OCTOBER
fZ  50 Percent Probability
EM  80 Percent ProbabilityWolBak86



ANNEX 1
Table)
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Seed Cotton Budgets (Naira)
Actual                      Incremental
Farmer Category _/                      I                  II                  II
Yield seed cotton(kg/ha)                 210                630                 420
Gross return @ N 0.203/kg                 42.63     N      127.89        N       85.26
Expenditures
Labor 2/
Cultivations                      (46)    18.40     (55)    22.00        ( 9)     3.60
Fertilizer application                   -          ( 8)      3.20       ( 8)     3.20
Spraying                                 -          ( 2)      0.80       ( 2)     0.80
Harvesting (20 kg/manday)         (12)     4.80     (22)      8.80       (10)     4.00
Sub total              (58)    23.20      (87)    34.80        (29)    11.60
Crop Inputs 3/
Tools                               1.00                      1.00
Fertilizer: PO05 4/                      -                    5.18                5.18
Insecticide 57                           -                  16.20                16.20
Sprayer                                  -                    8.60                8.60
Battery set                              -                    2.90                2.90
Sub total                        1.00             33.88                32.85
Total Expenditures              24.20             66.13                41.93
Net Returns
With labor                                18.43              59.29               40.78
Without labor                              1.63              94.01               52.38
Per manday                                 0.72               1.08                1.81
1l  Cat. I - traditional with no improved inputs, using improved variety (improved
Allan type); Cat. II - improved using fertilizer and insecticides.
2/ Labor costed at shadow rate for family and hired labor @ N 0.4 per manday
(6 hours) - ( ) indicates number of mandays.
3/ Includes interest rates @ 10% except for tools in Cat. II.
/ Cat. II 50 kg/ha of boronated superphosphate at a subsidised cost of N 52.6/
metric ton.
5/ Cat. II - 3 sprays ULV.
August 21, 1974



ANNEX 1
Table b
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Sorghum Budgets (Naira)
Actual                      Incremental
Farmer Category 1/                      I                  II                   II
Yield thresshed grain (kg/ha)            600              1,200                    600
Gross return ( N 0.086/ka                 51.60             103.20                  51.6{
Expenditure
Labor 2/
Cultivation                       (73)    29.20      (76)    30.40       ( 3)      1.20
Fertilizer applications                  -           ( 5)     2.00        ( 5)     2.00
Harvesting                        (12)     4.80      (17)     6.80       ( 5)      2.00
Sub total               (85)    34.00     (98)    39.20        (13)     5.20
Crop Inputs 3/
Tools                                      1.00               1.00               -
Seed 4/                                    0.60               1.58                 0.98
Fertilizer: N 5/                                             11.05               11.05
2 5  -                                         1032                10.32
Sub total                        1.60             23.95                22.35
Total Expenditures              35.60             63.15                27.55
Net Peturns
With labor                                16.0O              40.05                24.05
Without labor                             5n.oo              79.25                29.25
Per manday                                 0.59               0.81                2.25
1/ Cat. I - traditional with no improved inputs; Cat. II - improved using fertilizer
and improved dwarf varieties.
2/ Labor costed at shadow wage rate for family and hired labor @ N 0.4 per manday
(6 hours) - ( ) indicates number of mandays.
3/ Includes interest rates @ 10% except for tools in Cat. II.
/ Cat. II seed 12 kg/ha @ N 0.132/kg.
j/ Calcium armmonium nitrate Cat. II 100 kg/ha at subsidized cost of 14 110.5/metric ton
6/ Single superphosphate Cat. II 100 kg/ha at subsidized cost of N 103.2/metric ton.
August 21, 1974



ANNEX 1
Table 7
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Maize Budgets (Naira)
Actual                     Incremental
Farmer Category 1/                       I                 II                   II
Yield shelled grain kg/ha                720              2,000               1,280
Gross return @ )N 0.086/kg                61.92             172.00              110.08
Expenditure
Labor 2/
Cultivation                       (76)    30.40     (86)    34.h0        (10)     4.00
Fertilizer application                   -          ( 5)      2.00       ( 5)     2.00
Harvesting                        (15)     6.00     (20)      8.00       ( 5)     2.00
Sub total              (91)    36.40    (1ll)    44.40         (20)     8.00
Crop Inputs
Tools                                      1.00               1.00              -
Seeds i0.55                                                   3.30                2.75
Fertilizer: N 5/                                            16.58                16.58
P205 6/                                         150b8               15-18
Sub total                        1.55             3636                314o 81
Total Expenditures              37.95             80.76                L2.01
Net Retums
With labor                                 23.97            91. 2i4              7.27
Without labor                              60.37           135.6L                75.27
Per manday                                 0.66              1.22                 3.76
1/ Cat. I - traditional with no improved inputs; Cat. II - improved using imiproved
variety and composite.
2/ Labor costed at shadow rate for family and hired labor @ N 0.4 per manday
(6 hours); ( ) indicates number of mandays.
3/ Includes interest rates of 10% except for tools in Cat, II.
I/ 25 kg/ha of composite seed at N 0.132/kg.
5/ Cat. II - 150kg/ha of calcium ammonium nitrate at subsidized cost of K 110.5 per ton.
6/ Cat. II 150 kg/ha of single superphosphate at subsidized cost of   ' 103.2 per ton.
August 21, 197L



ANNEX 1
Table 8
NIGERIA
NORTH 1ESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Groundnut Budgets (Naira)
Actual             Incremental
Farmer Category 1/                             I          II
Yield shelled kernels kg/ha                    425         850             425
Gross return @ N 0.093/kg                       39.53       79.05            39.53
EXPenditure
Labor:/2T  Cultivation                    (54)  21.60 (65)  26.00    (11)    4.40
Fertilizer Application         -      -    (2)   0.80      (2)    0.80
Harvesting                    (42) 16.80 (58)  23.20    (16)    6.40
Sub total                     (96)  38.40 (125) 50.00    (29)   11.60
Crop Inputs: 3/ Tools                           1.00         1.00          -
Seed 4/                        3.00        6.oo             3.00
Fertilizer P 20  5/                         7.74            7.714
2    5      _ _  _  _     _   _ _ __       _  _  _
Sub total                             4.00       14.74           10.74
Total Expenditures                  42.40        60.95           18.55
Net Returns
With labor                                      (2.87)      14.31           17.19
Without labor                                   35.53       6L.31           28.79
Per manday                                      0.37         0.51            O.99
17 Cat. I farmer - traditlonal grower; cat. II farmer using IAR selected
variety.
2/ Labor costed at shadow rate for family and hired labor @ N 0.4/manday
(6 hour day) - ( ) indicates number of mandays.
3/ Includes interest rates @ 10% except for tools in Cat. II.
I7/ 40 kg/ha of the variety S61 @ N 0.15/kg dressed.
I/ 75 kg of single superphosphate per ha @ a subsidised cost of N 1C302 per n ton.
August 21, 1974



ANNEX 1
Table 9
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Cowoea Budgets (Naira)
Actual                       Incremental
Farmer Category 1/                      I                  II                  II
Yield shelled cowpeas (kg/ha)            200                900                  700
Iross return @ N 0.09/kg                  18.00              81.90                63.90
Expenditure
r abor 2/
Cu tivation                       (49)    19.60      (54)    21.60        ( 5)     2.00
Fertilizer application                   -           ( 2)     0.80       ( 2)      0.80
Spraying                                 -           ( 2)     0.80       ( 2)      0.80
Harvesting                        (16)     6.40      (25)    10.00       ( 9)      3.60
Sub total               (65)    26.00     (83)    33.20        (18)      7.20
Crop Inputs 3/
Tools                                      1.00               1.00
Seeds 4/                                   0.50               1.62                 1.12
Fertilizer 5/                                                 5.16                 5.16
Insecticides 6/                                              21.60                21.60
Battery sets                                                  2.90                 2.90
Sub total                        1.50              32.28               30.78
Total Expenditures              27.50              62.95                35.45
Net Returns
With labor                                (9.50)             16.42                25.92
Without labor                             16.50              49.62                33.12
Per manday                                 0.25               0.60                 1.84
1/ Cat. I - traditional cowpea grower; Cat. II - improved,    using local seed,
low fertilizer and insecticides.
2/ Labor costed at shadow rate for famLily and hired labor 4 N 0.4/manday (6 hour day)
- ( ) indicates number of mandays.
3/ Include 10% interest for all inputs except for tools for Cat. II farmers.
K/ Local seed at 18 kg/ha @ N 0.09 per ha.
&/ 50 kg/ha single superphosphate at subsidised cost of N 103.2 per m ton.
6/ 4 sprays using ULV equipment for cotton.
August 21, 1974



ANNEX 1
Table 10
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Production Projections
Before
the
Project  Year 1   Year 2  Year 3  Year 4   Year 5
Growers
Traditional              55,000   54,500   54,000   50,000   47,000   39,000 I/
Improved                   1,000    1,500   3,000    8,000  12,000   20,000
56,000   56,ooo  57,000   58,000   59,000   59,000
Area (hectares)
Traditional               40,000   40,000   37,800   32s500   28,200   19,500
Improved                  1,500    2,250    4,500  12,000   18,000   30,000
41,500   42,250  42,300  44,500   46,200   49,500
Production (metric tons)
Traditional                8,400    8,400    7,938    6,825    5,922    4,095 2/
Improved                     945    1,418    2,835    7,560  11,340   18s900
9s345    9,818   10,773   14,385   17,262   22,995
Yield (kg/ha)                225      232      255      323      374     464
1/ Traditional area declines from 0.73 to 0.50 ha; advanced at 1.50 ha.
2/ Traditional yield at 210 kgAha; advanced at 630 kg/ha.



ANNEX 1
Table U
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVEL0pENT PROJECT
Sorghum Production Projections
Before
Development   Year 1   Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5
Growers (rnunber)
Traditional                  68,000     65,000   57,000   54,o000   8,ooo   40,o
Improved                        -        3,000   12,500   17,500   25,000   35,000
68,000     68,000   69,500   71,500   73,000   75,000
Area (hectares)
Traditional                  75,000     71,500   62,700   59,000   52,500   44hO0O
Improved                        -        2,000    8,700   12,000   17,500   25,000
75,000     73,500   71,o400   71,000   70,000   69,000
Production (metric tons)
Traditional                  45,000     42,900   37,600   35,400   31,500   f6,40o
Improved                        -        2,4i00  10,400   14,400   21.,000   3c 000
45hiooo    45,300  49,000   49,800   52,5C
Yield (kgAia)                   600        616       686      70C      751



ANNEX 1
Table 12
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Maize Production Projections
Before
Development Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
Growers (number)
Traditional                   5,000       5,000    7,500   12,500   12,500  12,500
Improved                        -           -        500    1,500    5,000   10,000
5,000      5,000    8,000   14.,000  17,500   22,500
Area (hectares)
Traditional @ 0.2 ha          1,000      1,000    1,500    2,500    2,500    2,500
Improved @ 1.0 ha                           -        500    1,500    5,000   10,000
1,000      1,000    2,000    4,000    7,500   12,500
Production (Metric tons)
Traditional @ 700 kg            700         700    1,050    1,750    1,750    1,750
Improved @ 2,000 kg             -          -      1,000    3,000   10,000   20,000
700        700    2,050    4,750   11,750   21,750
Yield (kg/ha)                   700         700    1,025    1,187    1,567    1,740



ANNEX 1
Table 13
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Groundnut Production Projections - Kernels
Before
Project      Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
Growers (number)
Traditional                h1,ooo        4s0,00   37,000   35,000   30,000   25,000
Improved                       -          1,000    5,000    9,000   14,O0O   20,000
h4,ooo       41,OOO   4210O0  44,000   44,000   45A000
Area (hectares)
Traditional                37,000        37,000   33,300   28,000   23,500   18,750
Improved                      -           1,000    5,000    9,000   14,000   20,000
37,000       38,000   38,300   37,000   37,500   38,750
Production (metric tons)
Traditional                15,725        15,725   14,153   11,900    9,988    7,968
Improved                       -            850    4,250    7,650   11,900   17,000
15,725       16,575   18,h03   19,550   21,888   2h,968
Average Yield (kg/ha)         425           436      480       528      584      644



ANNEX 1
Table 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICUTLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
cowpea Production Projections
Before
Project      Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
Growers (number)
Traditional                 20,000       19,000   17,000   14,000   11,000    8,ooo
Improved                       -          1,000    3,000    6,ooo    9,000   12,000
20,000       20,000   20,000   20,000   20,000   20,000
Area (hectares)
Traditional                  2,500        2,875    3,125    3,250    3,375    3,500
Improved                       -            125      375       750    1,125    1,500
2.500        3,000    3,500    4,000    4,500    5,000
Production (metric tons)
Traditional                    500          575      625       650      675       700
Improved                       -            112      337       675    1,012    1,350
500          687      962    1,325    1,687    2,050
Yield (kg/ha)                  200          229      275       331      375      41o



ANNEX 2
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Area, Institutions and Exipting Processing and Marketing
A.   Project Area
1.        Occupying a rectangular block of land on a South East/North West
axis between latitudes 11040' and 12040' N and longitudes 6020' and 7010' E,
the project area covers some 3,800 km2or about two percent of the total area
of the State. It comprises about half of the Gusau and Kaura Namoda Develop-
ment Areas within the Sokota Administrative District in the north eastern
part of North Western State. The project area comprises the whole of Kaura
Namoda, Chafe and Kotorkoshi districts, and those parts of Gusau and Bungudu
districts north of the Sokoto river (see map).
2.        Climate.  Data over the past 40 years at Gusau show that for half
of the years (50 percent probability), rainfall exceeds 37.5 in k(952 mm).
Considering that this is confined to the period April to October, it would
seem adequate to grow a range of short-term annual crops. However, the
within season distribution imposes some constraints which are considered in
Annex 1.
3.        Since the project area cannot be sure of receiving adequate rain-
fall in April and October, the entire crop cycle must be carried out in the
shorter season of May to September for which at 80 percent probability the
respective monthly totals are 2.0, 3.0, 5.4, 9.0 and 5.2 inches. With such
distribution it is evident that timely sowing of the crop followed by adequate
soil and water conservation practices are even more important than they are
at the projects in the North Central and North Eastern States.
4.        Water.  There are few perennial streams in the area, and ground-
water supplies are severely limited by the presence of the impervious under-
lying basement complex. With increasing pressure on land, the flow period
of streams has diminished markedly. Wells commonly fail during the dry
months, leading to prolonged water shortages which are becoming an increas-
ingly critical issue for both human and livestock populations. Fortunately,
topography is such that construction of small reservoirs appears a practicable
solution to the water problem.
5.        Topography and Soils.  The area is underlain by rocks of the base-
ment complex, which is predominantly granite. The landform is gently un-
dulating at an altitude of 600 to 900 m with occasional granite inselbergs.
Many small, ephemeral streams occur throughout the area.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
6.        Leached ferruginous tropical soils are common with well developed
sub-soil horizons containing some 30X clay. Drainage ranges from good to
rather poor. Surface capping is general throughout the area.
7.        Soils are weakly acid, with pH in the range 5.5 to 6.5 and are
deficient in nitrogen and available phosphate, particularly after prolonged
cropping. Attempts to maintain the fertility of farms close to settlements
is made by using animal manure at between two to three tons per ha. Recent
investigations have demonstrated an apparent boron deficiency and its solu-
tion, by the use of boronated superphosphate. Fertilizer responses by most
major crops have been established with some precision at low application
rates. Field trials involving higher levels of application, mainly for
cereals such as maize and sorghum, are presently underway in the project area.
8.        Vegetation.  Natural vegetation is savanna woodland typified by
Isoberlinia doka in association with grasses mainly of Andropogon and
Hyparrhenia species. Over much of the area the savanna has been replaced
following clearing and farming, by parkland dominated by such trees as
Parkia clappertoniana and Adansonia digitata (Baobab). These trees are pro-
tected by law and provide valuable dietary supplements from seeds and leaves
respectively. In wetter areas, which have been heavily farmed, spear grass
(Imperata cylindrica) is a troublesome weed. Additionally, the parasitic
weed Striga hemontheca causes significant yield reductions in sorghum.
9.        Population.  The project area is occupied by people of the Hausa
tribe, most of whom are devout moslems. Literacy in English, Nigeria's
official language, and Hausa, the vernacular, is low among adults in rural
areas, but is rising rapidly with the younger generation. Available data
are scant. The last census, from which data are available was carried out in
1963 and remains the best source of population data until the results of
the December 1973 census become available in detail later in 1974. Such
data will be of immeasurable value in detailed project planning and evaluation.
The only other possible source available at present, Local Authority returns
on numbers of tax payers, whilst collected annually vary in accuracy in
accordance with the diligence of the different officials charged with tax
collection responsibilities in the districts. Information from such sources
indicates only 60-80 percent of the adult male population that has been
imputed from census data. According to the census, population of the five
districts constituting the project area totalled 470,500 in 1963. Using a
growth rate of 2.5 percent annually, population of the project area currently
should be about 620,000.
10.       Data on numbers of persons per family in the project area are
also sparse. No demographic surveys have been carried out. However, indi-
cations from tax data point to an average of 4.72. Local opinion does not
confirm this, suggesting that family size approximates 6.5 individuals.
This figure in turn is lower than that obtained in a detailed survey of
three villages in Zaria Province, some 120 km south of the project area. The
latter arrived at a mean figure of 8.5 persons per family. This is sub-
stantially higher than the figure suggested by the Federal Office of



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Statistics for Zaria Province as a whole. Because of the spread between
family size derived from tax data on the one hand, and a microsample
in a neighboring province on the other, 6.5 was arbitrarily selected as
representing average family size. This was in accordance with local opinion
and falls between the extremes otherwise suggested. Thus, on the basis of
a family size of 6.5, and a population of 620,000, there aare now estimated
to be some 95,400 families in the project area.
11.       Numbers of farming families were calculated on the assumption that
about 28 percent would be engaged primarily in non-agricultural activities.
This figure was derived from census data and observations on non-agricultural
activities in the area. On this basis, it is currently estimated that there
are about 68,000 farming families in the project area.
12.       The population is divided between five districts of Sokoto Adminis-
trative Division and resides in 40 village areas. The estimated situation
in 1974 is as shown below:
District                No. Village Area            Population
Gusau                           6                     179,000
Kotorkoshi                      4                      40,500
Chafe                           6                     100,500
Bungudu                         8                      75,000
Kaura Namoda                   16                     225,000
TOTAL                   40                     6202000
13.       The social structure of the area is significant because of the
relative strength and influence of the hierarchical structure of the Local
Authority. The project comes within the jurisdiction of the Sultan of
Sokoto whose hereditary authority is delegated through salaried district
heads and village heads.
14.       Among their other functions, village heads are responsible for
village level administration of land tenure arrangements. The system is
based on Islamic law and on customary usufructory rights. In theory, it
provides for the allocation of such rights to land which is not yet so
allocated, to any native Nigerian who expresses the intention of settling
and using land within the village area. In practice, most land has been
allocated to families, the heads of which suballocate to family members in
accordance with assessed need and capability.
15.       As representatives of the Local Authority, village heads have con-
siderable political influence within their areas. Although this influence
is being eroded in urban areas, such as the wards of Gusau town, it is still
considerable in the villages. For this reason, every effort would be made to
obtain the support of village heads for the project by acquainting them with
proposed and ongoing developments within their areas. District heads would



ANNEX 2
Page 4
be similarly consulted and informed. Furthermore, as indicated in Chapter VI,
provision is made for Local Authority representation on the Project Committee.
16.       Farm Size.  Information on farm size is scant.  It is possible to
impute a possible mean farm size on the basis of assumed population, family
size and estimated area of cultivated land.  The latter figure is estimated
by NWS at 238,000 ha, 62% of total project area. This comparatively high
figure is based on a series of random traverses across photo mosaics of about
half of the project area, which yielded a somewhat more intensive (66 percent)
land use pattern: given 68,000 farm families (para. 11) then average size
of cultivated holding including fallow would be 3.5 ha.
17.       Cropping Patterns.  Cropping patterns are dominated by sorghum and
millet as food grains, and cotton and groundnuts as the major cash crops.
A diversity of minor crops are grown. Local knowledge and socio-economic
surveys in neighboring parts of the northern States indicate that sorghum
and millet typically occupy 45-55% of cultivated areas, cotton and groundnuts
about 16-20% each. Minor crops, usually grown in mixtures with the main
cereals and cash crops, include maize, chilies, kenaf, okra and a range of
vegetables.
Communications
18.       The project area is served by two main roads (see map).  The trunk
highway connecting the north west with Lagos passes through its southern
parts; a branch road to Kaura Namoda and Katsina starts at Gusau and serves
the northern and western pares, These are tarred and are maintained by the
Federal and State Governmenta. In addition, the Nigerian Railway Corporation
has a spur line from the main northern route, which branches at Zaria and
runs via Funtun and Gusat  to Kaura Namoda in the north west corner cf the
area.  This l4txe runs parallel with the road through the west of the project
area.  There io an airport n exrated by the Federal Government at Oisru but
no flights re currently scheduled. Telephone facilities exist at Gusau,
operated by     Posts and Telegraphs Department of the Federal Ministry of
Communications,
19.       Unfortunately, the basic communication network barely extends
beyond that described above.  Minor roads are non-existent or in poor repzsir
Communities are seasonally cut off from each other and the outside world.
Transportation of produce and inputs to rural areas is both difficult and
expensive. Attempts to improve the situation by self help activities and
by the Development Area Works Department are hampered by shortages of funds-
and competent executive capacity.
B. Institutions
20.       Institutions that would be concerned with the project and their
relevant responsibilities are described in the following paragraphs.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
21.       The Ministry of Agriculture (MA).  MA would have responsibility for
carrying out the project. The Ministry has representatives of its four technical
divisions within the project area, and it operates a cotton seed multiplication
farm at Gusau ksee map).  While the functions of its Field Services and Produce
Inspection Divisions within the area would be incorporated into the project
organization, the administration of the two other Divisions would remain un-
changed. Thus, animal health, organization of grazing facilities 1/ and
livestock improvement services, largely for the semi-nomadic Fulani pastoralists,
would continue to be provided by the Veterinary Division and the Forestry Divi-
sion would continue its work, which is concerned mainly with the regulation of
reserved land, and planting of woodlots. These functions would be largely
unaffected by the project.
22.       The Ministry of Works (MOW).  Responsible for State-financed public
works program, MOW has limited facilities and a small technical staff de-
ployed within the project area; MOW Is concerned mainly with road maintenance,
building construction, and the maintenance of State-financed structures.
Executive capacity relative to the State construction program is a major
limitant to its operations.
23.       The Ministry of Health (MOH).  Responsible for all aspects of human
health in the State, MOH is in process of developing its services and facil-
ities. Within the project area, a general hospital provides treatment ser-
vices for both in-and out-patients at Gusau. This and a number of planned
Rural Health Centers will provide the referral link between the sparse network
of district dispensaries, and the specialized hospital facilities operated
and planned by MOR at the State headquarters, Sokoto.  It is expected that
additional Rural Health Centers and a closer network of dispensaries providing
more comprehensive services are to be included in the forthcoming development
plan (1974-1978) of MOH.
24.       Ministry of Industry, Trade and Cooperatives (MITC) provides
services to industrial investors and is involved, for example, with the
de-eigepment of the new oil seed crushing mill being constructed at Gusau.
More relevantly, it is responsible for the administration of cooperative
societies within the State. In common with other northern States, cooperatives
in North Western have made little impact on the bulk of the rural population.
Success has been hampered by shortage of support and supervisory staff, and
by political interference in the early to mid-1960's leading to widespread
indebtedness.
25.       Primary producer and marketing societies organized in the project
area at this time formed the Zamfara Cooperative Union. Neither the primary
societies nor the union gained the full support of farmers. In common with
the cooperative movement elsewhere, these groups are to a greater or less
extent indebted to the State Government for preseason and marketing loans and
1/   This aspect would be affected by the Bank's proposed Livestock Project
appraisal report 127-UNI which includes provision for improvement of
facilities and services to pastoralists utilizing a grazing reserve in
the north west corner of the project area.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
are consequently inoperative. For these reasons, little emphasis is placed
on the cooperative movement in proposed credit and marketing arrangements
for the project.
26.       The Sokoto Local Authority (SLA).  The project area comes under
the control of the Sokoto Local Authority and the Gusau and Kaura Namoda
Development Boards. The main functions of the former include the collection
of tax in respect of people and cattle (haraji and jangali respectively);
the administration of farming land allocations; the latter is charged with
provision of services such as feeder road construction and maintenance, dis-
pensaries, and primary education as a complement to State Government activities
in these fields.
27.       One function of the SLA is of immediate and direct importance to the
project. It relates to the need for open support and encouragement of
project activities and the cooperation of SLA officials with project manage-
ment. Project concept and proposed activities were discussed 'at several
levels with the SLA (including a meeting with the Sultan of Sokoto). Re-
actions were favorable and full cooperation was promised. An important function
of the two Development Area Boards relates to the maintenance of the road
network which the project would construct. In the course of the develop-
ment period the road construction unit of the project would liaise closely
with the Works Department of the Development Area Boards in order to foster
a smooth handover of responsibility at full development.
28.       The Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR).  Created in the
early 1960's from the Research Division of the then Northern Nigeria Ministry
of Agriculture, IAR is a semi-autonomous body linked with Ahmadu Bello
University (ABU). Its governing body has representation from the Ministries
of Agriculture and Natural Resources of the six northern States. Its main
research station is located at Samaru, near Zaria, some 120 km from Gusau.
Further details on the organization and output of IAR are in Annex 3.
29.       IAR preserves contacts with headquarters and field staff of >A.
Field trials are carried out on an agency basis on MA sites, supervised
by ministry staff under the technical guidance of IAR researchers. Research
recommendations are conveyed to extension staff via the Extension Research
Liaison Service (ERLS) of IAR.
30.       While IAR has directed a major part of its resources to fundamental
plant breeding in the search for improved high yielding varieties, which
must continue, it must do more to find solutions to the practical everyday
problems of small farmers who struggle with seasonal limitations of labor
and severe shortages of capital and other resources. A practical program
of applied research aimed at identifying and resolving farmers' problems
would make IAR's program more immediately useful to the people it is intended
to serve.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
31.       Nigerian Agricultural Bank (NAB).  NAB is a Federal Government
insitution which was inaugurated in March 1973, with head offices in Kaduna.
UNDP has provided financial assistance to employ consultants to plan the
role of NAB and to manage it for three years; the Bank is executive agency.
Four expatriate senior management staff, including the General ianager,
have been employed; and Nigerian officers have been recruited.
32.       Northern States Marketing Board (NSMB).  NSMB is responsible for
organizing the domestic purchase of controlled crops, cotton and groundnuts
at prices predetermined by FMC. As from the 1973/74 season, NSMB became
purchasing agent of the Federal Nigerian Produce Marketing Company (NPMC),
under a new FMG program to improve crop purchasing. Crop purchases take
place at legally gazetted markets by Licensed Buying Agents (LBA) of NSMB.
In 1972, there were 34 cotton markets and 27 groundnut buying points with-
in the project area.
33.       Cotton and Agricultural Processors Ltd.  (CAP).  CAP (formerly the
British Cotton Growers' Association (Nigeria) Ltd.)) has had a monopoly for
ginning Nigerian cotton since exports began over half a century ago. CAP
has ginneries throughout the cotton growing zones of the northern States.
In addition to ginning and lint classification, CAP arranges for seed dressing
against Bacterial Blight, seed distribution to village dumps, and transporta-
tion of lint and seed as directed by NStMB. CAP is efficient and capable of
expanding its operations to meet the needs of the project. The present
ginning agreement expires in 1976, and CAP is exploring with State Govern-
ments the possibilities of greater local participation in the industry.
C. Processing and Marketing
34.       Cotton.  All cotton purchased for NSSMB in the project area is
ginned at CAP facilities located either at Gusau and Kaura Namoda (see mal
The Kaura Namoda ginnery also processes cotton produced outside the projec.
area. Some increase in effective capacity would probably be needed towards
the end of the project, and CAP has indicated its willingness to make thle
necessary arrangements, in consultation with MA and NSNB.
35.       The gazetted cotton markets usually are temporary structures made
from grass mats, and are located on the basis of anticipated purchases
(minimum 50 tons/year) and distance between markets (minimum 8 km). A
minimum of two LBA is mandatory for each market, which is controlled by a
Produce Examiner (PE) from the Produce Inspection Division (PID) of the MA.
The PE are responsible for the visual grading of seed cotton into one of two
grades, and should ensure that LBA pay correct amounts to farmers for their
produce. The PE are severely criticized as they seldom perform these
functions; apparently grading is virtually non-existent, and farmers
allege that many PE conspire with LBA to cheat farmers. The project would
seek to correct these deficiencies.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
36.       Cotton Seed.  Currently cotton seed is dressed against fungal
infection by CAP and is returned to the farmer. In the handling processes,
enormous losses occur which could be substantially reduced were an acid
delinting process employed. Through this, the seed germination rate would
be improved, thus requiring less seed to be returned to the farmer and re-
leasing a greater surplus of seed for the crushing industry. NSMB would
request CAP to install acid delinter equipment at their gin in Gusau; CAP
have agreed in principal to this suggestion.
37.       Groundnuts.  All groundnuts purchased for NSMB are inspected an
graded by PID staff. Normally, this takes place after the purchases from
farmers have been made by LBA at buying points licensed by SLA. Groundnut
buying points like cotton markets, are not properly supervised by PID and
there are frequent allegations that LBA manipulate weigh scales and prices
at the expense of farmers.
38.       Other Crops.  Control is normally not exercised on the marketing
or handling of other crops, such as sorghum, maize and cowpeas. However, SLA
has the power, if agreed by NWS, to restrict movement of foodcrops in times
of shortage. Such powers have been invoked in poor seasons from time to time.
39.       There is no national food crop market as such, but rather a series
of fairly highly organized, but disconnected, local centers. Consequently,
markets are thin and marked temporal and spatial price irregularities occur.
The project would aim to improve matters by the introduction of a market in-
telligence service, increasing farmers bargaining power through crop assembly,
and providing marketing advice and where appropriate helping farmers groups
to enter into contracts with large consumers such as livestock feed producers
and commercial starch factories.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Phasing of Project Development Program
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Total
Project Admdn. HQ                       1       -         _        _                   1
Development Centers                     4        -        -                            4 -  h
Service Centers (accum.)               10        25       4o       -         -        40
Road revelopment
Surfaced    km                         10       60        60       60       60       250
Unsurfaced  km                         50      175       175      175      175       750
Water and Soil Conservation
Dams          No.                       5        20       20       20        20       85
Tapkis        No                       -         40       40       40        40      160
Master ridges km                       -        600      600      600       600    2,4OO
Complete catchment km2                 20        80       80       80        80      340
Max. Farmers using inputs 1/        3,000   12,500   17,500   25,000   35,000        -
Av. no. of farmers per village
service center using inputs 2/        300       500      438      625       875      -
Av. total farmers in service
center area                         1,700    1,700    1,700    1,700    1,700        -
Percentage farmers affected
on service center basis % 3/           18        29       26       37        52      -
Percentage farmers affected
on Project total %                      4        18       26       37        5.
1/ Based on farmers expected to take up fertilizers - sorghum growers dominate.
2/ Credit takers expected to be 75%.
3/ Taking account of active service centers only.






ANNEX 3
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research and Seed Multiplication
A. Research Implementation
Institution
1.        Technical and rural economic research pertaining to the project
area is the responsibility of the semi-autonomous Institute of Agricultural
Research (IAR). The Institute was created in the early 1960's and is
linked to the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) at Zaria. It has its main
station and administrative headquarters at Samaru, adjoining the ABU campus,
some 120 km south of proposed project headquarters at Gusau. IAR serves
the six northern States. Senior officials from their Ministries of Agri-
culture and Natural Resources (MANR) help to formulate IAR policy and
approve research programs.
2.        The Institute has a staff of over 150 professionals, and modern
and expanding facilities. It has established apparently good working
relations with other research institutions in Nigeria and the West African
region. Its standing in research circles is acknowledged to be high. Over
the years it has produced a wide range of research results relating to most
of the crops commonly grown in the northern States. Implementation of the
results has been hampered by lack of technical assistance and input delivery
services at the village and farmer levels; and a tendency for research to
be unrelated to the conditions encountered on farmers' farms. The latter
weakness has been high-lighted recently as a result of the activities of
the Agricultural Economics Department of IAR, whose staff are cooperating
with technical personnel in the formulation of research recommendations
more nearly related to farmers' needs and capabilities than has hitherto
been the case.
3.        Responsibility for transmission of research results to extension
staff is vested in the Extension Research Liaison Service (ERLS) of IAR.
Headed by a deputy Director of the Institute, ERLS produces a range of
audio and visual aids materials suitable for use by farmer contact extension
staff.  The Service is responsible for formulating draft recommended
practices for farmers. These are based on research results and an assess-
ment of the level of supervision and technical competence of field level



ANNEX 3
Page 2
extension staff employed by the State MANR's. This is generally low,
hence recommended practices tend to be simple and conservative in order to
avoid the hazard of loss of confidence by farmers in extension staff who
give wrong advice (due to lack of comprehension) or who are unable to
arrange for supplies of necessary inputs. ERLS has a staff of some 20
professionals and support personnel. Its chief would be willing to tailor
extension material to meet proposed project needs, and to assist with its
production.
4.        The use of IAR research results as a basis for recommendations
by ERLS to farmers has limitations. The farmer does not have the ideal
conditions for crop growth enjoyed by IAR on its stations. His resources
are limited, which necessitates a cropping pattern dictated by his limited
resources. What is now urgently required is a range of experimental work
to show what can be accomplished under the conditions of crop successions
which the environment and limited manpower resources impose on the farmer.
5.        Demonstrations, on both individual holdings and seed multiplica-
tion farms (see Schedule 1) using applicable IAR recommended inputs and
improved seed varieties, would play an important part in teaching new
techniques to farmers. These demonstrations must be of a very high standard
to have a real impact.
Research Programs and Recommendations
6.        Programs on the five crops proposed for the project have been
ongoing for many years. Thus, cotton has been the subject of continuing
research in the major disciplines over the past four decades. Programs
are staffed mainly by personnel of the Cotton Research Corporation (CRC).
They have resulted in the development of improved varieties. Thus S71,
which is recommended for the project area, has a yield potential under
Samaru conditions of well over 2,000 kg of seed cotton per ha. Its main
characteristics are listed in Annex 1. In addition, agronomic practices,
fertilizer responses, pest and disease problems of crop have been clearly
defined and, at least, partially solved, so that farm yields of about 1,100
kg can be expected over wide areas.
7.        The cotton research program has provided definite recommendations
on variety, cultural practices and fertilizer applications applicable to
the project area. Currently it is in the course of evaluating systems of
insect control using ultra-low-volume (ULV) spraying techniques on a field
scale at different sites in the proposed Funtua project area of the North
Central State. Advice on ULV techniques suitable for farmers is likely to
be forthcoming early in 1974. These would be similar to techniques used
by small scale cotton producers in other parts of Africa. Annex 1 contains
the essence of research recommendations for the cotton crop plus proposals
for ULV spraying based on experience elsewhere. Future work in the cotton
research program should include testing verieties that have a short growing



ANNEX 3
Page 3
period and can thus be planted late and still have a resonable yield expecta-
tion. Late planting of cotton is a practice forced on many farmers because
of limited manpower resources.
8.        Groundnuts have been the subject of close research interest and
substantial effort over the past two decades. High yielding varieties
suitable for the project area have been developed and a package of inputs
and practices capable of at least doubling farmer's yields has been available
for some years.
9.        Improved practices proposed for the project are based on current
recommendations by ERLS. They include the use of the seed of the variety
S61, seed dressing with Aldran T or Fernasan D, single superphosphate
fertilizer at 75 kg per ha, early planting and close spacing. It may be
that ongoing research on control of cercospora leaf spot will lead shortly
to the possibility of incorporating this treatment in practices proposed
for groundnuts in the project area. This should be kept in mind, along
with opportunities for production expansion through new varieties and/or
variations in fertilizer dressing, all of which are under investigation.
10.       Sorghum research has progressed from attempts to improve local
varieties into the development of dwarf varieties and hybrids suitable for
the differing ecological conditions encountered in the northern States.
Such material has a yield potential of at least five times greater than
farmers presently obtain. Selection and breeding programs have been underway
for the past 20 years with substantial assistance in the past decade from
the US through USAID programs involving USDA, USARS and several universities.
Cooperative programs with other West African sorghum producers have also been
operated through IAR.
11.       The outcome of this work, and related agronomic investigations,
has not yet reached the stage at which ERLS is able to issue a series of
recommended practices for general distribution. However, highly promising
results have been obtained from a number of trials, replicated at Daudawa
(in the North Central State) and a number of other sites in ecologically
comparable locations. These have formed the basis for the proposed level
of improved technology, outlined in Annex 1, involving the use of dwarf
sorghum varieties. Proposed levels of fertilizer application and the specific
types of sorghum most suitable for the project area should be reviewed after
1973 and 1974 cropping seasons in the light of results of ongoing and proposed
field trials scheduled for Gusau and other sites. Acceptance for human
consumption of new hybrid varieties on the basis of palatability should be
examined closely.
12.       Maize has the most exciting crop development potential in the
project. Recent research results in Nigeria, and experience in other
African countries having similar ecological conditions point to the pro-
bability of a substantial expansion of area and production in the short



ANNEX 3
Page 4
to medium term. Yields of over 7,000 kg/ha have been obtained under trial
conditions over several years at Samaru from synthetic varieties and hybrids.
Trials in the project area have yielded similarly, and promising new material
is presently being tested. Even if a reduction of 50 percent from research
to farmer fields is assumed yield levels of at least 2,800 kg can be readily
obtained.
13.       These developments are comparatively recent in the northern
States. They have been initiated by a number of cooperative and regional
programs, partly funded by the US. Table 2 indicates yield potential of
some of the material being developed. Agronomic practices established
elsewhere have been, and continue to be, tested under Nigerian conditions.
Some refinements are likely to be forthcoming, but basic production tech-
niques utilizing comparatively heavy fertilizer applications have been
proven in trials.
14.       Annex 1 sets out one level of recommended maize technology based
on Nigerian research results and experience in other African countries
having similar ecological conditions. These differ from current recommended
practices since they presuppose a much closer degree of technical assistance
to farmers plus the provision of the inputs necessary to obtain predicted
production levels. As for sorghum, proposed technology should be reviewed
in the light of 1973 and 1974 field trial results and amended as necessary
before incorporation in project activities.
15.       Cowpea is grown throughout the project area, and widely in
Nigeria. Research has centered mainly on control of insect pests, to
which it is highly susceptible both in the field and in store. However,
some improved varieties have been established and recommendations are
available on cultural practices. Responses to phospatic fertilizer (single
superphosphate) have been demonstrated.
16.       Control of insect pests is possible, provided the crop is sole
planted using high volume sprays and DDT/BHC mixtures. The probability
of insect control using ULV techniques is currently under investigation
at IAR. Results suitable for dissemination to farmers are expected to
be forthcoming in the near future. In anticipation of this, an improved
level of technology is proposed for the project, that involves ULV spraying
and fertilizer application to sole crops planted as recommended by ERLS.
Confirmation or possibly modification of the treatment should be sought
before their implementation, following results of ongoing and planned
investigations by IAR staff.
17.       The project management would undertake field trials in close coop-
eration with IAR at the Gusau and Kaura Namoda farms. Investigations
would form part of ongoing research programs in major commodities in the
project area. They would pay particular attention to the applicability of
results under project conditions.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Seed Multiplication
18.       Seed multiplication is the responsibility of State Ministries of
Agriculture and Natural Resources from parent nucleus material developed
by IAR. At the present time there is no private sector seed industry.
With the exception of the cotton seed multiplication scheme at Daudawa,
Gusau and Gombe, efforts to pioduce and distribute improved planting
material are generally inadequate to meet the needs of the northern States
(for details of stage multiplication of cotton see Table 1).
Vq.       Project proposals for a substantial uptake of improved planting
mdaerial of four of the five crops considered dictate that adequate multipli-
cation facilities should be developed in the area. MIA already has a
60 ha farm at Gusau at which some of the cotton seed for the State is
bulked up. This farm would be extended to 400 ha, and a new farm of 200 ha
at Kaura Namoda would be developed to further expand seed multiplication.
20.       Seed production is a specialized business calling for good manage-
ment standards and a high level of technical competence. MIost MA staff
at farm manager level are weak in those qualities, and it is questionable
whether existing MA personnel could operate a seed production program
of the size proposed for the project. Quantities of seed would not be large
initially, but would build up quite quickly as shown in Schedule 1.
21.       Parts of both sorghum and maize seed production programs may be
of the new hybrids; exact amounts would depend on farmer uptake which itself
depends on the successful demonstration of significant yield differences
between the new hybrids and current composite strains. Groundnut and cotton
seed production would pass through two multiplication stages on the project
seed farms; final multiplication would be on private seed farms. The 600 ha
of the two project seed farms would be adequate to handle cotton and
groundnuts up to the third stage and perhaps the cereal production in the
early years. But the use of selected commercial farmers within the project
area must be envisaged for cereal quantities such as those projected from
year 3 onwards. Seed production development under this project could be
substantially expanded to serve as a major seed producing location for the
State.
22.       Schedule 1 of this Annex gives details on requirements, costs
and returns for Gusau and Kaura Namoda seed farms.






ANNEX 3
Table 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WIESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICUILTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Seed Multiplication
Sown    Seed Cotton   Seed        Seed
Area       Yield       Produced   Required  For
Stage       Location              ha        kg/ha        m ton      m ton    Stage
A         ILR breeder nucleus 0.15        1,500        0.144      0.102       B
B         IAR breeder plot    6           1,200        4.61       4.20        C
C         Gusau farm           100          750        48.3       45.0        D
D         Gazetted area        1,800        630        725        700         E
E         Market areas         35,000       600        13,L440    9,900 1/   F
1/ Project area at Year 5 49,5OO ha seed sufficient for 495,000 ha.



ANNEX 3
Table 2
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Yields of Promising Maize Varieties and Hybrids: IAR Samaru
Average
1970          1971          1967/1970
Federal Zonal Trial
NC-A                                6,308          7,171              _
NC-B                                6,128          6,753              _
A306                                   -           7,237              _
West African Regional Trials
Ghana Composite 3                   6,140          9,404 h
o9l (096)                           6,011          9,137              -
X305                                  -            8,131
XB101                                  -           9,734
NCB                                   -            7,723
NCB X NCB                              -           8,119              -
Samaru Trials
C-8 X A-196                         7,252            -              6,786
A-49 X C-33                         7,059            -              7,267
BY X C-12                           5,968            -              7,047
BY X C-10                           6,931            -              7,148



ANNEX 3
Schedule 1
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Multiplication and Demonstration Farms
Existing Area (ha)  New Land Required (ha)   Total
Gusau farm                    60                   340                  400
Kaura Namoda farm             Nil                  200                  200
60                   540                 600
Project Seed Requirements
The project farms would produce the seed requirements of the pro-
ject farmers during the first two years of the project. Thereafter, any
excess requirement over and above production from the project operated
multiplication farms would be produced by large "commercial" farms within
the project area. Such farmers would be assisted by project staff. In the
unlikely event of a shortfall in seed, it is likely that surpluses gen-
erated by the Funtua agricultural development project would be available.
Due to the favorable conditions in Funtua considerable emphasis would be
placed there on seed production.
Projected Seed Requirements       Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
------------------m tons------------------
Cotton (stage C)                    45        45        45       45        45
Cereals (maize-sorghum)             20       110      170       325       550
Groundnuts                          40       200       360      560       800
Area (ha)
Cotton (stage C)                   100       100      100       100       100
Maize/sorghum                       10        50        70      140       230
Groundnuts                          50       250      450       700    1,000
160      400       620       940    1,330
Produced by:
Project seed multiplication farms                        ha
Cotton (stage C)                 100       100      100       100       100
Maize/sorghum                     50       100      200       200       200
Groundnuts                        50       100      100       100       100
200      300       400      400       400
Project farmers:
Groundnuts                        -        150      350       600       900
Maize/sorghum                     -         -         -        -         30



ANNEX 3
Schedule 1
Page 2
Project farmers would, in selected areas (probably village basis), grow
improved groundnuts for seed. The project would be self sufficient in
cereal seed until the fifth year of the project. However, prior to the
fifth year of the project, project farmers would be encouraged to grow
commercial cereal seed which would be processed and sold to other farmers
within the State. Project farms would follow a cotton, groundnut, cereal,
fallow rotation - the exact rotation would be determined by the senior
farm manager.
Seed Multiplication Investment Costs                  N           N
(a)  Land clearing          540 ha  at N 75/ha      40,500      40,500
(b)  Land acquisition       540 ha  At N 45/ha      24,300      24,300
(c) Building costs:
Staff houses (included under technical
services housing (Annex 10, Table 3))        -
2 x office                at N 3,000       6,000
2 x workshop/store        at N 8,000      16,000
2 x water and power supply at N 15,nOO  30,000
Fencing                                    6,000       58,000
(d) Equipment
4 x 78 hp tractors        at N 4,250      17,000
1 x 65 hp tractor         at N 3,800       3,800
2 x 35 hp tractors        at N 2,500       5,000
3 chisel plows            at N   400       1,200
3 offset disc harrows    at N   700        2,100
2 peg harrows             at N   300         600
4 planters                at N 1,200       4,800
5 trailers                at N   700       3,500
2 sprayers                at N   600       1,200
2 maize shellers          at N 1,000       2,000
Seed dressing equipment                    7,500
2 x 5-ton lorry           at N 6,000      12,000
3 pick-ups                at N 3,300       9,900        70,600
(e)  Miscellaneous (10%)                                          19,300
Total                                            212 700



ANNEX 3
Schedule 1
Page 3
Operating Costs
Cotton        100 ha    at N 132 /1  per ha               13,200
Groundnuts    100 ha    at N 114 per ha                   11,400
Cereals       200 ha    at N  95 per ha                   19,000
Total                                               43,600
Overhead charges (20%)                                     8,720
Total                                               52.320
Returns
Seed cotton 100 ha   at 750 kg/ha        at N 0.168/kg   12,600
Groundnuts  100 ha   at 800 /2 kg/ha  at N 0.136/kg   10,880
at 200 kg/ha     at N 0.087/kg    1,740
Cereals     200 ha at 2,400 /2 kg/ha  at M 0.136/kg   65,280
at 600 kg/ha     at N 0.07/kg       8,400
Total                                                98,900
Gross profit                                        46,580
/1   Made up as follows:
N per ha
Power                      58
Labor                      35
Seed                        5
Fertilizer                 17
Spray                      17
Total                   132
From USDA Agriculture Economic Report No. 227.
/2   80% of total yield available for sale as seed; remaining 20% sold at
commercial price.






ANNEX 4
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH  WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Roads
General
1.        The lack of reasonable farm access constitutes a serious constraint
to development, the rectification of which is essential for the success of
the project. To enable most farmers to be within two kilometers of a reason-
able road requires development of 1,000 km of agricultural roads in the
Gusau area. These roads are needed so that vital agricultural extension
work can reach the farmer during the wet season when his crops are growing,
and for the delivery of farm inputs and evacuation of produce during the dry
season. In addition, social benefits by way of easier and more economical
haul of other supplies, better bus services, and easier travel by the
farmer's own modes of transport such as bicycles, donkey, ox cart and tractor,
would result.
2.        Traffic densities are difficult to predict with accuracy, but it
is certain that most of the heavy lorry traffic would occur in the dry
season when haul of farm inputs and produce is at its peak. Light traffic
would continue throughout the year, mostly consisting of local movement be-
tween villages. Because of this traffic pattern, where the heavier axle loads
occur in the dry months, it should be possible to use most of the roads through-
out the year, the main obstacle being those roads intersected by a major river
crossing which could cut off traffic for several months in the wet season.
Careful road location is necessary to reduce the frequency of such obstacles.
3.        During the five year development period, the project would construct
1,000 km of agricultural roads, of which, about 750 km would be unsurfaced
and 250 km would be surfaced. Roads would only be surfaced - with appropriate
thicknesses of natural occurring gravels - on main extraction routes to mar-
ket centers and where soil conditions make this essential (see map for
proposed road layout).
4.        Construction Standards. 1/ Roads would be constructed on the water-
sheds 2/ as such alignments are self draining and require minimal earthworks.
Construction would involve 1,500-2,500 YC/mile over a 32 ft formation, and
would be undertaken most effectively by tractors for site clearance, and
1/   Basic standards and data are calculated using English measurements.
2/   Lines of separation between drainage basins.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
motor graders for shaping the formation and providing turn-out drains from
longitudinal side drains; the use of motor graders would predominate.
Stripping (or topsoiling) over the formation width would seldom be required
on watersheds where weathering hlad taken place exposing material which is
capable, without surfacing, of adequately carrying the low volumes of traffic
likely to use such roads. Proposed typical road cross sections are attached
for (a) construction by grader and (b) low embankments that would be re-
quired where low-lying areas cannot be avoided (see Figure 1 of Annex 4).
5.        Construction Technique
(i) Selection of road center line would be carefully carried out by
stereoscopic examination of aerial photography (provided for under
the project, Annex 10 Table 2) and large-scale maps, and by site
inspection and levelling to locate the tops of ridges, which are
often very flat. The alignments would slavishly follow selected
watersheds.
(ii) Clearing of the formation would be carried out by tractor/dozer/
scraper combinations and debris moved outside the formation width.
(iii)  Topsoiling (or soil stripping) would only be carried out where
absolutely necessary, e.g. where topsoil or unsuitable material
exists and where the use of such soil in construction would reduce
road bearing strength.
(iv) Construction by grader. On watershed routes, the main method
of construction would be by motor grader. Material from grader-
blade cut side drains, depth 12" - 18", would be moved towards the
center of the formation width and shaped to a smooth camber.
This is essentially a lateral earth movement although some long-
itudinal regularization would occur along the road center line as
the grader shapes the formation. Scarifying the material in the
side drains may be necessary and occasionally a tractor-mounted
ripper might be needed to loosen material for easier movement by
the grader.
(v) Provision of turn-out (offshoot drains) from the longitudinal
side drains of the formation would be grader constructed to dis-
charge water from the formation and so prevent erosion in the side
drains being caused by long uninterrupted drainage flows.  Care
would be taken to ensure that turnout drains had the correct slope
to take water away from the formation.
(vi)  Compaction of formation after shaping is desirable.  The supply
of water for consumption by project staff and for road and dam
construction would be difficult. Rivers do not flow continually
throughout one year, very few dams exist, shallow wells generally
yield low, and frequently fail in the dry season; and boreholes
(tube wells) have not proved successful in the basement complex of
the project areas.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
The initial stage of the construction program would be confined for
the first dry season of the project to areas within a workable range of exist-
ing water supplies, say, 20 miles. Thereafter the dams constructed in the
first stage, after filling during the rains, would become the water source
for wider reaching road and dam construction activities.
(vii) Surfacing would only be carried out by tractor and scraper over
sections where the subgrade is found to have inadequate bearing
strength even for low traffic volumes, and where supplies of sur-
facing material within the practical working haul of tracked tractors.
Scrapers would require the support of a pusher during such opera-
tions. The principal function of the tractors would be clearing,
dozing and ripping and not surfacing (see para. 11). The self-
loading scrapers proposed for the dam construction unit would
assist with surfacing in the wet season. Local haulage constractors
would be used where long hauls of gravel are found necessary.
(viii) Minor embankments would be constructed by tractors and scrapers
on those sections where watershed construction is impossible. Side
borrow to fill would be used where practicable (see typical cross-
sections). In adopting predominantly watershed alignments, em-
bankments would be required in crossing from one watershed to
another and in doing so, at some sites, it would be possible to
construct dams and allow traffic to cross over a widened dam wall.
(ix) Drainage structures. Corrugated metal pipe culverts would be used
because of the ease and speed with which these can be transported,
assembled and constructed. Bitumen-coating of metal pipe would be
an effective method of protecting culverts from the slightly acid
(pH 5-6) soil water to which they would be exposed. Concrete
headwalls, tail walls and drop-pits using standardized form-work
would be constructed.
Method of Procurement
6.        Road Works - Three possibilities exist:
(i) By Contract. It is the opinion of Federal and State MOW officials
that major Nigerian (and foreign operations in Nigeria) civil
engineering contractors are fully (if not over) committed with
Federal and State highway development programs and that contracts
for low-standard agricultural roads would not interest them at the
present time. The project program is not of a type to interest
new foreign contractors because of their low unit cost of con-
struction, long construction period envisaged, and demand for a
modest amount of equipment and plant.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(ii) By State Mlinistries and Agencies. The State Ministries of 1Works
and Agriculture and Natural Resources would be unable to undertake
the construction of project roads and dams without considerable
strengthening in staff and equipment. In any case MOW is already
over committed and is extremely short of adequately experienced
supervisory and technical personnel.
(iii) By Project Construction Units. The establishment of these units
would involve recruitment of senior managerial, technical and
mechanical staff, procurement of plant, training of operators,
setting up workshops, costing procedures and evaluation of physical
outputs. The recruitment of high calibre senior personnel with
experience in similar work is essential to the success of project
units. Hlowever, the main advantage of project construction by
force account would be lower cost of construction, flexible use
of equipment between roads and dams, and the training of personnel
to undertake similar work elsewhere in the State.
7.        Other integrated agricultural projects financed by the Bank have
in some instances involved the development of infrastructure through project
construction units. Construction has generally been efficient, at low cost,
and has provided an excellent training ground for young indigenous engineers.
In the light of such experiences, the inadequacy of existing Nigerian insti-
tutions, the lack of available contractors, and the need for flexibility, the
project would set up a special unit to undertake the construction of roads,
dams and soil conservation measures.
Construction Costs
8.        The average overall road construction cost is estimated at about
N 2,500 (US$3,800) per km. The cost includes engineering overheads, plant
capital and operating costs, workshop capital and operating costs, labor
and engineering supplies (see Tables 1-4).
Plant Requirement
9.        Plant requirements for agricultural road construction units have
been estimated by using plant output figures for similar work under similar
terrain and rainfall conditions and by estimating the total work quantities
required. Table 2 shows recommended major plant items. The predominant
method of construction would be by motor grader with one more powerful
grader for work in harder soil conditions. Other major equipment includes
two tracked tractors with dozers and scrapers for clearing and forming
shallow embankments, and two vibratory rollers for compaction or formation
and surfacing, where required.
Staff Requirements
10.       These lhave been related to the numbers and types of construction
equipment and to the tasks involved in alignment selection, grade construction,



ANNEX 4
Page 5
surfacing and drainage structures. A high degree of mobility is desirable;
caravans (dwelling trailers) would be provided for senior personnel and
portable accomnmodation for artisans, operators and laborers (Annex 6 Table 5).
Road Maintenance
11.       Although some road maintenance would be undertaken by the project
during the development period, the allocation of construction plant for
maintenance would not be allowed to interfere with output of new road; thus
once a new road had been built maintenance responsibility would be handed
over to the Gusau and Kaura Namoda Development Boards. Funds have been
included under Annex 10 Table 6 for the purchase and operation of maintenance
equipment, and under the project respective Development Board staff would,
during the project, be seconded to the project engineering service for purposes
of training and operating control.
Bridges
12.       Small streams would be crossed by constructing "Irish" crossings -
a concrete slab on a suitable rock foundation - or through the use of ARMCO
type culverts. No large bridges would be constructed, since most rivers are
extremely wide and run dry for 8 months of the year, at a time when crops are
being evacuated, and inputs are being delivered to service center stores. All
the roads would have year round access from at least one end so that during
the wet season access can be gained. In the dry season road maintenance
units would cut new approaches to the river beds, which would be sufficient
to allow ingress to traffic.
Compensation
13.       Compensation for loss of arable land due to road construction would
be made at established SLA rates and the amounts (provided for under Annex 10
Table 6) would be determined by SLA.






NIGdSIA
NORtTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPWENT PR0F31CT
Road Construction - Output Rates
% of Total 1/
(620 miles)                                                                      -------------- Hours--------------
Operation                                                     Dimension       (1,000 km)        Units                 Total Units         Output Rate           Grader   Dozer   Scraper   Compactor
Clearing in open country for grader construction              40[  wide          45%           4.85 acre/mile        1,360 ac             1.25 ac/hour            -      1,100      -
Clearing in bush country for grader construction              40' wide           45%           4.85 acre/mile         1,360 ac            0.75 ac/hour            -      1,800      -
Clearing in open country for earthworks construction          75' wide           7.5%          9.10 acre/mile           420 ac            1.25 ac/hour            -         350      -
Clearing in bush country for earthworks construction          75' wide           2.5%          9.10 acre/mile           214 ac            0.75 ac/hour            -         300     -
Topsoiling(where necessary: dozer 50%,scraper 50%)           321 x 6"            10%           3,130 YC/mile          194,000 cY          30-85 YC/hour           -       2,400    1,200        -
Construction by grader                                                           90%             560 miles              1,350 days        0.33-0.5 mile/day   11,000    -           -
Offshoot drains by grader                                     Max. 2,500'        90%             560 miles              1,000 days        0.50-0.6 mile/day    8,ooo    -           -
drains/mile
Subgrade compaction (including watering)                      20' wide          100%            12,000 YS/mile        7,400,000 YS        650 YS/hour             -        _         _        11,400
Surfacing - by tractor and scraper                            15' (av.)          25%             1,500 YC/mile          230,000 YC        50-55 YC/hour           -       1b,600    4,600        -
Shaping surfacing - by grader                                 20' wide           25%            12,000 YS/mile        1,860,000 YS         2,000 YS/hour         1,000
Surfacing compaction (including watering)                     20' wide           25%            12,000 YS/mile        1,860,000 YS           650 YS/hour          -        -         -          3,000
Earthworks (by tractor and scraper; haul n.e. 600')                              lo%             6,500 YC/mile          400,000 YC         65-70 YC/hour          -       6,000    6,ooo         -
Total                                 20,000  16,550   11,800       14,400
per year (4 years)                     5,000   4,138    2,950        3,600
Units required 2/                          3        2         2           2
1/ As a percentage of each mile of constructed road.
2/ There may be some residual capacity which would allow for additional roads to be constructed and the road unit would receive additional support if required from dam construction
equipment.
January 23, i97L4



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Construction: Unit Plant and Operating Costs
---------      Capital Costs (N'000)------------      -----------------Operating Costs per Hour (N)----------____-___
Price  ex Lagos                          Total
incl. attach-                Transport  Delivery             Lub. &             Cutting
ments and duty    Spares 3/  to Site    Price         Fuel   Filters   Tyres   Edger etc.   Repairs   Operator   Total
Tractor 180 hp, PCUJ, Dozer, Ripper                   50.9                        1.0       51.9       2.39    0.52        -        o.43       4.67        1.00 2/   9.01
Tractor 140 hp, PCU, Dozer, Ripper 1/                 30.6                        1.0       31.6        1.60    0.32       -        o.43        2.84       1.oO 2/   6.19
Scraper 14/18 yc                                      16.0                        0.6       16.6        -       0.15      0.95      o.30        0.55        -        1.95
SP Scraper 150 hp 1/                                  36.6                        1.0       37.6       1.68    o.44       1.08      0.50        3.19       1.00 2/   7.89
Motorgrader 125 hp                                    28.8                        o.6       29.4       2.22    0.24       1.68      o.70        1.35       1.00 2/   7.19
Motorgrader 150 hp                                    32.6                        0.6       33.2       2.49    o.40       1.68      o.75        1.54       1.00 2/   7.86
Agricultural tractor                                   -                           -         4.0       0.51    0.15       0.36                  0.17       o.20       1.39
Vibratory compactor 9 tons                            28.8                        o.6       29.4       0.82    o.20        -         -          2.35       0.80 2/   4.17
Tipper 7 t/5 yc                                        -                           -         8.0       o.82    0.30       0.53       -          0.39       0.20      2.24
Mobile workshop/lub. truck/fuel tanker                                             -        10.0       o.82    o.30       0.53       -          0.49       o.20       2.34
4 wheel drive vehicle                                  -                           -         4.o       o.66    0.20       0.40       -          0o20       0.20       1.66
Pickup ½ ton GP                                        -                           -         3.2       o.66    0.20       0.40       -          0.16       0.20       1.62
Car, large                                             -                           -         5.0       0.55    0.10       0.30       -          0.25       0.20       1.40
Car, light                                             -                           -         3.0        o.44    0.10      0.25       -          0.15        -         0.94
Concrete mixer 14/10                                   -                           -         1.0        0.41    0.10       -         -          0.10        -         0.61
Water trailer                                          -                           -         1.0         -       -        0.05        -         0.05        -         0.10
Water pump                                             -                           -         0.5        0.41    0.05       -          -         0.05        -         0.51
Generator 2.5 KVA                                      -                           -         1.0        0.41    0.10       -          -         0.15        -         0.66
1/ Equipment required for water and soil conservation work (Annex 4, Table 1).
2/ Double shift work - two operators required.
Mr Included in repair costs1
March 1, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVLOPMENT PROJECT
Road Construction: Capital Costs for Plant. Equipmnt and Materials
N 000
Foreign Exchange     Local
Unit      Unit Cost    No. Units          Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5         Total      %            Cost     Cost
ld Ruirements
Tractor PLL/dozer/ripper 180 ap        No.          51.9           2 p1)    51.9              (1)    51.9            -                                             103.8      9            93.4      10.4
Scraper - towed 14/18 cy               No.          16.6           2          (1)    16.6      (1)    16.6                             -                 -          33.2       90          29.9        3.3
Motorgrader 125 hp                     No.          29.4           2          (1)    29.4      (1)    29.4           -                 -                -           58.8       90          52.9        5.9
Motorgrader 150 hp                     No.          33.2           1          (1)    33.2            -                -                -                -           33.2      90           29.9       3.3
Agric. tractor 65 hp                   No.           4.0           2          (2)     8.0            -                -                -                -            8.0       90           7.2       0.8
Vibratory compactor 9 tons             No.          29.4           2         (1)    29.4      (1)    29.4            -                 -                -           58.8      90           52.9       5.9
4 WD vehicle                           No.           4.0           4          (2)     8.0            -         (2)      8.0           -                 -           16.0      60            9.6       6.4
Tipper 7 ton 5 yc                      No.           8.0           2         (2)    16.0            -                -                -                 -           16.0      90           14.4       1.6
Pickup i ton                           No.           3.2           4          (2)     6.4            -         (2)      6.4           -                 -           12.8      60            7.7        5.1
Caravan                                No.           3.0           5          (3)     9.0      (2)     6.o            -                -                 -          15.0       90          13.5        1.5
Water trailer 1,000 gal.               No.           1.0           4          (4)     4.o                             -               -                 -            4.0      90            3.6       0.4
Water pump and hose                    No.           0.5           2          (2)     1.0            -                -                -                 -           1.0       90           0.9       0.1
Generator 2.5 kwa                      No.           1.0           1          (1)     1.0            -                -                -                 -           1.0       90           0.9       0.1
Concrete mixer 14/10                   No.           1.0           1          (1)     1.0            -                -                -                 -           1.0       90           0.9        0.1
Lub. truck                             No.          10.0           1          (1)    10.0            -               -                 -                -           10.0       90           9.0        1.0
Fuel tanker                            No.          10.0           1          (1)    10.0            -                -                -                 -          10.0       90           9.0        1.0
Survey equipment                                                                      2.0              1.0              2.0              1.0               1.0       7.0       90           6.3       0.7
Sub total                                                               236.9            134.3             16.4              1.0               1.0     389.6      88          342.0       47.6
Worksho Requirements
Fuel stpo rag e                                     2.0           -                  2.0            -               -                -                 -            2.0      50            1.0        1.0
Lub. equipment                                       1.0           -                  1.0            -                -                -                 -           1.0      80            0.8        0.2
Overhead hoists                                      1.0           -                  1.0            -                -                -                 -           1.0       90           0.9        0.1
Welding equipment                                    3.5           -                  3.5            -                -                -                 -           3.5       80           2.8        0.7
Tyre equipment                                       1-5           -                  1-5            -               -                 -                -            1.5      80            1.2       0.3
Air compressor                                       0.8           -                  0.8            -                -                -                 -           0.8       80           o.6        0.2
Jacks HD                                             0.8           -                  0.8            -                -                -                 -           0.8       80           o.6        0.2
Bench equipment                                       -            -                  1.8              0.2              0.2              0.2               0.2       2.6       80           2.1        0.5
Motor tools                                           -            -                  3.8              0.2              0.2              0.2               0.2       4.6       80           3.7        0.9
Mechanical tools                                      -            -                  0.6              0.1              0.1              0.1               0.1       1.0       80           0.8        0.2
Mobile workshop                        No.          10.0           2          (1)    10.0            -          (1)    10.0                                         20.0       90          18.0        2.0
Low loader                             No.          21.0           1          (1)    21.0            -                -                -                 -          21.0       90          18.9        2.1
Fuel tanker                            No.          10.0           2          (2)    20.0            -                -                -                 -           20.0      90          18.0        2.0
Pickup ½ ton                           No.           3.2           2          (1)     3.2            -          (1)     3.2                              -           6.4       60           3.8        2.6
Other tools and equipment                                                             4.2              0.2              0.2              0.2               0.2       5.0       80           4.0        1.0
Sub total                                                                75.2              0.7             13.9              0.7               0.7      91.2       85          77.2       14.0
Building and Construction Materials
Workshop, store, furnishings, etc.   No.            35.0           1                 35.0            -                -                -                 -           35.0      20            7.0      28.0
Cement and form work                                                                  3.3              6.6              6.6              6.6               6.6       29.7      -            -         29.7
Corrugated metal pipes                                                               20.0             40.0             4o.0             40.0              40.0     180.0       70         126.0       54.0
Field housing shelters                                                                6.o              3.0              3.0              3.0               3.0      18.0       10           1.8       16.2
Sub total                                                                64.3             49.6             49.6             49.6              49.6      262.7      51          134.8     127.9
Total                                                                   376.4            184.6             79.9             51.3              51.3     743.5       74         554.0      189.5
January 23, 1974



N3mERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULIURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Road Construction - Labor and Plant Operating Costs
N'OOO
No. of                   Unit Rate       Year 1          Year 2           Year 3           Year 4          Year 5                   Foreign lxchange      Local
Units      Total Hrs.     N per ha    Hrs.  Cost       Hrs.   Cost      Hrs.   Cost     Hrs.  Cost       Hrs.   Cost      Total     %            Cost     Cost
Field Units
Tractor       180 hp    (2)          16,550          9.01      1,550   114.0    4,000   36.o    4,000   36.0    4,000  36.0    3,000   27.0    149.0    37               55.1       93.9
Scraper       14/18 cy  (2)          10,800          1.95         900    1.8    3,000    5.9    3,000    5.9    3,000    5.9        900    1.8     21.3      70          14.9        6.4
Motorgrader   125 hp    (2)          14,000          7.19       1,000    7.2    4,000   28.8    4,000   28.8    4,000   28.8   1,ooo    7.2    100.8         44          44.4       56.4
Motorgrader   150 hp    (1)           6,000          7.86         500    3.9    1,500   11.8    1,500   11.8    1,500   11.8   1,000    7.9        47.2      44           20.8      26.4
Agric. tractor 65 hp    (2)          18,000          1.39       2,000    2.8    4,000    5.6    4,000    5.6    4,000    5.6    4,000    5.6       25.2      44          11.1       14.1
Vibratory compactor      (2)         14,400          4.17         400    1.7    4,000   16.7    4,000   16.7    4,000   16.7    2,000    8.3       60.1      44          26.4       33.7
Tipper          5 yc    (2)          18,000          2.24       2,000    4.5    4,000    9.0    4,000    9.0    4,ooo    9.o    4,ooo    9.0       40.5      44          17.8       22.7
4 WD vehicle            (2)          18,000          1.66       2,000    3.3    4,000    6.6    4,000    6.6    4,000    6.6    4,000    6.6       29.7      44          13.1       16.6
Pick up truck 3 ton      (2)         18,000          1.62       2,000    3.2    4,000    6.5    4,000    6.5    4,000    6.5    4,000    6.5       29.2      44          12.8       16.4
Concrete mixer 14/10    (1)           5,000          o.61      1,000    o.6    1,000    o.6    1,000    o.6   1,000    0.6   1,000    o.6           3.0      44           1.3        1.7
Water trailer            (4)         36,000          0.10       4,000    0.4    8,000    0.8    8,ooo    o.8    8,000    0.8    8,000    0.8        3.6      44           1.6        2.0
Water pump               (2)          9,000          0.51       1,000    0.5    2,000    1.0    2,000    1.0    2,000    1.0    2,000    1.0         4.5    44            2.0        2.5
Generator 2 kwa          (1)          9,000          0.66       1,000    0.7    2,000    1.3    2,000    1.3    2,000    1.3    2,000    1.3         5.9     44           2.6        3.3
Labor costs 1/                                                           8.6            17.2             17.2            17.2              8.6     68.8      -            -         68.8
Sub total                                                    53.2            147.8            147.8           147.8             92.2    588.8     38          223.9     364.9
Workshop Operating 2/
Mobile workshop          (2)          9,000          2.34       1,000    2.3    2,000    4.7    2,000    4.7    2,000    4.7    2,000    4.7        21.1     50           10.5      10.6
Low loader               (1)          4,000          4.78         500    2.4    1,000    4.8    1,000    4.8    1,000    4.8        500    2.4     19.2      44           8.4       10.8
Lub. truck               (1)          6,ooo          2.34         500    1.2    1,500    3.5    1,500    3.5    1,500    3.5    1,000    2.3        14.0     44            6.2       7.8
Fuel tanker              (1)          6,ooo          2.34         500    1.2    1,500    3.5    1,500    3.5    1,500    3.5    1,000    2.3       14.0      44           6.2        7.8
Pick up ½ ton            (1)          9,000          1.62       1,000    1.6    2,000    3.2    2,000    3.2    2,000    3.2    2,000    3.2        14.4     44            6.3       8.1
Special services 3/                     -             -                 10.0            15.0             15.0            15.0             10.0      65.0     50          32.5       32.5
Freight 4/                                                               1.5              3.0             3.0              3.0             1.5      12.0     75            9.0       3.0
Sub total                                                     20.2            37.7             37.7            37.7             26.4    159.7      50          79.1       80.6
Total                                                        73.4            185.5            185.5           185.5            118.6    748.5    140          303.0      445.5
1/ Includes: for road survey and grade construction 2 engineering assistants and 5 laborers; for surfacing 1 engineering assistant and 10 laborers,
and for drainage structures 1 foreman, 3 mason/carpenters and 10 laborers.
2/ Excludes parts, mechanical supplies and labor (2 foremen, 2 clerks, 2 partsmen, 10 mechanics, 10 mechanics helpers) costs included in hourly
repair costs for plant and equipment.
3/ Services for plant repairs.
b/ Mainly airfreight of supplies.
January 22, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
OUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMERNT PROJECT
Road Maintenance Unit N'OOO 1/
Unit      No. of                                                                                                        Foreign Exchange      Local
Unit        Cost       Units            Year 1           Year 2          Year 3           Year 4           Year 5        Total       %           Cost      Cost
Plant and Suiment
Tractor l140 hpP   dozer, PCU ripper No.          31.6           1         (1)    31.6            -                -                                            31.6       90           28.4       3.2
Motorgrader 125 hp                    No.         37.6           1          (1)    37.6           -                -                _                _           37.6      90           33.8       3.8
4 wheel drive vehicle                 No.          4.0           2         (1)     4.0            -                -         (1)     4.0             _            8.0      60            4.8       3.2
Tipper 5 yc                           No.          8.0           2         (1)     8.0            -               -          (1)     8.0             -          16.0       90          14.4        1.6
Small equipment and tools                                                           2.0             0.5              0.5             0.5               0.5        4.0      60            2.4       1.6
Sub total                                                              83.2              0.5             0.5             12.5               0.5      97.2       84          83.8       13.4
Plant Operating and Labor 2/
Tractor E L hp                        Hours       N6.19      7,000       1,000     6.2      1,500   9.3     1,500   9.3      1,500   9.3        1,500  9.3       43.4      37           16.1      27.3
Motorgrader                           Hours       N7.19      7,000       1,000      7.2     1,500  10.8      1,500  10.8     1,500  10.8        1,500 10.8       50.4       44          22.2       28.2
4 wheel drive vehicle                 Hours       N1.66      5,000       1,000      1.7     1,000   1.7      1,000   1.7     1,000   1.7        1,000  1.7        8.5      44            3.7       4.8
Tipper 5 yc                           Hours       N2.24      4,000         500     1.1        500   1.1     1,000   2.2      1,000   2.2        1,000  2.2       8.8       44           3.9        4.9
Labor                                 Manday      N1.0       4,125         500      0.5       625   0.6      1,000   1.0     1,000   1.0        1,000  1.0        4.1       -             -        4.1
Rural Engineer                        Manyears   N15,000         5          (1)     5.0        (1)  5.0         (1)  5.0         (1)  5.0          (1) 5.0       25.0      -              -        25.0
Sub total                                                              21.7             28.5             30.0            30.0              30.0     140.2       33           45.9      94.3
Total 3/                                                              104.9             29.0            30.5             42.5              30.5      237.4      55         129.7      107.7
1/ Road maintenance unit would commence work at the beginning of year 1 to open up and maintain existing
tracks to enable initial service centers to be developed. Thereafter the unit would maintain existing
and project constructed roads. The unit would be owned and operated by the local authority who would
second it and its staff to the project during the implementation phase.  Thereafter the local authority
would take over full control.
2/ Includes cost of driver and plant operators.
I/ Includes maintenance about 110 km of existing tracks.
January 23, 1974






NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
TYPICAL AGRICULTURAL ROAD CROSS SECTIONS
CONSTRUCTION BY GRADING                                                   CIL
16'~                                           - 16,                    0-I 
CONSTRUCTION IN EMBANKMENT
m t - | Z----e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-3' 
SPECIFICATIONS
Cearing Width: 40 ft for grading
Clearing Width: 75 ft for embankment
Only where directed by engineer and then full cornpacted
Surfacing:    thickness as ordered over central 10ft, tapering to zero                                                                                             rQ
thickness 10ft. either side of central line.                                                                                                         'L>
Degree of                                                                                                                                                           FS
Curvature:    As dictated by terrian
Gradient:     Maximum 14% over length of 1,000 ft
Turnout Drains: Maximum 2,500ft of drains per mile of road
VWorld B..k-8273(3RI






ANNEX 5
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water and Soil Conservation
1.        The project area suffers from extreme shortage of water for domestic
purposes during the dry season and part of the wet season until village wells
start to yield properly. The area is also prone to soil erosion principally
in the catchment areas of small streams and rivers. Under the ecological
and climatic conditions prevailing in the Project area, soil and water con-
servation are synonymous with each other, and where possible would be treated
together, particularly as proposed under the project, water development would
be through the construction of surface water dams.
A. Water Conservation and Rural Water Supplies
2.        Shortage of water supplies for domestic use during the dry season
and beginning of the wet season, January through to August, is acute in the
Project area. It is estimated that the existing wells, dams and tapkis
(ponds) can serve only 10-20% of total demand. Villagers depend for their
supplies on water from wells that on average can only be dug to 10-20 m,
most of which dry up during the dry season. An alternative source of water
are tapkis and small earth dams, but these are infrequent, and at times
poorly sited and constructed, resulting in poor holding capacity and at times
breakages. The final alternative is stream bed wells. These are seasonally
hand dug in water bearing sands of some, but not all, rivers and streams.
In many instances, these are last resort supplies resulting in carry distances
of up to 5 miles. Water collected from such sources is either head or donkey
carried, and during the crisis period (from February to June) is sold at a
standard rate of N 0.10 (US$0.15) per 20 liters. The lack of water is a
serious social and technical constraint, and unless efforts are made to
conserve and improve water supplies the project might only partially succeed.
3.        Existing plans by the State Government to improve water supplies
in rural areas has been given high budgetary priority. Plans are being
prepared to improve water supplied to larger towns, but for rural villages
efforts rarely go beyond providing assistance for well improvements. The
latter is not the correct policy since the ground water available in the
shallow aquifer is limited, and new wells themselves dry up and accelerate
the drying up of existing wells. In short it would seem that the draw off
of ground water is greater tharu its reservoir supply.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        The possibilities of utilizing ground water from deep aquifers
have been reviewed. Unfortunately geological conditions in the area are
such that the Basement complex, which is an aquiclude, is of shallow for-
mation and precludes the possibilities of deep aquifers. Furthermore even
if utilization were possible some form of mechanical pumping would be
necessary raising problems of maintenance. Experience shows that most of
the simple pumps installed in the past have been broken within a year and
subsequently have been rarely repaired.
5.        For the reasons outlined above, heavy reliance on dugwells and/or
deep boreholes are impracticable. Fortunately it is possible to exploit
surface water supplies and to impound wet season (June-September) runoff
in small earth dams. The topography and stream pattern for the project area
indicate a promising potential for earth dam construction. This is further
substantiated by the 1:50,000 topographical maps which are available (with
50 and 25 foot contour intervals) and which indicate a large number of
potential locations for small dam sites.
6.        Hydrological data are generally poor, but enough for small dam
development purposes. Annual rainfall in the project area varies from
700 mm-1,200 mm, and a runoff yield varying from 0.080-0.150 m3/km2 can
be expected. Evaporation from the natural water surface is very high being
about 2,000 mm per year.
7.        A careful analysis of the topography, availability of local
construction materials and hydrology indicates that a network of small dams
of about 120,000 m3 in total capacity each should be built. Each would be
fed by runoff from a catchment of 3 to 4 km2 in area and would be capable
of meeting the year-round demands of 2,000 people and their livestock.
The dams would be equipped to provide a gravitational distribution system
for conveying water from the reservoir outlet to delivery points at separate
locations for people and livestock.
8.        A typical earthdam for the project area would have specifications
as detailed below:
(i) Features of average dam
-    Total maximum height                    6.70 m
-    Free board                               1.50 m
-    Depth at spillw.y level                 5.2  m
-    Total capacity                      120,000  m3
-    Dead storage or sedi-..ent space     20,000  m3
-    Useful storage capacity             100,000  m3
-     ..e spillway overflow with concrete sills with rip-rap in
becween (it ;--ay be necessary to peg down the rip-rap with
gabion wire in seciai cases) would be designed by the Soil
Conservation Engineer after he had surveyed the catchment,
studied its characterisi-es, rainfall intensity and worked
out the runoff.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Dam - earth-fill with clay core if necessary, having 4 m
top width and 1:2 to 1:3 side slopes with rip-rap on
upstream face, containing about 7,000 m3 of fill.
Foundation - treated to impervious zone.  Core wall would
be installed to an impervious foundation.
-    Outlet work - outlet pipes of 7.5 cm in diameter laid in
concrete, with at least three concrete flanges, equipped
with a gate valve on the downstream.
-    Dam design - as portions of the project area are under
soils which contain a high percentage of clay and others
under deep soils containing high sand content, the design
of each dam would be based on the results of soil tests
the proposed borrow and foundation materials.
(ii) Distribution System
-    Main gravity pipeline - iron pipe of 7.5 cm in diameter
laid at 1:1,000 slope for a distance to clear valley
bottom, not exceeding 300 m.
-    Branch pipeline - iron of 5 cm in diameter conveying water
from the main pipe to the separate delivery points at a
distance of at least 50 m for villagers and 100 m for
livestock from the main pipe.
-    Villager delivery points - installed with an adequate
concrete platform and faucets. 1/
-    2 livestock delivery points - installed with an adequate
brick trough and faucets.
(iii)  Useful Life of Tank          20 years 2/
-    Design sediment space in tank:  1,200 x 20 x 0.85 - 20,000 m3
-    Total tank capacity:
-    Active or useful storage             100,000 m3
-    Space for sediment deposit            20,000 m3
-    Total capacity                       120,000 m3
1/   The possibility of using hydrograms, for pumping water from the larger
dams to nearby villages,should be considered as to cost and applicability.
2/   For this purpose, the first 20 years after completion of the tank are
considered as "productive life of the reservoir" and years beyond this
are considered as "falling" or "depleting" life.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
9.        The project could not in the first instance provide sufficient
dams to satisfy all project farmers. However, it would attempt to satisfy
demand in the more critical areas, and provide reserve capacity for most
village unit areas. 85 dams would be constructed over the 5 years of the
project; 5 would be built in year 1, followed by 20 in each subsequent year.
Thus on average, there would be one dam to 45 km2 which approximates to one
per 800 farming families. Ground water table should also improve, thereby
indirectly affecting a large number of the remaining 75%. If successful,
this dam construction program could be continued in another phase.
B. Soil Conservation Measures
10.       Soil erosion occurs through overstocking and concentration of
stock at sparsely located watering points, and through poor cultivation
methods including badly aligned planting ridges and late planted crops at
low plant densities.
11.       Virtually no soil conservation measures have been undertaken on
a large scale in northern Nigeria and there are no practical specifications
based on past experience that can be followed. Consequently, it would remain
for the project conservation engineer to modify the designs and layouts as
experience is gained during project implementation.
12.       Dam catchments would require special conservation measures to
prevent erosion and siltation. Conservation on other areas would be of a
less intensive nature but designed to provide a basis for any future more
intensive conservation measures that may be required. To avoid concentration
of livestock at the limited number of existing watering places and planned
project dams a number of tapkis (ponds) would be constructed.
13.       Dam Catchment Conservation Measures
(i) Master ridges would be marked with a plough on the contour
so that all cultivation would follow the contour, 3 lines
per 20 ha should be sufficient.
(ii) The Conservation Engineer would locate natural or artificial
water ways approximately 1,000 m apart. He would shape them
to the required size and if necessary have them grassed. In
the second year when the grass had established, "vee" ditches
or cut-off drains would be constructed.
Specifications. The diversion ditches (cut-off drains) would be
approximately 1,000 m long draining both ways into the grassed waterway.
The ditches would have a cross sectional area of 0.8 m2 (37 cm deep and
3.6 m wide) and have a grade of 1:400 and be 250 m apart.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Equipment Required.  1 x 125 hp motor grader, 1 x 75 hp tractor
and plow.
14.       Conservation of Other Areas.  A conservation unit would be attached
to the road unit, and as the roads progressed master ridges would be consttucted
with a plow over an area extending approximately 2 km each side of the road.
3 master ridges per 20 ha would be sufficient. At the same time lines for
future access roads to villages or group of farms would be marked, the natural
drainage ways would also be demarcated so that they would be left out of
cultivation and allowed to revert to grass. In addition farmers should be
encouraged to practice tie ridges (boxed ridges). The ties would be 1 to 2 m
apart and half the height of ridges. This would give maximum absorption in
the early light rains. In the heavy rains the ties would break and allow
the excess water to drain off. Ties would be replaced towards the end of the
rains to assist in improving the infiltration of the late rains.
15.       Tapkis.  These would be constructed by a 140 hp angle dozer in
shallow depressions with a catchment area of 15 to 20 ha. Should the site
chosen have insufficient catchment, the catchment would be increased by the
use of diversion ditches.
Method. The dozer would scoop out the earth over an area approxi-
mately 40 m x 30 m with an average depth of 1.7 m. The embankment would be
made around the lower end giving a small increase to the holding capacity of
the tapki.  The diversion ditches would b! constructed by the motor grader
on a 1:500 grade with a capacity of 0.8 m  (37 cm deep and 3.6 m wide).
These would stop short of the tapki and be allowed to discharge towards a
bank 1 m high, 1 m thick and of sufficient length to allow the water to
circulate around the bank into the tapkis. This would reduce the velocity
and cause the silt to be deposited outside the tapki.
Equipment. No additional equipment would be required for tapki
construction as construction by the conservation unit would be done during
the crop growing season. About 160 tapkis would be constructed during the
life of the project.






NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water and Soil Conservation Development Costs
(Naira)
Foreign Exchange    Local
Unit         Unit Cost      Number         Year 1           Year 2          Year 3         Year 4            Year 5       Total      %            Cost    Cost
Plant  Vehicles and Equipment
T      racto r dozer/ripper 140 hp      No.          32,800              1       (1)   32,800                                                            -         32,800    90          29,520       3,280
Tractor dozer/ripper 180 hp             No.          51,900              1       (1)   51,900           -               -               -                -         51,900    90          46,710       5,190
Self-propelled scraper 150 hp           No.          37,600              2       (2)   75,200          -                -               -                -         75,200    90          67,680       7,520
Motorgrader 125 hp                      No.          29,400              1       (1)   29,400          -                -               -                -         29,400    90          26,460       2,940
Agric. tractor 65 hp                    No.           4,000             4        (4)   16,000          -                -               -                -         16,000    90          14,400       1,600
Compactor                               No.           4,000              1       (1)    4,000          -                -               -                -          4,000    90           3,600         4oo
Water bowser                            No.           1,000              3       (3)    3,000           -               -               -                -          3,000    90           2,700          300
Fuel bowser                             No.           4,500              2       (2)    9,000          -                -               -                -          9,000    90           8,100          900
Concrete mixer                          No.           l,ooo              2       (1)    1,000          -                -         (1)    1,000           -          2,000    90           1,800          200
Water pumps                             No.             500              8       (4)    2,000           -               -         (4)    2,000           -          4,000    90           3,600          400
Generator 2.5 kw                        No.           1,000              1       (1)    2,500           -               -                -               -          2,500    90           2,250          250
Caravan                                 No.           3,000              5       (5)   15,000          -                -               -                -         15,000    90          13,500       1,500
Crew vehicle 4 wd                       No.           4,ooO              6       (3)   12,000           -               -         (3)   12,000           -         24,000    90          21,600        2,400
Pickup trucks % ton                     No.           3,200              4       (2)    6,400          -                -         (2)    6,400           -         12,800    60           7,680       5,120
Lorry 7 ton                             No.           8,000              2       (1)    8,000           -               -         (1)    8,000           -         16,000    60           9,600       6,400
Survey equipment                        Set          10,000              1       (1)   10,000           -               -               -                -         10,000    60           6,ooo       4,000
Subtotal                                                                   278,200           -               -                29,400          -        307,600    86         265,200      42,400
Construction Materials and Labor
Concrete                                Per dam       1,000             85       (5)    5,000  (20)   20,000  (20)   20,000  (20)   20,000  (20)   20,000   85,000    -                    -         85,000
Fencing                                 Per dam       1,000             85       (5)    5,000  (20)   20,000  (20)   20,000  (20)   20,000  (20)   20,000   85,000    50                 42,500      42,5oo
Pipes, fittings etc.                    Per dam       2,000             85       (5)   10,000  (20)   40,000  (20)   40,000  (20)   4o,ooo  (20)   40,000  170,000    80                136,000      34,000
Tents and camping gear                  Set          12,000              1       (1)   12,000           -               -                -               -         12,000    80            9,600       2,400
Labor                                   Mandays            1.0     42,ooo               2,000           10,000          10,000           10,000          10,000   42,000    -               -        42,000
Subtotal                                                                    34,o00           90,000          90,000           90,000          90,000  394,000    48           188,100    205,900
Flant and Equipment Operating
Tractor dozer/ripper 140 hp             Hours              6.19      8,240               1,486          12,380          12,380           12,380           12,380   51,006    34           17,342      33,664
Tractor dozer/ripper 180 hp             Hours              9.01      8,240              2,162           18,020          18,020           18,020          18,020   74,242    37           27,470       46,772
Self-propelled scraper 150 hp           Hours              7.89    16,480               3,787           31,560          31,560           31,560          31,560  130,027    44           57,212       72,815
Motorgrader 125 hp                      Hours              7.19      8,240               1,726          14,380          14,380           14,380           14,380   59,246    44           26,068      33,178
Agric. tractor and compactor 65 hp   Hours                 2.51      8,240                 602           5,020           5,020            5,020            5,020   20,682    44            9,100      11,582
Agric, tractor (with plow)              Hours              1.39    24,720               1,001            8,340           8,340            8,340            8,340   34,361    44           15,119      19,242
Crew vehicle 4 wd                       Hours              1.62    16,800                1,944           6,318           6,318            6,318            6,318   27,216    44           11,975      15,241
Pickup truck ½ ton                      Hours              1.40    11,000                 840            3,640           3,640            3,640           3,640   1s,400    44             6,776       8,624
Lorry 7 ton                             Hours              2.34      8,300                 702           4,680           4,680            4,680           4,680   19,422    44             8,546      10,876
Other                                   Per annum       500                                500             500             500              500              500    2,500    44            1,100       1,400
Sub total                                                                    14,750         104,838          104,838         104,838          104,838  434,102    42          180,708     253,394    m X
Total                                                                       326,95o         194,838          194,838         224,238          194,838 1,135,702               634,008    501,694
March 1, 1974






ANNEX 6
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization, Staff Requirements and Training
A.   Organization
1.        The project organization as described in Chapter VI of the main
report would assume responsibility for all existing functions of MA within
the project area, except for those aspects concerning animal health, fisheries,
forestry, and irrigation. The project organization would follow the pattern
as shown at Schedule 1 of this annex and would comprise a project executive
committee, primarily controlling policy, budgets and audits, and an opera-
tional project management unit responsible for the day-to-day operations
involved in implementation of project policies. The project executive
committee and management unit would.be established by a Government gazetted
order, a proposed draft for which is at Schedule 2.
2.        The Gusau Project Management Unit (GPMU) would operate through a
number of sections; the head of each would be responsible to the Project
Manager. The sections would be: Administration, Finance, Technical
Services, Credit Services, Market Services, and Engineering Services.
3.        The Administration Section would be responsible for personnel
administration, maintenance of records, organization of project transport,
office administration, project security and public relations.
4.        The Finance Section would be responsible for budgeting, budget
control, internal audit, procurement, stores, salary payments, accounting
procedures, cost accounting, etc. It would help in setting up financial
procedures for the revolving credit fund, and would conduct the internal
audit of the fund.
5.        The Technical Services Section would provide basic technical
support and services to all those project actions designed to increase
farmer productivity including:
(a) Development Services would provide the coordinating link
between marketing, credit and extension. The project would
have 4 development centers each serving a development area
and controlled by a Development Officer who would coordinate
all project activities within the area. Apart from coordi-
nation, the Development Officer would be directly responsible
for extension services. The latter would be organized on



ANNEX 6
Page 2
the basis of one Agricultural Assistant (AA) for each farm
service center. In turn each AA would supervise a number
of Field Supervisors (FS) who would work at the hamlet
level. The AA and FS would provide basic extension advice
to farmers and groups of farmers. Associated with the
extension service would be a small livestock advisory unit
that would (i) identify livestock problems and make
recommendations for livestock programs within the area;
and (ii) provide advice on practical animal husbandry
to those farmers engaged in livestock operations sponsored
by the project. In this connection close liaison would be
maintained with Government veterinary services.
(b) Seed Farms. Two seed farms at Gusau and Kaura Namoda would
be developed to provide part of project seed requirements
in conjunction with contract operations by some of the
larger farmers in nearby areas. The seed farms would also
be used for practical demonstration purposes, applied
research and training. Seed farm management would also
provide management advice to larger "commercial" farmers
within the project area. Tiese farmers would be directed
to NAB and/or commercial banks for farm credit and the
unit would assist them in this.
(c)  Tractor Hire Services, now supplied by MA, would be
continued under the project, but would be phased out
gradually in favor of private contractors sponsored by
the project.
(d) Training would be undertaken at the Gusau training center,
the capacity of which would be expanded from 20 to 40
students, and at a new center to be constructed at Kaura
Namoda. The two centers would be used initially for
training and retraining project staff in extension. credit,
marketing and other disciplines. As the project develops,
more of the available training capacity would be allocated
to project area farmers.
6.        The Credit Services Section would be developed in parallel to the
development services and would be structured around the Development Centers
at District level, and at the farm service centers at farmer level. The
service would provide farmers with inputs on credit or for cash, assist in
recovery of lepayments, and keep accounts. An area Credit Officer would
control credit activities within each development area, and each village
service center would have two Credit Assistants (Annex 9 gives details).



ANNEX 6
Page 3
7.        The Market Services Section would be responsible for produce
inspection at produce markets, for market liaison and information, and for
the control and monitoring of Licensed Buying Agents (LBA). It would also be
responsible for the development of group marketing systems, and where
necessary for linking producers directly with distant consumer, e.g.,
contracts for maize supply to southern feed mill operators. Each Development
Center would have a marketing supervisor assisted by two market assistants.
A produce examiner would be posted to each farm service center to service
its market. Marketing services would be responsible for the logistics
involved in handling and distributing farm inputs. In this respect the
produce examiners would act as storekeepers during the period when markets
are closed, and when the main handling and distribution of inputs would
occur.
8.        The Engineering Services Section would be primarily responsible
for implementation of the physical infrastructural program for the project.
It would determine design and make specifications for buildings, houses,
offices, etc., prepare tender documents, evaluate bids, and supervise
contractors. It would be responsible for the procurement of all plant,
vehicles and equipment, and for their operation and maintenance. It would
prepare designs for roads and associated structures, dams, and soil conser-
vation works, and would ensure their construction according to plan. It
would operate a project workshop. Finally it would have a special land use
section to provide support for other project units as well as to provide
information directly relevant to civil works construction. In all instances
it would work closely with Ministry of Works Engineers.
B.   Staff Requirements
9.        Details of the number of staff needed for the project, their
availability within the State and probable shortfalls are shown at Tables
1-5 of this Annex. Job descriptions and qualifications for the more senior
positions are at Schedule 3. In general existing staff in the State have
received inadequate training and experience to permit them to effectively
manage and operate the project and, therefore, internationally recruited
staff would be necessary for some of the key posts. Existing staff in th
project area would come under the project and additional staff would be
transferred to the project from other areas of the State. Priority during
the first two years would be given to the project for those Agricultural
Assistants completing ongoing training courges. On this basis sufficient
professional and technical staff would be available. Junior technical
staff, particularly field supervisors (FS), would be recruited and trained
by the project at its own training centers. Such training would initially
comprise of simple short courses on specific crops and associated problems.
The FS would receive further training after a period of field experience,
and thereafter regular refresher courses. Inexperienced credit and marketing
staff would be trained in a similar manner through a series of inservice
training courses.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
10.       The Project Executive Committee on the advice of the Project
Manager would be responsible for the appointment of all senior staff. Staff
appointments at lower levels would be the responsibility of the Project Manage-
ment Unit in consultation with relevant Government departments from which
particular transfers might be made. Staff salaries are compatible with
existing Government scales, and would from time to time be reviewed by the
Project Executive Committee.
C.   Staff Training
ll.       Professional training is provided at universities throughout
Nigeria. The Ahmadu Bello University at Zaria in the North Central State
caters especially for the six northern States, although northern students
attend both Federal and State financed universities elsewhere in Nigeria
and abroad. A degree in agriculture is given by ABU and the project would
expect to recruit some of its professional staff as they graduate from ABU.
12.       Diplomate (3-year course for holders of West African School
Certificate) and certificate (2-year) level training is the responsibility
of the Division of Agriculture and Livestock Service Training (DALST) of
ABU. Graduates of these courses are employed by the Ministries of Agricul-
ture and Natural Resources of the northern States.
13.       Four schools are operated by DALST:
(a) Samaru (North Central State)
Offering, at present, certificate courses in extension,
farm mechanics, home economics and a diploma course in
home economics. Expansion of this school, planned for
completion by 1975, would add diploma courses in farm
mechanics and extension to the syllabus.
(b) Bakura (North Western State)
Offering a certificate course in irrigation agronomy;
presently located at Samaru pending completion of the
new school at Bakura.
(c) Kaduna Livestock Service Training Center (North
Central State)
Offering certificate courses in livestock and range
management, and diploma courses in animal products
inspection, and range management.
(d) Kabba (Kwara State)
Offering diploma courses in agriculture at present,
and certificate courses in agriculture from 1974.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
14.       Present enrollment at these schools is as follows:
1st Year     2nd Year
School /1              Course                 Students      Students
Samaru    1st year agricultural /2               215            -
Agricultural Assistant (AA),
farm mechanics                        -            16
AA extension                            -            59
Home Economics Assistant (HA),
home economics                       40            22
Diploma, home economics                 -            12
Bakura    Irrigation, agronomy                    40            25
Kaduna    Livestock assistant /2                  81            41
Diploma, animal health                 16            13
Diploma, range management               -            12
Kabba     Diploma in agriculture /3              198           _
Total              590           200
/1   The capacity of these schools is being increased and it is forecast
that by 1975 Samaru would have a capacity for 600 students and the
other schools 300 students each.
/2   1st year general course with opportunity to specialize in the second
year.
/3   Special course to give existing Ministry technical staff the opportunity
to upgrade to AS (1972 only).
15.       The output of diplomates (Agricultural Superintendents) and certi-
ficate holders (Agricultural Assistants) bonded to work through the terms of
their scholarships for North Western State is forecast as follows: 1974 - 12;
1975 - 27; and 1976 - 36. These, together with intra State transfers, would
meet project requirements (see Table 2).
16.       The existing training of agricultural extension staff, graduates,
diplomates and certificate holders is sadly lacking in practical farm manage-
ment, and the ability of senior staff in the field to give advice to farmers
directed at increasing profit margins needs to be greatly improved. At
present extension staff tend to give blanket advice without considering
economic implications. Training establishments, for both senior and junior
staff, should improve the quality of their farm management training.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
17.       Farm training centers are operated by North Western State and
graduate Field Supervisors (FS), the lowest grade of extension worker. The
State also has farm institutes for training farmers and farmers' sons. Under
the project it is proposed to upgrade the existing Gusau Farm Institute to
a Farm Training Center and to build a new Farm Training Center at Kaura
Namoda. These centers would be used to train, in the initial years of the
project, project staff particularly FS and Credit Assistants. Later on the
emphasis would be more on farmer training.
18.       The recruitment of individuals for training as Field Supervisors,
Credit Assistants, etc. should not cause too many problems since the basic
primary level of education is relatively good throughout northern Nigeria,
and there is an increasing surplus of West African School Cerfiticate holders
on the labor market.
19.       Staff recruited by the project would be expected to have certain
minimum qualifications: Agricultural Officers - degree in agriculture;
Agricultural Superintendents - diploma or upgraded from lower level; Agricul-
tural Assistant - certificate; Field Supervisor - primary seven; Credit
Officer - degree or diploma, or certificate in accountancy preferably with
some commercial bank experience; Credit Assistants - West African School
Certificate; Market Supervisor - degree holder or relevant experience in
market organization; Marketing Assistant - West African School Certificate;
Produce Inspector - primary seven; Rural Engineers - engineering degree.
20.       The terms and conditions of the employment of project personnel
would conform with those established for all employees of the State Government
except that professional and technical grade staff would be provided housing
as an incentive to live and work in remote areas, and that new terms would
be made for both expatriate and Nigerian contract staff. For expatriate staff
contract terms would take into account the international market for such staff
and the benefits that normally accrue to such appointments. For Nigerian
staff contract terms would provide similar benefits as normal pensionable
Government staff but would also provide for a gratuity (to be determined by
GPEC) in lieu of a pension.
21.       Management Training.  In addition to technical staff, training
project management would play an important role in training staff to fill
managerial positions. In this respect internationally recruited staff would,
as one of their responsibilities, ensure the adequate training of their
subordinates and would be required to submit to GPEC, through the project
manager, quarterly reports on the training aspects of their section. The
project manager would have the overall responsibility for ensuring that an
adequate management training program is maintained and would report regularly
on its progress. There are sufficient funds available for the recruitment
of a training specialist if the project manager so requires.



NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAUAGRICIULTURAL fEVECPUeNT PROJECT
PROIECT ORGANIZATION
EXECUTIVCOUNCIL
FOE.
NORTH WESTENN STATE
FEDERAL MIINISTRV
OF AGRICRLI1JRE-                                            
RSU~RCES                            |        _,                      COIIIIONER
COORDINATNG                U MINISTRTOFAGRICULTURE
COORMINATINT
COMMITTEE
EUOC   RIECT
EXCUTIVE COMMITTEE
0                   ~~~~~~~CHAIRMAN PERM. SEC. MA
EVALUATION
SECTION       -
PROJECT                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  ROK
MONITORING AND     _-__-                                               GUSAUP ROJECT
EVACUATION UNIT                                                       MANAGEMENT UNIT
PRIOJECT MANAGER
CREDIT SERVICES               FINANCE                  ADMINISTRATION              MARKET SERVICES         ENGINEERING SERVICES          FIELD EVALUATION           TECHNICAL SERVICES
FINAUFANCEFS     - _ _    CREDIT MANAGER             CRIEF ACCOUNTANT           CHIEF ADMIN. OFFICER       CHIEF MARKET OFFICER          CHIEF ENGINEER                 SECTION                CHIEF TECH. OFFICER
MARKET            -       PLANNING S                PHOTO ANALTSISSESMTILCIO
p  ACCOUNTS   - _   q      ACCOUNTS                    PERSONNEL    l            INTELLIGENCE    l'ANO HOE                                 MAPPING _ISAU EASE              A NATONA
L    FIELD                   EH POCUREMENTS                 TRANSPORT                   MAREET            .        WATI CNERVAIN               SUVY                        TANG 
STORES                         REGISTRT                    LIq AISON   l            CONSTRUCTION                   DESIGN                       TESO
SECURITY                      FARM SNFUTS                   MCAN IA W  RCORSHORE
RELATIONS                                                      SAPERIEIONF
WAIIA SaE.GO_2UR3RI  N






ANNEX 6
Schedule 2
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Establishment of Project Management Unit
1.        As a condition of loan effectiveness, the North Western State
Executive Council would be required to publish an order in the State Government
Gazette establishing the Gusau Project Management Unit (GPMU) and the Gusau
Project Executive Committee (GPEC). The order would set out the objectives
and responsibilities of GPHU and GPEC and would include the following.
2.        The GPMU would be managed by a Project Manager and its objectives
should be:
(a) development of the project area with a view to increasing
production of agriculture and raising the living standards
of the rural population;
(b) construction of roads, water supplies and soil conservation
works associated with agricultural development;
(c) development and management of seed multiplication farms;
(d) training af project staff and farmers;
(e) provision of village service centers and stores;
(f) provision of extension, credit and marketing services;
(g) procurement of farm inputs; and
(h) development of supporting infrastructures such as houses,
buildings, offices, etc., for the above services.
3.        The GPMU would be controlled by the Gusau Project Executive
Committee (GPEC) which would be made up as follows:
(a)  Permanent Secretary   -   Ministry of Agriculture
(b)  Representative         -   Ministry of Finance
(c)  Representative         -   Mlinistry of Local Government



ANNEX 6
Schedule 2
Page 2
(d)  Representative        -   Ministry of Transport and Works
(e)  Representative        -   Ministry of Economic Planning
(f)  Representative        -   North Western State Water Board
(g)  Director of Federal Agricultural Department or representative
(h)  Chief Agricultural Officer for the North Western State
(i)  Two members from the project area to be appointed by the
Military Governor.
The Project Manager should be secretary of the GPEC.
4.        GPEC would be responsible to the Commissioner of Agriculture and
would have the following responsibilities:
(a)  Policy.  GPEC would determine agricultural and development
policy, and would consult with the Federal Government and
the World Bank when any major changes in policy may be
required;
(b) Finance
(i)  GPEC would approve the annual budget and would ensure
that sufficient Government funds are readily available
to the project;
(ii) GPEC would appoint independent auditors;
(iii) GPEC would submit audited project statements of accounts
to the Commissioner of Agriculture within four months
of the closure of each financial year;
(iv) GPEC would approve the opening of project bank accounts;
and
(v)  the Chairman of GPEC would approve the monthly cash
flow statements submitted by the manager of GPMU;
(vi) approve annually the terms of lending to project farmers
on the basis of reco mendations made by GPMU.
(c) Staff and Personnel Matters. In consultation with the Manager
of GPMU, GPEC would be responsible for the appointment of all
senior project staff and employees, their terms and conditions
of employment and annual review of salaries and allowances;



ANNEX 6
Schedule 2
Page 3
(d) Award of Contracts. GPEC would, on the advice of the Manager
of GPMU, be responsible for approval of any single contract
valued at more than N 30,000;
(e) Inter-Departmental Coordination. The GPEC, through its members,
would be responsible for the coordination at Ministry level for
those issues that may affect the proper development of the
project.
Neetings of GPEC
5.   (a)  The Chairman would preside over all the meetings of the GPEC
which he attends, and in his absence the present members would
appoint one of their number to preside over such a meeting.
(b) The Chairman of the GPEC would invite the GPEC to meet at
such time and place as he may think suitable; provided that
no more than three months would elapse between any meeting
and the next. In absence of the Chairman, the Manager would
call the GPEC to meet whenever he deems this necessary.
(c) Six members of the GPEC would constitute a quorum of any
meeting of the GPEC. The GPEC would pass its decisions
by the Majority of the votes of its members present and
voting, and in case of equality of votes the Chairman would
have a casting vote.
(d) The GPEC may call any person to attend any of its meetings
without that person having a counted vote.
6.        GPMU would be responsible to GPEC for the day-to-day operations of
the project. In particular it would be responsible for the carrying out of
the objectives as stated in para 2 above. GPMU would be managed by a
Project Mlanager who would report directly to the Chairman of GPEC. The
main duties of GPMW would be:
(a) the implementation of an agricultural development program
in the Gusau project area following the policy guidelines
of the GPEC;
(b) the control and operation of the project revolving credit fund;
(c) the preparation of annual budgets and cash flows for approval
by GPEC. In particular GPMU would submit to the Chairman
of the GPEC monthly cash flow statements indicating any
changes in requirements for State Government funds due to
changes in project expenditures and inflow anticipated from
the Federal Government. Unless informed to the contrary
within 5 days of dispatch of such statements to the Chairman
of the GPEC, the manager would be authorized to make the
proposed expenditures;



ANNEX 6
Schedule 2
Page 4
(d) the recruitment of project staff, in consultation, when
necessary, with other Government Departments, and for
senior staff with approval of GPEC;
(e) the advertising, negotiating, calling for tenders, and
after approval by GPEC, for concluding such contracts with
persons and organizations either inside or outside the
State for the erection of buildings, the construction of
civil works and the supply of goods, services and materials
as may seem to be requisite for the proper discharge of its
duties;
(f) the operation of project bank accounts;
(g) the preparation of reimbursement claims, against project
expenditure for submission to the Federal Military Government
and the World Bank.
7.        GPMU would administer a field evaluation unit that would be techni-
cally directed by a Federal Military Government-controlled Project Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit (PMEU).
8.        GPMU would prepare quarterly and annual reports for the simultaneous
submission to GPEC, North Western State Executive Council, Federal Military
Government of Nigeria and the World Bank.
9.        GPMW would be delegated any additional duties and powers by GPEC to
the attainment of the objectives as set out in this order.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Job Descriptions and Qualifications of Senior Staff
Project Manager
Experience would be the main criteria for the selection of a
Project Manager, although a formal qualification in agriculture would be
important.
At least 10 years' experience in successful agricultural development
work in the field, including development-oriented projects, preferably in
Africa, would be required. A high degree of administrative ability, an
experience in dealing with the highest level of Government, especially in
committee work, and previous involvement in extension in small farmer commu-
nities would all be necessary.
The responsibilities of the Project Manager would be the overall
and complete control of all project activities and the coordination of all
project activities with those of other Federal and State Government agencies
and local authorities.
His duties would include:
(a) control of all project funds with the assistance of the
Chief Accountant;
(b) establishment of a cost analysis and record keeping system
which would enable project progress and achievement to be
monitored and a meaningful evaluation of the project's
impact possible;
(c) responsibility for project personnel matters with the
assistance of the Chief Administrative Officer;
(d) coordination of all project activities;
(e) reporting project progress to Government through written
reports and through the various project committees; and
(f) training project staff and ensuring a proper management
training program is successfully implemented.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 2
The Project Manager -would be responsible to the Chairman of the
Gusau Project Executive Committee (the Chairman being the Permanent Secretary
of the Iinistry of Agriculture).
Chief Administrative Officer
The Chief Administrative Officer would be a very senior civil
servant; or have had equivalent experience in a major public corporation or
.private company.
In previous employment he would have undertaken senior administrative
responsibility and have gained a thorough understanding of government procedures.
His duties would include:
(a) responsibility for all project personnel;
(b) project transportation;
(c) maintenance of a project registry;
(d) the physical control and checking of project stores;
(e) the general project security;
(f) the public relations aspects of the project; and
(g) training administration staff.
He would be directly responsible to the Project Manager.
Chief Accountant
The Chief Accountant would be a professionally qualified accountant
with additional training in business management. he should have had at least
10 years' experience in a senior position in a large public corporation or
commercial company. If possible, he would have a knowledge of banking and
credit procedures. Previous employment involving working with high ranking
government officials would be an advantage.
His main responsibility would be the control of all project finances
on behalf of the Project Manager. His duties would include:
(a) preparation of budgets, cash flows and estimates of
expenditure for the proiect,
(b) ensuring correct applicaticn foro project funds;



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 3
(c) assisting the Credit Manager in establishing an efficient
and meaningful system of recording agricultural credit
transactions;
(d) the responsibilities for project stores and requisites, with
the assistance of the section and department heads, and for
stores' control and audit procedures;
(e) internal auditing of project accounts; and
(f) training accounting staff.
Chief Technical Officer
The Chief Technical Officer would be a qualified agriculturalist.
He would have a thorough knowledge of tropical crop production and related
problems.
He would have had at least 5 years' experience in extension work
with small farmers where cotton, groundnuts and cereals were part of the
cropping system.
He would be responsible for all technical aspects of the project
and his duties specifically would include:
(a)  organizing research, and seed multiplication and distribution,
with the assistance of the Seeds Officer and Farm Managers;
(b) supervision of the training program for all extension staff;
(c) organizing and ensuring the effectiveness of extension
services in the project area;
(d) supervising the Livestock Advisor, the Farm Machinery
Section and the Farm Management Advisor; and
(e) liaising with and assisting the Market Section to ensure
it meets the project's requirements in marketing.
He would be directly responsible to the Project Manager and would
assist the Project Manager in his dealings with other government and local
authority agencies in matters related to the Technical Services.
Chief Engineer
The Chief Engineer should be a qualified civil engineer. Some
training in mechanical engineering would be an added advantage.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 4
He would have had at least 5 years' experience in the problems of
rural engineering in developing countries. A sound knowledge and experience
in road, water, and soil conservation engineering would be considered
essential. He would have had senior administrative responsibility in the
engineering field and would be accustomed to working with goverrnent agencies.
His duties would include:
(a) control of all project engineering activities;
(b) budgetary control;
(c) the preparation of all tenders, contracts, and quantity
surveys;
(d) supervision of land use planning, and the design of project
roads, buildings and dams; and
(e) for the efficient coordination of the different units of
the project engineering services, and close liaison with
those other Government departments, such as the Ministry
of Works and the Ministry of Local Government, who may be
associated with the project.
He would be directly responsible to the Project Manager.
Credit Manager
The Credit Manager would be a professionally qualified accountant
with a demonstrable sound working knowledge of the establishment and corpo-
ration of rural credit institutions. he would have at least 5 years of
experience in responsible positions in smallholder rural credit administration,
and have a record of sound administrative ability. Experience in the forma-
tion of farmers' credit groups or societies and working with these organi-
zations, and/or cooperatives, would be an advantage.
His prime responsibility would be the control of project farmer
credit operation, which would involve initially the disbursement of loans in
kind and their recovery.
His responsibilities would include:
(a) formation of a Revolving credit Fund as outlined in the
project appraisal report;
(b) establishing an efficient accounting and recording system
for farmers' loans;



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 5
(c) requisitioning of funds and other required inputs for
timely disbursement and supply to farmers;
(d) liaison with the Evaluation Unit to provide data and
information needed in project evaluation; and
(e) training of credit staff.
The Credit Manager would be responsible to the Project Manager.
Chief Marketing Officer
Senior management responsibility in a large marketing organization
would be the principal qualification of the Chief Marketing Officer.
He would have experience in the production, primary marketing and
selling of tropical crops, particularly cotton, groundnuts and maize.
He would be responsible for the project's Marketing Services, and
his duties would include:
(a) monitoring and controlling the operations of all licensed
buying agents operating in the project area;
(b) establishing a market information service;
(c) liaison with the statutory marketing boards and other
crganizations private and public to ensure the effective
marketing and smooth flow of produce from the project area;
and
(d) coordinating with the Credit Manager to establish a system
of credit collection at time of crop marketing.
He would be directly responsible to the Project Manager.
Senior Farm Manager
The Senior Farm Manager would have some formal training in agricul-
ture, but more importantly would niave had at least 10 years' successful
experience in managing large -c   rzially oriented farms in the tropics.
A specific experience of cottor., groundnuts, sorghum and maize production,
or at least two o.- tb'~se cron- would be required. Previous experience in
growing these and other s'_nos "or seed production would be helpful.  A sound
knowledge of farm recordinr and accounting procedures would be essential.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 6
The Senior Farm Manager would manage one of the project farms and
would, through another manager, be responsible for the second project farm.
In total he would be responsible for the efficient operation of a 400 ha
unit growing cotton, groundnuts and cereals for seed.
His duties would include:
(a) budget preparation and cash flow control for the farm;
(b) preparation and implementation of a cropping plan for the
farm;
(c) establishment, maintenance and operation of a suitable
seed dressing and cleaning unit for the farm;
(d) procuring, maintaining, and operating appropriate farm
machinery;
(e) control of farm labor;
(f) assisting the Farm Management Advisor in providing advice
and assisting the large privately owned farm units of the
project area, especially those growing seed on contract;
(g) liaison with the Seeds Officer on technical seed production
matters; and
(h) training junior staff in practical large-scale farming.
He would be responsible to the Chief Technical Officer.
Seeds Officer
The Seeds Officer would have had formal training in agriculture or
agricultural botany. He would have had specific experience in commercial
large-scale seed production, preferably with at least two of the following:
cotton, groundnuts, maize, and sorghum. He would advise the Managers of the
Seed Multiplication Farms on seed production and would be responsible for
ensuring the distribution of improved seeds to farmers in the project area.
His duties would include:
(a)  advising and assisting the Farm Managers in procuring and
operating suitable seed cleaning and dressing units;
(b) sponsoring progressive farmers in seed production and
thereafter for advising them in seed production techniques;



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 7
(c) the building up of a viable seed industry in the project
area; and
(d) the training of technical and professional project
personnel in seed production and distribution.
He would be responsible to the Chief Technical Officer.
Land Use Planning Officer
The Land Use Planning Officer would have had formal training in
agricultural, soil science or land resource use; land surveying and photo-
grammetry. Previous experience in Land Resource work and associated land
and agricultural development planning would be essential.
Duties of the Land Use Planning Officer would be to:
(a) prepare specifications for the production of aerial photographs
and uncontrolled mosaics of the project area;
(b) undertake a complete photo analysis of the project area
and prepare land use resource maps and inventory of
the area;
(c) plan, in conjunction with the Chief Technical Officer,
the location of roads and dams to be constructed under
the project;
(d) prepare all drawings, etc., of dam, soil conservation
and road designs that may be submitted by the engineering
sections of the project;
(e)  undertake any sucz^ o:her rmaaring and surveying considered
necessary by the Chief Engineer;
(f) undertake photoanalytical work that may be required by
the evaluation unit or Chief Technical Officer;
(g) give general guidance or, Land Resource use to Engineering
and Technical Services sta-   and
(h) train Nigerian staff in land use and associated techniques.
He wou;! "e directly responsible to the Chief Engineer.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 8
Soil and Water Conservation Engineer
The Soil and Water Conservation Engineer would have had formal
training in engineering, preferably related to dam construction and soil
conservation. He would have had at least 5 years' experience in earth dam
construction and soil conservation in Africa. He would be responsible for
overall supervision of the dam construction and soil conservation component
of the project. His responsibilities would include:
(a) survey and design of water catchment areas and dams;
(b) design and planning, and supervision of construction of
all soil conservation work;
(c) liaison with the Road Engineer and Land Use Planning
Officer in integrating dam construction and soil conser-
vation works into a general land use plan and the road
building program; and
(d) training project staff in dam construction and soil
conservation work.
The Soil and Water Conservation Engineer would be responsible to
the Chief Engineer.
Mechanical Engineer
The Mechanical Engineer would be a professionally qualified engineer
with specific experience in operating and maintaining heavy earth moving
machinery. His principal duties and responsibilities would be supervising
the operation and maintenance of all project plant, equipment, and vehicles.
His duties would include:
(a) establishment of a workshop capable of maintaining
project plan, equipment and vehicles;
(b) ordering and maintaining an approtriate supply of
stores and spare parts:
(c)  ordering and maintaining an acequate and suitable fuel
supply; and
(d)  training of Nigerian mechan_ca' engineers.
He would be directly respc;s-l, e _o tne Chief Engineer.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 9
Road Engiaeer
Successful experience in the design, construction and maintenance
of earth roads in tropical climates would be the main qualification of the
Road Engineer. The Road Engineer would be responsible for implementing the
project road program. his duties would include:
(a) advising the Chief Engineer on road design, drainage and
water disposal, culverts and river crossing designs;
(b) the direction of all machinery and equipment put at his
disposal for construction purposes;
(c) the preparation and maintenance of records adequate to
enable unit costs to be established;
(d) evaluation of road construction program and techniques
used; and
(e) training Nigerian engineers in road design and construction
methods.
He would be directly responsible to the Chief Engineer.
Senior Evaluation Officer
A Senior evaluation officer would be required to direct the field
enumeration units attached to the project. His job would be essentially to
supervise enumerators, implement programs set out by theilead of the Proj,ect
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) evaluation section, and feed back the
required information for analysis. His views and suggestions would be taken
into account during the programming of the enumeration process and any subse-
quent amendments to it.  The senior evaluation officer would be technically        >
responsible to the Head of PMEU evaluation section and administratively
responsible to the Project Manager.
The senior evaluation officer would have post graduate training i:
agricultural economics or rural economics and would have controlled and di-
rected field enumeration units.






NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
OUSAU AGRICULIURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Requirements: Project Administration Head Office Unit
--Year 1--- -Year 2 …-  -Year 3--- -Year 4-- - Year 5--- --Year 6--- -Year 7--- -Year 8---    Years 9-25
Status            SQO  CL  So 0 OL  SO0C0L  SO 0C L  SOOO CL  SOOC L  SOOC L  SOOC I  SOOC L
Project Manager                            International    1   -  -  - 1   -  -  -   1   -  -  -   1…-
Project Manager                            Looal…---- - --- - --- 1   -  --    1I
Chief Administrative Officer               Local              1          -    1         -    1   -         1   -      - 1 --              1 --           1 --- 1 --- 1 ---
Chief Accountant                           International    1 -- -    1            -        1   -           I   -          1
Principal Accountants                      Local              1   -  -  -    2     - --   2   - -  -   2   -  -  -   2   -  --            2   -   -      1
Accountants                                Local                  2 ---4---4--  4---  ---42---1
Executive officers                         Local              -   3-                 -- -           -- -           -- - 5-- - 32-- - 1
Confiderttial Secret~ary                   Local                  2-- - 2-- - 2-- - 2-- - 2-- - 2                                                                            1
Clerical Officers and StenograplBrs        Local -          -     -5               10---- - -      -        -          --- -     10--      --0-          --                -       -       - 6-
Clerical Assistants 1/                     Local                - -l  ---3                      -  45--- -45--             ---4  --           -2--   -   -                   -    -   - --15 -
Messengers and Casual Labor                Local              -   -  - 10      -    - 20         -  - 20        -  - 20   -   -  - 20   -       - -12   -   -  - 12   -   -  - 12            -  - 12
Total Requirement                                  4~  7 2010   5  1140 20   5  11 55 20   6  11 55 20   5  11 55 20   4   935 12   2   5 21 12   1   3 21 12   1   3 21 12
IncremEmtal Requirement                            4~  7 20 10   1   4~20 10   -   - 15  -   I1                                                                                            
Existing staff                                                                                                            
Trained staff to be recruited                      4~  7 2010   1   4~20 l       -   -15  -   1 -
I/ Including developramnt center allocation
SO = Senior Officer, 0 = Officer, C - Clerical, L =Labor.                                                                                                                                         ( -
January 214, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
OUJSAGI AGRICULTURHAL DEVELOPMNT PROJSCT
Staff Requirements- Technical Services 21
---- Year 1---        --Year 2---        --Year 3 ---     --Year 4---          --Year 5---        --Year 6---    ---Year 7--- ---Year 8 …--    Years 9 - 25-
Status           AO ASAA FS  AO ASAA FS  AO ASLAAFS  AO ASAA FS  AOQASAA FS  AO AS AAFS  AO ASAA FS  AO ASAAPFS  AO ASAA FS
Technical Services
Chief Technical Officer          International    1   -   -            1       -                                     - - -      - -                           - -- --1                                                      
Chief Technical Officer          Local…I --                                                                      - -  -                 - -- --                       i --                  ---                --- 
1. Seed Multiplication
Seeds OfficerW-~en
Adisrentrntinaan--a-ge-m--ent-                                                                                         
Admvinsgr                   International    1   -                1      -                                                     ---1 -- --   -    1- -- -- -- 1-                                                         
Fsisam  tlrmanager     r       nteLoc oal           1 1-      -       1     --   -  1 --                  1- -1 --    - 11--- --    -                                          --    - 1     -    -      1      -    -
AsedksistantFan Maaes        Local     …          …         …         …2-   1 -       -                              --          1-2   -    -      -2   -    -      -  2-,-                -  2-        -2 -
OutgrowersiAssistants         Local    …         …          …         …    2   -    -   -   4   -    -   -   6  -           -   -   6   -    -   -   6   -    -   -   6-  -              -   6   -    - - 6   -
2. Trainin
T'rainingOCenter Assistants       Local         --2 -              - -   4  -         -   -   4  -       -  -  4 -          -   -   4  -       -   -   4   -      -   -   4  -         -      4   -     -  -4        -
3. Extalsion
SeniorfDevelopment officer        Local          1 --         -     1-      --        1-    --           1-    --           1-    --           1   -   -   -    I1-    -   -    1 - --                  1   - - -
Extension Service Personnel    Local             -   4 1040        - 4 25100          -   4 40 160    -   4 40 160          -   4 40 160       -   4 40 160       -   4 40 120    -        44080        -   4 40 40
4. Livestock
Liv_estock Personnel              Local          -   -   -   -      1-    4-          1  -    4  -       1  -  4-           1  -  4-           1   -   4  -       1   -   4  -       1 -   4-           1 - 4   -
5. Farm Machinery
Farmamechanisation personnel   Local             1   -   2   -    1i         4   -   4   -    1   -   4   -    1   -   4   - I            -   4   -    1   -   4   -    1   -   4   -    4                       4   -
Total Staff Requirement                  6  6 1440o   7741100o   8 758 160   7 760 160   7 7 60160   5 760160   5 760 120   5 760 80   5 760 40
Increaental Staff Requirements                   6   6  14  40    1   1  27  60    1   -  17  60    -   -   2 -             - - - -            - - - -            - - - -                               - -
Existing Staff                                   2   2   2  22                         - - - -            - - - -                              - - - -            - - - -            - - - -            - - - -
Staff available froa current
training programs                             -   -  12   -    -   -  27 - -   -    17   -    -   -   2 -                                    -
Shortfall Senior Staff 1/                        4   4   -   -    1   1   -   -    a                                                                                                                  
Junior Staff from Project Traininig              -   -   -  18    -   -   -  60    -           -6 -   -   - 60                                          - - -     - - - -            -                                   
1/ Transferred to project freen within North Western State.  AS could substitute for AO, and recruited internationally.
7/ Staff requiremen ts for field evaluation unit are shown et Annex 9, Table 1.
AO = Agricultural Officer; AS = Agricultural Superintendent; AA = Agricultural Assistant; FS = Field Supervisor.
January 24, 1974a



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Requirement - Credit Services
--Year 1--   --Year 2---   --Year 3---  --Year 4----    --Year 5---   --Year 6---   --Year 7---   --Year 8---   Years 9-25
Status            SCO  CO CA   SCO  CO  CA   SCO  CO  CA   SCO  CO  CA   SCO  CO  CA   SCO  CO  CA   SCO  CO  CA   SCO  CO  CA   SCO  CO  CA
Credit Manager                              International    1   -   -              -         1              1    -   -    1    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   _    -    -   _    _    _   _
Credit Manager                              Local                                -                 -         -    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -
Senior Credit Officer                       Local              1   -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -
Development Center Credit Supervisors   Local                  - 4   -    -    4   -    -    4   -    -    4   -    -    4   -    -    4   -    -    4   -    -    4   -    -    4   -
Service Center Credit Assistants 1/         Local              -   -  20    -    -  50    -    -  80    -    -  Bo    -    -  80    -    -  ec    _    -  80    -    -  80    -    -  80
Principal Credit Accountant                 Local              1   -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -
Credit Accountants                          Local              -   2   -           4   -    -    4   -    -    4   -    -    4   -    -    4   -    -    4   -    -    4   -    -    4   -
Machine Operators                           Local              -   -   4            -   4    -    -   4    -    -   4    -    -   4    -    -   4    -    -   4    -    -   4    -    -   4
Total Requirement                                   3   6  24    3    8  54    3    8  84    3    8  84    4    8  84    3    8  84    3    8  84    3    8  84    3    8  84
Incremental Requirement                                        3   6  24    -    2  30             -  30    _    _   _    1
Existing Staff
Trained staff to be recruited                                  3  6  4   -   2  - - -- - -- 1
Staff to be recruited and project trained                      -   -  20    -    -  30    -    -  30
1/ Two CA to each service center - the more senior one would act as service center manager.
SCO = Senior Credit Officer Grade; CO = Credit Officer; CA = Credit Assistant.
0 
January 24, 1974                                                                                                                                                                                              o'



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Requirements - Market Services
---Year 1--- --Year 2 …-- --Year 3            …-- --Year  --- --Year 5-- -- Year 6--…--Year 7--…--Year 8---   -Years 5~- 25-
Status           SMO MO MA PI   SMO MO MAPI   SMO MOMA PI   SMO MO MAPI   SMO MO MAPI   SMO MOKA PI   SMO MO MAPI   SMOMO MAPI   SMO MOMA PI
Chief Marketing Officer                      International    1   ---           1   -  -  -               
Divisional Marketing Officer                 Local-        ----- -                                   -  -1 ---                                    1 ---           1       --       1 ---           1       --
Development Center Marketing Supervisor   Local                      h…                          - 4--           - 444                                                                                           
Market Assistants                            Local                      4-      - -8                                                                                                                             
Produce Inspectors                           Local                  -  -10          -  -25          - 1 O                -4O -   -  - 40   -   -  - 40O -   - -.140       -   -  - 40O -   --40--0
Total Requirement                                         1   4  410    1   4  825    1   I 8i4o    2   I4 840    1   4 8 40    1   4 840    1   4  8 40    1   148 40    1   4 8  40
Incremental Requirement                                   1   4  41lO    -   -  41l5    -   -  -15    1 ---                                                                                                
Existing Staff                                            -   - -10                                          
T'rained staff to be recruited                            1   4          -- -  --    -      -    -         1 
Staff to be recruited and project trained                 -       4-       -   -  4 15       -  - -15 
SMO= Senior Marke-ting Officer Grade; NO = Marketing Officer; MA   Marketing Assistant; PI   Produce Inspector
January 24, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Requirements - Engineering
--Year 1---  --Year 2---    --Year 3---   --Year 4---   --Year 5---   --Year 6---   -Years 7-25-
Status          PO-/STA  TA   PO  STA  TA   PO  STA  TA   PO  STA  TA   PO  STA  TA   PO  STA  TA   PO  STA  TA
Engineering Services
Chief Engineer                            International   1    -   -    l    -   -    1    -   -    1    -              1         -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Planning Section
Land Use Planning Officer                 International   1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    -    -                    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Rural Engineer                            Local            1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -               -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Tracer/Draughtsmen                        Local            -    1   5    -    1   5    -    1   5    -    1   3    -    1   3    -    1   1    -    -   -
Building Section
Superintendent of Works                   Local            1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -             -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Tracer/Draughtsmen                        Local            -    1   1    -    1   1    -    1   1    -    1   1    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Road Section 2/
Road Engineer                             International   1    -   -    l    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Rural Engineer                            Local            3    -   -    5    -   -    5    -   -    5    -             3    -   -    2    -   -    -    -   -
Inspector of Works                        Local            1    -   -    1    -   -    1              -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Soil and Water Conservarion Section 2/
Conservation Engineer                     International   1    -   -    I    -   -    1    -   -    1            -   -    -   -         -    -   -    -    -   -
Dam Survey                                Local             1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Soil Conservation Survey                  Local             1    3   -    X    3   -    1    3   -    1    3   -    1    3   -    1    3   -    1    3   -
Dam Construction Unit                     Local             1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    -    -               -    - _
Mobile Workshop                           Local             1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    -    -               -    - _
Soil Conservation                         Local             1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -
Workshop Services 3/
Mechanical Engineer                       International   1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   - I             -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Assistant Mechanical Engineer             Local             2    -   -    2    -   -    2    -   -    2    -   _    2    -   -    2    -               -    - _
Total Engineering Requirements                       18   13   6   20   13   6   20   13   6   19   13   4   13   12   3    6    6   1    2    5   -
Incremental Requirements                             18   13   6    2    -   -    -    -            -    _-   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    - 
Existing Staff                                        -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   _
Trained Staff to be employed                          8    -   6    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Staff to be employed and trained                     1i4/ 13   -    2    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
1/ To be called Rural Engineer - most will be pupil engineers initially - if professional officers not available Technical Officers will be substituted.
2/ Non-technical staff included under labor in operating costs.  Drivers and machine operators also included under hourly operating charges.
3/ Mechanics etc. included under machine operating costs.                                         
/ Local qualified engineers, but without practical experience require in-service training.






ANNEX 7
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Inputs
1.        The traditional agriculture of the Gusau area uses almost no modern
agricultural inputs. Currently there is very little demand for, and very
little supply of, such inputs as fertilizers, insecticides, sprayers and other
farm machinery. Yet, if the project is to achieve its goals, the project
must make available a supply of these inputs, create a demand for them, de-
velop the means for farmers to acquire them, and educate farmers in their
use - even supervise their use where necessary to assure results.
2.        At present suppliers of farm inputs in the project area are either
absent or inadequate. Therefore, the project would be an importer and re-
tailer of critical farm supplies and equipment. These supplies include 600 m
tons fertilizer in year one, increasing to 11,000 m tons in year five; 1,500
sprayer kits in year one increasing to 14,500 in year five; as well as ox
drawn equipment, seeds, and insecticides. The logistics of acquiring, moving
and distributing these quantities would be substantial and would be the respon-
sibility of the Chief Marketing Officer. The selling price of inputs would
be based on an ex-farm center store cost.
3.        Inputs would be transported to the project center at Gusau where a
4,000-ton storage facility would be constructed at Gusau railway yard and to
40 village stores each with a 500-ton storage capacity. Rail to village store
transportation would be arranged with private truckers, many of whom would be
LBA transport contractors who would welcome back haul loads while moving pro-
duce from village to market.
4.        Seasonal inputs include fertilizers, insecticides, seeds and battery
sets for ULV sprayers. Fertilizers would be purchased in 50 kg bags clearly
marked to distinguish kind. The landed cost per m ton in the village store
(including a 10% handling charge) is estimated at N 200.8 for calcium ammonium
nitrate, N 187.6 for single superphosphate, and N 118.3 for muriate of potash.
Insecticides for cotton and cowpeas would cost farmers an estimated N1.65/
kilogram. Battery sets for sprayers would cost about N2.64 per set. Improved
seeds would be made available at varying costs.
5.        Subsidies.  NWS would continue to subsidize nitrogenous and phos-
phatic fertilizers to an amount of 50% of cif village store cost. At present
farmers pay N40 per m ton for ammonium sulphate and N32 per m ton for single
superphosphate (less than projected cif Nigerian ports price). It has been
Government policy to subsidize cotton insecticides. In the expectations of



ANNEX 7
Page 2
increasing yields by as much as 400% under the project through spraying, and
associated practices, and because a large number of farmers would be involved,
compared to the negligible number at present, it is considered desirable that
cotton insecticides would not be subsidized. The subsidy element for ferti-
lizers is shown in Table 1.
6.        Sales of Seasonal Inputs.  It is expected that 25% of seasonal in-
puts would be sold for cash at farm service centers. Payments would be
made at the service center, recorded by cash register, and simultaneously
entered in the stores register. The remaining 75% of seasonal inputs would
be sold on credit. The credit system is described in more detail in Annex 8.
Sales on credit would be in kind and would be similar to the system for a
cash sale except that they would be registered on the farmer's credit card.
Tables 2, 3, and 4 show the amounts involved.
7.        Medium Term Inputs and Farm Equipment include ULV sprayers, ox
drawn equipment kits and tractor kits. These would be procured by the proj-
ect for sale to farmers. ULV sprayers together with protective gloves and
face masks would be sold for N14.9. An estimated 29,500 sprayer kits would
be made available to farmers over the 5 year development period (Table 5).
Ox drawn kit at N165 each would include an ox cart, plow and ridger. An
estimated 5,000 ox drawn kits are expected to be taken up over 5 years in
the project area (Table 5); mainly to larger farmers owning at least 6-10 ha
of land under cultivation. The project would not supply oxen. Farmers in-
terested in obtaining ox equipment would be expected to acquire oxen with
their own resources. Extreme difficulties are involved in supplying oxen on
credit, given their relatively high value and the opportunity of realizing
this through sale for meat.
8.        Tractor and Equipment.  At present the Government supports a limited
but totally uneconomic tractor hire service within the project area. This
service would be phased out during the project period and would be replaced
by contract tractor operations provided by private entrepreneurs receiving
credit under the project. About 50 such loans would be made initially, and
would be made primarily to existing transport contractors, small businessmen
or larger farmers. The project would provide such contractors with maintenance
services, through its mechanical workshop and field servicing units, short
training courses for tractor drivers, and would direct operators to selected
areas. The tractor kit would include a 65 hp tractor, trailer, chisel plow,
disc harrow and a ridger. The project management would select a standard make
and specifications for the kit, taking into account prices obtained through
domestic competitive bidding, which would require a minimum level of local
maintenance service to be provided by the tractor suppliers. Project manage-
ment would help to establish realistic and fair hire rates for contractors.
By the fifth year of the project, tractor cultivations could be extended some
3,000 to 4,000 ha annually and if successful could be further expanded.



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Cost Assumptions on Farm Inputs
N'OOO
Calcium                             Muriate      Single         Insecticide      Insecticide
Ammonium     Ammonium                   of       Super-         for Cotton       for Maize        Battery      Spraying     0x Drawn       Tractor and
Nitrate      Sulphate      Urea      Potash      phosphate      per Liter        per kg 9/        Sets         Equipment l/ Equipment    Equipment
cif Lagos US$                           218            178        348        105           200             -                -                            20.0
cif Lagos N                             144            117        230         69           132                     -                -                    13.2
Port handling charges                     2.5            2.5        2.5        2.5           2.5          -                 -              _              0.1
Lagos-Gusau 7/                           36.0           36.o        36.0      36.o          36.o           -                 -             -              0.2          -             -
Cost f.o.r. project store               182.5          155.5       268.5     107.5         170.5            1.50              0-3            2.40        13.5         150 0 31    5,750
Project handling charges 10% 8/          18.3           15.6       26.9       10.8          17.1           0.15              0-03           0.24          1.4          15.0 P        250
Cost ferm    service center             200.8          171.1       295.4     118.3         187.6            1.65              0.33           2.64        14.9         165.o          -
Less 50% Government subsidy             100.4           85.6       147.7     -              93.8           _                 _              _            -
Farmer price - cash                     100.4           85.6       147.7     118.3          93.8            i.65              0.33           2.64        14.9         157.5        6,000
Farmer price - credit 10/               110.5           94.2       162.5     130.1         103.2            1.80              0.36           2.90        17.2 2/       5/            6/
Per kg value of nutrient                  0.77           0.81        0.64    N/A             1.17        N/A               N/A            N/A           N/A           NIA           N/A
I/ Includes sprayer $14, gloves $2, 5 gallon plastic can and funnel $2 = Total $20 - based on purchase of 7,COO units at a time.
2/ Interest @ 10% over 2 years.
3/ Includes ox cart and plow/ridger - locally made at Zaria or Kano.
;/ Service charge 107%.
/ Farms required to make a 20% down payment and receives credit for balance at 10% over 3 years.                                                                                               CD
S/ Farmer or contractor cost inclusive of service charge up to N6,000. Farmer place 30% down payment - repayment @ 10% over 4 years.
7/ NO.05 per ton mile, 720 miles is N 36.0.
§/ Covers internal project transport, loading, unloading, storage clerks etc.
9/ 5% DDT granules - applied at 6 kg/ha.
10/ 10% on cash price.
Auig.st 20, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTTH WSTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seasonal Fertilizer Requirements - Amount end Cost
Foreign Exchange            Local
Year 1           Year 2           Year 3            Year 4           Year 5           Total              %            Cost           Cost
Nitrogenous Fertilizer l/ (m tons)
Sorghum                                         200              870             1,200            1,750            2,500
Maize                                                              75              225              750             1,500
Total m tons                         200               945            1,425            2,500            4,000
Super hos hate 2/ (m tons)
Cotton 3                                        110               225              600              900            1,500
Sorghum                                         200               870            1,200            1,750             2,500
Maize                                             _                75              225              750             1,500
Groundnut                                        75               375              675            1,050            1,500
Cowpea                                            6                19               38                56               75
Total m tons                         391            1,564             2,738            4,506            7,075
Cost                                          -------------------------------N'OOO--------------------------------
Nitrogenous fertilizer 4/                        40.2             189.8            286.1            502.0             803.2          1,821.3           73        1,329.5              491.8
Superphosphate5/                                 73.4             293.4            513.6            845.3          1,327.3           3,053.0           72        2,198.2              854.8
Total                                113.6            483.2             799.7          1,347.3          2,130.5          4,874.3            72        3,527.7           1,346.6
Fertilizer subsidy 6/                            56.8             241.6            399.9            673.7          1,065.3           2,437.3           72        1,754.9              682.4
Balance                                          56.8             241.6            399.8            673.6          1,065.2           2,437.0           72        1,772.8              664.2
Incremental Balance:                             56.8             184.8            158.2            273,8             391.6          1,065.2           72          766.9              298.3
Incremental Cash Sales 7/                      14.2             46.2              39.6             68.5             97.9             266.4           72          191.8              74.6
Incremental Credit Sales 8/                    42,6            138.6             118.6            205.3            293.7             798.8           72          575.1              223.7
Annual Credit Requirement                        42.6             181.2            299.8            505.1             798.8
l/ Estimated on the basis of using calcium amuonium nitrate.
2/ Based on using single superphosphate.
3/ Boronated.
v/ At village service center - estimated on calcium ammonium nitrate - N 200.8/m ton.
3/ At village service center - N 187.6/m tonl.
'/ 50% on N and P205.
7/ 25% of total incremental balance.
B/ 75% of total incremental balance.
August 19, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GOSAU AGRICULTJRAL DEVELONENT PROJECT
Seasonal Requirements for Seeds, Insecticides asd, Battery Sets
Foreign Exchange         Local
Year 1        Year 2         Year 3        Year 4        Year 5         Total                     Cost         Cost
A.  QU.4NTITIES
Seeds m tons
Sorghum                           20           100           140            200           300            760
Maize                            -              10            30            125           250            415
Groundnuts                        40           200           360            560           800          1,960
Total                            60            310           530            885         1,350          3,135
Insecticides
Cotton lt V                  20,250         40,500       108,000        162,000       270,000        600,750
Cowpeas lt 2/                 1,500          4,500          9,000        13,500        18,000         46,500
Total                        21,750         45,000       117,000        175,500       288,ooo        647,250
Battery Sets 3/
Cotton                      2,250          4,500        12,000         18,000        30,000         66,750
Cowpeas                       125            375           750          1,125         1,500          3,875
Total                         2,375          4,875        12,750         19,125        31,500         70,625
B.  COSTS N1000
Seeds 4/                           9.0          46.5           79.5         132.8          202.5         470.3       -          -               470.3
Insecticides:
for cotton and cQwpeas 5/      35.9           74.3         193.1          289.6          475.2       1,068.1       70         747.7           320.4
Battery sets 6/                   6.3           12.9          33.7           50.5          83.2          186.6      70          130.6            56.0
Total Cost                        51.2         133.7          306.3         472.9          760.9       1,725.0       51         878.3           846.7
Total Cash Sale 7/                12.8          33.4           76.6         118.2 -        190.2         1431.2
Total Credit Sale 8/             38.14         100.3          229.7         354.7          570.7       1,293.8
Incremental Credit Requirement   38.4           61.9          129.4         125.0          216.0         570.7       51          291.1          279.6
1/ Cat. II farmer 9 liters per ha.
2/ Cat. II farmers 12 liters per ha.
3/ 1 set per ha sprayed.
T/ Average cost of N 150/ton inclusive service charge.
5/ EN 1,650 per m ton.
i/ @ 1N 2.64 per set.
7/ 25% of total sales sold for cash.
i/ 75% of total sales sold on credit.



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Fertilizer Subsidies, Seasonal Cash Sales and Credit Requirements
Foreign Exchange         Local
Year l        Year 2         Year 3        Year 4         Year 5         Total        %            Cost        Cost
Fertilizer subsidy                         56.8          241.6         399.9          673.7        1,065.3      2,437.3         72       1,754.9         682.4
Incremental Cash Sales
Fertilizer                                 14.2           46,2          39.6           68.5           97.9        266.4         72         191.8          74.6
Seeds, insecticides and batteries          12.8           20.6          43.2           41.6           72.0        190.2         51           97.0         93.2
Sub total                        27.0          66.8           82.8          110.1         169.9         456.6        63          288.8         167.8
Incremental Credit Sales
Fertilizer                                 42,6          138.6         118.6          205.3         293.7         798.8         72         575.1         223.7
Seeds, insecticides and batteries          38.4           61.9         129.4          125.0          216.0        570.7         51          291.1        279.6
Sub total                        81.0         200.5          248.0          330.3         509.7       1,369.5        63          866.2         503.3
Total Incremental Inputs        108.0         267.3          330.8         440.4          679.6       1,826.1        63        1,155.0         671.1
August 20, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Equipment Requir ements (N'OOO)
Foreign Exchange           Local
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3          Year 4           Year 5           Total            %            Cost           Cost
A. QUANTITIES
Sprayer kit 1/                          1,500             1,500           6,500            5,500          14,500           29,500
Ox drawn equipment kit 2/                 100               400           1,000            1,500           2,000            5,000
Tractor kit 3/                             -                  5              10               15              20               50
B. COSTS
Sprayer kit                                 22.4             22.4            96.9             82.0           216.1            439.8           90         395.8              44.0
Ox drawn equipment kit                      16.5             66.o           165.0            247.5           330.0            825.0           75         618.8             206.2
Tractor kit                                 -                30.0            60.0             90.0           120.0            300.0  X        75         225.0              75.0
Total                                38.9           118.4            321.9            419.5           666.1          1,564.8          79        1,239.6             325.2
C. FARMER DLOW PAYMENT
Ox drawn equipment 4/                        3.3             13.2            33.0             49.5             66.o           165.0
Tractor kit 5/                              -                 9.0            18.0             27.0            36.0             90.0
Total                                 3.3            22.2             51.0             76.5           102.0            255.0
D. CRDIT REQUIRENENT
Sprayer kit 6/                              22.4             22.4             96.9            82.0            216.1            439.8
Ox drawn equipment kit                      13.2             52.8           132.0            198.0            264.0           660.0
Tractor kit                                 -                21.0            42.0             63.0            84.0            210.0
Total                                35.6            96.2            270.9            343.o           564.1          1,309.8
Principal repayments to credit
fund 7/                                                    -               -                24.1             91.8           115.9
Net Credit Requirement                      35.6             96.2            270.9           318.9            472.3          1,193.9
Incremental Farm Equipment Cost 8/          38.9            118.4           321.9            395.4            574.3          1,448.9.         79        1,144.6             304.3
1/ Includes ULV sprayer, 1 set of gloves, 1 pair of goggles, N 14.9 inclusive of service charge - Year 6 onwards 10,000 sprayers replaced each year.
2/ Plow/ridger, ox cart, N 165 inclusive of service charge.
3/ Includes 65 hp tractor, ridger, chisel plow, trailer = N 6,000 inclusive of service charge.
T/ 20% downpayment  (balance 3 year loan at 10% i.e. loan N 132 repayment X 53 per annum for 3 years).
5/ 30% downpayment  (balance 4 year loan at 10% i.e. loan N 4,200 repayment N 1323 per annum for 4 years).
T/ 100% credit requirement at 100% over 2 years at N 8.6 per year.
7/ Allows for one years slippage in repayment of medium term credit.
f/ Equivalent to net credit requirement and farmer down payment.






ANNEX 8
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Credit
1.        Provision of inputs, and of technical services, is of little avail
unless farmers have the means for acquiring inputs. Thus farm credit plays
a critical role in the package of goods and services needed to make the
agriculture of a region more productive.
2.        Almost no commercial credit is available at present to farmers in
the project area, especially to the large majority who are small farmers.
Although small farmers apparently get some credit from local traders and
other private persons, it is unreliable, costly, and totally inadequate for
generating a more productive agriculture. Commercial banks in the area are
not equipped to extend large numbers of small loans to farmers. The costs
of doing such business are prohibitative. Cooperative societies that have
extended credit to farmer members have failed more often than they have suc-
ceeded, partly because the inputs necessary to make enterprises productive
were not available, partly because no technical service or supervision ac-
companied the loan, and partly because of inadequate management of the co-
operatives themselves. In any case, sources of credit currently are totally
inadequate to serve the needs for an increasingly productive agricultural
economy.
Amounts of Credit Needed
3.        The credit system visualized for the project area would be limited
to providing farmers with specific inputs, namely fertilizers, insecticides,
seeds, sprayers, ox drawn equipment and a small amount of tractor equipment.
The estimated amounts of credit sales for each year of the 5-year project
period are:
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
…-----------------  N    000  -…-----------------
Fertilizers           42.6     181.2      299.8     505.1      798.8
Insecticides, seeds,
and battery sets   38.4      100.3     229.7      354.7     570.7
Sprayers, oxdrawn
equirment and
tractor equipment  35.6       96.2      270.9     343.0      564.1
Total          116.6      377.7     800.4   1,202.8   1,933.6



ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        Operating Procedures for GPMU Revolving Credit Fund.  Several operat-
ing procedures lend themselves to adoption by GPMU in so far as they would as-
sure good service to customers at reasonable cost. The following procedures
would be those which GPMU would employ initially and modify as required in the
course of the project's life. At first, lending would be limited to input
items carried by project farm service center stores; such lending would be in
amounts specified on a simple farm management plan approved by project's
Development Service AA. A simple form of loan application would be employed
which would serve as a farm management plan and promissory note at the same time.
5.        The Credit Assistant would calculate the farmer's credit require-
ments and after clearance on the borrower's credit worthiness from the village
head the borrower would be authorized to present his application to the vil-
lage service center. The items specified would be provided to the farmer and
the sale recorded by a bookkeeping machine. At market time the farm service
center storekeeper would make it as convenient as possible for the borrower
to repay his loan.
6.        Each borrower would have a laminated identity card containing his
picture, serial number (which would identify his village and hamlet) and
signature or mark for convenient identification and record keeping.
7.        Seasonal loans and two-year sprayer loans involving a total out-
standing credit of less than NIOO to borrowers in goodstanding would be
approved by Credit Assistants at the village level; attention being paid to
ensure that the time between loan application and the borrower actually ob-
taining his input items would be minimal. Larger loans and loans for oxdrawn
equipment would need to be approved by the relevant Credit Officer. Loans
of over N500 and all tractor loans would require the Credit Manager's specific
approval.
8.        GPMU would lend up to a maximum of N5,000 to any one borrower.  Larqer
borrowers would be directed to NAB or commercial banks.
9.        Group Obligation.  The procedures would provide that each borrower's
loan application be approved by the hamlet or village head, or a farmers'
association approved by the village authorities. Such approval would certify
to the applicants credit worthiness. Once each year, GPM4U would summarize all
accounts of the hamlet or village. If defaults were found, the headman would
be asked to assist in collections. GPMU and the CA would be empowered to
withbold lending to anyone in that village or hamlet until defaults are removed
unless due cause for default is presented and accepted by GPMU. The group
obligation would be a powerful influence to avoid default under social structure
pertaining to northern Nigeria.
10.       Provision would be made to extend credit to groups, or to village
farmers associations, if farmers wished to pool their needs for inputs and to
assume joint liability for the credit extended.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Terrzs of Lending
11.       Lending terms to farmers would be established each year prior to the
upcoming season. Preferably these terms should be established well in advance,
and certainly no later than the preceeding November. The lending terms would
be determined by the GPMU management for approval by GPEC after consultation
with rele-yant Federal Authorities and the World Bank. Interest rates would
vary between 5-9-1/2% depending on the viability of the input package provided
to the borrowers. Most appropriately it should be applied as follows:
-    seasonal loans for farm inputs -- repayable within 12 months
at a flat service charge rate of 10%. No downpayments required;
-    sprayer loans repayable within two years in annual equal
installments at a flat service charge rate of 10% per annum.
No downpayment required;
-    oxdrawn equipment loans within three years in three annual
equal installments at a flat service charge rate of 10%
per annum. A 20% downpayment required;
-    tractors and tractor drawn equipment within four years in
four annual equal installments at a flat service charge
rate of 10% per annum. A 30% downpayment required.
12.       The above terms may differ at the time of implementation depending
on the economic situation prevailing at the time. However, on present fore-
casts and estimates, see farm budgets at Annex 1, the proposed crop improve-
ments and input packages could easily carry the terms proposed in para ll.
It is strongly recommended, for ease of administration and appreciation by
the borrowers, that a flat service rate made up of interest and services is
applied to all loans.
13.       During the implementation of the project, management and PKEU would
make a thorough study of various lending systems, such as cooperatives etc.,
that exist in the project area, with a view to making firm recommendations for
the conversion, in the fourth or fifth year of the project, of the revolving
credit fund into a form that can continue lending to the farmers after the
project development period is completed. It is therefore of great importance
that from the start of the project the revolving credit fund is operated on a
practical and commercial basis, and for this reason an illustrative cash flow
for the i n;'1 Js shown at Table 1 of this Annex.






NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Revolving Credit Fund
Illustrative Cash Flow for Sub loans
N'OOO
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4        Year 5       Year 6        Year 7       Year 8        Year 9        Year 10
Disbursement
Seasonal loans to farmers                             81          281          530           860        1,370        1,370         1,370        1,370         1,370            1,370
Oxdrawn Equipment loans                               13            53          132          198          264                   -                   -            -
Tractor and equipment loans                           -             21           42           63           84            -            -             -            -
Sprayer loans                                         22           22            97           82          216           149          149           149          149              149
Total Disbursements                       116          377           801        1,203        1,934        1,519         1,519        1,519         1,519            1,519
Receipts
Funds from NWS
(a) For seasonal loans                                81          200          249           330          510
(b) For medium term loans                             35           96          271           319          472
Sub total                                 116          296           520          649          982                         -                    -              -
Repayments by Farmers
(a) Seasonal Loans
Repayment by due date 1/                          -            73          253           477          774         1,233        1,233        1,233         1,233            1,233
Collection on defaults 2/                         -            -              4           14           27            43           68            68           68               68
Collection on bad debts 3/                        -            -             -             2            7            13           22            34           34               34
Service charge 4/                                 -             7           25            49           81           129          132           134          134              134
(b) Medium Term Loans 5/
Oxdrawn equipment 6/                              -             5            25           76          148           230          182           105            3               -
Tractor equipment 6/                              -            -              6           19           38            64           58            46           26                1
Sprayer kits 6/                                   -            12            25           66          100           166          205           169          168              168
Sub total                                  _             97          338          703        1,175         1,878        1,900         1,789        1,666            1,638
Total Receipts                            116          393           858        1,352        2,157         1,878        1,900         1,789        1,666            1,638
Balance                                    -             16           57          149           223          359           381          270           147              119
1/ Assumes 90% repayment within 12 months of loan date.
2/ Assumes half of defaults collected within 12 months after due date.
3/ Assumes half of bad debts collected in first year of bad debt account.  The remainder written off.                                                                                 c 2
4/ Assumes a flat service charge of 10%.
5/ Interest and principal on annuity basis (Annex 7, Table 5 for suggested rates).                                                                                                    X x
6/ 95% on due date, 2%% collected in following year; remaining 2%% written off,
August 20, 1974






ANNEX 9
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Evaluation
1.        Rural development projects of the size and scope of the Gusau project
can nave far reaching effects on the people in the project area and on the
economy of the State and the nation. The effects cannot be foreseen with
precision. Thus, an ongoing and thorough evaluation must be initiated and
pursued throughout the life of the project:
(a)  to guide project management;
,'
(b) to help establishment of project goals and scheduling of
project activities;
(c) to measure effectiveness and efficiency of project activities;
(d) to inform State and national governments and others of changes
stemming from project activities;
(e) to enhance knowledge of the rural development process for
future development planning; and
(f) to permit the continuous reappraisal of project goals and
assumptions underlying project design, particularly those
aspects affecting farm credit and input supply and to allow
for progressive modification of project objectives and
structures.
2.        Evaluation must include such standard economic criteria as change
in gross and net incomes of participants, changes in volume and value of
production, and measures of efficiency in use of project resources. It mu
include also such direct and indirect benefits as changes in efficiency and
effectiveness of the marketing system, changes in employment, changes in the
volume and type of business in the region, changes in tax revenues and ex-
penditures, and changes in other economic and social indicators that wo-uld
show direct and indirect results of project activities. Equally important
may be changes in patterns of consumption, in participation in education, in
health, and in other measures of well being of people in the project area.
3.        Precise types of measures to be made and specific methods of data
collection and analyses must be developed by the evaluation staff on site.
Some of the data needed would be generated by project records. Other data



ANNEX 9
Page 2
must be collected by surveys and from secondary sources outside the project
area. The proposed investment of substantial expertise and manpower in
developing and conducting surveys and analyses designed to measure meaning-
fully the parameters of rural development, as partially indicated in para-
graph 2, should generate considerable benefits, both for future planning in
Nigeria and for the general knowledge of the rural development process.
4.        If the broader impact of the project is to be assessed, there is no
alternative to undertaking baseline surveys before the effects of the project
begin to manifest themselves, and to continue the assessment of changes
brought about by project actions during and after the implementation period.
iqo organiztion or projRect_caa. prope~ry-evzuate i-If; and therefore evalu-
ation staff must be independent of project management in technical direction
and analysis methods; although of course they should work closely with proj-
ect staff for administrative purposes.
5.        In order to accomplish a meaningful evaluation, the Federal Ministry
of Agriculture and Natural Resources (FnANR) would establish a Project
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) at Kaduna.  PMEU would have a dual
function: (a) using existing Federal staff, suitably strengthened, it would
undertake a continuing technical and financial review of project actions so
as to satisfy FMANR that the project accomplishes its general objectives;
(b) by establishing a special evaluation section and employing specialist
consultants, it would undertake an economic and social evaluation as outlined
in paras 1-3.
6.        The evaluation section of PMEU would be set up under the World Bank
loan for the Funtua Agricultural Development Project and would be directed
by a "iH,ead" who would be responsible for technical and budget control of the
unit. Certain key staff would be employed by the unit to be responsible for
developing an evaluation program and for the analysis of the results from
Gusau project and from other projects established in northern Nigeria. Each
project evaluated would have its own field enumeration teams that would remain
ladministratively responsible to the respective projects.
7.        The ilonitoring section would be funded from ongoing FMAUNR budgetary
allocations and initially would Be hardly more than a one-man unit.  The
evaluation section would be funded by FMG from its own resources and a loan 1/
from the IJorld Bank. A special bank account would be maintained for the
evaluation section. The field enumeration units would be funded by the State
Government from its own resources and from a Bank loan.
1/   This loan would be made under the Loan for the Funtua Agricultural
Development Project.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
8.        The Federal Government has indicated that it would contract the
staffing of the evaluation section of PMEU to consultants. The consultants
would probably be a Nigerian university, in all likelihood the favorably
placed Ahmadu Bello University at Zaria. The consultants would be free to
draw upon the services of experienced individuals or possibly an outside
university to fill the posts provided for.
9.        Initially, the evaluation section of PMEU would monitor and evaluate
the Funtua, Gusau and Gombe Agricultural Development Projects, but as time
progresses, the evaluation section would be expanded to take in other projects
that might be developed, particularly as the State Governments would in every
case be responsible for administering the respective field enumeration units.
10.       The Gusau field evaluation unit would be made up of two enumeration
units each consisting of 1 economist, 4 supervisors and 20 enumerators (both
men znd women). Each unit would be responsible for approximately 600 samples,
the actual number of samples depending upon the degree of intensity of
sampling laid down by PMEU.  One senior evaluation officer based at projt
headquarters would be responsible for the project evaluation unit which would
comprise himself, his support staff and the 2 field enumerator units (see
table for costs).
11.       The evaluation section of PMEU would prepare a summary analysis
report at least once each year for each project, and such other special
reports as needed and when available information may suggest. The summary
report would be reviewed with the Project Manager and subsequently made
available to the Federal Coordinating Committee. A final summary appraisal
would be prepared for each project at the end of its first five years of
operation.
12        The project evaluation activities described in this annex would be
in addition to that which would be undertaken by each Project Manager as a
matter of routine to provide himself with performance and cost effectiveness
information necessary for good management and the achievement of project
goals.






NIOERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTIJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Evaluation UnitCosts (UO000)
Unit       No. of                                                                                           Foreign Exchange   Local
Unit           Cost       Units        Year 1          Year 2         Year 3         Year 4          Year 5       Total   A             Cost   Cost        Year 6
Field Evaluation Unit
Capital Costs
Senior staff house                             Number          23.0        1        ( 1)   23.0           -               -              -               -        23.0   30              6.9    16.1
Intermediate staff houses                      Number          18.0        2        ( 2)   36.0           -               -              -               _        36.0   30             10.8    25.2
Office space                                                                                 6.5          _-                                             -          6.5   30             2.0      4.5
Office furniture and equipment                                                               2.0          -               -              -               -          2.0   60             1.2      0.8
Pickup vehicle                                 Number           3.0        6        (3)    9.0            -               -        (3)    9-0            -        18.0   60             10.8      7.2
Motorcycles                                    Number           0.4        24        ( 8)    3.2          -        ( 8)    3.2           -        ( 8)    3.2       9.6   70             6.7      2.9
Sub total                                                                        79.7          -                 3.2             9.0            3.2    95.1   40             38.4    56.7
Operating Costs
Senior Evaluation Officer                     Manyears         23.0        5        ( 1)   23.0   ( 1)   23.0   ( 1)   23.0   ( 1)   23.0   ( 1)   23.0   115.0  100                  115.0       -    (1)  23.0
Professionals                                  Manyears         5.0       10        ( 2)   10.0   ( 2)   10.0   ( 2)   10.0   ( 2)   10.0   ( 2)   10.0    50.0   -                      -       50.0  (2)  10.0
Research Assistants          .                 Manyears         1.3       40         ( 8)   10.4   ( 8)   10.4   ( 8)   10.4   ( 8)   10.4   ( 8)   10.4    52.0   -                     -       52.0  (8)  10.4
Enumerators                                    Manyears         o.6      ;           (40)   24.0   (40)   26iD   (40)   24.0   (40)   24.0   (40)   24.0   120.0   -                     -      120.0 (40)  24.0
Clerks                                         Manyears         1.0       15 *         3)    3.0   ( 3)  -3.0    ( 3)    3.0   ( 3)    3.0   (3)    3.0    15.0   -                      -       15.0  (3)   3.0
Vehicle operating                              Vehicle years   1.8        15         (3)    5.4   (3)    5.4   ( 3)    5.4   ( 3)    5.4   (3)   594    27.0   44                       11.9    15.1  (3)   5.4
Motorcycle operating                           m/c years         0.2       40        ( 8)    1.6   ( 8)    1.6   ( 8)    1.6   ( 8)    1.6   ( 8)    1.6            8.0   44             3.5      4.5  (8)   1.6
Rent allowances                                                                        1     2.4       7     2.4      $,I   2.4      A,   2.4              2.4    12.0   -               -       12.0         2.4
Sub total                                                                        79.8            79.8           79.8            79.8           79.8   399.0   33            130.4   268.6          79.8
Total                                                                           159.5           79.8            83.0           88.8            83.0   494.1   34            168.8   325.3         79.8
1/  Costs of PMEU evaluation sectfon included in,Funtua Agricultural Development Project.
August 21, 1974






NIGERIA                                                                              ANNEX 10
Table I
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAI. DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SoesesmrY of Project Caere
Foreign E-oh-sg.         LOrlI                I 1/
Year 1        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year S         Totl                        Cost         Cost           Distributli,
Peel cot Admieiateretion
Vehiclel  and Eqoip gnt                                  41.9           32.0            1.6           14.0            1.6           91.1        61           55.2            35.9
Nooses, N-eildiege and Fueieshiges                      246.0          282.0           -              -              -             526.0        30          160.4           367.6
Sla-i.o sod Allovanoce                                 118.9          166.4          176.9          188.9          161.9          813.0        27          223.0           590.0
Vehicle Opeo-tiog                                         4.5            6.3            6.3            6.3            6.3           29.7        44           13.0            16.7
-eld OfPiEe Espeosee (GS)                                60.1           67.6           92.8          E04.6          101.6         '126.7        13           55.7           371.0
Sob teta1                                    471.4          554.3          277.6          313.8          271.4        1,888.5        27          5n7.3         1,3B1.2             8
Tetholcil Sotvioes
Vebiclee.sod Rqnlpseet                                  1.55.0          92.5           28.2           36.5           37.4          369.6        69          255.0           113.6
Soose, 6oildn6o cod PurnighinEe  V                      504.0          441.0          294 0            6b0                       1, 245.0       29          346.5           698.5
SoE_ric_ sod Alloosocee                                 138.2          216.3          289.4          269.0          269.o        1.183.9        20          239.0           944.9
Vchicle Opoo-tiog                                        22.1           36.7           39.0           39.0           39.0          175.8        44           i7.6            98.2
Trortor hice S-i-ce (GS)                                 20.3           20.3           20.3           16.2           12.2           89.3        14           39.3            50.0
Pare, Tralenlo  Ceorere Operseinlo(GS)                    8.0           16.0           6..0           16.G           16.0           72,0        -            -               72.0
Seed Ooltiplic-teo- Pane (GS)                            92.3           32.'           52.3           52.3           52.3           01.5       50          130.6           130.7
Shb total                                    899.9          877.1          730.7          455.1          425.9        3,397.1        32        1 069.0         2.30861            14
Pare Credit Serri-ce
Vebiclel sod Eqoipme-t                                   92.2           65.5           76.0           40.7           30.0          3(4.4        65          199.0           105.4
I_oce  sod Fcocoa61ne                                   214.0          149.0           90.0           -              -             453.0        22           99.9           353.1
Salstice  cod Allosecet                                 103.2          153.2          192.2          192.2          700.2          841.0        14          715.0           726.0
Vehicle Operstiog                                        12.5           IS.5           16.5           18.5           16.5           63.5        44           36.6            46.9
Credit Oporstioce (GS)                                    0.5            2.0            3.5            5.0            6.0           27.0        Cp           10.2             6.8
Sob total                                    422.4          385.2          380.2          256.4          253,7         1,698.9       77          460.7         1,238.2             7
Mlarket SerniCes
Oeclecd Eqlpesee                                    36.0            31.6          31.6            16.6            1.6         122.4        74           90.21           32.2
Z_uses, Poroeigege,soad             N_oo _y Marker Depote  107 0       200.0           -              -              -             30.0         749          6.5            231 .5
Salcoice  eod All-,a.co.                                 57.2           91.9          101.4          105.4           82.4          4208.3       71           92.0           336.5
Vehicle Orea tine                                        10.1           10.0           10.9           10.9           ISA9           53.1        .s4          23.6            30.1
Seb octal                                    213.1          324.4           143.9          135.1          94.9           911.4       3?          294.3           617.1             4
gngineering sarnicos
Ia) Veliclee sad Eor-khop Eqoip e..t                    109.0           13.9           13.9           30.5            0.7          160.9        23          123.3            44.7
Ho-e aod Fureibhiogo                                349.0           36.0           -              -              -             385.0        10          115.5           269.5
Sa arias aed Allos-sce-                             17035          166.3          2 9.3          169.5          101.3          92          oS          370.0           455.7
Vebicle Ope-tlog                                     135            163            1.3            16.3           103            86.7       64            39.             4.
Wo-kshop Oper-tig                                   20.2          35..7             37           37.7           26..          159.7        II           79.9            79.8
Sub total                                    670.0           294.2         258.2           256.0          146.7        1,625.'        ,5         726.9           898.2              7
(b) RoLd Coetroctioe
Plet sod Eqipment                                  236.9          134.3           16.4            1.0            1.5          369.6 ""I                542.             47.6
Opitatong riePl     cod Equipaent                    53.2          147.8          147.8          147.6           92.2          566.0        38          323.8           165.0
C.. o tes i_l Nai rials, Labor                       64.3           49.6           49.L           49.6           49.6          27           5           134.2 (22 .7
Laed Cenp-estice (01)                                51.3           33.0           21.0           190             4.5          212.         -            -               27
Road ME--t-nce  (GS)                                 304.9          29.0           30.5           42.5           30.5          237.4        55          229.7           1.17,7
Sulb total                                    510.6          393.7          265.3          258.9          177.8       1.629. 3        .2         d20.            776.              7
6S3 Soil sod Water Cons.rctite
Plaet sod Eqoipmeot                                 278.2           -              -              29.4           -             397.6        86          265.2            42.4
Opeoselog Plane sod Equipmeot                        14.8          104.8          L04.0          004.6          14.8           434.0        42          13.27           253.3
.o.otru-tio, Material cod labor                      34.0           90.3           90.0           90.3           90.0          394.0        46          1V.l            204.9
Laodtop--e-satcoo  (9S)                               2.0            9.0            0.0            8.0            6.0           34.0        -            -               34.1
Sb total                                     329.0          7026.          2n2.8          332.2          202.8        1,169.6       54          635.0,          534.6              5
Total Egieerlng Sernea                      1,509.6          890.7          726.3          747.1          527.3       4,40i.0         30       2,191.4         2,209.6            (19)
Fatm I.p.t,
Feretilier asb.idy (g6..s)                               56.8          241.6          399.9          673.2        1,065.3        2:43723        72       1,754.9            682.4            10
leorseentes 11ereili see inputs                         356.8          164.8          136.2          27 38          391.6        1 065.2       72          766.9            298.3             4
leresmeetal seeds, Scssricideeaed batteIes         50.2           62.5          122.0          166.6          189.9          262.9       51          308.1           322.6              3
itt_e_seetal farm equipset                               38.9          118.4          321.9          395,i          574.3        1,446.9        79        1,144.6           304.3             6
Sob tettl                                    203.7          627.3        1,052.6        1,509.5        2,319.2        5,712,3        71        4,054.5         1,657.8            23
Eval-a-tie Eeit                                         159.5           79.8           83.0           88.8           83.0          494.1        34          168.8           325.3             2
Total                                      3,879.6        3,738.8        3,402.8        3,505.7        3,976.4       18,503.3        47        8,766.0         9,737.3            75
Ehylo-al C Enocotiss                                    194.0          186.9          170.1          175.3          198.8          925.1        47         434.8            490.3             4
Price  7ontinencl                                       250.8        1,015.4        1,028.9        1,063.4        1,347.7        5,206.1        47       2,446.9          2,759.2            21
Tetrs  Praject C..ts                        4,824.4       4,941.1        4,601.7        4,744.4         5,522.9      24,634.5        47       11,647.7        12,986.8            100
Pseosetage Di.tribetiem                                  20             20             19             19             22            100                       47              53
US$                                                   7,333.1        7,510.5        6,994.6        7,211.5        8,394.8       37,444.5                 17,704.5        19,740.0
(GS) Iedi-rces general servire tacos and arc eetratetd frees Anexe 10, Table 6.
V Total diatribetice - adeinistrati4v  ao.rteads 87, direct farmer sermiring 252, reeds, -ate- and sail tooeeroatiae 19%, far= Impote 23Y, eveicatuot 25,
sed .neti.eNge-is 257..
2/ Ieclodes farm sercicecseters,  sele trai.ieg canters and seed multipliration.
3/ Pield  -ooe.eeatiae  -eits for Gosse (see A-ec 9, Table 1),
4/ Physt-lcl taetitNerc l   t 5i per aesu=.
5/ As per Ceetra- 1--jects -e.amrandom of Marth 29, 1974. LoosE roas. ct 7% ,capa..d.d.  Mtahi-ery, equip-ent, and tivil -ecks v-riable cont-oge-ny.
Na prioc ceo_tigencies far ferltlisere.
A.sgoa  19, 1974



OWNA09=2LN L    n O- T PMOJcT
v.11±01.. fl.t MiAd meot Oa,vital Coat
M          t    o. of                                                                             Poreip Ix=hW         Loaol
Unit    cut l itL  k8,1                    r- 2    J       er 3          or-  4   J    ar 5      Total    S           CoSt    Cost
4   <   dt   ddo                NSo.-    6.0       2        (1)    6.0         -                     (1)    6.0          -         12.0   60            7.2        4.8
No.      .0       4         2      8.0               4               (2)     8.0         _         16.0   60            9.6       6.1
5.400.701. 7tS ooXo.                                o.4     12        (1)    1.6          -       (4)    1.6          -       (4)    1.6       4.8   70            3.4       1.4
Sob total                                                            156          -               1.6          14.0           1.6    32.8   62            20.2       12.6
So.      5.0      8        (0      8.0  (2)    8.0                   (       80320    60                               192        12
Xotoro   ar" W^ llo.                                4.0      2        (l      4.0         -                                   () ()  8.0     3 8.0   60            4.8     312
Pickup tr.ack0                             I.       3.3 0    4 0                5   (2)    6.6          -       (5)   16.5  (2)    6.6    486.02   60             27.7       18.5
P?roo.         r el owrie                  So.      1  4.4 4           1       .    (1      4.4         _          (     .4  (1)    4.4    17.6   60             10.6         7.0
r-kF 5 to.                                llo.     6.0       6        (2    12.0  (1)    6.0            -              12.0  (1)    6.0    36.0   60             21.6       14.4
Sotoroal.a                                 .o   0.        132       (11      5.6  (27)    10.8  (31)   12.4  (29)   11.6  (31)   12.4    52.8   70               37.0       15.8
30 d tan 301obrr                           Dt..11  Annex 3, Sob*1. 1         50.0          39.9         -             -             -         89.9   75           67.4       22.5
S"o total                                                           100.5          75.7          12.4          56.5          37.1.   282.5,  66          188.3       94.2
b       11 1* 1io l                        So.     4.0       2         1)     4.0         _                     (1)    4.0          _          8.0   60            4.8        3.2
Xot@ror lrgne                              So.      4.0      2         (1)    4.0                               (1)     4.0                     8.0   60           .8         3.2
Pfotkp trebfo                              So.     3.3       8        (4)    3.2          -             -       (1)    13.2         -         26.4   60           15.8       10.6
NDtor3.7le.                                No.     0.b    lE0        (20)    8.0  (30)   12.0  (50)    20.0  (30)    12.0  (50)   20.0    72.0   70              50.4        21.6
Sob total                                                            29.2          12.0          20.0          33.2          20.0   114.4   67            75.8       38.6
4 ~_1    i                                NO"      i l              *0.  4.0  2  (1)    4.0  -          -       (l)     4.0         _          8.o   60           4.8        3.2
Plakop trk oO 11.                                  3.3       8        (4)   13.2          -             -       ()    13.2          _         26.4   60          15.8       10.6
Sotoroyle.                                 So      0.4      20        (4)    1.6  {4)    1.6  (1)    1.6  (1)           1.6  (1)    1.6        8.0   70            5.6        2.4
,lb total                                                            18.8           1.6           1.6          18.8           1.6    42.4   62            26.2       16.2
b*L                                                                        6.ob dN  t   lio.  6.0  2  (1)    6.0  _  .  (1)  6.o  -        12.0   60            7.2        4.8
4 rh_l dri       "Maole                    So.      41.      3        (2)    8.0                                (        .0                   12.0   60            7.2        4.8
Pi1olp troaka                              Io.     3.3      16        (6)   19.8  (4)   13.2            -       (6)   19.8          _         52.8   60           31.7       21.1
:'-d8 Coaeta.atia. Ionzt                  Deta1ls Acx 4. Table              236.9         134.3          16.4           1.0           1.0   389.6   88           342.0      47.6
oriksOp plant 0  eqtodput                  Dtdls Amax 4,lbbla  3             75.2           0.7          13.9           0.7           0.7    91.2   85           77.2       14.0
Vast.  r  1oil ,0.uoo,atioorpleat          0..1. Apl       5,4W1Tbl. 1      278.2         -             -              29.4         -        307.6   86          265.2       42.4
sob total                                                           624.1         148.2          30.3          60.9           1.7   865.2   85           730.5      134.7
Total V.0ol  ad  nt                                                788.2         237.5          65.9         183.4          62.3  1,337.3   78        1,041.0      296.3
2szkot (--ll)
Pn.WohWatratisor
S"t      6.o      1              -       (1)    6.0          _             _             _          6.0   60            3.6        2.4
Ritont*Ipbmo                              So.      1.2      18        (9)   10.8  (9)   10.8            _             -             -         21.6   60           13.0       8.6
Sad                                        So.     0.3        9        (5)    1.5  (4)      1.2         -             -             _          2.7   60            1.6        1.1
bp-m18ta, a.olator                                                           14.0          11.0         _             _            _         28.0   60           16.8       11.2
cow6og seemo." etc.
Sob to.1                                                             26.3          32.0         -             _             _         58.3   60           35.0       23.3
Devlopment Serrioe
Mzwddo        -                           Sat      0.5       4        (2)    1.0  (2)    1.0            _             _             _          2.0   60            1.2        0.8
bporitw                                   So.      0.°4     45       (15)    6.0  (15)    6.0  (15)    6.0            -             _        18.0   60           10.8        7.2
C3dtorsm1                                 lo.     0.1     50       (20      3.0  (15)     2.3  (1)     2.3         _             _         7.6   60            4.6         3.0
at.                                        So.     0.3      45       (15      4.5  (15)    4.5  (15)    4.5           _             -         13.5   60            8.1        5.4
aS2 eqDaeatt lb8   -o. omSre               Sat      0.2     W0       (10      2.0  (15)    3.0  (15)    3.0           -             -          8.o   60            4.8        3.2
Lial pbhota  w/                                                              38.0         -             -             -             -         38.0  100          38.0         -
93b total                                                            54.5          16.8          15.8         _             _         87.1   78           67.5       19.6
Ao180iutewoua..                            5.0      8.0      8        (4)   32.0  (2)   16.0  (2)   16.0              _             -         64.0   60           38.4       25.6
Swio. o4otw cash ragtat.r                 So.       2.0     40       (10)   20.0  (15)    30.0  (15)   30.0           -             -         b0.0   60           48.0       32.0
IdXtifoltior o ord (oqp,unt & materials)                                     11.0           7.5          10.0           7.5          10.0    46.0   80            36.8        9.2
Bob total                                                             63.o         53.5          56.0           7.5          10.0   190.0   61           123.2       66.8
SoIur        g  eroin . 3j                So.       1.0     80       (20)    20.0  (30)   30.0  (30)   30.0           -             -         80.0   60           61.o       16.0
lbtal Sal S npmt                                                    152.8         124.8          91.8         -             _       369.4    70          252.9     116.5
I?AL  70MUM, P0.ST AND AIST 952.0                                                 369.8         167.7         190.9          72.3 1,752.7    75        1,330.7      422d
13,   8      of p      . ao 3,1D) in color, I act of ool? print., 2 sato of black .d  1it prita, 1 e.t of unoontrolled csic. at V 10 por 12.
t.ma0041a mO 25,           .11.
jamry 25. 1971.



NIGBRIA
NORTH WESTrEN STATE
O2SAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PHOJ20T
Houses. Buildigs., Farnishig.s and Con.tr-toon., Labor end Materials for hoads snd 'ams
Unit     No. of                                                                                                For.ign R-haege  Loeel
Unit    Cost      Units        Year 1           Year 2          Yeer 3         Year             Y Year 5      Total    %             Coat  Cost
Pr,oectAdatiristration
Ied  f&oebuilding I/                                              No.     150.0         1     ( ½)    75.0   (½)    75.0             -                _               _          150.0   30            45.0   105.0
Nail head store                                                   No.       70.0        1     ( ½)    35.0   (½)    35,0             -                -               -           70.0   30            21.0    49.0
Telephone installation 2/                                         Set       10.0       1             -                 10.0          -                -               -           10.0   50             5.0      5.0
Senior staff houses ,/                                            No.       23.0        4     ( 2)    86.0   ( 2)    16.0            -                -               _           92.0   30            27.6    64.4
Ouest cottage                                                     No.        6.o        1                        I ( 1)  6.o         -                -               _             6.0   30            1.0      4.2
Staff 0lb                                                        No.       30.0        1            _         ( 1)    30.0          -                _               _           30.0   30              9.0    21.0
Intermediate oteff ao-e- 4/                                       No.       18.0        9     ( 5)    90.0   ( 4)    72.0                                                        1 _  _  i62.0   30    48.6   113.4
Junior otaff houses 5/                                            No.        4.0        2            _         ( 2)     8.0          -                _               _            8.0   30             2.4      5.6
Sub total                                                                                  246.0           282.0          _                _               _          528.0   30           160.4   367.6
Technioel Serv.ocs
Senior staff louses 3/                                            No.       23.0        3     ( 3)    69.0                                            -               -369.0   30                       20.7    48.3
Intemediate staff houses  /                                       No.       18.0       12     ( 9)   162.0   ( 2)    36.0   ( 1;    18.0              -               -          216.0   30            64.8   151.2
Low level field staff bhoues 6/                                   No.        3.0       60      (14)    42.0   (27)    81.0   (17)    51.0   ! 2)    6.0               _          180.0   15             27.0   153.0
Development  -enter off,oes                                       No.        8.0        4      ( 4)    32.0          -                                -               -           32.0   30              9.6    22.4
Village soroi-o centers 7/                                        No.       15.0       40      (10)   150.0   (15)   225.0   (10)   225.0             - U                        600.0   30           180.0   420.0
Beams traieigs centers 8F                                         _          _         _               20.0            70.0          -                -               -           90.0   30             27.0    63.0
Seed multiplication farm  9/                                                                           29.0            29.0          _                _               _           58.0   30            17.4    40.6
Sab total                                                                                  504 .           441.0           294.0             6.0           -        1,245.0   28           346.5   898.5
Porn Credit SOrvioe
Senior ataff house 3/                                             No.       23.0        3      ( 2)    46.0   ( 1)    23.0           _                _               -           69.0   30             20.7    48.3
Interm-ediate eteff louse I/                                      No.       18.0        8      ( 6)   108.0   ( 2)    36.0           _                _               _          144.0   30            43.2   100,8
Low level field staff house 6/                                    No.        3.0       B0      (20)    60.0   (30)    90.0   (30)    90.0             -                -         240.0   15             36.0   204.0
Sub total                                                                                  214.0           149.0             90.0          _                          453.0'  22             99.9   353.1
Market Servio.s
Senior staff louses 3/                                            No.       23.0        1      ( 1)    23.0                                    _ _ _                               23.0   30             6.9    16.1
Inter-ediate staff houses 4/                                      No.       18.0        4      ( 4)    72.0          _                _               _                _           72.0   30            21.6    50.4
Lo  level field stoff houses  10/                                No.        3.0        8      ( 4)    12.0   ( 4)    12.0            _               _                _           24.0   15             3.6    20.4
Ginnery market depots 11/                                         No.       94.0        2            _         ( 2)   188.0           _               _                _          188.0   30            56.4   131,6
Sub total                                                                                  107.0            200.0          _               _                _          307.0   29            88.5   218.5
Enginerinercesf45r)s
Seior taff hose 1io /                                             No.       23.0        5      ( 2)   112.0           -               -               -                -          115.0   30            34.5    80.5
I.termediate staff h1u0e0  v                                      No.       18.0       15      (13)   234.0    ( 2)    36.0           _               _                _          270.0   30            81.0   189.0
Material and lebor for soil and water oon. erratioo               S.. Anne0  5, T.blo 1                31.0             90.0            90.0            90.0            90.0      394.0   48           189.1   204.9
Baiidlngs and materials for roado                                 See Anex 4, Table 3                  64.3             49.6            49.6           40.6             49.6      262.7   53           134.0   *28.7
Sab total                                                                                  447.3            175.6           139.6           139.6           139.6   1,041.7   42            438.6   603.1
Total 12/                                                                                1,518.3         1,247.6            523.6          145.6            139.6   3,574.7   32         1,133.9 2,440.8
1/ 1,200 oq e   N 125 per -q m.
2/ Includes aerilsl for racdo.
3/ Based on total omolumeoto of morn thln N 6,000-ann-s.
00 0aedO  total e.-lImento of  ,ore than N 4,OOO/arnum.
C-nfide-tial oocr-tar-es only, all other HQ staff -o,Id reot or 000 hoosing *o GIusa.
Lw stadard  -ooatraction ba-od o        - local suthfrity  st,.tes frcr solacled sta'! clth emoluments of more thln N 1,300 per 00000.
7/ Inoludes 500 ton otore, 2 x 16 n x 16 m plioths, offic- and seourity fence.
./ Iseprov-emnts to Ousau training centor N 20,000,oeo o-tcntr at Xaura Namoda N 70,000 - each center to acoomodate 40 studoets.
9/ Im,proremeto at Gasa9  00d Kaa Nemoda (see A.s.e. 3) scludes land -cquisition and land clearing.
10/ Excludeos houses for prodace insp-ctor-
11/ Includes 40 plinths (30 o 10 o) woighb-rdge, reception n.on, s.carity feoce, dr-inage, lightig, trapaulin stors, scttoc coed store.
12/ Note that basic furnishigns end applisn-os for houses  -nd officso ore included in usit costs.
January 22, 1974



NIGERIA
NORT3 WESTERM STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTJRAL DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
Staff Salaries and.Allowancee
N 000
Unit     No. of                                                                                                       Foreign Exchange      Local
Unit          Cost      Units          Year 1           year 2           Year 3           Year_           Year 5          fotal      %           Cost      Colt
Pro iectAcmnistration
ProjectManager                       Manyears       27.0        4         (1)   27.0       (1)   27.0       (1)   27.0      (1)   27.0            _            108.0    100           108.0       -
Project Manager                      Manyears      12.0         2              -                _                _           (1)   12.0      (1)   12.0         24.0      -                      24.0
Chief Adninistration Officer         Manyears       10.4        5         (1)   10.4       (1)   10.4       (1)   10.4       (1)   10.4       (1)   10.4        52.0      -             _        52.0
Chief Accountant                     Many.ars       23.0        5         (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0       115.0    100           115.0       -
Principal Accountant               MNnyears         8.0         9         (1)    8.0       (2)   16.0      (2)   16.0        (2)   16.0      (2)   16.0         72.0      -             -        72.0
Acooutnts                           MNnyears         5.5       18         (2)   11.0       (4)   22.0       (4)   22.0       (4)   22.0      (4)   22.0         99.0      -             -        99.0
Executive Officers                  Manyears        5.0        23         (3)   15.0       (5)   25.0      (5)   25.0       (5)   25.0       (5)   25.0        115.0      -             _       115.0
Confidential Secretary               Macyears        3.0       10         (2)    6.0       (2)    6.0       (2)    6.0       (2)    6.0       (2)    6.0        30.0      -             -        30.0
Clerical Officers/Stenographers    Manyears          1.0       45         (5)    5.0      (10)   lo.o      (10)   10.0      (lo)   00.0     (10)   10.0         45.0      - _                    45.0
Clerical Assistants                  Macyears       0.7       180        (15)   10.5      (30)   21.0      (45)   31.5      (45)   31.5      (45)   31.5       126.0      -                     126.0
Messengers and Casual labor          Manyears        0.3       90        (10)    3.0      (20)    6.o      (20)    6.o      (20)    6.0      (20)    6.0        27.0      -             _         27.0
Sub total                                                           118.9            166.4            176.9            188.9            161.9        613.0     27          223.0      590.0
Technical Services
Chief Technical Officer              Macyears       23.0        3         (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0            -                -            69.0    100            69.0        -
Chief Technioal Offices              Manyears        8.0        3              -                -           (1)    8.0      (1)    8.0       (1)    8.0          24.0     -             _         24.0
Technical Officers                   Macyears      17.0        10         (2)   34.0       (2)   34.o      (2)   34.0       (2)   34 0       (2)   34.0        170.0    100           170.0
Agricultural Officers                Macyears        5.0       22         (3)   15.0       (4)   20.0       (5)   25.0       (5)   25.0       (5)   25.0       110.0      -             -       110.0
Agricultural Supervisors             Macyears        4.0       34         (6)   24.0       (7)   28.0       (7)   28.0       (7)   28.0       (7)   28.0       136.0      -             -       136.0
Agricultural Assistants            MNnyears          1.3      233        (14)   18.2      (41)   53.3      (58)   71.4    (YO)   78.0        (60)   78.0       302.9      -             -       302.9
Field Supervisors                    Manyears        o.6      620        (40)   24.0    (100)   60.0    (160)   96.0    (160)   96.0    (160)   96.0           372.0      -             -       372.0
Sub total                                                           138.2            218.3            289.4            269.0            269.0      1,183.9     20          239.0      944.9
Credit Services
Credit Manager                       Manyears       23.0        5         (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0        115.0    100          115.0
Senior Credit Officer Grade          Manyears        8.0       11         (2)   16.0       (2)   16.0       (2)   16.0       (2)   16.0       (3)1/ 24.0        88.0      -             -        88.0
Credit Supervisore/Aocoun-ant       MNnysarn         5.5       38         (6)   33.0       (8)   44.0       (8)   44.0       (8)   44.o       (8)   44.0        209.0     -             _        209.0
Credit Assistant Grade              manyears        1.3       330        (24)   31.2      (54)   70.2      (84)  109.2      (84)  109.2     (84)  109.2        429.0      -             _       429.0
Sub total                                                           103.2             153.2           192.2            192.2            200.2        841.0      14         115.0      726.0
Mar ketibg Services
Chief Marketing Officer              Manyears       23.0        4         (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0            -             92.0    100           92.0
Marketing Supervisors                Macyears        4.0       22         (4)   16.0       (4)   16.0       (4)   16.0       (5)   20.0       (5)   20.0         88.0     -             -         88.0
Market Assistant Grade               Manyears        1.3      191        (14)   18.2      (33)   42.9      (48)   62.4      (48)   62.4      (48)   62.4        248.3      -            -        248.3
Sub total                                                            57.2              81.9            101.4           105.4              82.4       428.3      21           92.0     336.3
Engineering Services
Chief Engineer                       manyears       23.0        5         (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0        115.0    100          115.0
Technical Engineer                  manyears       17.0        15         (4)   68.0       (4)   68.0       (4)   68.0       (3)   51.0            -            255.0    100          255.o
Rhural Engineers                     Macyears        5.0       70        (13)   65.0      (15)   75.0      (15)   75.0      (15)   75.0      (12)   60.0        350.0      _            -        350.0
Senior Technical Assistant Grade   Manyears          1.3       64        (13)   16.9      (13)   16,9      (13)   16.9      (13)   16.9      (12)   15.6         83.2      -            _         83.2
Technical Assistant G-rde            Macyears       0.9        25         (6)    5.4       (6)    5.4       (6)    5.4       (4)    3.6       (3)    2.7         22.5     -             -         22.5
Sub total                                                            178.3            188.3            188.3            169.5            101.3       825.7      45          370.0      455.7
Total Salaries snd Allowances 1/                                    595.8            808.1             948.2            925.0            814.8     4,091.9      25        1,039.0   3,052.9
1/ Allowances for interntionally recruited staff include  11 r.settlement co.s,t education sllowances  travel gratu ties etc. - oquivalent to about 100% of salary.
Allowances for local staff includs _avs, cr allowance, gratuities otc. equivalent to 30% of salary.
2/ Nigerian -cedit manager recruited tc work with .opatriste.
3auosry 23, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTER STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Running Costs of Vehicles i/and Plant
No. of                                                                                            Foreign Exchange   Local
Unit     Unit Coat  Units          Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         year 5       Total        %           Cost   Cost
Po ect Admiistration
drived vehicle                       km/year       N 0.07     30,000   (1)    2.1   ( 1)    2.1   ( 1)    2.1   (1)    2.1   (1)    2.1              10.5       444.6                 5.9
Motorcar large                            kos/year      N 0.06      30,000   ( 1)    1.8   ( 2)    3.6   C 2)    3.6   C2)    3.6   C 2)    3.6           i6.2       44            7.1      9.1
Motorcycles                               los/year      N 0.01      15,000   (4)    0.6   C 4)    0.6   C4)    0.6   (4)    0.6   C 4)    0.6              3.0       44            1.3     1.7
Sub total                                                                  4.5            6.3            6.3            6.3            6.3      29.7      44           13.0    16.7
~vlr tServices
wheel drive vehicle                     los/year      N 0.07     30,000   (2)    4.2   ( 4)    8.4   C4)    8.4   C4)    8.4   C 4)    8.4              37.8       44           i6.6    21.2
Motorcar large                            los/year      N 0.06      20,000   C1)    1.2   C1)    1.2   C1)    1.2   C1)    1.2   C1)    1.2                 6.0      44            2.6     3.4
Pickup trucks                             km/year       N 0.6       30,000   C5)    9.0   C7)   12.6   C 7)   12.6   (7)   12.6   C7)   12.6              59.4       44           26.1    33.3
Personnel carriers                        km/year       N 0.6       20,000   C1)    1.2   C2)    2.4   ( 2)    2.4   C2)    2.4   C2)    2.4              10.8       44            4.8     6.0
Trocks CS tO.)                           Ian/year       N 0.08     30,000   C2)    4.8   C3)    7.2   C 3)    7.2   C3)    7.2   C3)    7.2               33.6       44           14.8    18.8
Motorcycles                               km/year       N 0.01      12,000   (14)    1.7   C41)    4.9   (60)    7.2   (60)    7.2   (60)    7.2           28.2      44           12.7    15.5
Sub to tal                                                                22.1           36.7           39.0           39.0           39.0    175.8       44           77.6    98.2
Credit Services
4 wheel drive vehicle                     km/year       N 0.07      30,000   ( 1)    2.1   ( 1)    2.1   C1)    2.1   ( 1)    2.1   C1)    2.1            10.5       44            4.6      5.9
Motorcar large                            kmn/year      N 0.6       20,000   C 1)    1.2   ( 1)    1.2   C1)    1.2   C 1)    1.2   C1)    1.2              6.0      44            2.6     3.4
Pickup trucks                             km/year       N 0.06      30,000   ( 4)    7.2   ( 4)    7.2   C4)    7.2   ( 4)    7.2   C4)    7.2            36.0       44           15.8    20.2
Motorcycles                               km/year       N 0.01      10,000   (20)    2.0   (50)    5.0   (80)    8.0   (80)    8.0   (80)    8.0          31.0       44           13.6    17.4
Sub total                                                                 12.5           15.5           18.5           18.5           18.5      83.5      44           36.6    46.9
Market Services
4 wheel drive vehicle                     los/year      N 0.07      30,000   ( 1)    2.1   C 1)    2.1   ( 1)    2.1   ( 1)    2.1   ( 1)    2.1           10.5      44            4.6      5.9
Pickup trucks                             km/year       N 0.06      30,000   ( 4)    7.2   ( 4)    7.2   ( 4)    7.2   ( 4)    7.2   C 4)    7.2           36.0      44           15.8    20.2
Motorcycles                               kmn/year      N 0.01      20,000O   ( 4)    0.8   ( 8)    1.6   ( 8)    1.6   C 8)    1.6   C 8)    1.6           7.2      44            3.2      4.0
Sub total                                                                 10.1           10.9           10.9           10.9           10.9      53.7       44          23.6    30.1
driv e vehicles                      los/year      N 0.07      30,000   ( 3)    6.3   C 3)    6.3   ( 3)    6.3   C 3)    6.3   C 3)    6.3          31.5       44           13.9    17.6
Pickup trucks                             km/year       N 0.06      20,000   ( 6)    7.2   (10)   12.0   (10)   12.0   (10)   12.0   (10)   12.0           55.2       44           24.3    30.9
Road Construction Plant 2/                see Annex 4, Table 4                       53.2          147.8          147.8          147.8           92.2    588.8       38          223.8   365.0
Workshop Operating                        see Annex 4, Table 4                       20.2           37.7           37.7           37.7           26.4    159.7        50          79.9    79.8
Soil and Water Conservation Plant         see Annex 5, Table 1                       14.8          104.8          104.8          104.8          104.8    434.0        42         180.7   253.3
Sob total                                                                101.7          308.6          308.6          308.6           241.7  1,269.2       41         522.6   746.6
Total Running Costs of Vehicles and Plant                                150.9          378.0          383.3          383.3          316.4  1,611.9        42         673.4   938.5
1/ Includes fuel, lub.yi filters, tyres, spares and repairs, and driver (excludes depreciation).
2Z/ Includes labor.
January 24, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
General Service Costs
'IOO0
Unit    No. of                                                                                          Foreign Exchange      Local
Unit     Cost    Units         Year 1         Year 2        Year 3         Year 4         Year         Total                  Cost      Cost
HQE Epngse
Froct head office                                                                   3.0           6.0            8.0           10.0           10.0     37.0    50           18.5        18.5
Development center office                     Each     0.5        20       (4)      2.0   (4)      2.0   (4)     2.0   (4)      2.0   (4)      2.0     10.0    50            5.0         5.0
Service Center office                         Each     0.1       155      (10)      1.0  (25)      2.5  (40)     4-0  (40)      4.o  (40)      4.0     15.5    50            7.7         7.8
Telephone, cables etc.                                                              2.0           4.0            6.o            6.o            6.o     24.0    -             -          24.0
Field radio maintenance                                                             2.0           4.0            5.0            5.0            5.0     21.0    -                        21.0
House rentals 1/                        Rental years  0.5         65      (55)    27.5   (9)      4.5  (1)       0.5          -              -         32.5    -             -          32.5
Building maintenance 2/                                                           -              35.5           63.3           73.0           73.0    244.8    10            24.5      220.3
Insurance on plants and equipment 3/                                               22.6            9.1           4.0            4.6            1.6     41.9    -             -          441-9
Sub total                                                                 60.1           67.6           92.8         104.6          101.6    426.7    13            55.7      371.0
CreditOperating
Maintenance of equipment and purchase                                              °-5            2.0           3.5            5.0            6.0     17.0    60           10.2         6.8
of Stationery
Land Purchase  Compensation and Clearing
Compensation for dam sites 4/                 Each     0.4        85       (5)      2.0  (20)     8.0  (20)      8.0  (20)      8.0  (20)      8.0     34.0    -              -         34.0
Compensation for road right of way 5/         ha       0.045  1,400      (100)      4.5 (400)    18.0 (400)    18.0 (400)    18.0 (100)        4.5     63.o    -             -          63.0
Land purchase seed farms 6/                   ha       0.045    540      (540)    24.3          -              _              _              _         24.3    -             -          24.3
Land clearing 6/                              ha       0.075    540       (300)    22.5 (200)    15.0  (40)      3.0          -              -         40.5    -              -         40.5
Sub total                                                                 53.3           41.0           29.0           26.0          12.5    161.8    -              -         161.8
Tractor Hire Service 7/
Tractor and implement operating         Tractor years  1.35       66      (15)    20.3  (15)    20.3  (15)    20.3  (12)    16.2   (9)    12.2         89.3    414          39.3        50.0
Training Centers
Running cost - food and supplies 8/  Training years 8.0           9       (1)      8.0   (2)    16.0   (2)    16.0   (2)    16.0   (2)    16.0        72.0    -              -         72.0
Seed Multiplication Farms 9/                                                       52.3           52.3           52.3          52.3           52.3    261.5    50           130.8      130.7
Road Maintenance 10/                                                              104.9           29.0          30.5           42.5           30.5    237.4    55           129.7      107.7
Total                                                                    299.4          228.2          244.4          262.6         231.1  1,265.7    29           365.7       900.0
1/ Project senior staff (AO and AS grades) during 1st year of service prior to completion of houses av. cost N 500/annum.
2/ At 2-% of capital cost. Accumulative capital cost: Year 1 N 1.42 million; Year 2 N 2.53; Year 3 onwards N 2.92.
3/ At 2-4 per annumn includes third party, fire risk and workmen's compensation.
4/ 8 ha per dam d N 45 per ha i.e. N 360 per dam - say N 400.
3/ 1,400 ha N N 145 per ha.
6/ At Gusau and proposed Kaura Namoda farms. See Annex 3, Schedule 1.
7/ 900 hours/tractor/annum N N 1.5 hr - phased out over 5 years.
7/ 8,000 student days per annum @ N 1 per day.
9/ see Annex 3, Schedule 1.
10/ see Annex 4, Table 5, includes capital and recurrent costs.
January 25, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Details of Project Financing
Per Disbursement
----------------------------------------N'OO-----------------------------------------                                         Schedule
Year 1           Year 2            Year 3            Year 4            Year 5            Total             US$'000            US_ million
IBRD Disbursements
Category:
I.  Vehicles, plant and equipment                  757.0             274.1             118.2             125.1              56.3          1,330.7           2,022.7                     2.0
II.  Farm inputs                                    105.8             273.9             463.4             593.4             888.8          2,325.3           3,534.5                     3.5
III.  Salaries and allowances:
(a) Int. recruited expatriates              244.o             244.o             244.o             204.0             103.0           1,039.0          1,579.3                     1.6
(b) Locally recruited staff                 211.1             338.5             422.5             432.6             427.0          1,831.7           2,784.2                     2.8
IV. Buildings, houses and construction
materials                                   911.0             748.6             314.1              87.3              83.8           2,144.8           3,260.1                    3.2
V.  Field evaluation section                        95.7              47.9              49.8              53.3              49.8             296.5             450.6                    0.5
VI.  Unallocated                                    494.5             706.4             706.4             706.4             918.3           3,532.0           5,368.6                    5.4
Sub total                               2,819.1           2,633.4           2,318.4           2,202.1           2,527.0         12,500.0           19,000.0                   19.0
North Western State Funds
Vehicles, plant and equipment                        195.0              95.7              49.5              65.8              16.0             422.o
Subsidies                                             56.8             241.6             399.9             673.7           1,065.3           2,437.3
Farm inputs                                            10.8             22.8              55.5              55.8              93.2             238.1
Salaries for locally recruited staff                 140.7             225.6             281.7             288.4             284.8           1,221.2
Buildings, houses and construction material          607.3             499.0             209.5              58.3              55.8           1,429.9
Field evaluation                                       63.8              31.9             33.2              35.5              33.2             197.6
Vehicle and plant operating                          150.9             378.0             383.3             383.3             316.4           1,611.9
General service costs                                 299.4             228.2            244.4             262.6             231.1           1,265.7
Unallocated                                          331.0             472.9             472.9             472.9             614.6           2,364.3
Sub total                               1,855.7           2,195.7           2,129.9           2,296.3           2,710.4          11,188.0
Farmers Funds
Farm inputs                                            30.3              89.0             133.8             186.6             271.9             711.6
Unallocated                                            32.9             47.0              47.0              47.0               61.0             234.9
Sub total                                  63.2             136.0             180.8             233.6             332.9             946.5
Total Financing                         4,738.0           4,965.1           4,629.1           4,732.0           5,570,3          24,634.5
August 20, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURA. DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Cash Flow for NWS
N'000
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Year 6       Year 7        Year 8       Year 9       Year 10
Inflow of Funds
Loans from FMG, 1/                                2,819.1      2,633.4      2,318.4      2,202.1      2,527.0          -            -            -            -
Outflow of Funds
Vehicle, plant and equipment 2/                     952.o        369.8        167.7        190.9          72.3         35.0        122.0         31.0         35.0          122.0
Houses, buildings and construction 3              1,518.3      1,247.6        523.6        145.6         139.6         -            -            -            -              -
Staff salaries and allowances 4/                    595.8        808.1        948.2        925.0        814.8        450.9         408.0        384.0        207.0          207.0
Vehicle operating 5/                                150.9        284.7        241.1        257.4         174.2         56.0         56.0         56.0         34.0           34.0
General service cost 6/                             299.4        228.2        244.4        262.6         231.1        183.0        183.0        183.0        177.o          177.0
Evaluation                                          160.0         80.0         83.0         89.0          83.0         83.0         83.0         -            -              -
Fertilizer subsidy                                   56.8        241.6        399.9        673.7       1,065.3      1,100.0      1,100.0      1,100.0      1,100.0        1,100.0
Revolving credit fund 7/                            116.6        296.7        518.9        649.2         982.0         -            -            -             -             -
Contingencies                                       825.5      1,179.3      1,179.3      1,179.3       1,532.9        300.0        300.0        300.0        300.0          300.0
Sub total                              4,675.3      4,736.0      4,306.1      4,372.7       5,095.2      2,207.9      2,252.0      2,054.0      1,853.0        1,940.0
Loan Repayment to FM
Commitment charges 8/                                72.6         52.9          35.5         19.0         -            -            -            -             -
Interest during grace period 9/                     225.5        436.2        621.7        797.8      1,000.0          -            -            -            -              -
Principal and interest 10/                           -            -             -            -            -         1,445.8      1,445.8      1,445.8      1,445.8        1,445.8
Sub total                                298.1        489.1        657.2         816.8      1,000.0      1,445.8      1,445.8      1,445.8       1,445.8       1,445.8
Total Outflow                          4,973.4      5,225.1      4,963.3       5,144.5      6,095.2      3,653.7      3,697.8      3,499.8       3,298.8       3,385.8
Balance                               (2,154.3)   (2,591.7)   (2,644.9)   (2,942.4)   (3,568.2)   (3,653.7)   (3,697.8)   (3,499.8)   (3,29a.8)    (3,385.8)
1/ Onlending of IBRD loan (see Annex 11, Table 1).
2/ Replacement excludes items listed in note 7 below.
3/ Maintenance included under general service costs.
4/ From year 7 marketing services transferred to NSMB, year 9 credit service transferred to formal credit institution.
5/ Excludes those services as per note 4 above.
6/ Excludes road maintenance as from year 7.
7/ Incremental requirement only.
8/ 3/4 of 1% on undisbursed Bank loan.
9/ For 5 years at 8% per annum.                                                                                                                                                  lX
1O/ N 12,500,000 @ 8% repayable in 30 equal installments of interest and principal over 15 years through years 6-20.
August 20, 1974



ANNEX 11
Table 3
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricultural Development Pro.ject
Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
US$ million       Cumulative US$ million
FY 1975
Semester 1                             -                      -
Semester 2                           loO                     loO
FY 1976
Semester 1                           2.5                     3-5
Semester 2                           2.5                     60o
FY 197
Semester 1                           200                     800
Semester 2                            2.0                   lOoQ
FY 1978
Semester 1                           200                    12.0
Semester 2                           200                    14O0
FY 1979
Semester 1                           1.5                    15.5
Semester 2                           1.5                    17,0
FY 1980
Semester 1                           loO          00I&
Semester 2                           10                    19.0
igust 20, 1974






ANNEX 12
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Background Summary
1.        To date officially organized marketing in the northern States has
been confined to the so called cash crops, primarily cotton and groundnuts.
Arrangements for food crops have evolved through the private sector on a
laissez-faire basis with minimal assistance, or interference, from Federal
or State Governments. Producer prices for cash crops have been determined
by world levels (over which Nigeria has little influence) and the need to
generate Government revenue. Food prices have been determined by domestic
supply demand relationships in an essentially self sufficient environment
largely uninfluenced by wqorld levels. The basic conflict between the systems
has only recently become apparent as the price effect of increased food grain
demand has impacted on overall cropping patterns.
2.        The geographical extent of the country, difficulty of communication
and the widespread nature of basically subsistence oriented food crop produc-
tion has prevented the development of an integrated national grain-market.
Consequently there has grown up a multiplicity of small, unrelated markets;
these are probably rather efficient in themselves but they nevertheless give
rise to marked spatial and temporal price irregularities. In such an imper-
fect situation, inelasticity of market demand has a magnifying effect on price
movement and emphasises inadequacies in both structure and system. Prices
for food grains are now, however, sufficiently high to compete with tradi-
tional cash crops where labor constraints permit. Nevertheless there is
continued heavy private and state investment in agro-industry, particularly
seed crushing, and textile mills much of which will remain underutilized un-
less significant increases in marketed output of the traditional cash crops
are achieved.
3.        In order to improve the situation, increase relative cash crop
returns and overcome imperfections and inefficiencies in statutory marketing
systems, FMG has initiated a series of policy and organizational changes.
Producer prices are now Federal rather than State responsibility, taxes have
been reduced or abolished, and some means of fixing marketing overheads are
being introduced. To stimulate food grain production a form of price support
is planned operating through a national storage and marketing program. A
series of national grain production units (State owner and operated commercial
farms) is also contemplated. Detailed plans for the implementation of these



ANNEX 12
Page 2
policies have still to be announced. There is clearly considerably room,
and need, for improvements in marketing if proper benefits of better produc-
tion technology are to accrue to both producer and consumer; however recent
and current intercrop price relationships show the importance of an overall,
balanced approach if production of one set of crops is not to be unduly en-
hanced at the expense of others. Certainly the development of a medium term
minimum price policy, coupled with timely preplanting announcement of producer
prices for gazetted crops is badly needed.
B. Statutory Marketing Organizations
4.        Scheduled crops 1/ are marketed through statutory organizations con-
trolling a series of franchise operations - each of which may have opportuni-
ties to exploit a monopolistic position. Until recently the primary marketing
organization (NSNB) enjoyed the dominant role, coordinating the functions of
the various participants in the system (LBA, CAP, NPMC). FMG has now taken
over NPMC as part of the program to reorganize and improve marketing; 2/ NSMB
will now act only as purchasing agent for its erstwhile subsidiary, which will
continue to carry out the export marketing function.
5.        Producer prices for statutory crops have become a Federal responsi-
bility, recommendations being made to the Head of State by the Technical Com-
mittee on Produce Prices. NSNB will pass on produce to NPMC at a fixed price,
intended to take into account NSMB marketing costs and administrative over-
heads. These have still to be determined and agreed. NSMB operations are
extensive and the difficulties exacerbated by lack of communication facilities,
particularly feeder roads. Apart from obvious conseluent problems of crop
movement, this limitation also results in considerably hindrance to the exer-
cise of proper financial and operational control over all those involved in
produce marketing.
6.        Rural buying and first assembly are performed through a system of
licensed buying agents (LBA) and subagents. Quality control is the responsi-
bility of the Produce Inspection Department (PID) of the Ministry of Agri-
culture. Cotton is officially graded by Produce Examiners (PE) prior to
purchase at gazetted markets. Groundnuts are officially graded by Produce
Inspectors (PI) after purchase and on presentation at designated inspection
points. Check grading takes place when goods are moved into or from NSMB
storage points. LBA are required to arrange their own finance for purchases
and are paid (through discountable produce receipts) upon delivery to NSMB
depot. Despite this payment LBA remain responsible for "their" produce while
it is stored and until it is despatched to the consumer.
1/   In the project area cotton and groundnuts are the most important.
2/   The new policy aims at reducing the burden of taxation; reducing statutory
marketing overheads, transferring wqorld price developments more accurately
to producers.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
7.        NSMB accounts are not available beyond 1967/68 and even these are
unreliable costings used in this annex are therefore derived or implied, and
are not objective measures of actual performance. Estimated 1972 marketing
costs expressed as percentage of the FOB price are as follows:
Groundnuts      Cotton Lint
------------%-------------
SNMC                                          1                 1
NSMB                                          3.3              5
CAP (BCGA)                                    -                8
LBA                                           5                 7
9.3            21
Transport, handling       )
Bags, Insurance,          )                  13               13
storage, port charges  )
13               13
Produce Sales Tax                             2                 2
Export Duty                                   16               15
18               17
NSMB Profits                                  4.7
45.0             51.0
8.        Export duty and produce sales tax have been abolished and replaced
by a single produce tax. This is set at 10% of producer price compared with
about 25% before the reform.
9.        World prices currently at a very high level are expected to decline
over the course of the project; the fixed nature of most marketing costs
that such a decline would be disproportionately reflected in resulting pr
ducer prices. It is therefore important that new policies and practices
result in the best possible relative return to farmers thereby increasing
production incentives at given crop values. To attempt to overcome the pro-
blem by arbitrary reduction of agency allowances, in reflection of individual
crop prosperity, would only result in the 'saving' being translated into a
direct or indirect reduction of the price actually paid to producers.
10.       Since the project would operate within the statutory marketing
system it is necessary to identify the deficiencies and outline ways in which
improvements may be made. This may be doubly important in view of the possi-
ble parallel development of a price support program for food grains.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
C. Marketing Policy and Organization
Fragmentation of Responsibility
11.       Absence of total marketing responsibility, particularly at primary
level, frustrates the emergence of corporate pride and wiholehearted effort
so important in an operation of this nature. The present system of split
responsibilities under wfhich PID and not NSMB are responsible for the conduct
of markets operated by NSMB agents, as well as aspects of produce quality,
if more divisive than cohesive. It appears to provide more opportunities for
abuse than for the imposition of independent checks and balances which it is
intended to do. Clearly, independent inspection is essential at a point or
points in the marketing chain, however the organization responsible for market-
ing should not only control its agents but should also have power to decide
whether or not produce is of sound marketable quality. It should then be in
a position to adequately control storage and accept the consequent risks.
Presently NSMB bears a number of risks without compensatory control. Possible
abuse of quality (and thus price) at primary level may be overcome partially
by inspection but mainly by proper competitive buying.
Late Announcement of Seasonal Guaranteed Prices
12.       In the past prices have seldom been announced prior to planting.
This has prevented firm price considerations from affecting planting decisions.
Furthermore, inter-seasonal world price variations reflect conditions over
*which Nigeria has little or no control or influence. Consequently the linking
of annual producer prices to projected xworld levels is likely to result in
magnified production fluctuations compared with a rather stable domestic
demand. A 'rolling' three to five year minimum price structure, related to
projected world prices, should be developed. This would encourage better
planning at farm level and assist achievement of greater inter-seasonal pro-
duction stability. Within this structure, minimum seasonal prices would be
announced before planting, and confirmed (or increased if justified) prior
to the opening of markets.
Lack of an Effective Crop Reporting and Market Intelligence System
13.       This prevents early assessment of crop sizes and dispositions and
eitiher prevents timely marketing decisions from being made, or causes them
to be inadequately based. The establishment of an intelligence service is
a long term undertaking, however, early and significant improvements could
be achieved by instituting a more widespread comparative two-way reporting
system among members of MA,Local Authorities, and NSMB staff, coordinated
at State and Federal level. It must be emphasized that communication needs
to be txwo way:  a field reporter should be kept informed of conditions out-
side his immediate area, if only to maintain his interest. The present
practice of keeping crop and wqeather reports under 'secret' cover is self
defeating. The development of an intelligence service is essential to im-
proving food grain marketing.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
D. Marketing Practices
The Licensed Buying Agent (LBA)
14.       The number of LBA is relatively small compared to the number of
agents and sub-agents directly or indirectly employed. Although open compe-
tition is officially encouraged it hardly exists except in areas directly
tributary to major highways. Transportation difficulties are very real and
noncompetitive practices result, with little encroachment by one LBA on the
'territory' of another. In general, LBA perform reasonably well, but the un-
scrupulous have not been adequately disciplined in the past; the monopolistic
positions achieved for individual LBA by a network of subagents and buyers
means that suspension or dismissal of a LBA, mid season, could result in farm-
ers being worse off through denial of outlets for their produce. Most of the
'normal' methods of cheating in produce marketing are employed at various
degrees at all levels of trade. These include underweighing and undergrading,
imposition of 'dash' payments for inspection services, degradation of gazetted
market services (thereby forcing sales elsewhere) etc. LBA and their agents
naturally do not confine their activities solely to produce, however the
advance of consumer credit at other times, for ultimate repayment with produce,
provides another means of 'buying' at less than gazetted levels. The fact
that produce payments by NSMB are not always prompt or assured, provides
constant encouragement for cheating to continue.
15.       Buying Seasons are over extended relative to volume purchased.  This
increases costs and further degrades competition through frequent absences of
buyers and PID staff.
16.       Movement and Storage particularly of groundnuts, is poorly planned
and executed. This is partially due to lack of crop information but also due
to system rigidities which prevent optimum use being made of the resources
and facilities of the local agro-industry. The continuation of LBA responsi-
bility for produce w.hile it is in NSMB depots or dumps adds unnecessarily to
storage costs.
E. Individual Crop Marketing
Cotton Marketing
17.       Cotton marketing is probably the most highly technical of all annual
crops and maximum cooperation among all involved in the industry is essential
if producer and consumer requirements are to be satisfactorily blended and
returns assured.



ANNEX 12
Page 6
18.       Recent experience shows that production is price sensitive; thus
the projected decline in world values makes it even more important that post
harvest and preplanting costs are reduced as much as possible. Ways of effec-
ting further savings need to be explored as well, and in this respect the
project should be able to make a significant contribution. The main defects
include:
(i) high seed waste and loss;
(ii) poor handling and storage techniques up to point of
ginning; and
(iii) absence of independent quality assessment of cotton lint.
Seed Wastage
19.       Planting seed is dressed and distributed to strategically sited
stores, where it is held before being issued free of charge. Apparent planting
rate is three to six times that recommended but seed is also used for other
purposes, such as fertilizer, and as an effective "smudge" fire against mos-
quitoes. Althiough theoretically free, cotton seed is traded in village markets,
sellers usually being those who live near a cottonseed store and have managed
to work a corner on local supplies. Cottonseed accounts for about 65% of the
weight and 35% of the total value of seed cotton; it costs about N 15.00 a
ton to dress and deliver to store, thus every ton of seed unnecessarily dressed
and distributed results in a marketing loss of about N 65.00. For 1973/74 the
total cost is probably in excess of N 1.3 million, or, in terms of producer
returns, rather more than 1 kobo/kg seed cotton, equivalent to 8% of the pro-
ducer price in the 1973/74 season. Part of the cause of over supply of plant-
ing seed (for which allowances have been made in arriving at the above figure)
is the relatively poor performance of fuzzy, i.e., undelinted seed. The
solution would seem to lie in progressively moving toward a situation where
only "improved" (i.e., delinted) seed is available and for which at least a
nominal price has to be paid by growers.
20.       By using acid delinting all costs of dressing would be saved (and
the mixers released for other seed treatment), empty seeds would be floated
off and high germination reasonably assured. After allowing a 30% weight loss
for delinting and seed selection, at least half of the customarily required
quantity of seed would thus become available for sale. Additional expense
would be incurred in packaging seed for sale in 10 kg bags, but this cost as
well as that of actual delinting would be more than compensated by the savings
in both seed and distribution costs. The project would be an excellent vehi-
cle for developing this approach, all seed being sold through service centers.
Estimated financial benefits would be about N 5.8 per ton of seed cotton.
The estimated cost of delinting, distributing and packaging is about 40 kobo
per 10 kg pack (enough for 0.5 ha) so the sale price could be relatively
nominal, however some charge must be made, and better seed performance demon-
strated, if the present widespread abuses are to be curbed and a greater pro-
portion of the real value of seed cotton realized. In discussions with CAP



ANNEX 12
Page 7
and its parent company, the principle of their installing acid delinting
plants during the project has been tentatively agreed, subject to suitable
arrangements being made concerning fees.
21.       Handling and storage of seed cotton:  After purchase, seed cotton
is packed in 100 lb bags and transported to dumps near the ginneries. From
there it is ultimately moved to the gin, being reweighed, unbagged and check
graded into the suction room. LBA remain responsible for the cotton they
have purchased until after it has been weighed into the gin, although provi-
sional payment will already have been made to them on purchased weights and
grades. There is little enthusiasm or incentive among LBA to ensure proper
storage in the dumps: spoilage of cotton through failure to provide stillage
is usual. PID control is sketchy and it is by no means unusual for LBA to
wet seed cotton before it is weighed into the gin in an attempt to increase
weight and/or overcome losses caused by natural shrinkage or other less
easily explained causes.
22.       Efficiency would be improved and losses reduced by providing fixed
(plinth) storage at the dumps and limiting responsibility of LBA to delivering
cotton to point of storage, from which time it would come under the charge of
ginners (CAP), until completion of the ginning process. Although no proce-
dural changes in marketing have yet been agreed, the project does provide for
the construction of proper seed cotton reception and storage facilities ad-
jacent to ginneries. Total cost of each storage depot (there would be three
constructed under the project) is estimated at N 94,000 including cost of a
weighbridge. The possibility of opening ginnery markets, for the purchase of
large lots, i.e., group marketed produce, needs to be investigated, as does
the feasibility of reducing handling by bulk movement of cotton from village
markets.
23.       Absence of independent lint quality assessment:  seed cotton is
graded on purchase and prior to ginning, and the lint is subsequently classi-
fied by CAP, for which service they receive a flat fee payment from NSNB.
The crop is then allocated to spinners taking account of their stated require-
ments, (prepared 12 months in advance) and classes actually available. No
selling samples are furnished nor in cases of dispute is there any provision
for independent quality determination, although these are customary trade
practices, and are performed on all export contracts. A partial consequence
is an almost total lack of cooperation within the industry, and while neither
side is blameless, the take it or leave it attitude of sellers does not con-
tribute to a greater degree of understanding. The manufacturers could con-
tribute to a greater degree of understanding, and could contribute considerably
to the well-being of the cotton industry through their technical and research
expertise and experience elsewhere, and it is important that a more coordi-
nated approach is adopted.
24.       The whole approach to cotton marketing is lack-lustre and far greater
enthusiasm needs to be generated if anticipated falls in world values are not
to make the crop unremunerative. Ginneries are well sited and could become



ANNEX 12
Page 8
catalysts for production instead of just processing agencies; the possible
development of much closer links between the State Government and CAP might
assist this. Greater participation by spinners in development could result
in competitive contract ginning: whatever does happen, marketing costs must
be brought into more reasonable relationship with the value of the crop.
25.       Cotton Ginning:  The ginning season extends for about 24 weeks from
December to June and ginning capacities are calculated on this basis. (Table
3.) These levels have been exceeded by up to 20% in exceptional years but
absence of covered storage for seed cotton makes extension of the season im-
practical. Additional facilities would be needed towards the end of the
project development period and management of CAP is willing to increase effec-
tive capacity as justified by sustained growth of production. Detailed ar-
rangement would be concluded by project management, MA, NSMB and CAP during
the development period. All ginning is done under contract with NSMB, the
present agreement expiring in 1976. Estimated break even is about 200,000
bales, after which fees are reduced; mean output over the last 13 years was
262,000 bales (249,000 omitting highest and lowest years).
Groundnut Marketing
26.       Groundnuts are purchased from farmers at buying points licensed by
the Local Authority, although considerable 'assembly buying' by subagents also
occurs outside licensed markets. Operations are not supervised and farmers,
particularly in areas remote from roads, are frequently cheated. Conversely,
the way in which LBA allowances are calculated results in strong competition
in areas near inspection stations and inducements in cash or kind may be
offered in order to attract offerings from farmers. All purchases are inspec-
ted and graded at PID supervised inspection stations before being moved into
NSMB depots where they are checked and stacked in pyramids. LBA remain res-
ponsible for stored nuts until they are despatched for export or to local
mills.
27.       Groundnuts should be moved as little as possible in order to minimize
percentage of "splits and brokens" which are more liable to aflatoxin infec-
tion and reduce the quality of a sample. Current practices could be Improved
and handling reduced, particularly now that local crushing capacity is begin-
ning to outstrip groundnut production. Much of the present overhandling is,
however due to lack of adequate early information concerning the size and
geographical disposition of the crop; until this situation is remedied un-
necessary marketing costs will continue to be incurred. Nevertheless the
establishment of depots adjacent to mills would cut out quite a large amount
of present handling and double transport. Consideration should also be given
to the establishment of depot markets to which Farmer Associations or other
similar marketing groups could deliver directly. This type of operation would
be well suited for development within the project since nuts could be assembled
and graded at a service center, and then either held to the order of NSMB
(storage charges being payable) or despatched to mill or exported.



ANNEX 12
Page 9
28.       Export marketing is carried out by NPMC, with local crushes being
allowed to buy at a level equivalent to world price. This price is determined
and fixed daily by NPMC and representatives of the oil millers, who are free
to make their own arrangements for the sale of oil and cake. Raw material
price movements are not usually immediately reflected in those of the products,
and vice versa; it can be argued that local millers have the put and take on
the market. This may be true to some extent, certainly a better overall price
could be realized if the marketing agency had selling options (i.e., nuts, oil
or cake or combinations thereof) always open to it. The possibilities and
potential ramifications of this should be investigated but, on the face of it,
benefits are likely to be small relative to the risks involved and the sophis-
tication of information and action required. Nevertheless, the projected
declines in world value through increasing competition from other sources of
oil and protein make it essential that marketing practices, and costs are
carefully examined and improvements made, wherever possible.
Mlarketing and the Project
29.       Trends of marketed production over the last decade combined with
recent food price developments properly reflect the failure of the marketing
systems, statutory and otherwise, to adequately transmit consumer needs to
producers. Relatively poor production performance is not solely the fault
of marketing - lack of education and associated physical inputs such as ferti-
lizer is also to blame - but the inescapable fact remains that for statutory
crops at least, farmers have not been offered enough incentive in terms of
price and/or service to encourage increased output. This failure of the
system has been heightened by shortcomings within the system which have led
to apparently increasing abuses and consequent accelerated producer disenchant-
ment. Under the project, steps would be taken to rectify this position; in-
deed, faith in the systems must be restored if projected benefits are to be
generated. To facilitate this transition maximum use would be made of the
physical facilities within the project together with some organizational anQ.
operational changes.
30.       Abuse and evasion of statutory marketing requirements by LBA ar
PID staff has been made easier by the small farmers basic lack of bargaii
power. The cooperative movement has been neither widespread nor effecti-
enough to alter this situation. Project staffed service centers would not
purchase products but would provide a focal point for farmers from which
they would draw advice and assistance and at which they would collectively
increase their bargaining power. The service center would become a place of
first assembly and storage from which, eventually, deliveries would be made
directly to domestic buyers or point of export. On such a basis the project
would make the following marketing improvements:



ANNEX 12
Page 10
Mi) Restoring or establishing producers faith in the system through:
(a) early announcement of producer prices;
(b) adequate control and discipline of marketing agents;
(c) enhanced competition at gazetted markets;
(d) provision of timely and accurate market intelligence;
(e) facilities for increasing individual farmers bargaining
power; and
(f) assistance in securing profitable outlets for new cash
crops, such as maize.
(ii) Developing a more disciplined approach to statutory marketing
by producers, thereby cutting costs; and
(iii) Investigating and developing new approaches in order to ensure
the producers as large a share as possible of ultimate product
value.
31.       Statutory Crop Purchasing.  LBA and their subagents in the project
area would be subject to approval by project management. Since project super-
visorv coverage of all sorts would be fairly intensive, abuses by LBA or their
agents should be quickly discovered and similarly dealt with.
32.       In order to ensure that crop purchases are not impeded through lack
of finance, arrangements would be made by NSMB (or NPMC) for working capital
requirements, as estimated by project management, to be advanced to LBA in
the project area.
33.       LBA should quickly realize that there is more to be lost than gained
by attempting to cheat farmers. Apart from much easier transport as a result
of the improved roads, as well as more easily obtained crop finance; LBA opera-
ting in the project area would be best placed to benefit from the immediate
economic consequences of increased production, not least would be back hauls
with farm inputs as other generally more attractive consumer goods.
34.       Project management would be given LBA status.  While it is not
intended that the project should carry out any crop purchasing, such an
appointment would enable sub-licensing, and therefore full audit control, of
emergent farmer or other associations wishing and competent to engage in group
marketing. Such a system would greatly ease the potential problems of train-
ing emergent marketers.



ANNEX 12
Page 11
35.       Fair buying practices would be encouraged through the careful siting
of markets. Initially these would be situated as jointly agreed between proj-
ect management, PID, NSMB, and appropriate local authority. Over the course
of the project gazetted markets would come to be sited only directly adjacent
to a servicing center. Actual purchasing would be carried out under the direct
supervision of the project employed PE or PI. Farmers would be encouraged to
weigh their produce on the dial or self recording scale prior to sale. The
principle of competitive servicing of producers would be reasserted and every
market would have at least two authorized buyers. Table 5 shows schematic
layout of a proposed center.
36.       Extended seasons add unnecessarily to marketing costs, reduced
supervision and competition, and make early assessment of marketable produc-
tion more difficult. After peak marketing periods, purchases would only be
made on set market days; in addition the possibility of shortening the market-
ing season would be investigated. Although this would result in greater flows
and increased peak cash requirements during certain months, the benefits of
having earlier control of the crop would outweigh these considerations.
37.      W4hile these steps should result in a considerable improvement in
farmers gross receipts for a given weight of produce, some of their possible
impact would be lost if they are not matched by an effective pricing policy.
It is essential that firm preplanting prices are widely announced.
38.       Food grains and other crops.  The facilities of the service center
would be available to Farmer Associations for assembly and short term storage;
difficulties over identity preservation would make it impractical to allow
similar use by individuals. Lack of accurate information is one of the major
constraints to improving food grain marketing. Under the project a market
intelligence system would be established to collect, disseminate and analyze
news about supply, demand and prices in various market centers. Services
would be centered on each Development Centre UJnit and coordinated by the
marketing section in Project Headquarters. Collection and dissemination in
the project area would be achieved through the Service Centers, while a
regular reporting system from major markets which could be supplied by project
production would be established in conjunction with MA.
39.       In addition to supervising the information systems, the marketing
section at project headquarters would also have prime responsibility for
market and marketing development. Market development would include, for ex-
ample, exploring and expanding the possibilities of securing profitable
outlets through some form of contract growing for, inter alia, the feed in-
dustry. It should also cover the identification of potentially profitable
'new' crops, such as confectionary groundnuts, and provide commercial guide-
lines for the research effort. Marketing development would be specifically
aimed at cutting costs or increasing values through such things as better crop
handling and storage techniques, contract processing, and the employment of a
generally more imaginative approach to marketing problems.



ANNEX 12
Page 12
G. Prices and Marketing of Maize, Sorghum and Cowpeas
Present Situation
40.       Traditionally Nigeria has been self sufficient in cereals other than
wheat. Sorghum and millet are the most important staple grains; consumption
of maize as grain occurs mainly in the southern and western states, although
this crop is now beginning to receive wider attention, particularly in the
North. Data on food production and consumption are inadequate and at best
provide only general indications of trends. Recent food crop production
figures underline however the significant role of the northern states as
cereal producers. Examination of other information 1/ indicates an insignifi-
cant trade in food grains, other than wheat.
41.       The situation of apparent self sufficiency has recently changed
into one where shortages persist and are rather marked in some areas. Re-
peated droughts and the effects of normal population changes have been com-
pounded by burgeoning urbanisation and income growth associated with economic
recovery, reconstruction and increased oil earnings. Consequently, food
prices have tended to increase steadily and in urban areas rose by 24% in
1970 and 21% in 1971. Some decline occurred in 1972 but the upward tendency
returned in 1973. Prior to recent sharp gains in world prices those in
Nigeria were double US farm prices for coarse grains, and three times world
level for rice.
42.       The effect of long distances on distribution costs is increased by
bottlenecks in the transportation system; as a result the spread between im-
port and export parities (already exaggerated by a 40% import duty) is too
big to enable world conditions to have any significant effect on domestic
price formation. Furthermore, the fragmented nature of production and, to
a certain extent, demand, difficulties of communication combined with lack
of market intelligence, make it impossible to speak of a Nigerian market per
se. Instead there exists a mass of relatively small market areas which appear
to exert little or no influence upon those adjacent.
43.       Staple food marlketing is almost exclusively confined to the private
sector although some official purchase, storage and distribution schemes are
run in efforts to relieve local shortages. A number of studies have con-
cluded that performance within the marketing system is rather efficient. This
may tend to mislead; while reported functional margins within study areas are
low, this cannot be taken as an indication of the efficiency of the system
itself in interpreting the needs of producers and consumers. Lack of cohesion
between market centers shows that it is the system which may be inadequate
regardless of any efficiency within it. While exploitive practices are prob-
ably being curbed by competition in individual markets, there is no reason to
suggest that a similar conclusion may be drawn in any broader context. In
fact the reverse is likely to apply.
1/   FAO Commodity Balance work sheets and Food Balance Sheet for 1968/69
computed for NADC.



ANNEX 12
Page 13
44.       Lack of communication between markets may be illustrated by com-
parison of officially reported monthly prices for sorghum at Daudawa and Zaria
in the North Central State. These markets are about 80 kilometers apart and
connected by a full width tarmac road and a railway, yet over a period of 42
months (up to July 1973), the price between them varied by as much as N 54.00
per ton. During the period, Zaria prices were higher by an average of N 26.47
per ton in 32 months and Daudawa prices higher by an average of N 30.00 in
three months (no prices were reported in one or other market for the remain-
ing seven months). Moreover, monthly price movements in the two markets were
in opposite directions in sixteen months. Prices within the markets varied
substantially from month to month with lowest prices not necessarily occurring
around harvest. Standard deviation from monthly mean prices was 24.03 in
Daudawa and 19.76 in Zaria. A similar situation was obtained for millet
(Table 7).
45.       This erratic price behavior is indicative of the very thin markets
that are to be expected under present circumstances. Food grains have not
yet become an accepted cash crop, as such, and most grain storage takes place
at farm level. Sales are made to meet requirements not provided for by 'con-
ventional' cash crops. Worthwhile market intelligence is unavailable and
price is extremely sensitive to slight changes in daily supply or demand. It
is not unknown for merchants to capitalise on this situation by attracting
supplies through paying high prices when offerings are limited, reducing them
sharply when the consequent increased supplies eventually reach the market.
This type of operation is assisted by the absence of adequate feeder roads
which effectively discourage most farmers from refusing a low price and taking
their grain back home. The overall picture is thus one of a rather passive,
inelastic and poorly informed system, in which market risks are taken more
by the farmer and consumer than by the merchant.
H. Future Developments, Markets and Prices
46.       As part of the policy of improving production and marketing and to
prevent a chronic supply deficiency situation from arising, FMG is developing
a scheme for the establishment of strategic grain storage and is encouragi
State food production farms; some form of price support program is also cc
templated. Details have not yet been announced (January 1974) but clearl:
this could usher in a completely new phase in Nigerian agriculture. Overall
pricing policies would have to be most carefully developed to match new pro-
duction techniques and ensure that capacity is most beneficially utilized.
Although the introduction of price support could go some way to overcoming
the inherent inelasticity of the food grain market, massive 'official' pro-
duction would at the same time inhibit or retard smallholder development.
In this context, and particularly in the light of expected incremental maize
production from the Funtua, Gombe and Gusau projects (117,000 tons), the
evolution of the feed and starch industries will provide an increasing 'spill-
way' for surplus food grain output.



ANNEX 12
Page 14
47.       There are a number of projections for food demand and supply for
Nigeria of which "A Quantitive Analysis of Food Requirements, Supplies and
Demand in Nigeria 1968-1985" is the most recent. The study is among the
most comprehensive, but the quality of the basic data is such that quoted
figures should be regarded as providing only indicative value. Demand pro-
jections have been based on the 1968/69 food balance sheet which in itself has
a number of shortcomings. Growth of population is estimated at 3% annua'lly
and that of per capita income 4%. Income elasticity of demand for maize,
sorghum and millet is estimated at 0.4, with cowpeas at 0.3. Food supply has
been projected on the assumption that past (estimated) rates of growth will
be maintained. These rates, and estimates derived from them, carry the same
degree of reliance as the relative estimates in the sample survey; projected
surplus/deficits should be regarded as broad orders of magnitude only (Table 8).
48.       Demand and supply for livestock feed have not been included in these
figures, nor has any provision been made for possible changes in diet (e.g.,
a move away from sorghum to maize and/or wheat based products). About 45,000
tons of maize was fed commercially to livestock (mainly poultry) in 1971 and
the study aspects consumption increase fairly dramatically, re-aching 106,000
tons in 1974, and over 375,000 tons in 1980. Demand has, however proved to be
rather more price elastic than anticipated and total production has remained
rather static in the face of sharp increases in raw materials costs. Unless
there is a significant and sustained reduction of prices relative to incomes
it seems unlikely that total 1980 demand for grain for (commercial) feed would
reach 65% of previously anticipated requirements.
49.       Comparison between demand and supply projections nevertheless
reveals a deficit for all crops except cowpeas. The surplus shown for this
crop is somewhat questionable: data are extremely fragmentary but the per-
sistent price trend indicates a shortage situation for the preferred varieties.
Demand also appears more elastic than for the staple grains which should
encourage steady increase in production. Although the projected deficiencies
are substantial it is important to differentiate between 'total demand' and
'effective market demand' when considering likely price developments. Allow-
ance must be made for the fact that despite current high prices, marketable
production and effective market demand are probably only very slightly out
of balance, when expressed in percentage terms. Any rapid increase in marketed
production without the benefit of a support program, could have a dramatic
effect on prices.
Maize and Sorghum
50.       In the north, maize is not yet an entirely acceptable dietary substi-
tute for either sorghum or millet. Research on this subject has been markedly
lacking, a most serious omission when the amount of production research and
development is considered. Limited subjective investigation revealed marked



ANNEX 12
Page 15
differences of opinion and preference both as to the possible part of maize
in the diet and the most desirable color (White maize is preferred in the
south). Being harder than sorghum maize is unpopular to process, both by
hand and by machine. The customary diesel powered light plate type provender
mill is not very suitable for maize and typical milling charges show a 30%
premium is required. Conversely, development of surplus production will be
relatively gradual, manufacturers are likely to continue keen, if not always
easily accessible buyers, and any periods of general food grain shortage
should tend to hasten the acceptance of 'new' tastes, particularly in urban
areas.
51.       Although import substitution is a convenient peg from which to hang
price formulation for food grains produced as cash crops, such a calculation
can only provide a broad indication. In fact, import parity may reasonably
be taken as a long term ceiling price for any significant quantities; however,
in the event of serious shortages it is unlikely that the consumer would be
penalized to the extent of the 40% import duty now imposed.
52.       Consideration has been given to the following factors in estimating
maize and sorghum prices:
(i) projected cost of imports;
(ii) relative production costs (4:5 maize:sorghum);
(iii)  the maize production encouragement that should be
generated by the starch and feed industries;
(iv) the established place of sorghum in the diet;
(v) relative inelasticity of market demand for food grains;
(vi) probable field and storage losses that farmers would
suffer through dealing with grains on a far larger scale
than previously. These are expected to be greater in the
case of maize, because of relatively larger production and
longer storage periods.
53.       The low value volume ratio of maize and sorghum compared to cotton
or groundnuts will tend to limit the radius within which profitable marketing
may occur, this could contribute to possible price instability. Because so
little information exists from which to determine probably ultimate centers
of market demand, an arbitrary 400 mile 'import' trunk haul to wholesale market
has been assumed. It has also been assumed that this market would be served
by local producers within a radius of 150 miles, first assembly being carried
out at a service center or equivalent. Prices are estimated as follows (see
Table 9):



ANNEX 12
Page 16
N per metric ton
Maize    Sorghum
Economic                       76.00      74.00
Financial                      86.00      90.00
Cowpeas
54.       Owing to lack of data an arbitrary price has been taken in a known
major market center (Ibadan).  This corresponds to the lowest post harvest
price for white cowpeas in recent years. Cowpeas are very susceptible to
pre and post harvest infestation, storage and fumigation procedures are in-
adequate at all levels so a 20% weight loss has been calculated. Prices are
estimated as follows (see Table 10):
N per metric ton
Economic                        99.00
Financial                        91.00
55.       In all calculations inland transport has been assumed to be by road
at rates quoted by local firms. On trunk routes rates for big articulated
vehicles or truck/trailer combines are fairly competitive with the railway
which is still heavily congested.
Cotton
56.       The projected incremental production of 70,000 tons seed cotton
(130,000 bales lint) from the Gusau (27,000 bales), Gombe and Funtua projects
represents only 0.2 percent of expected world consumption in 1980 and, even
if all exported, would have practically no impact on likely world trade. A
comprehensive survey of the local textile industry is presently being carried
out; however, it is provisionally estimated that 1980 requirements will reach
400,000 bales lint or 210,000 tons seed cotton. Earlier demand projections,
as made by CSNRD, FAO and others over 1966-68 put probable 1980 demand at
680,000 bales.
57.       The local industry is emerging from a substantial shake out which
arose as a result of liberalization of imports in 1971, duties having now
been reimposed. 1/ Nevertheless, a number of factors adversely affecting the
originally anticipated rate of expansion still apply; these include:
1/   Duties were removed in the 1971 budget in a successful attempt to curtail
profiteering by certain sections of the local industry. Official statis-
tics show that as a result, recorded 1971 imports reached the equivalent
of 9 months normal total supply.



ANNEX 12
Page 17
(i) real income development combined with inflationary rise in
living costs has reduced the scope of textile demand. This
has been accentuated by the recent price rises in cotton
(and synthetic) products in line with world market changes;
(ii) the changing pattern of demand towards suiting materials,
generally synthetic based, in the emerging consumer generation;
(iii) the recent inability of the industry to satisfy the demand
for better cloths and textures; and
(iv) competition from legal and illegal imports.
58.       Existing techniques do not permit the spinning of high counts from
present cotton varieties and this section of total demand would continue to
have to be met by imports for the foreseeable future. The projected decline
in world cotton prices will also increase the pressure of imports on local
industry. However, given recent performance in the face of factors already
mentioned, the provisional total demand of 400,000 bales in 1980 maybe some-
what conservative.
Cotton Lint Deliveries to Mills
Year                                 Delivered (Bales)
1969                                   139,512
1970                                   188,434
1971                                   227,284
1972                                   170,300
1973 (up to 30 September)              226,413
Source: Cotton and Agricultural Processors Ltd.
59.       With incremental production from the three projects totalling 70,000
tons, maintenance of recent production growth rates elsewhere would result in
a total crop of about 190,000 tons seed cotton in 1980. This is equivalent
to 370,000 bales lint, about 30,000 bales below anticipated demand. All in-
cremental production from the project area would thus be effective import
substitution.
60.       Investment in the seed crushing industry 1/ demands a seed supply of
around 120,000 tons, or the equivalent of 200,000 tons seed cotton after
allowing for provision of planting seed.  Most of the output of this industr,.
1/   A total of 370,000 tons dual purpose (groundnut and cottonseed) crushir;><
capacity exists or is in course of construction in 4 northern states.
Total seed crushing capacity is estimated at 950,000 tons.



ANNEX 12
Page 18
however, would be confined to the export-market; although there would be some
freight savings, and possibly slightly better oil recovery, the cotton-seed
price as a factor in producer price calculations is unlikely to improve above
levels for direct exports.
61.       The local textile industry needs to be oriented towards world
market levels if substantial subsidy and, or, penal import levels are to be
avoided. Conversely, during the past two years when higher producer taxes
were imposed, 'export parity' did not appear to provide sufficient inducement
to farmers who had a choice of cash crops. Consequently an extra charge of
2.5 K/Kg lint had to be made to spinners in order to permit producer prices
to be raised to incentive levels. This charge has now fallen away as a
consequence of the present very high world prices. (1973/74 season producer
prices are 13.2 K/Kg and 11.0 K/Kg for Grade I and II seed cotton respectively).
62.       It is not envisaged that competition from other crops would lessen
over the project period, indeed, such competition may well increase parti-
cularly from cereals. Estimated farmgate prices for seed cotton are as
follows (see Table 11):
Financial          N 203 per 1,000 Kg
Economic           N 268 per 1,000 Kg
Groundnuts
63.       Projected incremental production in the project areas (about 27,000
tons) would be less than the anticipated decline elsewhere if the trend of the
last decade is maintained. Indeed, if production is to meet the capacity of
local crushing facilities some 300,000 tons of increased marketed output would
be required. This would necessitate an overall production growth rate in ex-
cess of 8% per annum. 1/
64.       Nigeria is the largest exporter of nuts and the third largest pro-
ducer (after India and China). Servicing the needs of the local crushing
industry would have a dramatic effect on world export availabilities of whole
nuts. This is not however expected to have a similar effect on prices; pro-
duct values are far more influenced by availability and prices of competing
sources of protein and oils, such as soya beans, sunflowerseed etc. Although
the trend for protein feed prices is slightly upward, that for oil is static
to declining. As a result, world prices for groundnuts are projected to de-
cline from recent levels. Since by far the greater part of the output of
the crushing industry would be exported, farmgate prices are expected to
follow the world trend. Estimated farmgate prices are as follows (see Table
12).
Financial          N 93 per 1,000 Kg
Economic           N 129 per 1,000 Kg
1/   Domestic consumption as food is currently estimated at about 250,000 tons,
rising about 2.5% annually.



ANNEX 12
Table 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Seed Requirements - Year 5
(m tons)
--- Funtua ---   ----Gombe---       ---Gusau---
I 1/     II 1/    I        II       I        II
Planted area (ha)          99,050   99,050   60,800   60,800   49,500   49,500
Seed required 2/            2,773    8,000    1,702    5,000    1,386    4,ooo
Seed cotton production     59,712   59,712   36,840   36,840   22,995   22,995
Costs (N 1 ton)
Delining 3/                16,638      -    10,212       -       8,316      -
Dressing i/                   -     56,ooo      -     35,ooo       -     28,000-
Packaging I/                7,924    8,000    4,864    5,000    3,960    4,000
Distribution 6/            15,848   64,000    9,728   40,000    7,920   32,000
Initial Value of Seed 7/ 138,650  400,000   85,100  250,000   69,300  200,000
Total                179,060  528,000  109,904  330,000   89,496  264,000
Per Ton Seed (N)           90.39    66.oo    90.38    66.oo    90.40    660oo
Per Ton Seed Cotton (N)     3.00     8.84     2.99     8.96      3.89    11.48
l/ I = acid delinted seed; II = fuzzy seed.
2/ I = basis planting rate of 20 kg delinted seed/ha, assuming 28 kg undelinted
seed required to produce 20 kg planting seed.
3/ Estimated N 6.00 per ton basic seed.
/ Cost of chemical N 6.00 and operating N 1.00 per ton of seed dressed.
I I = estimated N 4.00 per ton; II = N 1.00 per ton (average bag life 5 years).
D/ N 8.00 per ton, national average.
7/ Basis cif Europe value $ 137 (1973 constant terms) = N 90 less ft. and fob
charges N 22 and railage, storage, etc., sav N 18 = N 50.00 m ton ex ginnery.



ANNEX 12
NIGERIA                                  Table 2
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Marketing Costs (N M/ton)
Basis: 180,000 M. ton crop - 42,000 bales
National average ginning outturn  .34.5% & 1%
1 ton seed cotton - 345 kg lint
645 kg seed
Primary                                        I
ILBA Allowance                            11.32
Produce inspection                         0.29
Bags and twine                             3.06
Transport £rcm markets                     4.92
Handling at Dumps                          1.28
Storage at Dumps                           0.29
Insurance                                  1.48
Finance                                    4.43
NSMB overheads                             4.92
Contingencies                              0.64
Total Primary Marketing                      32.63
Processing
Ginning and baling 2                      11.18
Classification                             0.28
Handling and storage                       1.16
Total Processing                             12.62
Railage to Port                               7.45
Secondary
Harbour dues                               0.23
Lighterage                                 0.88
Wharfage                                   0.30
Shorehandling                              0.78
Storage                                    0.79
Checkweighing                              0.05
Sundry                                     0.03
Sub-total                               3.06
Total to FOB                                 55.76
NPMC Commission                            1.36
Insurance                                  0.58
Sundry CIF Expenses                        0.69
TOTAL to CIF less Freight                    58.39
LESS
Proceeds of sale of seed   /              28.54
Costs per ton Seed Cotton                 29.85
I/  Fees:  M 7 per bale first 200,000 bales; N 4.33 per bale next 100,000 bales;
N 4.17 bale thereafter. Classification fee N 50,000.
2/  Basis projected value E 52.50 per 2,240 lbs.  cif US(1974 constant terms)
N 51.64 exginnery.
Planting seed use assumed at average of 20 kg per 250 kg, all seed delinted and
sold at cost of delinting.
Value of seed/ton of seed cotton
= 0.565 x 51.64 - 0.08 x 8
-29.18 - o.64
= N 28.54



AlNEX 12
Table 3
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Production - Ginning Capacity 1/
Projected Seed Cotton Production       Lint Equivalent      Surplus (Defici
Year     Project Area       Remaining Area  /  (Bales 181.4 kg)    Capacity in Bal
m tons
0          9,345                7,100                 31,700             18,300
1          9,818                7,200                 32,800             17,200
2         10.,773               7,300                 34,900             15,100
3         14,385                7,h00                42,000               8,000
4         17,262                7,500                 47,800              2,200
5         22,995                7,600                 59,000             (9,000)
1/ All project cotton would be ginned at Gusau where a 50,000 bale capacity
gin is already established.
2 Assuming average ginning percentage 35.
3/ Basis mean difference in production between project and ginnery area
1968-71. Maximum production in area tributary to Gusau achieved in
1969/70 = 71,000 bales.



ANNEX 12
Table 4
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Groundnut Marketing Costs (N/r_ ton)
Primary
LBA allowance                                   9.35
Produce inspection                              0.39
Bags, twine, etc.                               5.97
Transport to depot                              3.94
Handling at depot                               o.69
Storage at depot                                1.28
Insurance                                       0.14
Finance                                         2.95
NSMB overhead                                   2.46
Contingenoies                                   0.54
Total Primary Marketing            27.71
Railage to port                                15.93
Secondary
Harbour dues                                    0.67
Lighterage                                      2.55
Wiarfage                                        0.88
Shorehandling                                   2.25
Storage                                         0.29
Checkweighing                                   0.15
Sundry                                          0.12
Sub total                           6.91
Total to fob                       50.55
NPMC commission                                 3.94
Insurance                                       0.58
Sundry cif expenses                             0.20
Total to cif less freight          55.27



AMNEX 12
Table 5
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM SERVICE CENTER: LAYOUT AND PRODUCE FLOW
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  Double Gate
I.-      ___________                         ____________________ Pm
LIZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~,I
l °                           n O LBA Buyer
I                  AREA FOR                                        .                                                            To
FUTURE                                                           a       …L -ABuye                     LBA Storage
DEVELOPMENT                                              Stor     2           LBA Buyer                       Areas
I              ~~~~~~~(11ha)
C LBA Buyer
L ----------------
Security Fence                    Double Gate
e --j 10 meters)
Stormit abu  0  osmie0                                                                        =  Platform Scale
Capacity about 50 tonevs maizeService center store (see notes)
Roofm;4 to e      avnd3 etes                                                            2     =  Offices for supervision - Credit Staff
Ropofid tovertend  armeter                                                              3     =  Pilinth storage (each lOin x 20m)
tor provede covefred sarea                                                              4     =Kerosene insecticide store
Robertsridge or similarFlwostuorpodc
roof ventilation.                                                                       ---- Path of farmers
2 double (3m) doors - 1 at end -
1 at side. Concrete base, rat
guarded.
Off Ices:
Lean to on side of shed,
windowvs overlooking buying
Points. Credit aesistant
seated to look outwards,
(like bank tellr)                                                                                                  World Bank-8222(3R



ANNEX 12
Table 6
NIGERIA
NCRTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production of Major Food Crops 1969/70 and 1970/71 1/
(000 m tons)
…-------…Production-----------
Year                  Year
Crop                       1969/1970 2/           1970/A971
Millet                       3,070 3/               3,106 3/
Sorghum                     4,093 4/               4,053 4/
Maize                        1,255 5/               1,l443 5/
Beans                          885 6/                 884 6/
Groundnut (in shell)         1,292                 1,581
Rice                           282                    280
Yam                          9,777                12,303
Cassava (old)               4,219                  5,224
1/ Source 'Rural Economic Survey' RES/3/1972.
2/ Excluding East Central State.
3/                            1969/70      1970/71
Of which: NES               17.0%        19.0%
NWS              28.0%         25.0%
NES              27.0%         32.0%
Kano State       23.0%         15.6%
4/
Of which: NCS               31.0%        24.0%
NWS              22.0%         23.0%
NES              18.0%         24.0%
Kano State       20.0%         20.0%
Of which: NCS                5.0%         5.0%
NWS               3.0%          4-.%
NES              l4.0%         14.0%
West State       53.0%         43.0%
Kwara State       7.0%          9.0%
6/
Of which: NCS                9.0%         9.0%
EnWS             28.0%         29.0%
NES              30.0%         30.0%
Kano State       21.0%         21.0%



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Millet-Sorghum   Prices: Zaria-Daudawa
JAN    FEB    MARCH    APRIL    MAY    JUNE    JULY    AUGx   SEPT    OCT    NOV    DEC
1970-                           ----                              -----                                   -      -
Millet    Zaria          68     -       68        74      -        74      74     74       58     60      68     56
Daudawa       -      _        66       74       66      64      74      56      46     46      52     38
Sorghum   Zaria          68     -       68        74      -        74      74     74       74     74     68      60
Daudawa       42     -        52       52       52      46      56      56      56     56      56     32
1971
Millet    Zaria          60     67      68        64      62       74      84      84      66     56      84     84
Daudawa       46     -        -        64      144      -       76      76      4o      44     56     52
Sorghum   Zaria          67     75      82        76      90      90       90     90       96     88      94     94
Daudawa       42     -        -       108     144       -       76      76      76     6o      56     50
1972
Millet    Zaria          84    104     102       102     112      112      90     68       44     90    112    112
Daudawa       60     78       78       78       78      74      70      58      58      72     -      78
Sorghum   Zaria          92    102     102       102     112      123      90     82       74     90      88    112
Daudawa       60     60       60       60       68      80       74     68      72      78     -      66
1973
Millet    Zaria          94     94     125        89      -       179
Daudawa       68     68      108      101      134     184
Sorghum   Zaria         102    102     123        89      -       168             NOT AVAILABLE
Daudawa       82      82      97       93      119     119
Standard Deviation from Monthly Mean    Sorghum: Zaria 19.76    Daudawa 24O03
Millet:  Zaria 24.47    Daudawa 29.33
Source of Data - Crop, Weather Reports
I(D X--
CD,



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Supply and Demand for Selected Foodstuffs 1975 - 1985
(o000 tons)
Year:---5-1980--------1975----------------                               -------------1980------------------                --------------1985-----
Population:           75,135,000                                           87,526,000                                        102,456,000
Surplus/                                              Surplus/                                          Surplus/
Supply          Demand        (Deficit)              SUPP1Y          Demand         (Deficit)          Supply          Demand          (Deficit)
Maize                                                                 982           1,034            (52)               1,106             1,200           (94)             1,245           1,423             (178)
Present Growth Rate (Z pa)                                              2.4
…------------------------- 3.69 -------_ -_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_
Mean Annual 7 increase in demand                                                                                                        ------------------------------4.18------------------------------
Millet                                                             1,977            2,373          (396)                2,027             2,755          (728)             2,078           3,267           (1,189)
Present Growth Rate                                                     0.5
------------------------3.69-----------------------------------
Mean Annual % increase in demand                                                                                                       -------------------------------4.18------ -----   -----------  -
Sorghum                                                            2,923            3,710          (787)                2,879             4,308        (1,429)             2,836           5,108           (2,272)
Present Growth Rate                                                    -0.3
-------------------------- 3.69    ------ -3-69-
Mean Annual 7% increase in demand                                                                                                      -------------------------------4.18--------------------------------
Cowpeas                                                               635             510            125                   838              574           264              1,105              660              445
Present Growth Rate                                                     5.7
------------------- - 2.61-
Mean Annual 7. increase in demand                                                                                                     -------------------------------3.14---------------------------.
Suggested Total Grain Shortfall                                                                   1,235                                                 2,251                                               3,639
(i.e. maize, millet, Guinea corn)
c  o
SouTce of Data:  S.O. Olayide "A Quantitive Analysis of Food Requirements, Supplies and Demand in Nigeria 1968-1985".                                                                                                    O 



ANNEX 12
Table 9
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DMVELOPMENT PROJECT
Maize and Sorghum - Estimated Producer Prices
(N/metric ton) I/
Maize                    Sorghum
Financial   Economic     Financial   Economic
fob US Gulf  /                          59.20       70.90         52.60      63.00
Ft. insurance 2                          9e90        99            9.90      9.90
cif                                     69.10      80.80          62.50      72.90
Duty (40% of cif)                       27.60       -             25.00       -
Handling: port charges                 _o1000     10.00          10.00      1000
106H70      90.80         97.50       82.90
Inland transport 2                      20.00      1 2            20.00      15,00
Wholesale market value                 1270       10580 0          7705      97.90
Transport from Service Center              0        300 X             03.00
122,70     1025 01l3,50               9h190
Local transport, storage, cost
of bags                                4.00       3.00 40OO                 IM
118.70      99.80        109.50       91.90
Margins                                 10.00      10.00          10,00      10,0
Margins                                108.70       89.80         99.50 s81.90
Storage losses I/                                  13650          lo 0o20
'Ceiling' value                         92.40      76.30          89050      X 70
Production cost and 'preference'
adjustment                             6.00
Estimated fanugate price (rounded)      86.00       76°00         2_00°      LJ0°
1/ Financial price basis N 1   $ 1052.  Economic price basis N 1      1.27.
/ Basis IBRD projected prices in 1974 constant terms, No, 2 US$ corn $ 90,
sorghum $ 80 per metric ton.
2 Basis charter tonnage (12-15,000 tons) at US$ 15 per ton (3,000/1,000 fi-
4 Including bagging.
Average 400 miles at 5 kobo ton mile.
Average 75 miles at 5 kobo ton mile.
15% for maize, 10% for sorghum      -
August 21, 1974



ANINEX 12
Table 10
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cowpeas - Estimated Producer Prices
(N/metric ton)
Financial         '1bnotic
Market value southern area                 165               165
Transport v/                                23                16
Value at first assembly                    142               149
Local transport                              4                 3
138               146
Margins, storage losses, 2/
bags, etc.                                47                47
Farmgate                                    91                99
M Basis 4 kobo/ton mile.
2/ Losses in store are estimated at 20% of market value.
Intermediary margins are estimated at 10.00.



ANNEX 12
Table 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Groundnuts - Farmgate Prices
(N/metric ton)
Financial 1/         Economic 2/
fob Apapa 3/                                156                  187
Export costs                                 15                   15
Ila                 172
Railage                                      20                   15
121                 157
Buying expenses 4/                           28                   28
Market Price/Producer Price                  93.                 129
1/ Basis N 1 = $ 1.52.
2/ Basis N 1 x $ 1.27.
3/ IBRD projected 1980 price cif Europe, constant 1974 terms $ 267.00 less ft,
and insurance $30.00 - $ 237.00.
4/ See Table 4 for detailed breakdown.
August 21, 1974



ANNEX 12
Table 12
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT FROJECT
Seed Cotton - Economic and Producer Price Calcalatioa V
(N/metric ton)
Financial                    c
for Apapa 2/                               681                  815
Export costs                                45                   45
636                 770
Ginning and baling                          37                   35
Lint at gins                               599                  735
Seed cotton                                207                  294
Buying expenses                             33                   32
-17.4                 222
Add value of seed                           29                   46
Producer Price                             203                  268
1/ Basis N 1 = $ 1.27 and $ 1.52 respectively,
180,000 ton seed cotton orcrp and improved marketing.
2/ ProJected (IBRD) cif Europe price for Mexican SM 1-1 A6" MO, 52 2lb
1974 constant terms. Less 5% quality differential to NAIB with
¢ 2.25 ft. and insurance i.e. US) 47.15 per lb.
Basic Data frcsn Table 2



ANNEX 13
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Benefits
1.        The annual costs and returns used in calculating the economic rate
of return are shown in Table 1.
2.        The following assumptions and methods have been made:
(a) Project life is assumed as 25 years. Most project
development activities will be completed by project
year 5 (1980), so a salvage value is added to benefits
in project year 6 to account for those houses and
buildings no longer required by the project and are
transferred to other Government agencies.
(b) Incremental production of crops and values of production
are shown in Table 2. The Bank Economic Analysis and
Projections Division's projections for 1980 have been used
as the basis for estimating import substitution and export
prices. Details of estimates are shown in Annex 12.
(c) Incremental benefits accruing to investments from oxdrawn
equipment and tractors have been calculated (Schedules 1
and 2). The total benefits from these investments are
offset against incremental labor costs, as shown in Table 3.
(d) Economic costs include adjustments for identifiable taxes,
and appropriate amendments to offshore costs to reflect a
shadow foreign exchange rate of US$1.27 per N1.00. Incremental
farm labor (Table 3) due to improved cropping practices has
been estimated at the shadow price of NO.40 per six-hour day
compared to the official minimum wage rate of NO.6 for the same
working period. Economic costs do not include project costs for
water development, soil conservation and project evaluation, as
benefits from them are intangible and cannot be calculated with
any accuracy.
3.        Using the above assumptions the economic rate of return is 16%.  A
sensitivity analysis has been carried out on a number of variables, the main
comparison being between shadow rated and non-shadow rated foreign exchange.
In each instance two cost streams have been used, one stream comprising of



ANNEX 13
Page 2
project overhead costs, and the other farm inputs. The results of this
analysis is shown below:
Internal Rate of Return Sensitivity Analysis
----Incremental Costs----    Incremental        --Internal Rate of Return %--
Overheads   Farm IjUuts /1       benefits       Shadow F.E. Rate Actual F.E. Rate
k         k                   k                  16                8
k         k                -10                    9                 -
k         k                -20                    -
k         k                -30                    -                -
k       -10                -10                   14                6
k       -20                -20                   12                4
k       -30                -30                    9                2
k       -40                -40                    6                -
k       -50                -50                    2                -
+1G       +10                   k                  10                 1
+20       +20                   k                   .4
+30       +30                   k                   -
+10       +10                 -10                   2
+20       +20                 -10
+30       +30                 -10
k = constant
/1   including labor



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Returns N'000
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Year 6       Year 7       Year 8       Year 9       Year 10       Years 11-25
Incremental Costs
Farm Inputs: fertilizer                                 114          484          800        1,347        2,131        2,131        2,131        2,131        2,131        2,131           2,131
other seasonal                             51          134          306          473          761          761          761          761          761          761              761
equipment                                  39          118          322          420          661          149          149          149          149          149              149
Vehicles, Plant and Equipment 1/                        674          370          168          162           72           35          122           31           35          122               69
Houses, Building, Labor and Materials 2/              1,484        1,158          434           56           56         (334)         -            -            -            -                -
Salaries                                                596          808          948          925          814          638          542          499          475          475              475
Vehicle Running Operation 3/                            136          273          279          279          212           69           69           69           69           69               69
General Services                                        299          228          244          263          231          214          214          214          214          214              214
Contingencies at 5%                                     170          179          175          196          247          200          200          193          192          196              194
Total                                      3,563        3,752        3,676        4,121        5,185        3,863        4,188        4,047        4,026        4,117           4,062
Less Taxes 4/                                           268          223          152          115           87           40           60           51           50           55               52
Costs adjusted for Taxes                              3,295        3,529        3,524        4,oo6        5,098        3,823        4,128        3,996        3,976        4,o62           4,010
Add Net Labor Costs 5/                                   49          149          354          638        1,112          976          983        1,004        1,046        1,116            1,116
Total                                      3,344        3,678        3,878        4,644        6,210        4,799        5,111        5,000        5,022        5,178            5,126
Add  adjustment for Foreign Exchange 6/                 239          260          281          352          479          369          394          379          379          389              389
Net Economic Cost                                     3,583        3,938        4,159        4,996        6,689        5,168        5,505        5,379        5,401        5,567            5,515
Incremental Benefits
Farm Produce 7/                                         278        1,173        2,589        4,430        7,447        7,447        7,447        7,447        7,447        7,447            7,~447
Seed Farm Production                                     34           50           68           68           68           68           68            68           68           68              68
312       1,223         2,657       4,498        7,515.        7,515        7,515        7,515        7,515        7,515           7,515
Net Cash Flow                                        (3,271)      (2,715)      (1,502)        (498)         826        2,347        2,010        2,136        2,114         1,948           2,000
1/ Does not include replacement for road maintenance equipment - see general services - excludes water and soil conservation costs.
2/ Residual value of staff housing no longer required in year 6 - also excludes material costs for water and soil conservation development.                                                      oX
3/ Excludes water and soil conservation costs.
4/ Excluding farm inputs and their relevant contingencies.  Identifiable taxes on remainder approximately equals in Year 1 8.0%; Year 2 7.5%; Year 3 7.0%; Year 4 6.5%
and thereafter 6.0%.
5/ See Table 2.
6/ Shadow foreign exchange N 1   $ 1.27 (as against actual N 1 = $ 1.52).
T/ gee T.h7e I



ANNEX 13
Table- 2
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Benefits
Year 1    Year 2   Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
Incremental Production
Cotton (m tons)                 473     1,428     5,o4o     7,917    13,650
sorghum (m tons)                300    4).000     4.,800    7,500    1:,400
Maize (m tons)                  -       1,350     4,050    11,050    21,050
Groundnuts (m tons)             850     2,678     3,825     6,163      92243
Cowpeas (m tons)                187       462       825     1,187     1,550
Economic Value of
Incremental Production' 000
Cotton    N 268/rn ton          127       383     1,351     2,122     3,658
Sorghum   N  71A/m ton           22       296       355       555       844
Maize     N  76/r ton           -         103       308       840      1,600
Groundnut N 129/m ton           110       345       493        795     1,192
Cowpeas  N  99/m ton             19        46        82       118       153
Total                 278     1,173     2,589     4,430      7,447
1 See Annex 12, Tables 9-12.
August 22, 1974



NIGIERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Net Economic Costs and Benefits due to Incremental Farm Labor, and Farm Equipment
Before
Mandays ( '000)         Project         Year 1        Year 2        Year 3         Year 4        Year 5         Year 6
Cotton
I  0manday/ha            2,320          2,320         2,192         1,885          1,636         1,131          1,131
II 87 manday/ha             131           196            392         1,044          1,566         2,610          2,610
Sorzhum
I 85 manday/ha           6,375          6,078         5,330         5,015          4,463         3,740          3,740
II 98 manday/ha             -              196           853         1,176          1,715         2,450          2,450
Maize
I 91 manday/ha              91             91           137            228           228           228            228
II 111 manday/ha            -                             56           167            555         1,110          1,110
Groundnut
I  96 manday/ha          3,552          3,552         3,197         2,688          2,256         1,800          1,800
II 125 manday/ha            -              125           625         1,125          1,750          2,500         2,500
Cowpea
I 77mandayALa              163            187           203            211           219            228           228
II 83 manday/ha             -               10            31             62            93           125            125
Total Mandays          12,632         12,755        13,016        13,601         14,481        15,922         15,922
Incremental Mandays '000    -              123           384            969         1,849          3,290         3,290
Value of Incremental
Labor N'OOO 1/            -               49           154            388           740          1,316         1,316
Labor Savings due to Farm
Equipment N'OOO
(a) oxdrawn equipment 2/    -                              5             27            81            162           270
(b) tractor equipment 3/    -              -             -                7            21             42            70
Total Savings              -                             5             34           102            204           340       m
Net Labor Cost to Project   -               49           149            354           638          1,112           976
N' 000
./ @ N 0.4 per manday.
2/ See Schedule 1. N 535 per ox unit - allow one year slippage, benefits phased out bv end of year 15.






ANNEX 13
Schedule 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Returns to Farmers using Work Oxen
1.        Work oxen are traditionally used in land preparation work in
northern Nigeria. At present insufficient and poor quality equipment limits
the amount of land preparation done by oxen.
2.        Farmers owning work oxen would be able, through the project to
obtain credit for the purchase of ox-drawn equipment, including a plow, a
ridger, and a cart.
3.        The one-ha budgets for all the major crops show a heavy utilization
of labor for land preparation. In the one-ha maize budget, cultivation costs
using hand-labor are estimated to be between N30.40 and N34.80 dependent on
crop yields. This cost represents between 456 and 522 hours per ha assuming
a labor cost of NO.066 per man-hour.
Benefits
4.        The use of oxen would result in considerable savings in labor as
demonstrated below:
A.   Ox Time per Operating using 2 ox-teams
Plowing                 30 hours/ha
Cultivating             10 hours/ha
Ridging                 15 hours/ha
Total              55 hours/ha
B.   Area of Cultivation achievable per ox-team per annum: 4 ha
C.   Costs per ox-team
Oxen upkeep             N14.0 p.a.
Ox depreciation          20.0 p.a.
Subtotal           N34.0
Cost per ha             N 8.5
Labor cost per ha:
- using 1 driver
plus 1 laborer        N11.0
Total cost per ha       N19.5
Total cost per ha
using hand-labor      N33.0



ANNEX 1 3
Schedule 1
Page 2
D.   Saving in cost:  At NO.066/hour, this represents a saving
of 204 hours/ha
Total savings 4 ha - N53.9



AMNEX 13
Schedule 2
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROECT
Returns to Tractor Users
Tractors
1.        The Goverment operates a very uneconomic tractor hire unit within
the project area.
2.        Loan would be made available under the project to larger farmers
for tractors and equipment for use on their own farms and to individuals who
would provide contract tractor services.
3.        A farmer or contract tractor operator would be expected to provide
30Z of the total cost of a tractor unit.
4.        A tractor unit would include: a 65 hp tractor, a chisel plow, a
ridger, and a trailer. The total cost is estimated at N6,000. The farmer
or contract tractor operator would provide N1,800 In cash and a loan of
N4,200 would be rade available.
Tractor Bnef its
5.        Savings in labor can be calculated as follows:  Estimated hours of
hand labor cultivation required on one ha of maize to achieve a yield of
3,000 kg - 500 hours. Estimated tractor hours required to prepare 1 ha land
for maize: Plowing 2.5 hours; Cultivating 2.75 hours; Rldging 1.25 hours;
Weeding 3.50 hours; total 10.00 hours.
Tractor costs are estimated as follows:
Actual Cost         Economic Cost
Fuel                           NO.30/hour           N0.10/hour
Driver                          0.20/hour            0.20/hour
Repairs                         1 .00/hor            1 00/hour
MI1.50              11 .30
Add: Depreciation        N1.00                   -
Total hourly cost        N2.50/hour           N1.30
Total economic cost for land preparation for maize per ha - 10 x 1.3
Saving sbown by tractor per ha - N20.0
Minimum ha required to justify tractor - 70 ha
Annual minimum savings per tractor - N1,400






lARD 04900,
FE6RLOAR 1-O4
To v,,,               6'0
T .Z. -                                              {                                                     ' NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Rio.0 en   aGUSAU AGRICULTURAL
R_.   ,  K-                                                     DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AMD
3   ,.   t    (AURA  NAMODA    F                                              ,*                                         Prelect Headquarters
2                                                                                 cr0                                        P   < ,troject  oundTr
I                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - --  Prop-se  Ag-Ic-l  F- uec
//                      n      <       _    o          ^*  7  <7  i>N                                                        0P Dnecprr're-rnContes
6 _$ g %, XnDeepment 'i  oCder
-                               .  -                                          A      Seen~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. Melt,pli-et en Form  end Tireiin  Cente
/                                                                            -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E-iting Ag,io n-l leeks Lvv  Aetirritv V-it- nd)
A;       Mgnn                                                                                                         Riv-r
-I /  \   . S    's "  't  \     4                t~        "                 KUKAR   JLNGARI
/f Gomgiei              \       )r                  -,    ~                                   GRAZNG   RESERVE
0 G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -g-,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~091
OtGrmrglw   1I    trt                                                                                      I_____ I .
i_   '.4vaRuvne \                                                       \                                                                   MI hO   \ ES               2
0         5          tO    )    5         20
iNi \S        l        ;;/ 5.       I         i          -                  '        ; 
Id ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~--
-12-12'                                                                                                                                                                                                      '2\[t1;~   '''12
t s:X * s Af -      I n . 1. ;.-   -    _   I
T . e.t                                              D- Sa. .
Rekebu I1 >a E                                                       j   . E :               0   To KonEc 
-} , N                     I G E R I A
I 6'4t            '          . and ocE   M e no
2'  \~~~~~~~~~. ~~~6'40'                                                                                             vie Kedvi)er                        ed






LBRD 10486R
CHAD
/            ~~~~~Sokoto                                                                                    on
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
7 __                                NO0R  T H
DAHOMEY   *)                                      S   'L-       ~                                                                                  _~/
V    KAIN'J J                       ~      Knn
\~)RF$RVOIR
c E T R ~ ~      ~       ~       ~ ~ GRCLURLDVLOMN POET
0~~~~~8
<~~~~~~~ 2j~~~~~~~~~~~4 ~~~     ~        ~        .
OF  GU/N~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  -  -'E I                     E    P      TE    
PROJECT   AREAS  EEME 1S7-



