W"IO  XLMI DU ri-i iME-ml__________`__W_
tn,URIluD TO HEPORTS DESK                 1 Q   TI   TNT  ,1
I( Io 1-1' 1- 
REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricultural Development Project
June 15, 1973
This report was prepared at the request of the Federal Military Government
of Nigeria and the Government of the North Western State. The views and
recommendations contained in the report are those of the authors rather than
those of the World Bank Group.    The Federal Military Government of Nigeria,
the Government of the North lrestern State and the authors are responsible for
the release and distribution oE the report.



Currency Equivalents
Current Unit: Naira (w)
US1i          = NO.66
Wi        ~~~= TJStl. 2
WI            = Koho) (K') 100
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
Tyle s  41         4--  e   t  A  .I'l  ,A   mm4-l-~  1 ~,A   "  v,  0
report are metric.
1 metric m ton =0.98 long ton
1 long ton      =1.016 m ton
1 hectare (ha) =2.47 acres (ac)
1 acre            0 .405 hectares
Abbrevi-ations used in RtepOrt
ABU      -  Ahmadu Bello   University
BOGA        British Cotton Growers' Association
CRC      =Cotton Research Corporation
ERLS     =Extension Research Liaison Service
FDA      =Federal Department of Agriculture
FMG      =  Federal Mi-litary Government
!AR      =institute of Agricultural1 Research
IBRD     =International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB      =International Comapetitive Bidding
SLA         Sokoto Local Authority
LBA      =Licensed Buyving Agent
MAN~R'   =  Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MOH      =  Ministry of Health
mow      = Ministry of Works
MTIC     =  Ministr~y of Trade, Industry and Cooperatives
NAB      = Nigerian Agricultural Bank
NPMC     =Nigerian Produce Marketing Company
NSMB        Northern States Marketing Board
PID      =Produce Inspection Division
UNDP     =  United Nations Development Program
USAID   =   United States Agency for International Developmpent
WASC     =  Wdest African School Certificate



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM$ENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
TO:        Mr. Wilfried Thalwitz             DATE: June 15, 1973
FROM:      Ralph Wa\rth
SUBJECT:   NIGERIA:  North W'estern State
Gusau Ag,ricultural Develonment. Provc~t
1.         The attached preparation report is nnA of thrppl/ qsmnlIhnl(olr
agricultural projects for northern Nigeria prepared by this Division.
Conies of the rAnort have been forwarded to the Nigerian. Federal Gover-
ment and to the Government of the North Western State.
2.         The report would be reviewed by the Governments concerned
over the next two months and subject to Government approval plans are
being made to appraise the project in September and October of this year.
1/ The three projects are:  the Funtua Agricultural Development Project
(North C 4 entral ,Sta.t.e); tN.4e G-us--u Ag-iLc- a
Development Project (North WIestern State); and
theu Go,,lbetz: Atricultural D tlevelupmfle nt rroject.
(North Eastern State).
ROrims haw: jr
cc:  Messrs. Chaufournier                   Messrs. Grimshaw (30)
van der Takl                           Bevan
Yudelman                               Brochu (FAO/IBRD Rome)
VVwLrighb1 u                           Grosjean
de la Renaudiere                       Ettinger
de 'Vries                              Agueh
Mlirza                                  Kanchanalak
Povey                                  Read (Consultant)
Rowe                                    Rice (Consultant)
Gillette                                Pickering (Consultant)
Pouliquen                              Reusse (Consultant)
Davis
van Gigch                               HMWA (2)
Oursin                                  IBRD Lagos Office (3)
Soges
Krombach                       Federal Ministrv of Finance -
Lagos (25)
Federal Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources - Lagos (31)
State Government (50)






NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Gusau Aericultural DeveloDment Proiect
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY ...........................                                i
I.    INTRODUCTION ..........................                            1
II.    PROJECT AREA ..........................                            2
A.    General ..........................                           2
B.    Institutions .6 ....................,                        6
C.    Processing and Marketing .....          ....................  10
III.    THE PROJECT .      ...........................................    12
A.    Description ..........        ............................  12
D.    T:0a-ile-d Fe-a:lur, w  .......................................  1 13
U.  L 16. L.L   U  E W  L.A~. 
TIY    f' rVC P VCP1T'UA'PVC AKT VTrTAkj,T AT A Dn A 7Mr1V1VTrL',        10
TV~ .  CJU.L EcTT-^Ec tUx.J FINtlA{CIA..LtU  Am            . .  . . . . . . . . . . t  L  10
A    T  l ect  C..                                                4 . l
B.    Tentative Proposal for Financing ....           .............  20
C.    rrocurement .........       .............................   2
D.    Disbursements ........        ............................  22
E.    Accounts and Audit ......          .........................  22
V.    ORGANIZlATION AND MANAGENT ......N......................          23
A.    Organization .........        ............................  23
B.    Staffing ............       .............................   26
C.    Staff Training .......         ............................  27
D.    Farm Inputs - Credit and Cash Sales ....          ..........  28
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMERS' BENEFITS AND
GOVERNIMENT BENEFITS .......         ..........................  31
A.    Yields and Outputs ......          .........................  31
B.    Markets and Prices ......          .........................  32
C.    Farmers' Benefits .......         .........................  34
D.    Financial Implication to Government ....          ..........  38
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................           39
VIII.    OUTSTANDING ISSUES ........          ............................  40



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1. tBas4c riCL a
2.  Research and Seed Multiplication
J Ag~riclua   ..ads "- 1 and- Wtr-- --`- -1- Copl   ^n,s tr uC t ion
3.  .LLU.L%_U L C.L  dLCLZ,CLU  CA_V'i0   OLL.ujFA.Ly  %   L,.LLw
Table  1: Road and Dam Construction Schedule
rakl e  :)  Pltequire-uen.ts
Table  3:  Capital Costs Construction Plant
Trabl-e  4: T abor a. dI Par.t prtn   ^
- 't *  LUIJ  dJU  L..L  L. 'JIF  aLj.LL J . A  L.
Table  5:  Construction Labor Costs
.abU.Le  U:  Construction Supplies
Table  7:  Mechanical Workshop Capital Costs
ITalLCe 08  r= chLIan 'Lcl a wurthOp VPerL_.L'g CosLts
Table  9:  Cost Summary
Taule IV.  ,os UL UalsisLb
Table 11:  Unit Plant Capital and Operation Costs
r _ ri 1 n _ ^J _ _ _ _  o _   _ ~   _ ~   _   _   _
Chart   ; Road Section s and Specificdations
4. Water and Soil Conservation
Table  1: Reservoir Operation for i0 year Drought Year
5. Training
6. Staffing of Field Services
Table 1: Staff Requirements (in field)
Table. 2:  incremerntal Staffing - Fleld ServLce
7.  Farm and Crop Development
Table  1:  Seed Cotton Purchases by Northern States
Marketing Board by Years
Table  2:  Groundnut Purchases by Northern States
Marketing Board by Years
Table  3:  One Hectare Cotton Budgets
Table  4:  One Hectare Sorghum Budgets
Table  5:  One Hectare Maize Budgets
Table  6:  One Hectare Groundnut Budgets
Table  7: One Hectare Cowpea Budgets
Table  8:  Summary Model Budget of Advanced Farmer Utilizing
Project Services: Cotton
Table  9:  Summary Model Budget of Advanced Farmer Utilizing
all Project Services: Groundnuts
Table 10: Estimated Effect of Project on Cotton Area and
Production by Years
Table 11: Estimated Changes in Area of Cereals
Table 12: Estimated Changes in Cereal Production
Table 13: Summary of Yields of Promising Maize Varieties
and Hybrids: IAR Samaru
8.  Farm Inputs and Credit
Table  1:  Seasonal Fertilizer Inputs
Table  2:  Seasonal, Seeds, Insecticide and Battery Set Inputst



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Table  3:  Summary FMG Fertilizer Subsidies, Cash Sales and
Seasonal Credit Requirement
Table  4:  Medium Term Inputs, Farm Down Payments and Credit
Requirements
Table  5: Model Budget 7.5 ha Mixed Farmers (Cotton)
Table  6: Model Budget 7.5 ha mixed Farmers (Groundnuts)
Table  7: Revolving Credit Fund
9. Project Costs
Table  1: Summary of Project Cost
Table  2:  Vehicles, Plant and Equipment Costs
Table  3: Houses, Buildings, Furnishings and Construction
Materials for Roads and Dams
Table  4:  Staff Salaries and Allowances
Table  5:  Running Costs of Vehicles and Plant
Table  6:  General Services
10. Marketing and Prices for Cotton and Groundnuts
Table  1:  Economic and Farm Gate Seed Cotton Price Calculation
Table  2:  Economic and Farm Gate Groundnut Price Calculation
11.  Markets, Prices and Marketing of Maize, Sorghum and Cowpeas
Table   1:  Market Prices and Marketing of Maize, Sorghum and Cowpeas
12.       Table   1:  Cash Flow to Government
13.  Rate of Return Calculation
Table  1:  Project Benefits
Table  2:  Incremental Farm Labor Cost
Table  3:  Economic Rate of Return Calculation - Project Costs
Table  4:  Economic Cash Flow
Table  5:  Economic Rate of Return (%) Sensitivity Analysis
MAPS
1.   Pro4ect T~mation
2.   Project Area
FIGUTRES
1. Project Oganlzatonn
2.   Hydrology Reservoir Operation during 10 Year Drought Year
3.    4- Typca  Seton %f Tna E."nlkmn.vat
4.   Rainfall Distribution
5.    .-net an.d Closure of Wet Season






NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricultural De-velopment Project
Summary
i.        Tnis report presents a project to the International Bank for Re-
construction and Development for the development of 3,800 square kilometers
farmed by about 68,000 smailhoiders in East Sokoto Division of the North
Western State of Nigeria.
ii.       The project follows the pattern of integrated agricultural develop-
ment which is being currently undertaken by other developing countries in
Africa with the aid of Bank Group funds.   The project would be a package of
infrastructural improvement, project services and supply and credit for farm
inputs. Specifically the project would construct 850 km of agricultural crop
extraction roads; 65 earth dams of about 100,000 mi' capacity; the development
of 40 village service centers; the provision of administrative, extension,
credit, training, engineering and market liaison services; seasonal credit
for fertilizer, insecticides, seeds and other farm inputs; and medium term
credit for ox drawn equipment, cotton sprayers, tractors and ancillary equip-
ment.
iii.      The total cost of the project including import duties, excise taxes
and local costs is estimated at N 16.7 million (US$25.3 million), of which
N 7.2 million (US$11.0 million) equivalent to 43% of project costs are foreign
costs. A loan of N 8.4 million (US$12.7 million) is being sought from the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development equivalent to 50% of
the financial requirement. The balance would be financed by the Federal
Military Government, N 4.6 million; the North Western State Government N 3.0
million; and the participating farmers N 0.7 million. The main items of ex-
penditure are vehicles, plant, equipment (inclusive of operating) - N 3.1
million; houses, buildings, furnishings and road and dam construction materials
- N2.3 million; salaries N 3.4 million; general services - N 0.7 million;
seasonal inputs (incremental) - N 1.7 million; medium term inputs - N 1.2
million; Federal Military Government fertilizer subsidies N 1.0 million; and
an unallocated amount for physical and price contingencies - N 3.3 million.
iv.       The project would result in an incremental increase in production
for seed cotton 24,000 tons; for maize 70,000 tons; for groundnuts 11,000
tons; and for cowpeas 2,700 tons. Farm incomes are likely to be doubled over
the project period. The project would cause an increase of farm family labor
employment of about 11,000 man years per annum, resulting in a net return to
incremental labor of about N 1.5 per man day (US$2.31) from the 5th year of
the project onwards. The estimated internal economic rate of return would lie
between 11 and 14%.






I. INT RD4DULIIL ON
1.01      This report is in support of a loan application to the International
Bank 'or Reconstruction and Development by the Federal Military Government
(FMG) of the Republic of Nigeria. The purpose of the loan would be to assist
the Go-vernment or the North Western State to finance the execution of an agri-
cultural development program for about 68,000 small farmers in the Gusau area
in the north eastern part of the State.   It would involve the construction of
vital crop extraction roads and water supplies, and would provide the farmers
with technical and credit services and the accompanying inputs to insure sub-
tantial inureases in production and farmer incomes.
1.02      The project is large, and is deliberately so, in order to create
the necessary impact in such a large and populous country. If successful,
and there is no reason why it should not be, the concept could be repeated
many times over elsewhere in northern Nigeria. The project in itself would
provide a practical training ground to Nigerian project staff in technical
and administrative management techniques.
1.03      The project follows policies outlined within the Federal Ministry
of Agriculture's "Perspective Plan for Agricultural Development to 1985"
which outlines a preliminary version of the agricultural portion of the
Third National Development Plan. In particular it follows FMG policies to
increase industrial crops, cotton and groundnuts, to supply the expanding
capacities of local cotton and groundnut mills. It also does much to in-
crease cereal production for northern consumption and sales for human and
livestock requirements in the southern states of Nigeria. In respect to
livestock dejolopments the project should cause a fall in cereal prices
which could b.ing about greater incentives for livestock fattening which
indirectly would affect the long-term future of Nigeria's livestock industry
in which the Bank has been requested to participate. The project would also
assist in the general development of sound Agricultural Credit policies to
which the Bank has already shown willingness to assist as executive agent
for the Nigerian Agricultural Bank development.
1.04      The project report refers to similar projects at Funtua (NC State)
and Gombe (NE State). These projects are currently under preparation, are
similar in nature and are linked in respect to production policies, techniques
and services.  All three projects should be considered together as substan-
tial Federal and State Government efforts at increasing production and rais-
ing living standards of the rural population.
1.05      The preparation of this project followed an identification mission
from the Bank which visited Nigeria in November/December 1972, the results
of which were agreed after full discussions with Federal and State Government
officials. The report was prepared in close conjunction with officials of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources from the North Western
State who actively participated in its preparation. The main participants



- 2 -
from the State were Alhaji Tanko Kuta (Permanent Secretary Ministry of Agri-'
cU.Lture andu Natural RPwsources) ,  LAaJi &  -1.mar  r%. (r.4.ief  r  '
and appropriate field staff from the Ministry; from the Bank a mission composed
ofL Mw 1esrs. Criushaw  rgueLhx, Ltir0. nger, Kan=hanalak "lan"b and Pickerin.g, 10-ad,
tJ1  L~~~L   .  .LLuziLa9  L~U LL , 1- LL.LL ~ ,  L%   %-ALL   La'  Izm  L&%J  aiu  L L%L   .L.I ,  LX   Us.
Reusse and Rice (Consultants) assisted in preparation and took responsibility
,or the ,,nL-a'l preparation ofL the report.
II. PROJECT AREA
A. General
Location
2.01      Occupying a rectangular block of land on a South East/North West
axis between latitudes 11040? and 12°40' N and longitudes 6020? and 71010
E, the project area covers some 3,800 km2 or about two percent of the total
area of the State. It comprises about half of the Gusau and Kaura Namoda
Development Areas within the Sokoto Administrative District in the north
eastern part of North Western State. The project area comprises the whole
of Kaura Namoda, Chafe and Kotorkoshi districts, and those parts of Gusau
and Bungudu districts north of the Sokoto river (see map).
Climate
2.02      Few climatic data are available but, in general terms, the area
enjoys a climate similar to that of the Zaria area, some 120 km to the south.
On the Thornthwaite system this is classified as dry sub-humid with a severe
rainfall deficit from October to May and ^ surplus from June to September.
Annual rainfall is in the range 1,000-1,20.0 mm. Average annual evaporation
from an open water surface is about 1,900 mm, of which approximately 75 per-
cent occurs in the dry season, between October and April. Such a climatic
regime, which is rendered harsher during the November/March period by the
drying, north easterly 'harmattan' wind from the Sahara, means that there is
a severe water shortage for vegetation for at least five months.
2.03      Vn the other hand, the water regime is well suited to the produc-
tion of annual crops. Thieir water requirements normally increase with in-
creasing size and decline as maturity, and harvest, approaches. This pattern
of water requirement is well matched by the pattern of water availability. It
enables a wide range of crops to be grown successfully. However, some limita-
tions are of major significance, particularly water shortage at the end of the
growinR season for cotton if late planted, and wet conditions at harvest for
short season crops, such as millet.
Water
2.04      There are few perennial streams in the area and groundwater supplies
are severely curtailed due to the presence of the impervious underlying basement



- 3 -
complex. With increasing pressure on land, the length of flow of streams has
diminished markedly in recent years. Wells also commonly fail during the dry
months, leading to prolonged water shortages which are becoming an increasing-
ly critical issue for both humans and livestock within the area. As noted
below, topography is such that construction of small reservoirs appears a
practicable solution to the water problem. Details are given in para. 3.04
and Annex 4.
Topography and Soils
2.05      The area is underlain by rocks of the basement complex which is
predominantly granite in nature. The landform is gently undulating at an
altitude of 600 to 900 m with occasional massive granite inselbergs particu-
larly in the southeast. Many small, ephemeral streams occur throughout the
area, pointing to its suitability for the proposed program of small reservoir
construction.
2.06      Leached ferruginous tropical soils are most common with well devel-
oped sub soil horizons containing some 30 percent clay. Drainage ranges from
good to rather poor.  More particularly in the southern half of the area, silt
content is somewhat high which leads to surface capping.
2.07      Soils are normally moderately to weakly acid, with pH in the range
5.5 to 6.5. They are generally deficient in nitrogen and available phosphate,
particularly after prolonged cropping. Some attempts to maintain the fertility
of farms close to settlements is made through the apDlication of animal manure
at between two to three tons per ha. Recent investigations have demonstrated
an annarent boron defisiencv and its solution- hv thp uisp nf hnrnnatdA qsnper-
phosphate. Fertilizer responses by most major crops have been established
with some nrerision at low annliiratinn rates  Frileld trinla inunluing higher
levels of application, 1/ mainly for cereals such as maize and sorghum, are
nresentlv underwav in the n?niprt area=
Vaoetation
2.OR      NatuirAl veoatAtinn is anvanna woodlInne tunifiedt b-y isanhirlinia
doka in association with grasses mainly of Andropogon and Hyparrhenia
speries.  Tn many nlares the savanna woodland has hben irpnlaced, fnllhwing
clearing and farming, by parkland dominated by such trees as Parkia clap-
nprtonina nn Anti &Ananonia Aig i tata (Ranhbha)  Th.aae are prntaectaed b   law a t
minimum densities.  Further, they provide valuable dietary supplements from
seeds and leaves respectivelyu  Tn wttear avrgeno . whic-h hanva baen hnanir4l
farmed, spear grass (Imperata cylindrica) is a troublesome weed. Addition-
ally, on some farms of declning favtility which have been heavily cropped
with sorghum, the parasitic weed Striga hemontheca causes significant but
,-nnuantified -ield reductioSn.
1/ Approximating 150 kg/ha of nutrient nitrogen plus 80 kg/ha of nutrient
phosphate together with potassium and a selection of trace elements.



-4-
Pqpulation
2.09      The project area is occupied by people of the Hausa tribe most of
whom are comparatively devout moslems. Literacy in English (Nigeria's official
language) and Hausa is low among adults in rural areas but is rising rapidly
with the younger generation.
2.10      Data on population have been derived from the 1963 census assuming
an annual 2.5 percent growth rate. Average family size has been taken as
6.5 persons, which is in reasonable accord with demographic studies in Nigeria.
Numbers of farm families are assumed to be about 70 percent of total families
in the project area. Thus, at the onset of the proposed project the picture
would be as follows:
Estimated total poDulation                    633.000
Estimated number of families                   97,000
Estimated number of farm families              68,000
2.11      This nanulation would be divided between the five distrirts intn
40 village areas and numbers as shown below:
Village Areas    Population
Gusau                            6           179,000
K1otorkvoshi                     4            40,50n
Chafe                            6           100,500
B .n ngu.. .d                    8            75Rnnn
Kaura Namoda                    16           238,000
2.12      The social structure of the area is of significance to the project
bDecause of the .-elae4v strength and -Influence of~ the- Aarica    .   -L structure
of the Local Authority.   In this context, the project comes within the juris-
di4tion of t.U Sultr. ta of Sokoto 'J whlose hereLuC1ttary autht .Iori.y is delegated
through salaried district heads, one in each of the five districts, to salaried
village heads, o.ne in each oAf tL he 40n V.1llage areas.
A..3 I_ Jl1Unog their other fuLnc.iLonsL, V.L.L.LagC headUs &LC ae= O e  Lor
village level administration of land tenure arrangements. The system is based
or. isam.Jc law ar,U on customUary -USu- UfuCtLLy rigiLtS.  ALn LALCULy, itL pFruvidU
for the allocation of such rights on land which is not so allocated, to any
native Ni'geri'an who expresses thie InteritLorn of settliag a  using land within
the village area. In practice most land has been allocated to families, the
heads of which suballocate to family members in accordance with assessed need
1/   In addition to his position as hereditary ruler of the people within the
Suiltanate of Sokoto, the Sultan, who has the titie Sarkin Musulmi (Chief
of the Moslems), is the acknowledged religious leader of all moslems with-
in Nigeria. His potential influence is consequently very considerable.



and capability. However, in the event of dispute, village heads are normally
the first sources of appeal.
2.14      As representatives of the Local Authority, village heads have con-
siderable potential influence within their areas. Although this influence
is being eroded in urban areas, such as the wards of Cusau town, it is still
considerable in rural localities where the bulk of project activities would
be focused.  For this reason, but without sacrificing control, every effort
would be made to obtain the support of village heads by acquainting them with
proposed a .-! ongoing developments within their areas. District heads would
be similarly consulted and informed. Furthermore, as indicated in Capter V,
provision is made for Local Authority representation on the Project Committee.
Farm Size
2.15      Information on farm size is scant due to the overall weakness of
the data base. It is possible to impute a possible mean farm size however,
on the basis of assumed population, family size and estimated area of
cultivated land. The latter figure is estimated to be about 236,000 ha or
some 60 percent of total project area. This comparatively high figure is
based on a series of random traverses across photo mosaics of about half of
the project area, which yielded a somewhat more intensive (66 percent) land
use pattern; and the fact that the proposed project area excludes some
1,300 km2 of forest/grazing reserve in the north east of two districts within
the project area. Given 68,000 farm families (para. 2.10) then average size
of cultivated holding i.e. excluding fallow would be 3.5 ha. This figure is
in reasonable accord with mean farm size established by detailed survey in a
similar area some 120 km to the south. Annex 7 gives details.
2.16      It is likely that the project would have some influence on farm
size, probably in the direction of somewhat larger and more specialized enter-
prises. However, it is unlikely that this would occur to a significant extent
in the short (five year) term. For this reason an average farm size of 3.5
ha, of which about three ha would be in crop in any one season, has been as-
sumed. See Annex 7 for details.
Cropping Patterns
2.17      Assumed cropping patterns take account of the dominance of sorghum
and millet as food grains, purchases of cotton and groundnuts by the Northern
States Marketing Board (NSMB) and the diversity of minor crop enterprises,
including maize. Local knowledge and socio economic surveys in neighboring
parts of the northern States indicate that cereals (mainly sorghum and millet)
typically occupy 45-55 percent of average cultivated areas, and cotton about
20 percent in the southern two thirds of the area. In the remaining, drier
Dart. cotton tends to given wav to aroundnuts. Other crons. usuallv grown
in mixtures with staple cereals, NSMB crops and/or each other, include maize,
chillies. kenaf; okra and a ranve of veaetahles. Details are In Annex 7-



Communications
2.18      The project area is served by two main roads (see map).   The trunk
highway connecting the north west with Lagos passes through its southern parts;
a branch road to Kaura Namoda and Katsina starts at Gusau and serves the
northern and western parts.  These are tarred and are maintained by the Federal
and State Governments. In addition, the Nigerian Railway Corporation has a
spur line from the main nortnern route, which branches at Zaria and runs via
Funtua and Gusau to Kaura Namoda in the north west corner of the area. This
line runs parallel with the road through the west of the project area.   There
is an airport operated by the Federal Government at Gusau but no flights are
currently scheduled. Telephone facilities exist at Gusau, operated by the
Posts and Telegraphs Department of the Federal Ministry of Communications.
2.19      Unfortunately, the basic communication network barely extends beyond
that described above.  Minor roads are nonfexistent or in poor repair.   Com-
munities are seasonally cut off from each other and the outside world.
Transportation of produce and inputs to rural areas is both-difficult and ex-
pensive. Attempts to improve the situation by self help activities and by the
Development Area Works Department are hampered by shortages of funds and com-
petent executive capacity. The project proposes major improvements in the
rural road network of the area as detailed-in para. 3.03 and Annex 3.
B. Institutions
2.20      Institutions directly and indirectly affecting the proposed project
cover a broad spectrum of ctivity and responsibility. They include the Local
Authority, a number of North Western State ministries, the Institute of Agri-
cultural Research (IAR), the Nigerian Agricultural Bank (NAB), the Northern
States Marketing Board (NSMB) and its ginning agent, the British Cotton Growers'
Association (BCGA). All have a part to play, and the success of the project
is to a large extent dependent on the cooperation afforded to project manage-
ment as outlined by individual institutions below.
The Local Authority
2.21      AS indicated above (para. 2.01) the project area comes under the
control of the Sokoto Local Authority (SLA) and the Gusau and Kaura Namoda
Development Boards. The main functions of the former include the collec-
ticn of tax in respect of people and cattle (haraji and jangali respec-
Zively); the administration of farming land allocations; the latter is
charged with provision of services such as feeder road construction and
maintenance, dispensaries, and primary education as a complement to State
government activities in these fields.
2.22      One function of the SLA is of immediate and direct importance to
the project. It relates to the need for onpn supnort and encoura-ement of



- 7 -
project activities and the cooperation of SLA officials with project manage-
ment. Project concept and proposed activities were discussed at several
levels with the SLA (including a meeting with the Sultan of Sokoto) during
preparation. Reactions were favorable and full cooperation was promised.
An important function of the two Development Area Boards relates to the main-
tenance of the road network which the project would construct. In the course
of the development period the road construction unit of the project would
liaise closely with the Works Department of the Development Area Boards in
order to foster a smooth handover of responsibility at full development.
Para. 3.17 gives details of proposed procedures.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR)
2.23      The most important State Government agency concerned with the project,
MANR would provide policy guidance, staff, and a pronortion of local funding.
Paragraphs 5.01 - 5.13 and Annexes 6 and 9 give details.  The Ministry has re-
presentatives of its four technical divisions within the nrniAnt area. It is
also in course of operating a 240 ha cotton seed multiplication farm at Gusau.
While the functfons of the Field Servicps and Prndiuce Tnnspet'inn nivfsiQnnc
would be largely assumed by the project, those of the Veterinary and Forestry
Divisions would not hp diretlyv Affected.  Thus animal health, organniztinn of
grazing facilities 1/ and livestock improvement services, largely for the semi
nomadic Fulani nnqtn-l-,1it-s  wilew11 tcont-inue ton hb  pv.Mideda b1y the 1.Jee4riu'
Division.  The Forestry Division of MANR is concerned mainly with regulation
nf resrveupd Lane and plannting nf wnoo%dlots. These funct4ons would be largely
unaffected by the project.
The Ministry of Works (MOW)
2.24      Responsible for State financed public works programs, MOW has a
small technical staff and limited ac414li    withi   the project area, centered
on Gusau. The Ministry is concerned mainly with road maintenance, building
constr;ction, b;y force account, or supervi.ion of contracLtors, ,and  he ma.-n=
tenance of State financed structures.  Executive capacity relative to the State
const.L.a%ctaLon program 'Ls a mc-j Lor limita.t tLo 'i;LL' operations.  ,,IA._s 'actor was
of prime importance in formulating the procedures proposed for the civil works
program of the project   T.hus, the project would do little to increase - he
workload of MOW. Annex 3 gives more details.
The Ministry of Health (MOH)
2.25      Responsible for all aspects of human health in the State, MOH is
iin process ofL UdevelopiLng Lts services anu facilJities. Within One project
area, a general hospital provides treatment services for both in-and out-
patients at Gusau.  T'his and a n-atber of planned Rural Health Centers will
1/ This aspect would be affected by the Bank's proposed Livestock Project,
No. 127uN, wnicn inciudes provision for improvement of facilities and
services to pastoralists utilizing a grazing reserve in the north east
corner of the project area.



- 8 -
provide the referral link between the sparse network of distr1ct dispensaries,
and the specialized hospital facilities operated and planned by MCH at the
State headquarters, Sokoto.
2.26      It is expected that additional Rural Health Centers and a closer
network of dispensaries providing more comprehensive services are to be
included in the forthcoming development plan (1974-1978) of MOH. Th.e import=#
ance of improved rural health is such that provision might be made in the
nronert for construction and equipment of health facilities with4n the project:
:rea.  This possibility was discussed with senior officials of MOH in Sokoto.
'onnsidera1be interest was expressed and concrete proposals m-ay well be forth-
coming before appraisal of the Agricultural Development Project by the Bank.
The Ministry of Trade, Industry and Cooperatives (MTIC)
2.27      Responsibility for the cooperative movement in North Western State
was transferred recently from ,MNR to MTIC.   In common with other nortLe..l
States, cooperatives in North Western have made little impact on the bulk of
the rural opulation.  Successne hase been hamped.n.pe by shortage olf. support;a sr,
supervisory staff, and by political interference in the early to mid-1960's
leading to widespread, indebt.-eAness.
2.28      Primary producer and marketin   societies yorganized in the project
area at this time formed the Zamfara Cooperative Union. Neither the primary
societies no5r the union 6z*ineA th1 e full support ol farm.ers. IQn c.or*uio w'IthI
the cooperative movement elsewhere, these groups are to a greater or lesser
extent indebted to the State government for preseason an'd marketing loans and
are consequently inoperative. For these reasons, little emphasis is placed on
the cooperative movemnent ir, proposeud crediL and marketing arrangements for the
project (paras. 5.17 and 6.06, and Annexes 8, 10 and 11). On the other hand,
part'cipation by suitable and viable cooperative societies in project activities
would not be excluded.
The Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR)
2.29      Created in the early 1960's from the Research Division of the then
Northern Nigeria Ministry of Agriculture, IAR is a semi autonomous body linked
with Ahmdu Bello University (ABU), Zaria. Its governing body has represen-
tation from Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources of the six northern
States. Its main research station is located at Samaru, near Zaria, in North
Central State, some 120 km from Gusau. Further details on the organization
and output of IAR are in Annex 2.
2.30      IAR preserves close contacts with headquarters and field staff of
MANR. Field trials are carried out on an agency basis on MANR sites, sup-
ervised by ministry staff under the technical guidance of IAR researchers.
Research recommendations are conveyed to extension staff via the Extension
Research Liaison Service (ERLS) of IAR which assesses research results in the
context of farm conditions and the likely level of technical assistance avail-
able to farmers in the six northern States. As noted elsewhere, the latter



-0=
is somewhat limited and, for this reason, research recommendations have been
modi'ied to u£'1'ze researcn finuings in keeping witn ene starfing ievei pro-
posed for the project. This information is provided in detail in Annexes 2
anu 7.
TLe Nigerian Agricultural Bank (NAB'
2.31      NAB is a Federai Government institution wnich was formally inaugurated
in March 1973 with its head office in Kaduna. UNDP has provided assistance
in financing the project to organize and manage NAB during its tirst three
years.  IBRD is the executing agency for the project.   A small team of expatriate
senior management personnel has been recruited. Recruitment of senior Nigerian
staff is proceeding along with familiarization tours by senior management with-
in Nigeria.  Tne Federal Government is making available N 12 million for NAB's
initial operations and is likely to continue to provide funds in substantial
amounts.
The Northern States Marketing Board (NSMB)
2.32      Headquartered in Kaduna, NSMB is the exclusive ultimate purchaser
of controlled commodities for export or for designated domestic uses. Cotton,
groundnuts and a number of comparatively minor crops, such as soyabeans and
benniseed are the controlled commodities. NSNB arranges for the ginning of
seed cotton (para. 2.36) and the resale of produce either within Nigeria, or
overseas through the Nigerian Produce Marketing Company (NPMC). Until re-
cently NSMB operated in all of the six northern States. Its responsibilities
in Kwara and Benue Plateau States have now been assumed by individual State
Marketing Boards.
2.33      Crop purchases from farmers take place at legally gazetted markets
or buying points by Licensed Buying Agents (LBA's) of NSMB. In 1972 there
were 29 cotton markets and 21 groundnut buying points within the project area.
LBA's may be private traders or cooperatives who are supposed to pay the pro-
ducer prices fixed in advance of each planting season by the NSMB and widely
publicized to farmers. The NSMB includes representation from each State's
Ministries of Natural Resources and Finance and selected Local Authorities.
Operation of the marketing board system is far from satisfactory and its
future is presently under serious consideration in Nigeria. More details
are given in para. 6.08 and Annex 10.
The British Cotton Growers' Association (BCGA)
2.34      BCGA has been the organization solely responsible for ginning
Nigerian cotton since exports began over half a century ago. With Nigerian
headquarters in Zaria and a network of ginneries throughout the cotton growing
zones of the northern States, BCGA arranges for seed dressing against Bacterial
Blight, seed distribution to village dumps, and transportation of lint and
seed as directed by NSMB. These functions are additional to its primary func-
tion of ginning seed cotton and classification of lint. BCGA is efficient
and is capable of expanding its operations to meet the needs of the project.
Further details on ginning canacitv and onerations are given below (nara- 2.35).



- 10 -
C. Processing and Marketing
Cotton
2.35      All cottoa purchased for NSMB in the project area is ginned at BCGA
facilities located at Gusau. Present optimum capacity is 50,000 bales 1/ but
this level has been exceeded by some 20 percent on occasion. At present aver-
age production levels the ginnery operates at about 60 percent capacity. The
-4nning season normally extends for 24 weeks from December to June. Prolonga-
tion is impracticable due to rain damage to seed cotton and ginned seed. Some
additional facilities would be needed to cope with expected production towards
the end of the development period as illustrated below:
Projected Production  Projected Production  Projected Number Surplu1s!
of Seed Cotton         of Lint /1             if Bales    (Deficit)
-------------------tons -------------------                   Capacit
Year                                                               in Bales
0          10,330                 3,615              20,000       30,000
1          12,100                 4;235              23,400       26,600
2          15,300                 5,355              29,600       20,400
3          20,600                 7,210              39s800       10,200
4          27,000                 9,450              52,200       (2,200)
5          34,200                11.970              66,100       (16,100)
/1   Assuming ginning percentage with wastage factor = 35 percent.
2.36      Senior Nigerian management of RCGA in Zaria has indicated its will=
ingness to increase ginning capacity as required within the project area.
Further, BCGA has exDressed keen Interest in promoting improved field market
and collection procedures for seed cotton.
2.37      Seed cotton is purchased from farmers at gazetted cotton markets.
The latter are normally temporary structures made from grass mats and poles
to a standard design, and financed by NSMB. Market sites are approved by
NSNB on the basis of anticipated purchases and distance between markets.
Minimum anticipated purchases are 50 tons and markets are rarely placed
closer than eight km. A minimum of two buyers /LBAs i'Ls rmandatory at each
market. Markets are supposed to be controlled by a Produce Examiner (PE)
from the Produce Inspection Division (PID) of the .N-'R. Produce Examiners,
posted to markets for the buying season, are responsible for the visual
grading of seed cotton into orne of two grades on the basis of stained and
damaged lint, and trash content. They should also ensure that LBA's pay
correct amount- to farmers for their produce.  In fact, PE's seldom perform
these functions; grading is virtually non-existent and many PE's are alleged
(with apparent Justification' to assist LBA's to cheat farmers. The project
1/   One bale weighs 181 kg (400 lb).



would seek to rectify this situation. Detailed proposals are made in para.
5.05 and Annex 10.
Groundnuts
2.38      All groundnuts purchased for NSMB in the proiect area are inspected
and graded by the staff of PID at one of five stations. Purchases from farmers
by LBA's take place at buying points licensed by the Lonal Authnrity Ground-
nut buying -oints are not supervised and it is frequently alleged that farmers
are cheatec by LBA's who manipulate weight scales and prires at the expense
of farmers. Measures to improve groundnut purchasing procedures under the
project are proposed in para. 5.05 and Annex 10=
Other Crops
2.39      No control is normally exer^ised nn 1-he marketing or handling of
the other crops, such as sorghum, maize and cowpeas, with which the project
is concerned.  However, the Sokoto LA in consu1tal4on *74th State authorities
has power to restrict movement of foodcrops in times of shortage. Such powers
have been invoked following bad cropping seasonrs from time to time.
2.40      Marketing of food CrnOS is comparatively highly orgnized through
a network of village and urban markets and a chain of traders linking producers
with consumers.  No detailled studies have been carried out in the projec- area.
It has been estimated that overall, about 10 percent of total sorghum production
is marketed. however; this figure is probably higher in the project area where
sorghum is a recognized cash crop.   A recent investigation of sorghum and
millet marketing In the Zarla area 1r / is of probable relevance to -the project.
In addition to providing valuable insights into market organization, this
concluded that tamers normally received some 69 percent of the price in
urban markets.
2.41      Project activities are expected to promote a marked increase in
maIze nrnductinn, from an estimated 6,000 tons in 1974 to over 76,00 tons
by 1979. This increase would be largely at the expense of sorghum and millet
area.  Production of sorghum is only expected to decline by abour eight per-
cent, however, due to the uptake of more highly productive varieties along
with improved maagement practices.    TLhe effece of these production changes
on marketed surpluses of maize and sorghum cannot be quantified with any
precision.  Nevertheless, it is probable that maize would be substituted
to some extent for sorghum in local diets. Further details are provided at
A.nnex 7.
'-i  Dv staLL of IAR, shortly ro oe puDiisnea.



12 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01      The project would be the first phase of the Gusau Agricultural
Development Project and would be carried out over a five year investment
period 1974/75 - 1978/79. The project would involve:
-    constructing about 250 km of all weather agricultural
road and 650 km of dry weather crop evacuation tracks
65 small earth dams each with a capacity of 100,000 m5' 2
and rainfall diversion ditches to protect an average 4 km'
catchment area for each dam;,.
-    constructinR an administrative center in Gusau. 4 devel-
opment unit centers and 40 village service centers; such
centers would include associated buildings, houses and
offices, in addition each village center would have a 500
ton fertilizer/seedstore, a storage plinth (50 x 10 m) for
grains and a security fence enclosing about 1/2 ha;
-    development of a new 240 ha seed multiplication farm near
Gusau to iunnply nrnient farmers with improved cotton and
cereal seeds;
-    constructing a Farmer Training Center at Gusau to provide
training fnv nrnoe-ct staff 2nd farmpres
-    fex-adin- the extensionQ servicesf frnm 30- dexisting staff
to about 310 to provide services to some 68,000 farmers;
and to pr-eAi                with supporting a4m4n4atrat4nn
and vehicles;
-    developing a credit service to ensure supervised credit
to project faj. .. rs;
developing a .market intelligence unit to report on an
liaise with the various marketing agents within the project
areas; construLct'Ling new facilities fLor cotton reception at'
the Northern States Marketing Board (NSMB) depots; and
establ'.ish ing auto,-.at ic self recording scaAles at th-I-e present,
and new markets in the project area;
providing seasonal loans for seeds, fertilizers, insecticides
and' Dattery sets (J'[Or ultrLa lUW VolUUIItI co;LLWLM, Upk%yCeLJ LtU
project farmers by the means of a revolving credit account to
be established by the project administration;



- 13 -
providing medium term credit for ox carts and ox drawn
equipment, cotton sprayers and a limited number of
tractors and equipment;
establishing a Project Administration office in Gusau
to administer all project activities within the Gusau
project area;
establishing a Development Committee responsible to
State Government for policy matters, and budgetary
approval and control, to which the Project Manager
would be solely responsible;
establishing a Project Committee which would provide
adequate coordination between Project Administration
and various State Government agencies and Local
Authority;
establishing a Federal Coordinating Committee to ensure
adecuate coordination between other prolects in the
northern States and to ensure State Governments are
followine accentable policies in their resDective devel-
opment proj ects;
-    developing plans for second phase development, and for
certain disinventments of Proiect Administration
responsibilities by the end of the project development
-    developing~ a nprosect evaluantion nit to be administered
by the project but to be directed by Ahmadu Bello University
through 4t8 Tn8tit-uat-e nf Agrlcutltiural Respart-h at Ramaru.
B. Detailed Features
3.02      Agricultural roads, damn cnnstruction antd soil conservation. As in-
dicated in chapter II of the report, the major infrastructural constraints to
ag:4cultura  develo-mnt in the pro4ect area are the tnotal 1rk nf repa0nnahlbe
agricultural roads for crop extraction and farm input supplies, and a very
rea'l con.straint: or. watter a-vailab"ility for% In,,man andA A^-atic. 14ua-tnok rnniu-
sumption. Construction would be undertaken by the project, rather than by
contractors.  Conta_tors w..u.uAl n^t b  flx4ble anough tn orel:a)lv cArrv nit
the required works, and their costs would be almost double (Annex 3). The
proposedu sc5ieuuIL wou'd bu  as Lllvs:



- 14 -
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79 Total
Roads: km
all-weather (7.5 m wide)      -       50       50       50       50     200
dry-season  (5.0 m wide)     50      150      150      150      150     650
Dams                            5       20       20       20        -      65
Soil conservation km2          20       80       80       80        -     260
3.03      The nroiprt would nrovide for a n.etork of laterit4e surfaced agri--
cultural roads and unsurfaced dry season crop extraction roads to link up
with the two maOrn asphalt roads (7nr±a-G-sau-Sokoto and Gusau=Kaura 'amoda-
Katsina) which pass through the project area. Each kilometer of road would
sere about 450 ha of land, about 80 fa-..4ng famu41ies, and woudI result in
the most distant farmer being only 2-1/2 km from a motorable track. These
roads and tracks Lwould enable reasonable access for marketing agents, sup-
pliers of inputs, crop extraction and extension staff. They would also enable
farmers to use ox drawn carts for water and crop transport.  Due to the large
size of the project area (3,800 km2) it is necessary to construct 200 km of
all-weather laterite a,r,.icultural roads Ato 14nk -le smaller crop extractionI
tracks with the existing road system. These laterite surfaced roads (see Annex
3) would be 7.5 m, wide with 4  drains. Te surface wouLd hIA ave 0.  L LaterLlte
and would be 1 m above drain bottom. The 650 km of dry weather crop extrac-
tion tracks would be 5 m wide, with 4 m Ldrains and the road surface would be
1 m above drain botton. These tracks would not be surfaced. For both types
of road the accent would be on good drainage. To this end, costs include
necessary culverting and side (mitre) drains. All the agricultural roads would
be properly aligned on the ridges to assist drainage and to enable upgrading
at some future date, as demanded by traffic needs, without the necessity for
reali,5gn rt. No major bridging Is included, since construction costs would
be high. Road alignment would therefore allow a one ended access to traffic
during the wet season, ard two ended during the dry season when traffic would
be able to cross dry sandy river beds.
3.04      About 65 earth dams would be constructed to provide water in the
first instance to about 30%u of the project population. At Annex 4 it is
shown that well water supplies from January to August can be critical and
are becoming more so as the ground water table is reduced. Boreholes are
not possible due to geological form in the area, and therefore surface
water storage is the only practical alternative. The average dam would hold,
after allowance for siltation, about 100,000 m3 of water, which would be
more than sufficient to supply the needs of 2,000 people and accompanying
livestock, after allowance for evaporation losses. Each dam would be fully
fenced and plans include the construction of gravity fed water to troughs
and hardstands for livestock and farmers respectively. The villagers would
provide voluntary labor for finishing off the dams after the major earth-
works have been completed. To ensure that the chances of dam breaks are
minimized, the average catchnent area would be limited to about 4 km", and
spillway design would be adequate to take the 1 in 50 year peak run off that
can be expected (details at Annex 4).



- 15 -
3.05      There are serious soil erosion problems in parts of the project
area caused mainly by overstocking and stream bed cultivation. It would be
virtually impossible to develop full soil conservation measures for the project
area during the life of the project. Therefore soil conservation would be in-
itially developed in the catchment area of each dam. in order to reduce
sheet erosion and the consequent siltation of the dams. Under the project,
'vee' shaped diversion ditches would be constructed. Each ditch would be
designed to carry the runoff from 40 ha; and therefore some 14 km of ditch
would be constructed for each dam catchment area. The diversion ditches would
be about 1,500 m long, 250 m apart, have a cross sectional area of about 0.8 m2
2ad a canacitv of 0.6 m3Osec and would rain at a rate of 1:400 into an
artificial waterway. Between the diversion ditches, the project would con-
struct wfth a trartor And nlonih - smal1l marker ridgpn to art as a guiide for
farmers to plant on the contour. With these precautions soil erosion losses
are likely to he siuhqtantia11v reduicedV.  (T1Ptai1. at Annex 4)=
I n0      Villioip qpruire rpntPrC_  Thp hn.i < for farm developnmnt wouldi
revolve around the village center and its satellite hamlets.  Thus under
the prorect a service center would be created at each village.  It would
include a 500 ton village store for seeds and fertilizer, a 50 x 10 m plinth
for outdoer storage of grains and   nrondnuts,a security fence, office, and
housing for extension and credit staff.  These centers would initially be
con*tro lle1 b- that  proj   I .. t no te,l F-r'm Assor.i4ation at -4"1 1eoo level a1 aval-
ops and takes over more group responsibilities, the centers and their main-
tenance would c ..e under Assoc-4ation cont:ol (see par  5.     Ft 
would be established during the first two years of the project, starting in
those areas whlere reason=-bable access exists, and would prog.ess with. th con
struction of the all weather agricultural roads. Service centers would, where
possible, bue constructed c.LOs Lt. ULM Village LLrU.ading centers.  8L.L  at
Annexes 5 and 9).
3.07      Development Unit and Head Office Centers  The project area would be
divided into 5 development units coinciding with District boundaries; at each
District Center houses and offices would be built for the development unit ex-
tension, credit and market intelligence staff. A head office would be con-
structed at Gusau, and staff houses would be developed in the Government
reseravt'Lo  Area, so that aLLer connpletion oL Lhe proJect Lic Lhoubes caln
revert to Government pool and can be used for other purposes. A workshop and
ancillary facilities would be constructed near the Local Authority workshops
for the maintenance of project construction equipment and personnel vehicles.
A railhead store for project inputs would be constructed in the vicinity of
the railwayline in Gusau's industrial area. (Detail at Annex 9).
3.08      Seed Multiplication and Research.  The project would develop a seed
multiplication farm (240 ha) near Gusau. Suitable land would De made avail-
able through the Local Authority. The project would provide buildings and
farm macninery, and plan the output of the farm to fit in with the needs of
project farmers and other farmers in the State with respect to improved cotton
seed and other seeds, with an emphasis on high yielding composite and hybrid
maize, dwarf and hybrid sorghums, and improved groundnut seeds. The multi-
plication farm would also serve for project research work. (Detail at Annex 2).



- 16 -
3.09      Training.  The proiect would construct and operate a new training
center at the proposed Gusau seed multiplication farm, to train project
farmers.  The center would have a capacity of about 9,000 trainee mar.days
per year. Initially the center would concentrate on staff training, but as
the project progresses, farmers would be encouraged to come in for weekly
courses. (For further details see Annex 5).
3.10      Extension Service.   The present ratio of extension workers to farmers
is in the order of 1:2,300.   t1.der the project, the Agricultural AsIstant (AA)
nd Agricultural Instructor (AI) would be the main contact between project
administration and farmer. The project would increase the staff in these
categories from 30 to 211, which would be equivalent to a ratio of 1:3201/.
SimiLar intensit-es of extension staffing in other Bank financed projects
have proved satlsfactory. (Detail at Annex 6). The AA's and AI's would be
supervised by staff stationed at District Centers (development unit centers),
who in turn would be responsible to Head Office staff. Where necessary the
proiect would provide vehicles and equipment fLor reLe±vant staff.
3.11      Credit Seice.    There is no existing credit service to farmers
within the project area, except for a rather unsatisfactory Local Authority
Scheme and an unpopular (to farmers) and defunct Cooperative Union located
in Gusau. Annex 8 outlines the credit proposals for the project.     The
project would train credit staff so as to init'ally provide a supervised
credit service to farmers. It is anticipated that 40-50% of the project
far.mers would take credit.  They would be serviced by 80 credit assistants
(CA) at a maximum ratio of 1 CA to 375 farmers receiving credit.    It is
antiLci.Lpated that the ratio would be narrowed as group lending evolves.  The
credit assistants would be responsible to Credit Officers at Development
Unit level. LTle project would also provide for a central machine accounting
system for the credit scheme.
3.12      Market Service.   The project would provide for the development of
a smL,all market intelligence unit to provide market information to farmers
and to report on and liaise with the various marketing agencies and agents
within the project area.   Tne project would provide automatic self recording
weight scales to each market within the project area, and would improve the
Marketing Board Depots alongside the project ginnery currently owned and
managed by BCGA, in order to allow a more efficient flow of cotton from
the markets to the gins.
3.13      Seasonal Loans.   Proposed arrangements for seasonal loans to farmers
are described in para. 5.17-5.28 and Annex 8. It is estimated that during
the project period 75% of total seasonal input supplies would be provided
on credit, the remainder being sold for cash. Credit would be issued to
some 35,000 farmers by 1978/79. During the five years development period
seasonal loans totalling N 2.6 million for 36,000 m tons fertilizer, 0.8 mil-
lion liters insecticide, 39,000 battery sets for spraying machines, and
1/   The difference in ratio of staffing between this project and proposals for
Funtua is that a greater proportion of the project farmers grow groundnuts
T'-ch requires a less intensive extension effort for the dissemination of
improvements, where greater reliance is placed on the AA rather than the
AI.



- 17 -
1,500 tons of improved seeds. These loans would be net of FMG subsidy on
fertilizer which would amount to N 1.0 million over the project life. Cash
sales for seasonal inputs are expected to amount to N 0.9 million for 12,000
tons of fertilizer,0.3 million liters insecticide, 40,000 batteries and 500
tons of improved seed.
3.14      Medium Term Loans.  Proposed arrangements for medium term loans are
described in para. 5.18 and Annex 8. Medium term loans (totalling N 1.0 mil-
lion) wou'-' be made for a limited number (35) of tractor, trailer and imple-
ment kits ti replace the Government owned tractor hire service planned to be
phased out by the last year of the project.   Loans would be made for 3,000
ox drawn equipment kits (ox cart and plough) and for 32,400 ultra low volume
(ULV) cotton sprayers.
3.15      Pro ject Administration.  The project would establish a Project
Administration Unit in Gusau which would be responsible for managing the
project (for further details see para. 5.05). The Project Manager would be
responsible to a Development Committee chaired by the Permanent Secretary
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources.
3.16      Project Committees.  The project would establish two other coordinat-
ing committees. First a Project Committee would be established at the Sokoto
East Divisional level to coordinate project activities with other State and
Local Government programs; second a Federal Coordinating Committee would be
established to ensure both coordination between other projects in the northern
States of Nigeria and that States are generally following Federal Government
policies in agricultural development.
3.17      Post Project Administration.   The project would prepare plans for
either a phase II project or for a phasing out of the project administration.
If the latter situation were to occur then road maintenance would be the
responsibility of the Local Authority, credit services would be taken over
by the Nigerian Agricultural Bank or a State Credit Bank if and when developed,
and the extension services would revert to the control of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources.
3.18      Project Evaluation.  The project would provide for an evaluation
unit to monitor the progress of the project and to compare its development
with adjoining areas outside the project. The evaluation unit would come
tnder the direction of the Ahmadu Bello University through its Institute of
Agricultural Research (IAR) at Samaru and would provide the project management,
State Government and Federal Government with data and recommendations. IAR
would also provide a suitable evaluating link between the other projects at
Funtua and Gombe.
3.19      The Environment.  The ecology of the developed areas would be sub-
stantially improved. Soil erosion over the most vulnerable parts of the
project areas would be substantially reduced, water conservation would be
improved. With the increased use of fertilizers greater surpluses of crop



- 18 -
residues would evolve which in turn would reduce overgrazing and consequent
erosion. Existing and planned health services would be able to reach the
villages and hamlets through improved access. The villages would receive
more dependable and cleaner water supplies, which together with greater
efforts through project supported home economics and welfare courses could
alleviate the distress presently caused by water borne diseases etc.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
4.01      Estimated project costs would total N 16.7 million (US$25.3 million)
of which the foreign exchange component is about N 7.2 million (US$11.0 mil-
lion) or 43% of total costs.
4.02      Costs include a 5% physical contingency on all items and a 6% com-
pounded contingency for inflation during the project life. All imported items
are, under Federal Law, subiect to import duties; State Governments are not
exempted from duties and therefore project costs, where applicable, include
duties. Costs are based on current quotations for vehicles, heavy plant,
equipment, materials and farm inputs (only incremental seasonal farm inputs
are included); on current contract rates for building construction; and up
to date salary and wage scales inclusive of allowances based on Federal Gov-
ernment regulations. Cost of expatriate staff follow arcentable international
recruitment salaries and include standard benefits and allowances. Project
costs include N 1.0 million for fertilizer subsidies. Subsidisation of fer-
tilizer is an established FMG practice throughout Nigeria, and the policy is
unlikely to change during the nroiect disbursement nperind.  The breakdnwn of
costs is detailed in Annex 9 and is summarized in the following table.



S"nlLaarof Project Costs
Naira '000
Cost       Cost        Cost       Foreign Cost
Project Administration
Vehicles, plant, equipment               112         43        69            62
Houses, buildings and furnishings        391        313         78            20
Salaries                                 963        696        267           28
Vehicle running                           46         28         18            40
Genei,al services                        661        440        221           IL
Sub=total                         2,173      1,520        653           30
Technical Services
Vehicles, plant and equipment            188         69        119            63
Houses, buildings and fumrishings        407        325         82            20
Salaries                               1,038       894        144            14
Vehicle ruinning                         133         80        53             L
Sub-total                         1,766      1,368        398            23
Farm Credit Services
Vehicles, plant and equipuent            178         71        107            60
Houses, buildings wand fbrnishmings     4-00        320         80            20
Salaries                                 753       631        122            16
Vehicle running                           34         20        _              40
Sub-total                         1,365      1,042        323            24
Market Services
Vehicles, plant and equipment             89         35         54            54
Houses, buildings and furnishings         24         19         5            20
Salaries                                  54         49         5             10
Vehicle running                            9          5          4            ID
Sub-total                           176        108         68            43
Elgineering Services
Vehicles, plant and eq2ipment          1,085        152        933            86
Houses, buildings and furnishings        514        356        158           31
Salaries                                627        330         297           47
Vehicle running                           50         30         20            40
Plant running and casual labor           918        797        121            13
Workshop and spare parts                 284        170        114            40
Sub-total                         3,478      1,835      1,643            47
Oinnery cotton depots                    115         88         27            24
Ville servce(to         enter           4,32       346         8620
Far Inputs:
Fer ulzes seeds, battarysets
and insecticides (incremental)     1,738        279      1,459            84
Farm machinery, equipment and
sprayers                           1,208i       404        804            67
Sub-total                         2,946        683      2,263            77
Fertilizer subsidies                      1,005        643        362            36
Contingencies:
Price (6% compounded)                  2,594      1,479      1,115            43
Physi  l  5A )                          63,1
Sub-total                         3,267      1,861      1,406            43
TOTAL, NATRA '000                     16,723      9,4L94     7,229            43
TOTAiL US$  !000                      25,336     114,382    10,954            43
DistrijuLion 1Z                        100         57         43              -



- 20 -
R.  Tentative Prnnnps1 fnor Financing
4.03      The Federal Military Government (FiMG) of Nigeria requests an IBRD
In:n for TUS$127 minllion o-r 50% of total proniat cost wl jh rich l A  44"-
the foreign component of the project (US$11.0 million) and 12% of the local
costs armuonting to TS$1.7 m4llion.  The loan to FMG would be made for 20 year
with a grace period of 4 years for principal. The IBRD loan to FMG would be
onlent at the same rate to the North Western State Governmnt.    T.he remaining
50% of project costs (N 8.3 million) would be financed as follows:
(a) FMG would make a direct grant to the North Western
State of u 1.2 Umlllion or 77O of tot.all proJectl. costl
to cover subsidies on fertilizer;
(b) FMG would lend the North Western State Government a
further N 3.4 Lmilion or 20% of total project cost
at a suggested 1% over 50 years with a grace period
on principal of 10 years;
(c) rthe Iarmers would finance N 0.7 miiiion or iZ of total
project to cover cash purchase of seasonal inputs and
duown payr,,ents on farmi machinery and equipment; and
(d) the North Western State Government would finance N 3.0
million or 18% of total project cost to cover the
required balance.
Tne project would be therefore financed as follows:



- 21 -
Summary of Proposed Financing
N'000
Total   IBRD    FMG      FMG      State
Cost    Loan    Loan   Grant   Government  Farmers
Vehicles, plant and
equipment                1,652   1,281    371     -         -          -
Houses, buildings and
furnishings             2,283    1,370    913     -         -         -
Vehicle and plant
running                  1,474     884    590     -         -          -
Salaries                   3,435   2,061     -      -       1,374        -
General Services             661      -      -      -         661        -
Seasonal inputs
(incremental)            1,738   1,043    260     -         -        435
Medium term inputs         1,208     725    304     -         -         179
Fertilizies subsidies      1.005      -      -    1,005       -          -
Unallocated                3,267   1,018    962     201       963       123
Total N'000          16,723   8,382  3,400   1,206     2,998       737
Total US$ '000       25,336  12,700  5,152   1,827     4,541     1,116
Percentage Dis-
tribution             100      50     20       7        18        5
The abnve nronosaln are Axtrpmelv tentative but are inrlu,dedso as
to provide a basis for discussions between the parties concerned.
C. Procurement
4.04      International competitive bidding (ICB) would be employed for all
contrart gonnA  And sev' icus in   __cs nf TS$25,000n   Purchasae uinder TrR ar
expected to amount to US$11.3 million. Goods and services procured in this
manner would include contracts for houses, offices, stores, furnishings and
fittings thereof N 2.3 million (US$ 3.5 million); vehicles, plant and equip-
ment, N 1.7 m4llion (US$2.5 m4114n); fert-414zers bateery se:s ar.d ir.zecticides
N 3.1 million (US$ 4.6 million); and ULV spraying machines, ox drawn equip-
ment, a.n.d tra---t--.s ,ct   and-.  - - q uip  -u 0.   milli _n   y.J . ,7 mill. 4 on). DlJom es ta.lly
manufactured goods would be allowed a 15% preference when comparing domestic
biAs withU tose- of foeC -..uacu        s - - 4  construIc:ion ofpo-      ras
L~ UI*  LJSW. 'JL   W.LL ~.L flf  Ub"&'A~C. L%, UA. I r-U L.   * . LLIA L7L  L.. UL.LW.LL  %J.L  jJLUJJ  C.L  LW""O,U
dams and soil conservation earthworks would be by force account under the
engiLneeriLng section of thlle project management unli. Internati.Lonally. rLecruLitLed
staff at a cost of about N 802,000 (US$1.2 million) would be recruited along
_ ___& L 1 _-         I____   _, 1 _   ---I__ Al   -  ,L -___ 1         J 
acceptabu.le prUocUULrS LU DVAl& ClLIU U3JVCtLl1=zLL L. tL.L UL=LL pLUL;ULICILeL- WUULU UC
by locally advertized competitive bidding procedures, to be agreed with the



- 22 -
Bank. except for small itemq which would be purchased directly.     Nigeria has
no preferential import tariff arrrangements, and competition between foreign
maniufartuirers rn the donmest-ic  - markt- ic Iran.
D. Disbursements
4.05      The proceeds of the B_ank loan, would be diU sbursedv
(a 1/  I ~       exL-ILLL= echange expendituresr /8 /o 1of total
expenditures (US$1.9 million) for vehicles, plant
ar d equipr,ent;
(    60%., (UJ$2.7 IILAL.L±ULL of £tLl zers, irisecticides,
seeds, battery sets sprayers, tractors and other farm
_n-   ..C-11   4 _J 11   __b . 
(c)  60% (Us$2.1   ilUliloLon) of houses, buildings and furnish-
ings costs;
(d)  60% (US$1.4 million) of vehicle and plant operating
costs;
fe   4/ (TTQe-S .J11i
( Ue   kuo9..? HU±.LUlJon) ofL stafL cost and/or 100/o cost of
expatriate costs; and
(f)  US$1.5 million for unallocated.
The Bank would not disburse against items categorized under general services
(Annex 9, Table 6) nor against FnG subsidies.    Disbursements would, for direct
imports be against CIF documentation, for contract buildings etc. against con-
tract documentation, and for all other items against a certificate of expen-
diture from project authorities, the documentation for which would not be sub-
mitted for review but rather made available for inspection by the Bank during
supervision missions.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.06      It is proposed that a project account would be set up in the Branch
of the Central Bank of Nigeria in Sokoto, or in any other bank acceptable to
FIG and the State Government into which funds required for the project would
be placed three months in advance on the basis of the annual budget approved
by the Development Committee and on quarterly estimates prepared by the Project
Manager. All accounts maintained by the Project Management would be audited
annually be independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and FMG, and certified
copies of the audited accounts, together with the auditors' reports would be
submitted simultaneously to the Bank and FMG within 4 months of the end of
each financial year.



- 23 -
4.07      Separate accounts would be established in the Central Bank for the
revolving credit fund and for the cash sales ac-e-ount for nrniert nrorured in-
puts. These two accounts would also be subject to annual audit by independ-
ent auditors.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization
5.01      The project would be carried out by a project unit responsible to
a Development Committee, the Chairman of which would be the Permanent Sec-
retary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural R4esource, of the North
Western State Government.   Project administration and financial control
woud be exercised frorn a project head office tobe est-blished in -     au,
the administrative and commercial center for the project area.   The pro-
4ect administration would c    %rdinate its  ativities at. a TD.visi4al l.evel
through a Project Committee, and at a Federal level with other northern
States pro^4ts    hrogh    Fedea-1 Cordinatin-  Co-4.it      A---- -w+ithin
j J.-J  ...  ~L&t/AL   --- - a.. *JP~  .wLa.L,   ...8UL.  b.&a .  n . .aa   WAL.LAt. LL
the Division but outside the project area would continue to be administered
drcly My -PNR.
a.V02     L=opA.etU-[IIV.LIC_ -,'.LiLL.L  WoJUU pJL±LiaLA.L±y U=Lt:LL±LLL po±Lcy;, CUorUdinate
other Ministries and Departments at State level, and would exercise budget-
ary control on the project. IULle CoJt-unittee wouIldU ml-teet at least twice a year
and would comprise:
Permanent Secretary - Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resour-
ces - Cnairman
Permanent Secretary - Ministry of Finance
Permanent Secretary - Ministry of Local Government
Permanent Secretary - Ministry of Health
Permanent Secretary - Ministry of Transport ana worKs
Director of Federal Agricultural Department
Cnief Agricultural Orricer for the North Western State
General Manager of the Northern States Marketing Board
General Manager of the Nigerian Agricultural Bank
The Project Manager would be the Executive Secretary of the
Committee.
5.03      Project Committee would primarily advise the Project Administra-
tion and coordinate activities between the project and other agencies or
departments at project and/or Divisional level. Tne committee would meet
once a month and would comprise:



- 24 -
Proiect Manager                    - Chairman
Divisional Secretary               - Sokoto Division
Divisional Officer                 - Ministry of Works
Divisional Officer                 - Ministry of Health
Divisional Agricultural Officer    - East Sokoto
Director of Agricultural Research Institute Samaru
Agricultuiral Advisor to His Highness The Sultan of Sokoto
Representative from the Gusau Area Development Board
Representative from the Koura Namoda Area Development Board
Farmer Representative from each Development Unit
Projesct Senior Administrative Officer - Secretary
5.04      Federal Coordinating Conmmttee would nrimarilv ensure that the
progress of the project was running according to plan, that FMG general
agricultural policies were being follnwed, that nroiect evaluation was sat-
--            ~~~C            -  
isfactory, and that an adequate exchange of views and techniques was occur-
ring between staff of the F,ntua, Gusau and GouLbe Agricultural Developnment
Projects. The committee would serve all three projects and would meet at
leLst twice a year and would comprise:
Mrector of Federal Ag4icultural Department        -   Ain 4man
Chief Agricultural Planning Officer FAD           - Secretary
rL rJ cLt Manager                                 - Llsau
Project Manager                                   - Gombe
Project Marnager                                  - 1ntua
Director - Institute of Agricultural Research     - Samaru
*~~1   r.1  tcon-.  I-erl    11if,,4  IAD        - zi     -
Heau - Rural Ecn,     ReaIrLcL 'a .it IAR         - Sa&r.
General Manager - Nigerian Agricultural Bank
Representative - Federal Minis try of Finance
(It would be recommended that CMIG consider appointing the Agriculturalist at-
tached to the IBRD Lagos office to this committee.)
5.05      Project Administration.  The project would fall under the direct
responsibility of the Project 17manager who would be assisted by the follow-
ing key staff: Senior Administrative Officer; Financial Controller, Chief
Technical Officer, Credit Manager, Senior Engineer, Market Officer and Se-
nior Evaluat"ion Officer. These key staff, all reporting direct to the Pro-
ject Manager, would each be responsible for a major service section within
the project:
a)   Administration headed by the Senior Administrative Officer
(Deputy Project Manager) would be responsible for project
personnel, transportation, registry, security and public
relations;
b)   Finance headed by the Financial Controller would be
responsible for project accounts, procurement, stores,
internal audit and general budgetary control;



- 25 -
c)   Technical Services headed by the Chief Technical Officer
would be responsible for seed multiplication and research,
training, extension services, and tractor hire services.
Seed multiplication, research and training would be under-
taken at the Gusau seed multiplication farm under the super-
vision of a Research Officer and Training School principal
respectively. Extension would be the responsibility of the
Senior Extension Officer under whom would be 4 Development
Officers centered at Chafe, Kotorkoshi, Bungudu and Kaura
Namoda. These 4 officers would supervise field extension
centers based on 40 village units, each center being the
responsibility of an Agricultural Assistant (AA) each of
whom on average would supervise 4 Agricultural Instructors
(AI). Each Al would work with the farmers from 3 - 4 hamlets
surrounding the main village. Thus the extension service
would work alongside the traditional village structure, a
system which is already being encouraged by the State.
Existing tractor hire services, until phased out in the
last year of the project, would continue to be provided
to those farmers requiring machine cultivation, but encour-
agement would be given to contractor services to be intro-
duced during the project;
d)   Credit Services.  The project would place great emphasis on
the development of credit services alongside the extension
service and the traditional village. Full details are
given at Annex 6 and para 5.20. The credit service would
be headed by a Credit Manager and would be in two sections:
( i) Accounts Section at head office responsible for
central accounting using machine accounting pro-
cedures;
(ii) Field Section divided on a similar zonal system to
that described for extension services. There would
be two Credit Assistants (CA) at each village.
e)   Market Services, headed by a Marketing Officer, would be a
small unit to act as an intelligence agency for both project
and farmers, adid to liaise with buyers and the Northern
States Marketing Board. There would be 1 Senior Marketing
Assistant attached to each Development Unit office. Details
can be found at Annexes 10 & 11 and para 6.08.
f)   Engineering Services headed by a Senior Engineer would a
specialized service responsible for planning and land use,
water and soil conservation, road construction, building
supervision and workshop management, the latter for both
engineering plant and equipment as well as vehicles and
equipment belonging to other project services. Details
on each sub section are found at Annexes 3, 4 and 9.



- 26 -
g)   Evaluation Section headed by a Senior E-valuatLonL Ofricer,
who although administratively responsible to the Project
r.ager, would coLme under the technical direction or the
Director of IAR at Samaru. He would be assisted by three
economists and sufficient enumerators to undertake the sur-
veys, evaluation and statistical data required of the unit.
ILAR, veLng part of tne A''nmadu Bello University, would draw
on university staff from other disciplines when required.
B. Staffing
5.06      The project would need to be run by an efficient administration
team and field staff, which would require management of the highest calibre
at the senior level, and interested and hardworking individuals at the
middle and lower levels. Both the State and Federal Governments recognize
the need for good staffing and would be prepared to recruit internationally
expatriate staff so long as there are no properly qualified and capable
individuals within the State to fill the post. Medium level technical and
administrative staff are available in Nigeria, though there may be some
need to recruit from other States for certain posts. Some lower level staff
are available and more can be made available through existing training
schemes currently operating in the northern States, or through in-service
staff training courses to be operated under the project.
5.07      High Level Staff.  It would be necessary to recruit internation-
ally the following: Project Manager, Financial Controller, Credit Manager,
Senior Evaluation Officer, Research Officer; Senior Engineer, Planning
Officer, Conservation Officer, Road Enginner and Workshop Manager. From
within the State the project would recruit the Senior Administration Officer
(Deputy Project Manager), Chief Technical Officer, Marketing Officer and
Senior Extension Officer. (Annex 9). ABU would be responsible for the
appointment of the evaluation & research staff.
5.08      Medium Level Staff at a level of professional officer grade or
senior technical grade (Annex 9) would be recruited from within the State
of from other States in Nigeria. However, all technical service staff and
the field sections of credit and evaluation services should be Hausa
speaking, preferably from the North Western State. Administrative staff,
accounting staff and engineering service staff need not necessarily be
Hausa speaking.
5.09      Lower Level Staff at a comparable level of AA and below would all
be indigenous to the State.
5.10      Expatriate staff to the State, whether from other States in
Nigeria or from outside Nigeria, would be offered 3 year contracts, to be
renewed on negotiation. Each contract would comprise two eighteen month
tours. Indigenous State staff would be either seconded from Government



- 27 -
Ministries to the project or would be offered contracts which at the dis-
cretion of the Public Service Commission, might later be converted to per-
manent and pensionable posts.
5.11      All staff with salaries of more than N 1,000 per annum would be
provided with project houses, AA's with a salary of less than N 1,000 would
receive a project house in the village centers as additional inducement.
General service staff, including AI's, clerical assistants, typists, drivers,
messengers and casual labor would be expected to find their own accommodation
in the towns or villages.
5.12      Staff at certain levels and duties would be provided with project
vehicles for project work, and would not be expected to use their private
vehicles. However, all staff who qualify under State regulations would
receive normal car allowances, and other benefits.
5.13      For full details of staff requirements see Annex 9, table 4 and
Annex 6.
C. Staff Training
5.14      The proiect would undertake the training of lower level staff
at the training centers to be established under the project, see para 3.09.
The training of higher level technical and management stnff ca n onlyi be
undertaken on an in-service basis. Technical staff would be trained by ex-
perienced personnel in new teehniques and management skills renuired for
undertaking a development program of this type. Management and administra-
tive staff would also receive training on new procedures and managem-nt
techniques which may evolve during the project.
5.15      The project would make positive efforts at training selected pro-
4ect staff as future managers for other developnents which would take place
elsewhere in the State. The project would not include counterparts, but
rather from the m.lddle of the second -ear onwards selected officers from
various levels in the project management would be seconded for periods of
4 - 6 weeks to different sections of the project for practical training in
new disciplines.  For example the Senior Extension Officer and Development
Ulnit Officers would be seconded to the er.ginneering services to learn the
survey and engineering aspects of infrastructure development, along with
the nroaramming and day to day management aspects involved.    . Teir own
positions would be filled temporarily by their junior staff, until they
returned. T.his would apply, after a reasonable period, to sen'Lor Nigerian
staff who would act for expatriates when away from the project.   Thus staff
with management potential would be trained in management, but at the same
time would retain responsibility for a specific part of the project develop-
ment.  In this way Government and Project Marnagen-Lent would be able to select
people with proven ability to manage, and with a broad enough experience to
enable them at some future date to organize and manage othler agrLculturaL
deve )pment schemes.



- 28 -
5.16      Proiect costs show expatriate staff in position for the five years
disbursement period. It is likely that most of them would remain for the
full period. However, contracts would be renegotiated after 3 years, and
if Nigerian project staff, by that time, have proven their ability to manage,
then it would be appropriate for the particular post to be Nigerianized for
the remaining period of project disbursement. It should be remembered that
the development of 68,000 farmine families would be dependent on good manage-
ment and that this factor would remain the prime concern of both Government
and the Bank when evaluating project services and associated management re-
quirements.
D.  Farm Tnnpit  - Credit and Cash Sales
5.17      Fertilizers, seeds, insecticides, batteries, sprayers, ox carts,
ox drawn- ploughs, tratorn and nncillarv enuinment would be made available
to project farmers by the Project Administration on credit (in kind) and
for cash. The total value of such inputs l s1 expected to inrreraa from an
insignificant level before the project starts to about N4.7 million in 1979
for whlich .the net- cash1 requi-  ,  u-- d14 b-e Qhout9 0mi4 I11 on. -Ahoit 75%
of the seasonal inputs and all sprayers, ox drawn equipment and tractors
would be expected to be supplied on credit
5.10      All Item,. except for fertilizers which are sold at a State wide
fixed price, would carry a 10% service charge. Seasonal inputs including
erta'li zers, seed,s, insecticides a.nd batteries When sol-d on credit, woul
include in the price an additional 10%, and would be repayable after har-
vest,  equivaLentL 'Lo arL effective annual C-1harge of  -out 12%)/.  p-  t
of cotton sprayers would be in two equal annual installments including 10%
it1LeretL. ux drawnI eq4U±pmenILt comUprL_Isi  cdaL diiU p±AoUr"i, would Ue supp1i.A
as a package against a 20% down payment.   The balance would be repaid over
tnree years at 10% iLnterest iLn1 equadl annua1L  installm.-nt0s. V . N  crdtol
be made available for oxen, as there is no shortage of oxen in the project
area, and in any case the type of farmer receiving ox drawn equipment. would
be the larger farmer of 6-10 ha who would probably already own oxen.     Con-
tractors would be encouraged to take out 'Loans for traCtOrs and ancIllary
equipment (inclusive of 5 ton trailer, ridger, and chisel plough).     A down
payment of 30% wouid be made by tne contractor and the balan.ce would be re-
paid over four years at 10% in equal annual installments. Interest rates
as quoted above are in line with existing coummercia; rates.
5.19      Procurement of all inputs would be made under ICB by the proJect
administration and all sales whether for cash or credit would be handled by
project credit staff.
5.20      The Credit System.   Previous credit channels have generally failed
in the northern States of Nigeria. Cooperative Societies are unpopular since
they have tended to cut across traditional administration at village level,
have been exploited politically, and have operated mainly to the benefit of



- 29 -
the trader in the towns. In any event the village farmer is not prepared
to set up cooperative systems along conventional patterns. During the last
few years there has been a growth of Farmer Associations at village level.
Each Farmer Association automatically comprises the total village population
(whether active or passive) and is managed by a committee, including re-
presentatives of each statellite hamlet, and is normally chaired by the
village head. These Farmer Associations have already made significant ef-
forts in purchasing fertilizer in bulk for their members, and make ready
and willing focal points for dissemination of new techniques. The project
would therefore exploit the traditional systems of village management for
credit distribution and recovery.
5.21      Credit Distribution.   The success of the project would depend up-
on the bperations of the credit service and the farmers' ability to repay
their loans. Thus credit, which would be intensively supervised with one
CA to 200-300 accounts, would be made on an individual basis. On receipt
of advice from the village center extension AA on the farmer's technical
ability the Credit Assistant would review the farmer's credit-worthiness
with his hamlet head and Farmers Association Committee. After approval,
the agent would calculate the farmer's credit needs which would be checked
and authorized by the Development Unit Credit Officer. Once authorized,
the farmer would collect his requirements in kind from the village centre
store at the appropriate time. The amounts would be debited on the farmer's
credit card, (there being three copies, held by farmer; CA and Credit Ac-
counting Section at HQ), using a cash register printout machine with coded
prefixes to indicate the tvye of item debited to farmer.
5.22      Credit Recovery.   Since all marketing in the proect area is
undertaken by private traders or licensed buying agents, it would be in-
appropriate to recover credit navments through the markets.   Th,,- a system
using the basis of mutual liability would be developed. The mutually liable
unit would be the hamlet, and right from the start the hamlet would decide
on farmer creditworthiness (see para 5.20). On acceptance, the farmer would
deposit with the Credit Assistant 10% of the value of the required credit.
The 10% deposit would be held in trust by the project in a hamlet account.
At the end of the season the farmer would repay his loan to the project au-
thorities. If a hamlet only achieved 95% repayment then the project would
deduct the outstandine 5% from the hamlet trst accot.      The foll0wing
year the hamlet would have to make up the trust account to 10% value of
credit renuire-ment nrior to receiving credit.  The hamlet conatittee would
be informed on any outstanding debtors, and it would remain for the hamlet
to col lect the bad debts.  If the repayments fell below 90% then the -whole
hamlet would be penalized and would receive no credit services whatsoever
Ltmtl1 the credit re-ayments were brought up to the required level.   Tis
system would apply to all seasonal credit and cotton sprayers.    It would
not applyr to tractors anA anc   a-.Jar equip.-,.ent, as suc5h `.ans wouWlUd be hand-
led from the project head office under the direct supervision of the Credit
Mnager and Senior Credit Officer, whI -would draw up special loan agree-
ments between project and borrower.   Similarly, ox drawn equipment loans
would be made against special loan agrLeements and would be approved by the
District Credit Officer.



- 30 -
5.23      Farmers renilring farm 4-npits for *ash would puirrh2s  the inniltQ
from the Credit Assistant at the village center at cost price plus 10%
service charge.
5'.2      T.he'M   use   of   coded   cash   register   m chn esnp   n ,  _q^ni g   n-^-n a c u ting
systems would minimize the amount of book-keeping at village level; and
would    & thus reuc  the ___ ir. ad-d-nstratio.. of credit at one of --- most
vulnerable points.
5.25      It is planned that by the third or fourth year of the project the
h-amlets would purchase inputs, through a ham.let credit accont- rather than
L Idi±L i L.  JUU  J Li  A.il~   L .L9L  LALL  JL6L1  L& L0*J_  L.  U~ I. L~..AU.  L.  =LL  LItCLLA
on an individual basis, thus reducing the number of accounts, and perhaps
uriingiing back 'nto use a proper Uooperaltive LtLUtUL, UasU ULo  a LLad-
itional system. Eventually each village might become a primary society
receiving funds throuug1 -a Lentral "uudau FaLUers' UnJlon".
40         e crea±l.t l'us hiIanduleud LbLy the Project APd1UUI±a.-  -L  W U Ub
held in a separate revolving credit account in the Central Bank of Nigeria's
brancn at Sokoto. To irLvoLve the Nig-e riLan Agricultural Bank (1iAB) whLicLLI
was recently formed, the General Manager of NAB would be invited to sit on
the project Development COMnmiLttee and Federal Coordinating CtoUUULttLee, thus
giving NAB the opportunity to monitor the credit fund, advise the project
on credit matters, and perhaps pro-v'de audit and comiputer services.  If at
some future date project credit funds were found to be inadequate NAB would
be in a good position to supply such needs.
5.27      A separate account for farm input casn saies would be also estab-
lished in the Central Bank, and the Central Bank or an approved commercial
bank would provide any short term working capital which mignt be required
to finance the procurement of the inputs. By the fifth year of the project
the procurement for cash sales would be valued at NO.4 million annually.
The finance charges for this working capital would be recovered from the
10% service charge added to all inputs.
5.28      The Federal Government would pay into revolving credit account
and the project account the fertilizer subsidy, due to the project immedi-
ately after the award of contract.
5.29      Presently less than 3,000 tons of fertilizer per annum are sold
by the MANR in the project area - an amount which is unattractive to com-
mercial agencies for distribution. By 1980 an approximate 25,000 tons of
fertilizer would be sold in the area, and efforts would be made to draw
commercial agencies into the project area as fertilizer demand increases
during the latter years of the project.
5.30      By 1980 the average sesonal credit to farmers receiving credit
would be in the order of N 40-50 per farmer. The seasonal credit per ha
would be about N 20. For further details see Annex 8.



- 31 
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMERS' BENEFITS AND GOVERNMENT
BENEFITS
A. Yields and Outputs
6.01      The large number of farm families (about 68,000) in the project
area, and the complexity of cropping mixtures and patterns are such that
yield variations are inevitable and substantial. It has been assumed that
project farmers would fall into one or other of two or three categories for
each of the five crops affected by the project. Details are given in Annex
7. Advanced cotton growers, who would comprise 36 percent of total numbers
and 45 percent of total cotton area by 1979, are expected to obtain yields
averaging 1,100 kg/ha of seed cotton by using fertilizer and insecticides.
Traditional cotton farmers, on the other hand, who are expected to ignore
project advice and assistance, would obtain no more than the present aver-
age yleld of 250 kg/ha of seed cotton. The overall average seed cotton
yield from the project area is expected to increase to about 675 kg/ha by
1979. The feasibility of achieving such a level is demonstrated by yields
of well over 2,000 kg/ha obtained in trials in the area. Similar yields
have been achieved on a sustained basis by cotton growers under similar
ecological conditions and technical improvements in other West African
countries.
6.02      Advanced maize growers using hybrid seed, fertilizers and good
management practices are expected to approximate 12.000 each with one ha
of maize by 1979. Intermediate maize growers would total 26,000 each with
0.5 ha of improved varieties and lower levels of fertilizer application.
Yields of shelled grain obtained by these two categories are expected to be
4.000 and 2.500 kg/ha respectively. The feasibility of achievine these
levels is demonstrated by yields of over 5,500 and 3,500 kg/ha obtained from
advanced and intermediate maize technologv on trials in the nroiect area.
Further, ongoing development of improved maize types at the neighboring
Institute of Aericultural Research (IAR) is predlic-ted to provide matrFial
with even higher yielding potential in the near future.   The project is ex-
pected to effect a substantial change in the nattern of cereal nroduction
in the area. Area planted is expected to increase from an estimated 7,000
ha in 1974 to 27,000 ha in 1979, largely at the expense of sorphum and
millet. Production would increase from 6,000 tons to about 76,000 tons
and the average yield would increase from Q.9 ton/ha to 2.7 tons per ha over
the same period.
6.03      Sorghum yields from hybrids grown under improved management and
heavy fertilizer dressings are expected to reach 2000 kgIha in thre-shed
grain. Yields from dwarf varieties at intermediate technology levels are
expected to be abouit 1X500 kg/ha.  These vields compare with estimated pro-
ject area yield of unimproved sorghum, unfertilized, of 750 kg/ha of thre-
shed arain.  Trials in neighboring areas with similar climate and soil
conditions yielded some 3.700 and 2,800 kg/ha from advanced and intermediate



- 32 -
technology treatments respectively. These yields and the continued pro-
gram of sorghum research on a West African regional basis with foreign
technical assistance argue the feasibility of expected project yields. An
expected 20 percent decline in total sorghum area would be substantially
countered by the uptake of improved practices. Production would decrease
from an estimated 66,000 tons. The average yield would be 0.9 tons/ha in
1974 to about 61,000 tons in 1979. Annex 7, Table 12 gives details.
6.04      Only one level of improved groundnut technology has been assumed
-ar the project. This would incorporate improved seed, fertilizer and good
management practices. Its effect is expected to increase yields of shelled
nuts from the present average of 650 kg/ha to 1,200 kg/ha. Numbers of far-
mers following improved practices are expected to approximate 26,000 bv
1979, or 52 percent of estimated growers, each with 0.75 ha planted with
groundnuts. The feasibility of this rate of uptake rests on the familia-
rity of project area farmers with proposed improved technology, the adop-
tion of which has been constrained by inadequate technical assistance, input
supplies and credit. Incremental production due to the project would be about
11,000 tons. Expected averaRe yields are in line with levels nredicted by
the Extension Research Liaison Section (ERLS) of IAR, on the basis of
evaluation of extensive field trials in the northern States.    Average yvelds
would be raised to 0.94 tons/ha.
6.05      Cowpea production is expected to be increased as a function of up-
take of advanced cotton t.chnolozg.   This is because current average yields;
of about 200 kg/ha of shelled peas, are severely restricted by insect attack.
Application of insecticide to sole crops of cowneas (the rrOn iS normnlly
interplanted) given phosphate fertilizer has increased yields tenfold under
trial conditions.   Under the proiect. yields of cowneas under intermediate
technology are expected to reach 900 kg/ha, and under advanced technology,
involving improved seed and a heavier fertilizer dressing, some 1200 kg/ha.
In each case, the cowpeas would be sprayed with insecticide, utilizing the
same equipment and similar materials to those renommended for rnttnn      The
rate of uptake is expected to approximate 50% of farmers utilizing advanced
cotton production techniques or about 12;000 farmers by 1979.    Plot size i
expected to approximate 0.25 ha, and incremental production some 2,800 tons
by 1979. Details are in Annex 7.
B. Markets and Prices
6.06      AYriuiilt-iirq1 rornrs in the prni-t- aa  wl    b  marketed -A
the existing channels:
a)   food crops (maize, sorghum, cowpeas) would be marketed
via the rral markets or bUy direct contract Lo wLole-
salers; and



- 3,3 -
b)   cotton and groundnuts would continue to be marketed
through Marketing Board markets where statutory prices
are guaranteed. These crops are either exported or used
nationally for industrial use.
6.07      The free marketing of food crops would appear to be satisfactory
since competition is strong and the traders, who generally own their own
transport, are efficient and compete at many of the local rural markets.
Studies by IAR indicate that the farmer receives about 70% of the retail
price at the northern urban markets, which under any system can be con-
sidered satisfactory.
6.08      The statutory marketing system in the four most northern states
of Nigeria is controlled by the Northern States Marketing Board (NSMB). As
is the case with most marketing boards in Nigeria the NSMB has been critici-
zed for unnecessarily high taxation on the marketed crops, for excessive
overhead costs and unsatisfactory services to farmers. The FMG has given
serious consideration to the formulation of new policies, which are to be
introduced during the current financial year. The changes include:
a)   reduced taxation;
b)   reduced Board overheads;
c)   transfer of export profits to producers; and
d)   federal responsibility for producer price determination,
produce inspection, and support price policies, which
might eventually include subsidization of Board overhead
costs.
6.09      The statutory marketing system in the project area requires to be
improved on a number of counts. These include:
a)   timely announcement and wide publicity of producer prices;
b)   provision of adequate funds for produce purchases;
c)   establishment and enforcement of quality standards;
d)   dismissal of inefficient or dishonest LBA's and produce
inspection staff.
Such improvements would necessitate close contact and cooperation with NPMC,
NSMB, the Central Bank and commercial banks; provision of the right of veto
to the project administration in the selection and licensing of LBA's; and
the emnloyment of well trained proJect staff concerned with market control,
liaison, and marketing research. Details are given in Annex 10, para 11.
6.10      Producer prices, presently at peak level for industrial and export
crops, are exnected to fall during the proiect period by up to 1/3 of their
present level. Cotton and groundnut world market prices are expected to
decline as projected hv the Bank's commodity division, though the producers'
farm gate price may not be reduced so dramatically, depending in interpre-
tation of the proposed amendments in the market system (para 6.08). The
food crop prices are expected to remain at present levels which reflects



- 34 -
expectations of positive results from FMG's policies and support towards
intensive cereal production on a national scale, thus assuring supplies to
the steadily growing urban population.
6.11      The following table summarizes present and future prices for pro-
ject crops (in N/m ton):
Cotton Groundnuts Maize /1 Sorghum Cowpeas
fob       fob       cif        cif       cif
Nigerian port /2
1972                          490       156        50        47         -
1973                          520       220        -         -          -
1980 (at 1973 prices)         340        97        -         -          -
Producer price in project
area /3
1972                          110        67.6      -         -          -
1973                          132        80.6      70        65         95
1980 (at 1973 prices)          80        50       79/49      75         91
Economic price at farmgatr /3
1980                           89        57       54/34       51        99
/1   Producer prices for 1980 show N 79 is sold in northern markets and N 49
if sold in Ibadan or other southern markets. A similar variation is pro-
jected for the 1980 economic price at farm gate.
/2   Cotton prices at Nigerian port are for cotton lint.
/3   Cotton prices in project area and at farm gate are for seed cotton.
The crop budgets shown in Annex 7 use the projected 1980 producer price as
shown in the above table. Price reductions as projected for cotton and
groundnuts would necessitate at least a 50% yield increase to compensate
for the market-incurred loss in producer income, apart from the yield in-
creases required to cover the cost of inputs as proposed under the project.
The project would therefore encourage the farmers to produce high quality
crops such as the more uniform cotton required by the local mills, and
where applicable the development of confectionary groundnuts. However, such
improvements cannot be quantified at this stage.
C. Farmer Benefits
6.12      Farmers participating in project activities would obtain substan-
tial dt:ect income benefits through utilizing project services and inputs.



- 35 -
In addition benefits due to improved road, water supplies, soil conserva-
tion and marketing would be of indirect benefit to about 40% of the project
farmers who in the first instance do not avail themselves of project ser-
vices.
6.13      Estimated direct benefits have been calculated on a unit area
basis for the crops which would be affected.    Estimated returns summarized
below and presented in detail in Annex 7, tables 3-7, are based on producer
prices referred to in para 6.11. They illustrate the considerable finan-
cial attractions of cereal, particularly maize, cultivation using advanced
technology, relative to other crops. They also show the overall benefits of
improved technology over traditional practices.
Gross Revenue (.N/1ha)
.3.1 .J..   T                A - 2J~~~ 
.LaLLtJLona.L  InL-n ULtUermetate  Aduva.rcedu  Traditional:
___________  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ________   Adv anced
Cotton              20              43             83       1: 5.05
GroundtUs           32L.             -             0        i; i .8 
Maize               58             128            256       1: 4.41
Sorghum             56             112            150       1: 2.68
Cowpeas             18              82            109       1: 6.06
Net Revenue Including Labor Costs (N/ha)
Cotton             (18)            (19)           (13)      1: 1.38
Groundnuts         (29)              -            (24)      1: 1.21
Maize               (2)             36            137       1:70.50
Sorghum              3              42             51       1:17.00
Cowpeas            (23)              5             26       1: 3.13
Net Revenue Excluding Labor Costs (N/ha)
Cotton             119              31             45       1: 2.37
Groundnuts          28              -              50       1: 1.79
Maize               55             106            215       1: 3.91
Sorghum             54             101            121       1: 1.24
Cowpeas             16              57             80       1: 5.00
Returns to Labor (N/man day)
Cotton             0.31           0.37           0.46       1: 1.48
Groundnuts         0.30             -            0.41       1: 1.37
Maize              0.58           0.91           1.65       1: 2.84
Sorghum            0.64           1.03           1.04       1: 1.63
Cowpeas            0.25           0.64           0.88       1: 3.52



- 36 -
6.14      Tables 8 and 9 of Annex 7 are model budgets for typically sized
holdings of 3.5 ha in the project area. They compare the effects of pro-
ject activities at full development on cotton and groundnut producers fol-
lowing advanced technological practices for these crops, cereals and cow-
peas, with results ob tained by a traditional producer.  Expected returns
are shown in summary form below per holding (in N):
1, Pe L' u rn s  IL   ia .lU -L  mu Av ar ed  Ad-vanced  Traditionai: Traditional:
Cotton   Groundnut Adv. Cotton     Adv. Gnut.
Gross:              113          455        404       1: 403        1: 3.58
Net revenue
Including
Labor Costs:        (28)         154        142      1: 7.50        1: 7.07
Net revenue
Excluding
Labor Costs:       107           345        340      1: 3.22        1: 3.18
Returns to Labor
(N/Manday):       0.39          0.94       0.90      1: 2.41        1: 2.31
Thus, at full development, farmers taking full advantage of project facili-
ties and growing either cotton or groundnuts in addition to improved cereals
could be expected to more than triple their gross and net revenues ex-
cluding labor costs.
6.15      Projected numbers of farmers benefiting from the project are de-
tailed under each crop in Annex 7. Expected numbers at full development
are shown below by crops.
Number of Farms                   Percentage of Total
Crop        Traditional   Intermediate  Advanced  Total   Intermediate  Advanced
Cotton:       31,000         7,100      21,400    59,500      12           36
Groundnuts:   24,000           -        26,000    50,000      -            52
Maize:        10,000        26,000      12,000    48,000      54           25
Sorghum:      46,000        18,000       4,000    68,000      26            6
Cowpeas:      56,000         7,000       5,000    68,000      10            7
The expected popularity of maize is largely explained by the substantial
potential benefits (para 6.12).   The comparatively low uptake of improved
cowpea technology expected is due largely to its proposed linkage to imp-
roved cotton technology (the same sprayers and spraying techniques would be
used).



- 37 -
6.16      Expected area benefiting from the project is detailed by crops and
levels of technology in Annex 7. The table below summarized this informa-
tion on a crop basis (in ha) at full development:
Area (ha)                   Percentage of Total
crop          Traditional Intermediate Advanced Total Intermediate Advanced
Cotton:          22,200      5,500        23,100   58,800    11        45
Groundnuts:      17.500        -           19.500  37,000    -          53
Maize:            2,500     13,000         12,000  27,500    47         44
Sorghum:         59,300      9,000          1,500  69,800    13          2
Cowpeas:         9,000       1,750          1,250  12,000    15        10
6.17      Expected production increases derived from the project at full
development are summarized by crops below (in tons).
Estimated Production                  Incremental
With Prnoe-t-      Withonut Prniprt           Prndutionn
Gnttonn         '4jO00           10,000                    24,000
Groundnuts:     35,000           24,000                    11,000
Maize.:         76,000            6, 000                   70,000
Sorghum:        61,000           66,500                    (5,500)
Other Cereals:   2,500             , 4Ann                   (Qnn
Cowpeas:         5,000            2,200                     2,800
Details are in Annex 7.
6.18      Financial benefits of proposed project activities over traditional
practices measured in terms of estimated net returns including and ex-
cluding labor charges are shown below by crops (in N) at full development.
T. unt eLm.edla+e  Asva.c A  . Tota
Incremental Net Returns Including Labor Costs.
Cotton          (10,615)     111,110     100,495
Groundnuts         -          98,865      98,865
Maize           493,350    1,661,400   2,154,750
Sorghum         352,350       72,075      424,425
Cowpeas         50,660        60,625     111,285
Total           885,745    2,004,075   2,889,820



- 38 -
Incremental Net Returns Excluding Labor Costs
Cotton          67,100      611,225     678,325
Groundnuts        -         426,465     426,465
Maize          664,950    1,920,600   2,585,550
Sorghum        422,550       99,975     522,525
Cowpeas         72.710       80.125     152.835
Total        1.227.310    3.138.390   4.365,700
Thus, farmers' net cash benefits are expected to range between N 2.8R millinn
and N 4.3 million at full development.  This would be between N 42 and N 64
for each farming family throughout the 9roiect area. or ahout N 100 fnr each
farming family availing itself of credit for inputs (para 3.11).
D. Financial Implication to Government
6.19       .el.ral Militwrv rnvurnmant.  Unless policies regarding fertilizer
subsidies are changed prior to the completion of the project, FMG would be
committed to an annual fertilizer subsidv to the State Gvpr nmnt nf N 0=6
million.
6.20      North Western State Government. During the development period of
thp nrni'et the Strate rvuPrnment wntil,l hp rani,irad tn 4inranct- U ' a m41lI4^n
as its share of project costs.  If surpluses from the revolving credit ac-
count (Annex 8, Table 6) andA t     on cotton and groundnuts are take  irnto
account then the net requirement would be reduced to N 2.5 million. The gross
incremer.tal income turnover within the -roJecIt arashould net  oer.n
a revenue equivalent to at least 10% of income turnover through direct and
indirect taxation., and would result in an actuall net cost to 'Goverrment
during the development period of N 2.0 million. (Annex 12, Table 1).
6.21      After the development period the Government would be committed to
ar. ar.nual cost to pro-jectL farmers 'or -le conffinuation of-itlprJc
al  llL~.  I~  .LU j)LLJ.L  L  .aLUL.  LL  L_LL  LV  LJ.U L±UJLL  1)1  Vi.LLd.L  PLj)fU CL
services of N 0.8 million from Years 6-10 and N 0.7 million from Year 11
onwards. TakIng account of other revenues gen      d by the project, and
the repayment of IBRD and FMG loan the net cost to Government from Year 6-
20 would average about N 600,000 per anLiui. Ai Eth IBRD loan had been
repaid in Year 20, the project would generate a net surplus of N500,000
annually.  It should be noted that the foregoing estimates are based on the
surmise that no significant increases in production would occur after Year
5.  mlIis is unlikely to be the actual case.



- 39 -
VII. BENEr-TTS AND JUbTIF-IC±ATION
7.01      The project's direct economic benefits would comprise of produc-
tion increases resulting from farmers taking up the use ot tarm inputs in-
cluding fertilizers, seeds, insecticides, spraying machines and other farm
equipment. The economic rate of return has been calculated comparing the
new situation with the existing situation and can be best summarized in the
crop budgets shown at Annex 7. Estimates of incremental production are
summarized in Annex 13 Table 1 and are described in paras 6.01 - 6.05.
This production is valued at world prices projected for 1980, which in the
case of cotton and groundnuts is substantially lower than current prices
and those expected during the first years of the project life. Project
costs take account of gross cost of farm inputs and the cost of infrastruc-
tural and administrative services, less any taxes or duties which are posi-
tively identified. Incremental farm family labor has been shadow priced
and amounts to Nl.l million annually, hired labor for road construction
has likewise been shadow priced. In this instance the shadow cost of for-
eign exchange rate has not been included, but consideration for its in-
clusion should be given at appraisal. Calculated as above the internal
economic rate of return is 11%. Since the project only directly affects
50% of the project area farmers it is considered that only 50% of the road
and water development costs should be costed against the project, which would
result in an economic rate of return of 14%.
7.02      A sensitivity analysis has been undertaken to test the project
under various assumptions which might occur. For instance if all the maize
was to be sold in northern markets the rate of return would increase by
about 7 percentage points, and if the shadow price of farm family labor
labor was taken as zero the rate of return would increase by about 15 per-
centage points. Conversely if all the maize was sold in the southern mar-
kets, which is most unlikely, the rate of return would drop by 8 percentage
points. Road user benefits have not been quantified, but if included would
show a distinct improvement in the rate of return. Under these various
possibilities and assumptions it would seem that the fairest estimate for
the internal rate of return would fall between 11-14% (see Annex 13).
7.03      Full project induced production would be reached in the fifth year
after the start of the project. Project produced groundnuts would result
in additional foreign exchange earnings, while the production of cotton.
sorghum and maize would substitute for imports and thus save foreign exchange.
Net export earnings and savings at full development are expected to reach
about N20 million annually, and would thus further add to Nigeria's already
favorable balance of payments situation.
7.04      The prolect's indirect benefits would be substantial.   It would
directly affect some 35,000 farm families, and a further 33,000 farm
families would receive benefits from improved water supplies, roads and
some 'rub off' from extension services.   All farmers and their families
would be brought that minh closer to hetter health faci1itfe   anti othAr



- 40 -
social servi Ppe anrl nm niti4p  nlann bf y hu tho (yravnn mnt dAi,vr,n" the n
five years. In total some 630,000 people would be affected one way or an-
nthpr by nrni ot-t activities1th In addition withou  the project at Gu-au i4t
is more than likely that the agro industries being developed for groundnut
Anl nti   t     rn_ 4 1   _^^4-     -  4  rmsIS T'V   -; __+ . . .  -1A   __t>_
and cn~o--          --   4---, in which _         part cpatig -   iswould make
substantial losses. Furthermore the northern textile mills would be depen-
dent on the project's cotton production.     MIze produced by project farmers
is essential both for local consumption by a steadily rising population,
and by the commercial livestock and poultry indu- try situated mA inly in te
southern states.
7.05      With the considerable increase in gross income and the resultant
--4e- ci rculating with-in the- profec  are    it                  ----  ___tth;ualtru
~  L..L  L.LaL.L L W. LLL.L&   LALCV pi JJ=ULL  "&~   JL  L.- ± J1=U =  L.LlaL  LUL di.  -LLUUe
and small industries are likely to expand and benefit from the project.
w,Wpareud withAL1 many ruraUL cor± nunities in other coun-rUes local trade is f erce
and brisk and is likely to take full advantage of the project investments
and' expected' benefits.
7.06      The project in itself will create substantial empioyment oppor-
tunities during and after the development period. Government staff in the
area will expand from some 30 at present to about 500 employees.      The road
and water development program would require about 300 manyears of paid
casual labor aind would call on about the same amount of voluntary labor.
Employment of existing farm family labor, currently under-utilized, would
amount to an annual increase of 11,000 manyears of incremental labor from
the 5th year onwards. This is equivalent to net income per mnmday of in-
cremental employment of N 1.5 (US$2.31).
7.07       Tne project would cause improvement to Government institutions
and would work in close conjunction with the local administration and Local
Authority. The project would test new credit systems which would be dis-
seminated by NAB. The project would add strength to the present MANR act-
ivities and should lead the way for further developments elsewhere in the
State. The project should cause NSMB to be more proficient and would as-
sist NSnB_ in developing new and improved marketing methods and liaison
within the project area.
7.08       The project would be essential for the training of Nigerian admin-
istrators and technicians in the methods of development techniques and man
management.
VIII. OUTSTANDING ISSUES
8.01      Preparation of the project report and the general conclusions and
implications likely to be drawn from it were discussed with the State re-
presentatives at Jos in March 1973. However, now that the detail has been
put together certain conclusions, implications, and possible issues for both



- 41 -
the Federal Government, North Central State Government and the World Bank,
have become more apparent and should be fully discussed prior to and during
the appraisal of the project. These include:
a)   updating of field staff requirements for the project
with' special reference to current training efforts of
Agricultural Assistants to meet project requirements
in Years 1 and 2;
b)   progress on commercial seed multiplication at Bacita Sugar
Estate or any other commercial organization;
c)   policy on fertilizer subsidy for fertilizer other than
sulphate of ammonia and single superphosphate and FMG
general policy on subsidization throughout the northern
States;
d)   clarification on cereal prices, particularly projected
movements of maize and sorghum, their interrelationship
and market prospects in urban centers in both northern and
southern States. The substitution effect of sorghum by
maize on local northern rural diets;
e)   Marketing Board organization and clarification of ne-w
Federal pricing policies and procedures;
f)   the role of produce inspectors in the NSMB and the related
quality control for cotton and groundnuts;
g)   the role of the Ahmadu Bello University. through TAR,
in project evaluation;
h)   the role of NAB in relation to project credit;
i)   the need for key management, technical and engineering
staff to be recruited through international channel-c and
the role of Bank assistance in this matter;
j)   agreement on using the project as the construction Agency
for road and water development:
k)   agreement on an overall financina plan; the degree of
Bank, FMG and State funds to be made available; the
procedures for onlending and the term- of Federal 1oans
to the State Government;
1)   project funding and accounting procedures; and
m)   the concept of project organization, controlling committees,
and Federal coordination between other projects in the
northern States.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agriuiiltiiral lP-vgP1nnmPnt Prnirt
Basic Data
Population
1.        Population data are among the most fundamental of the basic data
.eeAdeAu to fom..ulatae th.e proJect.  Available f-bures are sant.  The last
census, which was carried out in 1963 is the best source of population data.
l..e or,ly IothLer possilble s .e, .LS0urC.L ocal Aut. horit  re-urns on numbers ofL-- tx
payers, whilst collected annually vary in accuracy in accordance with the
UdLLgerice o'L the dlfferen  officials chlargeLu with L-axcollect.ionL.U Lrponsi-
bilities in the districts.  It appears to represent no more than 60-80 per-
cent of adult male population imputed from cen,sus data.
2.        According to th~e cerisus, pLpulation of those parts of the five
districts constituting the project area totalled 470,500 in 1963. A growth
rate of 2.5 percent annually is thLe one nornmally used In cornection with
rural populations in the northern States. At this rate, population of the
project area would be 620,000 by 1974.
3.        Data on numbers of persons per family in the project area are also
sparse. No demographic surveys have been carried out. However, indications
from tax data point to a figure ot 4.72.   Local opinion does nor contirm
this, suggesting that family size approximates 6.5 individuals. This figure
in turn is lower than that obtained in a detailed survey of three villages
in Zaria Province, some 120 km south of the project area. The latter arrived
at a mean figure of 8.5 persons per family. This is substantially higher
than the figure suggested by the Federal Office of Statistics for the State
as a whole. Because of the spread between family size derived from tax
data on the one hand, and a microsample in a roughly comparable area on the
other, 6.5 was arbitrarily selected as representing average tamily size.
This was in accordance with local opinion and roughly between the extremes
suggested from elsewhere. Thus, on the basis of a family size of 6.5, and
a population of 620,000, there would be some 95,380 families in the area by
1974.
4.        Numbers of farming families was calculated on the assumpt'ion that
about 28 percent would be engaged primarily on non agricultural activities.
This figure was derived from census data and observations on non agricultural
activities in the area. On this basis, there would be about 68,000 farming
families in the project area by 1974.






ANNEX 2
Page 1
NIGERIA
INORTh WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricultural Development Project
Research and Seed Multiplication
Institutions
1.        Technical and rural economic research pertaining to the proiect
area is the responsibility of the semi-autonomous Institute of Agricultural
Research (IAR).   The Institute was created in the early 1960's and is linked
to the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) at Zaria. It has its main station and
administrative headquarters at Samaru, adjoining the ABU campus, some 120 km
south of proposed project headquarters at Gusau. IAR serves the six nor-
thern States. Senior officials from their Ministries of Agriculture and
Natural Resources (MANR) help to formulate IAR policy and approve research
programs.
2.        The Institute has a staff of over 200 professionals, modern nnd
expanding facilities. It has established apparently good working relations
with other research institutions in Nigeria and the West Afritan region.
Its standing in research circles is acknowledged to be high. Over the years
it has produced a wide ranae of research resuslt relating to most of the
crops commonly grown in the northern States. Implementation of the results
has been hamnered by lack of tpehnical asistance annd innipt delvetr=y  srx 1ces
at the village and farmer levels; and a tendency to be unrelated to the
conditions encoint-ered on farmrc' farmQs.  The latter weakness has been high=
lighted recently as a result of the activities of the Rural Economics
Rpeearcrh Unit (RERU) nf TAR, Staff of PFTU are cooperating with technical
personnel in the formulation of research recommendations more nearly re-
lated to farmerq' need and capahilities than has hitherto been the case.
3.         sponnnsihi1ity for trannmission of research results to extension
staff is vested in the Extension Research Liaison Service (ERIS) of IAR.
11-eado e hTadeput- Direc-t of   heD tiue, FR:TC ---or...                 audio
and visual aids materials suitable for use by farmer contact extension staff.
The Service is responsible for fo-mulating draft reco,nunended practices for
farmers.  These are based on research results and an assessment of the level
of sup ervisior. and technical competence of field level extension staff em-
ployed by the State MAJR's. This is generally low, hence recommended pra-
Cti,mv_ tendA to- be      --Ap]  an onservative   in- 'rer to avoid the 'aazard o.
-   1-   -- -IL111   --   A .V  LVW.,   4.LL  UL U~  L.)  dV LU  LIL  iLdL  U  Ut
loss of confidence by farmers in extension staff who give wrong advice (due
to lack ot compreheson)l or wIlo are unable to arranLge fLor supplies of
necessary inputs. ERLS has a staff of some 20 professionals and support
personnel.   LLts chief would ue willing to tailor extension material to meet
proposed project needs, and to assist with its production.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Research Programs and Recommendations
4.        Programs on the five crops proposed for the project have been on-
going for many years. Thus, cotton has been the subject of continuing re-
search in the maior disciDlines over the past four decades. Programs are
staffed mainly by personnel of the Cotton Research Corporation (CRC). They
have resulted in the develonment of improved varieties. Thus S71, which is
recommended for the project area, has a yield potential under Samaru con-
ditions of well over 2,0oo  kg of seed cotton per ha.  Its main characteris-
tics are listed in Annex 7. In addition, agronomic practices, fertilizer
responses, pest and disease nroblems of the crop have been clearly defined
and, at least, partially solved.
5.        The cotton research program has provided definite recommendations
on variety, cultural practices and fertilizer applications in the project
area. It is in the course of evaluating systems of insect control using
ulta-=low-volume (ULV) spraying techniques on a field scale at different
sites in the project area. Advice on techniques suitable for farmers is
likely to be forthcoming in late 1973.   These would be similar to tech-
niques used by small scale cotton producers in other parts of Africa. Annex
7 contains the essence of research recommendations for the cotton crop plus
proposals for ULV spraying based on experience elsewhere. These proposals
should be confirlmed with the outcome of proposed 1973 field trials in the
project area.
6.        Groundnuts have been the subject of close research interest and
substantial effort over the past two decades.   High yielding varieties
suitable for the project area have been developed and a package of inputs
and practices capable of at least doubling farmers' yields has been formu-
lated for some years.
7.        Improved practices proposed for.the project are based on current
recommendations by ERLS.   Lney include the use of the seed of the variety
S61, seed dressing with Aldrea T or Fernasan D, single superphosphate fer-
tilizer at 75 kg per ha, early planting and close spacing.   It may be that
ongoing research on control of cercospora leaf spot will lead shortly to
the possibility of incorporating this treatment in practices proposed for
groundnuts in the project area. This should be kept in mind, along with
opportunities for production expansion through new varieties anrd or varia=
tions in fertilizer dressing, all of which are under investigation.
R.        Sorghum research has moved from attempts to improve local varieties
into the development of dwarf varieties and hybrids suitable for the diL-
fering ecological conditions encountered in the northern States. Such
material has a yield potential of at least five time greater than farmers pre-
sently obtain. Selection and breeding programs have been underway for the
past 20 years with substantial assistance in the past decade from the US
through USAID programs involving USDA, USARS and several universities.
Cooperative programs with other West African sorghum producers have also
been operated through IAR.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
9.        The outcome of this work, and related agronomic investigations,
hias not yet reached the stage at which ERLS is able to issue a series of
recommended practices for general distribution. However, highly promising
results have been obtained from a number of trials, replicated at Gusau and
a number of sites at other locations. These have formed the basis for two
proposed levels of technology, outlined in Annex 7, involving the use of
dwarf varieties and hybrid sorghums. Proposed levels of fertilizer applica-
tion and the specific types of sorghum most suitable for the project area
should be reviewed after the 1973 and 1974 cropping seasons in the light of
results of ongoing and proposed field trials scheduled for Daudawa and other
sites .
10.       Maize is the most exciting crop in the project.   Recent research
results in Nigeria, and experience in other African countries having similar
ecoloaical conditions point to the probability of a substantial expansion of
area and production in the short to medium term. Yields of over 7,000 kg/ha
have been obtained under trial conditions over several years at Samaru from
synthetic varieties and hybrids. Trials in the project area have yielded
similarly, and promising new material is presently being tested.
11.       These developments are comparatively recent in the northern States.
They have been initiated by a number of cooperative and regional programs,
partly funded by the US. Table 13 of Annex 7 indicated yield potential of
some of the material being developed. Agronomic practices established else-
where have been, and continue to be, tested under Nigerian conditionsn Some
refinements are likely to be forthcoming but basic production techniques
utilizing comparatively heavy fertilizer application can be safe!- assumed
on the basis of existing trial results.
12.       Annex 7 sets out two levels of recommended maize technology based
on Nigerian research results and exnperience in other African countries
having similar ecological conditions. These differ from current recomm-
ended practices since they nresuppose a much closer degree of technical
assistance to farmers plus the provision of the inputs necessary to obtain
predirted production levels, As for sorghum, proposed technology should be
reviewed in the light of 1973 and 1974 field trials and amended as necess-
arv before incornoration in project activities.
13.       The cwpea        i  grown throughout the project area, and widely
in Nigeria.  Research has centered mainly on control of insect pests, to
which it is highly susceptible both in the field and in store.    However,
some improved varieties have been established and recommendations are avail-
able on cultural practices.   Responrses to phospLatic fertilizer (sinl
superphosphate) have been demonstrated.
14.       Control of insect pests is possible, provided the crop is sole
planted, using high volume sprays and DDT/uIIC mixtures.  The probability of
insect control using UILV techlniques is currently under investigation at IAR.
Results suitable for dissemination lo farmers are expected to be forthcoming
in the near future.  In anticipation of this, two levels of improved tech-
nology are proposed-J1 fLor tLkie project.  They are detaiiecl in Annex 7. Both
involve ULV spraying and fertilizer application to sole crops planted as



ANTNEX 2
Page 4
recommended by ERLS. The advanced level involves the use of improved
planting material and a somewhat heavier fertilizer dressing. Confirmation
or possibly modification of these treatments should be sought before their
Implementation, following from the results of ongoing and planned investi-
,gations by IAR staff.
15        The proiect management would undertake field trials in close
cooperation with IAR at the proposed Gusau farm. Investigations would form
part of ongoing research programs in major commodities in the project area.
-Ic-y would pay particular attention to the applicability of results under
proectr conditionis. Provision of staff and funds is outlined at paras 5.05
and Annex 6.
Seed M-ultlnlication
1.       Seed m.ultinlicationi is the responsibility of State I-lnistries of
Aoriculture and Natural Resources from parent nucleus material developed by
IAR.  At the present tin!i there is no private sector seed industry.  With
the exception of a cotton seed multiplication scheme at Daudawa in the pro-
posed  Funtua project area, efforts to produce and distribute improved
planting material are generally inadequate to meet the needs of the northern
States.
1. -7
L 7.      Project proposaLs for a substantial untake of improved planting
material of four of the five crops considered dictate that adequate multi-
plication facilities should be developed i1 the area,   MANR is in the pro-
cess of acquiring a 240 ha farm near Gusau at which cotton seed for North
Western State, would be bulked up. The project would take over and develon
this farm as indicated below.
18.       Seed production is a specialized business calling for good manage-
ment standards and a high level of technical competence.   These characteris-
tics are absent from most MANR staff at farm manager level. Existing 11ANR
personnel could not operate a hlybrid production program as is proposed
for both maize and sorghum under the project. Quantities of seed would not
be large initially.  They would be expected to build up, as shown in summary
form belowq (in tons) by year:
Year
Crop                           1     2       3      4      5
Groundnut                      -     80     120    220    460
^Iaize varieties              -      12      37    iOu    185
laize hybrids                  -      7      48    170    410
Sorgh,um dwarf varieties       -      6      12     36     60
Sor;gitnm lhybrids             -      2       4      8     24
Cowpea varieties               -      2       5      3      9



ANNEX 2
Hybrid seed would be replaced annually; other seed has been assumed a farm
l.ife of th-L-ree years, i.e. replacemer.t eachi- fourth year.  I;t sh'ouldA b''e notedu
that, although no improved seed requirement is visualized until Year 2,
multi"plication woulUd bue requiLredu in 'Lear 'L.
I   n               -,    -        -   -  - -   - - ~ - - - _   _. -   1 I -
19.      Ciotto,, seed requ1LeIne[IL5 are LIOL shown. They would initially be
met through the ongoing multiplication scheme at Daudawa in North Central
otate ksee almex ,I.   nis woula be taKen over by tne proposea runtua agri-
cultural Development project and operated on behalf of MANR by project man-
agement througnout the development period.  However, during tnis time, cotton
seed multiplication for the proposed Gusau project and cotton growers in
North Western State as a wnole would be initiated by the project management.
Cotton seed requirements for the project area would approximate 900 tons in-
creasing to 1,100 tons over the development period. MANR would be expected
to indicate estimated seed requirements for the remainder of the State, to
enable formulation of production plans for the farm.
20.       Provision is made for the development and operation of some 240 ha
of seed multiplication facilities at the Gusau farm. This is essential in
the current absence of commercial seed production activities in Nigeria.
However, a sugar plantation company with irrigation facilities located at
Bactia in Kwara State is understood to be interested in entering this field.
IRA staff have had discussions with company management with particular re-
ference to cereal seed production. This possibility should be investigated
further during appraisal since development of a commercial seed industry is
essential for the future well being of Nigerian agriculture.






ANNEX 3
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERl'iN STATE.
_usau Aigricultural Development Project
Agricultural Roads and Water Supply Construction
General
1.        The lack of reasonable farm access and adequate domestic water
suLpplies constitute an immeasurable constraint to development, the rectifica-
tion of wlhich is essential to the success of the project. To enable most
farmers to be within two km of good road requires cievelopment of 350 km of
agricultural roa(ds in the Gusau area.  These roads are important to the
farmer so that vital agricultural extension work can reacn him during the
wet season when his crops are growing, and so that he can get farm inputs
in and produce out during the dry season. In addition, social benefits by
wav of easier and more economical haul of other supplies, and better bus
services would be possible with the improved road system, as well as easier
travel by the farmer's own modes of transport such as bicycle, donkey, ox
cart, or even tractor.
.         "'raffic densities are difficult to predict withi accuracy, but it
is certain that most of the heavy lorrv traffic would occur in the dry sea-
son when haul of farm inputs and produce is at its peak.    Light traffic
would continue throughout the year, mostly consisting of local movement
between villages. Because of this traffic pattern, where tihe heavier axle
loads occur in the dry months, it should be possible to use most of the roads
throughout the year, the main obstacle being those roads intersected by a
major river crossing which could cut off traffic for several months in the
wiet season. Careful road location is necessary to reduce the frequenicy of
such obstacles.
3.        As an attempt to relieve tlhe dire shortage of domestic water dlur-
ing the dry season, the project plans to develop 65 small reservoirs by con-
struction of low earth dams, each to contain about 100,000 m    of water.
'I'hese would be sited according to local neecd and availability of suitable
dame sites.   In conJunction with eachi reservoir, soil conservation work would
be undertaken in the watershed area to reduce silt runoff into the pondage
(for details see Annex 4).
4.        The roads, dams and soil conservation work would be undertaken as
a joint project to maximize use of personnel and resources.    Thlis part of
the nroject would consist of various construction 'units' undertaking
specific tasks, but where possible these units would be made flexible to
assist other uits aconrdiing  to seasonal or emergency demands.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Construction Agency
5.        For construction of the roads and dams, several possibilities
have been considered. These include contract construction, use of hired
equipment under project supervision, construction by existing state agencies
such as the Ministry of Works or Local Authority, or by the project's own
plant. Of these the last has been chosen for the following reasons:
a)   Contractors in northern Nigeria are geared up for major
highway work. At present work is plentiful, and contract
prices are high. Because of the lack of secondary road
construction of any kind, medium sized contractors are
virtuallv non-existent.
b)   Hired plant.   There is very little good plant available
for hire. Also, because of the problems of servicing and
renairing plant in remote areas, the iob is not attractive
to owners of a few items of plant.
c)   State agencies.   Ministry of Works and Local Authorities
are not equipned with sufficient plant or experienced
personnel to take on this work in addition to their
present work load. It is, however, likely that most of
the project roads would revert to the Local Authorities
for mainternanre on comnletion of construction.
6.        Having decidedd aginst the alternatives listed above, construction
by the project is proposed. This would require strict controls, but would
provide somre decided long-term advuntnap_    The main constraint seems to be
the lack of locally available competent personnel. This problem would be
overcome bya requiring -thant- kV nprsonnel nre hiahly exnprienrcd and rcom-
petent to control an operation of this nature, probably requiring most
senior4- positior.s t-o be f:l led 1_1 expatrates.  Or.ce placed, these people
would use the opportunity to make the project an intensive training ground
Lor indigenous trca,n=ees.  Thtis trainin.g would includle all phases from bgra-
duiate engineers in the technical positions to plant operators, survey
assista Ln d    fLor men.UI:L.  l eLo pportu nitf  such -- --. U  -- J  a-.  - A AA
essential to the long-tern hopes of extending the project impact to other
areas in thi'e future.  But it caiot bLeU overemLphasized that high calbr
personnel are required to head this project.
7.        Construction by the project's own organization has been chosen
only because present conditions seem to favor it. Future conditions may be
different, and any follow-up to the project may well find that contract or
hired plant is advantageous. in any or these situations personnei trained
on the present project would be a vital asset to plan, organize and control
such a future project.



ANNEX I
Page 3
Organization
8.        The basic construction organization consists of a number of opera-
tional 'units', each of which has appropriate personnel and plant to perform
a particular function (which may be survey or a phase of construction). These
'units' and their functions are indicated in Tables 1 and 2 of this Annex.
The intention is that each unit would always operate as a unit, although
its work function may change from time to time according to circumstances.
The head of each unit would report to the Project Road Engineer or the Soil
and Water Conservation Engineer whichever was appropriate. A total of nine
units are involved.
9.        In addition to the production units, a supporting mechanical
workshop organization is planned. This operation includes a base workshop
plus mobile workshop units, together with a lowbed unit for moving plant
around the project area and fuel/water tank trailers which the same lowbed
tractor would place and replenish in the various main work areas. Details
of the workshop operation are provided in Tables 7 and 8. Table 8 indicates
that provision has been made for 'Special Services', such as support from
tyre specialists and manufacturers agencies to perform certain repairs for
which they are particularly equipped.
10.       It should be noted that the capital and operating costs for the
workshop operation are fully covered by the repair allowance provided for
in the plant operating costs (Table 4).    Thus the costs in Tables 7 and 8
are merely an exnlanation of the renair allowance figures appearing in other
summaries. They are used for calculation of project costs shown in Annex 9.
Terrain
11-       The G-usau pronect area lies tn the Guinea cas7nvn nh zone of nor-
thern Nigeria. The area itself is gently rolling, although the southern
nart in hrnkpn hv mnint:ainmic rit icpc- The ;nlcnt,n River hnn-rdarg thi nvn nn
the west, and the Gagere River borders it on the east except where it cuts
through the nnrth-ePasr c-rner nf the ar-ea .  nIQ Sol    ae p g inelly a MAindy-Qs  t
loam, although clay occurs in lower lying area and in lower strata. Late-
rita -deoit    occur frqn,,itly throughout the area, envet i     the northeast
where deposits are less common.
AQrlultralRoad Sa.ad
12.       Proposed road standards are attached to this Annex, and to
classes of road are indicated:
All-weather agricultural roads (Class 1): Two-lane, all weather
laterite surfaced-. Inn h,,
prLoedLL L.UL   U .U -ILI
proposed.



ANLrAEX 3
Page 4
Dry-weather crop extraction tracks
(Class 2):                                Single-lane, normally
unsurfaced, 650 km pro-
posed. (Laterite sur-
facing will be applied
where soil conditions
warrant. This Class of
road would be usable
by vehicles under all
except extreme wet sea-
son conditions).
13.       The 'flat-terrain' cross-section would apply in most instances,
and because of the sensitivity of the local soils to water erosion, proper
drainage is of utmost importance. The wide ditches and high grade formation
are designed to keep the road surface well above ground saturation level,
and to accommodate heavy runoff with low water velocities. Frequent run-out
channels are necessary to drain water away from the road and ditches as
quicklv as possible.
14.       Because of the generally easy terrain there should be no problem
to meet the horizontal and vertical alignment specifications. Since it is
quite possible that some of the roads may be upgraded for highway use at
some future date, good horizontal alignment is all-important. If this is
achieved, vertical alignment can be improved as required.
Survey Technique
13.       Roads.  With the open terrain, long sight distances are possible
and location survey should be fast and efficient. The main aims should be:
a)   locate on the ridge tops wherever possible to minimize
drainave problems:
b)   locate to provide access to the vicinity of heavily
populated areas, but avoid actual interference with
buildings, villages, or highly nroductive farm land;
c)   locate to take cognizance of favorable soil conditions
and proximity to laterite deposits;
d)   locate to avoid 'dead-end' roads as much as possible, even
though the 11ink ma1 y i-volve a m-i?or f  rivxePr rcrong.%jncY
The long dry season would enable such roads to be useable
for much of the year.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
16.       Survey scheduling is shown to allow at least six months lead-time
ahead of construction, to enable the State Department of Lands and Surveys
adequate time to complete right-of-way acquisition procedures. This also
allows farmers time to harvest their crops and to avoid wasted cultivation
of areas due for construction.
17.       Dams.  Ideally, dams should be located:
a)   where the terrain is favorable for reasonable earthwork
b)   where the watershed i8q  f a sizp sufftri ent to fill the
reservoir but not so large as to cause spillway problems
by excessive runoff;
c)   where suitable clay soils can be found for construction
of an impervious core for the dam.
Dam sites to meet the above basic requirements should not be difficult to
fi.dn.  SurLvey scheduling sho;lld. have a lead=time of at least six m.Jonths for
the same reasons as the road survey. (See Annex 4 for details).
Construction Technique
18.       Roads.  ConstructLon involves the following phases:
a)   Clearing and Grubbing.   No heavy clearing will be required.
Grubbing will involve bulldozing off any vegetation and top-
soil for the full right-of-way width. If left as a windrow
at the edge of the right-of-way this would help to reduce
erosion of adjacent soil into the road ditch.
b)   Grade Construction.   This involves sidecasting material
obtained from the ditch excavations towards the road center-
line to provide fill material for the raised roadway. Pro-
posed plant for this construction consists of tracked angle-
dozers (with rippers) and wheel dozers with straight dozer
blades. The latter are selected because of their high man-
euverability between Job locations and the advantages of ty-
res over tracks in the highly abrasive sandy soils. Scrapers
are not proposed because of the very short earth movement in-
volved. However, the dam construction unit scrapers would be
available seasonally for road construction work. A vibratory
compactor is recommended for compaction of the grade, espe-
cially at the shoulders. In soils heavy to slit and clay the
project staff may prefer a pneumatic tyred roller, and final
selection of this item should be left to them. In the dry
season it would not be practicable to provide water for



ANNEX 3
Page 6
optimum compaction, and in suchl cases the compactor may well
be left idle until suitable moisture conditions prevail.   A
motor grader is included for final road shaping.
c)   Drainage Structures.  Requirements for culverts would nor-
mally be reduced by wise route location along the higher
ground. Locally, all current culvert construction consists
of installing precast concrete pipe and encasing this in site-
poured concrete. Metal pipe would not withstand the acid
soil conditions. It is recommended to use the precast pipe
method or else to completely pour a concrete box culvert in-
situ. Sand and fine aggregate are plentiful in all areas.
Coarser aggregate is more difficult to find. Being highly
labor intensive, it is quite possible that local volunteer
labor can be recruitpc' for culvert construction. The costs
developed, however, allow for paid labor to perform this
work. No bridging is proposed, but a:lilowance is made for
this cre.w to construct causewYay crossing at some of the more
important, but preferably not wide, river crossing.
d)   .urfacino.  Surfaning is anplied only to Class 1 and deserv-
ing sections of Class 2 road. Hlaul of laterite for surfacing
should not need to exceed about 5 lnm in most instances.
Plant proposed includes a dozer with ripper for excavation
in the nit, a front-end loader feeding a fleet of 10 cy tip-
pers, and a small dozer for spreading on the road.
e)   Maintenance.  Tle only maintenance plant proposed consists of
a mnotor grader commencing operation in the second year.
Allowance is made in the costs for this unit to continue
operation through to Year 20, but it would be preferable for
the local authrority to accept this responsibility as soon
after co;;st-ruct-oui as possible.
19.       Dams
a)   Clearing and Grubbing.   This applies only to the immediate
dam site area ansd shouli he quickly accomplished by bull-
dozing topsoil and vegetation to a spoil area.
b)   EarthworkL. A unit comprising dozers with rippers and self-
propelled scrapers is proposed. The scrapers would provide
some compaction to the dam fill, but a separate watering and
compaction operation would be necessary to obtain optimum
results.  Normally an earth spillway would be excavated
clear of the dam tfiLJ.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
c)   Soil Conservation.  In the watershed area, a dozer, grader,
and agricultural plough would be used to construct soil
conservation ditches and marker furrows.
Prnductivitv
20. Because of spanc limitntinp. , a detailed analysis of production
by each item of plant is not included. Suffice to say that the plant and
personnel -omnlement of e-ch conrstruction unit 4- 40           oma.ined fro., the pro-
posed productivity of each individual item and the time available for com-
pletion.  I!ith-1 a tot-1 five=year project life  mos  phase  can.oexec
more than about four years actual productive time. Some phases, such as
dma* con stction, are b y nature season.aL andLU prouducti.vitLy is calculated
accordingly. However, in all cases plant is directed to other work when
thVere are seasor.al i.LL itati4o.0LLZS or. its primLlary functiOn.
Costs
21.       Construction costs are all based upon the most reliable 1973 fig-
ures obtainable, and Tables 9 and 10 sum up the basic costs involved and
provide a brief analysis. Detailed costs appear in other tables. The basic
philosophy in arriving at these costs has been to develop figures which can
be achieved on the job, but which do not allow for extravagance or in-
eflficiefncy.






ANNEX 3
NIGERIA                             Table 1
NORTH WESTLRN STATE
Gusau Agricultural Development Project
Road qnd DIm Construation qchedulJ
Year             2 1         A 2  131  4  [ 5
Season  'W D    W D   W D   W D    JD    W D
ROAD SURVTTPEY         I -                I ,
GRADE                  |
CON3T"U J'ION
D '.'>INA.GE STRUCTURE;S    I     _ _ -          __
SURFACING                   4I __          _  _ _____I
MAINTENANCE            |                   4    z   1[Izj
DAMfl SURVEY                  6
CI\ ri r l\'  -TWA nI-
SURVEY                              _1_7!I
DAIi CONSTRUCTION      ||
SOI.L  COIJISThRVATION   1            294   ____  1 |  |
Notes:   1.   Figures indicate specific construction
units involved in each phase ( see Table 2 )
2.  Working days allowed     Wet season   105 da!s
Dry seas on  1-45 da ys



ANNEX 3
N IGERIA                               Table 2
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Gu3au Agricultural Development Project
Plant Requirements   _
Year       1      2      3      4     5
Season n    D    W D    W D   W D r   i- D    D
UNIT 1
4 A-1D Crew7 Vehicle            __._    _   _    =     _ _
'IJ IT  2                                                .
Tractors:
180 JIP>-WA/Dozer+Ripper         . _               __i
170 lIP llheel Tract.+S/Do7,er        __.__2              _
75 BJPAgric . - .'I.. i&.pm,actor  - _     1     _____
I'otor Grader 125 HP                 _        _1     _       _-
Pickup) Truck 2- Ton            ___ -                        _
Dwelling Trailer                              1    1 ______
Generator       2.5 KW                 _      _1     _      i
UNIT 3                                  I             I 1        ._
Tippers   10 c.y.                     I2           I
Concrete liixer    1 c,y.                     2           L
W,ater Trailer   500 galls.                                    _ _____12
TWIT   4                                         _ _ _  _  _  _  _
Tippers   10 c.yr.                      .     4     _
W1heel loa.der 1301Lv 3 c.<r.       _|__l_           _____
Tra.ctor :l4-0H4PS/dozer+rippet       ____     __ I      __ 
65HP     "   +xiinch        l   __.___
Pickup truck 2- ton             ,_1_________Ij
UITT T   5._                                                           .
NIotor Grader 125 HP                                 l-
Pickup truck 2 ton              . _                   11
UNTIT .6                                      _
4 ID Crew Vehi.cle             _  _  1_
UNIT 7            .                      ___       _
4 W D Crew Vehicle                            1      . 9_
UNIT 8
Tractors:                                  _          _
180 IIP+A/Dozer+Ripper             L         2
75 HP Agric.+Vib.Comra.cto 1r               1.
+ l000valT w-ter t.nl       .  ___-
Scra.pers 30r)9P self-prop.         I         2
Piclup truck -4-- ton               .. ____1_ 
.ilobile eater pumrn  + hose        L______    L _   __._
Generator     2.5 KW                  _       _____
DwTelling trailer                             I     ____
IJI T 9
Tractor:                               _     ,  1____
140 hP+A/Dozer+Ripper         1|
75 HP P.gric. + Plough            _|1__
;;otor Grader    125 UT                _   _  __ ._1___
Pickup truclxk -2 ton                 __      _      ____1__II



r1 t                             C ' r  CTP1TAL  0  Ya 5 ' -
ICost Year 1      Year 2  Year 3  lYear 4  Year              TOTAL
THs.~~~~~~~~~Co-St Yea                    . - 
T RA.C - PS                                f
T7TT77A.Dozer/Rip. 66.3 (3)198.9          1                                      198.9       _
170C) HF- _ ',J-HEEL/S.Doz. 50.5 ( 2) 101.0                                     101. I10 0
14K) T-P/A.Dozer,;.'ip. 4-6.0 (2) 92.0                                           92.0
65 TiF/S.Dozer/Wnch 28.0 (1) 28.0                                                28.0        P. z
MOTORC FRADER                                                                              o   + E
225 HP slp - -  ~(36.8 ( 2) 73.6            (1) 36.8                  (2r)73.6 1840 .''  
S C AP Pj ERS                                                                              1K Ct
300 BFTelf-prop.    80.2 ( 2) 160.4                                             160.4
WFEEL OADER                                                  .                                    c
3z8. 8- (1) 38.8                                              38.8
A C-IC. 1 C'  C TCT RS                                                                    -P. tI
75 HP + cowmpactor  8.0 1(2) 16.0                                               16.0    ::
75  r ± plough                    (1) 5.0                                        5.0
\T3-J ODES           I                                                                        cvf
4 WD CREW4 Vehicle   3.7 1k) 11.1           (3r)11.1                             22.2        C+
Pick,u-r truck 42 ton  3.2 (4) 12.8         ( 1)  3.2
(4r)12.S                   (3r) 9.6   38.4
Dvelling trailer     3.0 1(2)  6.0                                                 6.0
Generaitor  2.5 KV11  1.0 (2)  2.0                                                2.0
Watcr pur-.p + hose  0.5 (1)  C.5                                                 0. 5
. . tenr t riler 1 000C)  1.0 !V1)  1.0                                           1.(
it    5soog  C. B 0 (()  0.8
Tipper8   lOc.y.   116.0 I(6) 96.0                                               96.0
Concrete Mixer       2.0 (2)  4.0                                                 4.0
.1     l842.9      5.0      639      8t2 . l     ,   ,   r    95
'1n. 0Ao lrl CRtS   t>std N 'ira.  2. t'lr  indi ;t        cet erit.



j          c        a         at      n S
a-    -'o  -c                at~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~co wL
'A                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~te
1.60.l.BJ11'.9 S W22.0304.95 Repa1Irl        a c
5!1.651.0173.       (132838.3jl.72 3.034.3        Optig 
'.0 40 04 .040    - 0 A40!0.4010.40 0.40 0.40 Op'tor   '
48~)440240  W, 400  480 240  400 720 flours
17-11  p  1.711: 3 C)41 II. ; 2 -  1. I  . 6  1.   3. 6Repai rse 2 
CA.)                11~ 0                    1                                                       -
28.3.  192 3  s      '     BP,  0                                                                    -, 2 .  2  .  .2  
-9.              Ia3S.1.4' 2.4A    G.  4-2 1.1 3.4 7.0C Total   '
30170 "250 11(0~ 40P'Ob2000 2"00 4000O ,00012S3 A 2000 4000 &6000 Hou'rs  -< mg          6      a -
1162,    - 1 7 0. 5i 5  19.3.  't   22.2: 9.2. 9.0114.0 29.7 Repairs W  'I
I~~ Ia <2                     3 61
1770 G.6 j 4.4 3.7 7 3' r- A,3 8 P-7 7120 )33 6:241.7 3.4 12,t:25.9 Op'ting 
54.1, 26.9.    C      r, 4 80.8' 1 6~ '1.  1.6 08 1    2.4 Op'tor
3;4 9,1,3 5.9T 6.3 5.4 2.211. & 67.8 12 .0 5 57.3:34.I 9.2 27. 7!58.0 Total
-.4 ~~~'I-. -7   (1.13.I       I      ~   ~~~~                                    -4i
3Cc)'1) C'.6       .922-)   .2 5.0     s2 a7Teptr
19:      5 t 3.7 2 2 6 19 43 83 7. 1. 3.   l2.   3.4,12 1125.9Otn
P 1;9 7      ~~~~~~0.8 1 6 4.8: 0.8  2.4 1.6, 1.6 0.8  1.64 2.4 Op'tor  -  W3aC
32.--).33.7 71 5 A' 3.0, 1.16.67.8i12.1 30.6~57.3134.  . 21.7158-.0 Total
3n750. 2201 IN 400012000 20?(0      40O(04000  2000 400~ 6000 H lours
V  5. IVI              19'       :1~~~~~9.2 5.0  7'Rpair
5 4'        7: 2. 2   43.8 7.8 19.3 33.¶ 47   . 12.1 2 5:9;0p It ing 
5 P. rt            0 . rIlr A,P 0fl .51.      .   0.8 I.., 2.410p'to-r
'0. 3".  7. a~ 5.3 3.07 6Ir ;7. 0. 12.2, 30. 1 ~ 7.1 31. 9q.3- 27.7, 5F0.01 Totala
I  22rn1 100)1' - 2~0~00441 21000' 20001 4flOJ-1  4001 200(~ 001  00 Pur
:  115.9      3.3 1.<       3.4j 33. 5)p0        24        7.0 O.);etr
27.5 15.          0-.0 4.06 I 0       ;9 1,         P,00  0.0 0.810p'tor  1"
a'  uL'3~~~~~~~~~~~ '~~~~2'  2.3 ~~~~~~~~ 5.9 67.8 12.  34. i~  91 13/1 10.3, Total
2% 21 3    63  2' .3 -               2                                      c
17:  23. 5'       Ii           V. ;3        I               p' tor I
I  1700,X0000 51rQ4&  9408A54trL4&Ik6 4m 8240314481207210i flours 
40" £   I?. 4 7'  211.70771 2260 1)3' 47926            710;2.6: Ocpa irn
c1    ".2~ 3/ C 5.7 2 4. ';I051'1 '"i' rQ ? 94314. " A3.0 941 &tt1
1531 L161 006   '~~2  5.0~-B19.8533 22,~50     3.3.5.1  ".3,OpFt2r    I
2l.131 1' 51  5. 23.8  . 42.01279.4' C7II 16¶383 tzuustu                -.



A 1TiTLI V 73
Table 5
ITr Tl '  A
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricultural Developnent Project
Construction Labor Costs
(Plant Operators  "--"- s-rt  -n T
rNo1 N/v    -. Yr.1 :Yr.2 -Yr.3 'Yr.4 Yr.5 Total
ROAD Si1H1TEY      I   Dav !Annui
Rural Engineer   tF3  "-j                                   ---
.->ninr Tenh  Asst.2 I    1124i' 2.6 1 2.7! 2r, 2.7  . 2 -11.8
Labourers         I3, 2         1.5   1.5! 1.5  1.5  0 6   6.6
7   I   i   1  4 . ~I  A 1  A_J  9  iA .1 4 1 A-  .I  +  Ar 
GRADE CONSTRIJCN1CW        I           A    4    4    1   l 84
Senior Tech. Asst 2+      1324    3   3    3.21      2.7112.6
*a ourers          3             I 0.    1  J-       1
Elm,,TTrlmr,   0    4.7   4.7  4.7. 4. 2i18.8
TE T"   A  Tr t\T A tl nM  e   MTTT r" m  n li
Jrj m1A_L1R_T   01tUG1 ui iof
Senior Foreman   | 1      1644  0.8  1.6   1.6' 1.6  1.61 7.2j
Driver                        J -    uoo1 i  3o8     Qe8  3e3 i
Labourers        18    2        0.5   4, ! 40-  4.0.  A0 ' 15.5
1.4  6.4   6.4 6. 4; 6. 4j 27.0
SURFACING                                       I
Senior Foreman     11     164.41 0.8j 161 1.7   1.6  1.6 7.4 1
Labourers          13  2_       0.2   1.' 1.    1.5  1.5' 6.2
1.0 1 3.1 . 3.2 1 3.11 3-.1 13.6
TOTAI, POAD CONST. -       ___ 7.0 118.4 118.4 118.4 115.5 i77.7
DAII SpJRVrRY     rrY                                       -
nwural Enrgineer   ±      ))UU  2.1*
Senior Tech. Asst.2       1324! 2.61 2.7] 2.6   2.71 -   10.6
Labourers              2               .5   .5  i.5   -    6.0
.U1.1j U j.  j  0A4.1 4.2; 4.1  4.2, -  1-.6
SOII, CC)rT-S. S-uRVEY               I
Rural Engineer   1 13300
Senior Tech. Asst.3      11324  4.0! 4.01 4.0   4.01  - 116.0
Labourers        I     81  2 I             4 4C  4   4.  4.0  -  16.0
DAN COI'TSTPUCTION  8.0  8.0  8.O  8.0  -  32.0
DAM COUSTRUCTION 2|        |    i    l    |     i 
Rural Engineer     11    13300      ,                       *
Senior Tech. Asst.1+      1324   -    08   0.8  0.8!  _    2.4
Labourers          51  2 !       _    1.4 !      4  1.4  _ 4i.2
I  i - , ~~~2.2i 2.2, 2.2  -  6.g
SOTL CONSERVATION!                        !
Senior Foreman   '1       16A41 - i 1.61 1.7 1.6           4o )
Senior Tech. Asst.1|         -   -     1.6  1.3. 1.3  -    3.4
Senior Te  .l      113241      0.811313              .
Labourprs        I 8   2          -    1.7  A.0 '1.0   -   9.7
:4.1   7.0  6.9   -   1 .0
rrt0'T  DATT, CTST              f12  1 I    21.3213   - 73_2
MnT,0TJ   - 4ADS  +  DA1' -4S   4  -      TT.  /  -' '
otes:- b  .L.  L -  UA11 c 11ost   i 11n t  hos-. ndA l CL.L I I-
2.  * indicates cost included elsewhere in
3.  + indicates portion of salary moved from
danr to road co,ts according to time spent
on road work.



ANNEX 3
Tahle 6
NIGERIA
NORTH 'WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricultural 1 volopmnt. P'oe
Construction ^upplios
N!-OO
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Total
Survey Equipment & Supplies     12.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     20.0
Cement, Formwork and Concrete
Supplies                       5.0     20.0     20.0     20.0      5.0     70.0
Hand Tools                       1.0      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      3.0
Reservoir Fittings and Dam
Fencing                       18.0     72.0     72.0     72.0       -     234.0
36.0     94.5     94.5     94.5      7.5    327.0



ANNEX 3
Ta-ble 7
NTQlERTA
NORTH WWFS'R.N STATE
Gusaul Ag¢riculltural Dvelopmr,ent Projec-t-
Michani. 5,.Workshop Capital Costs
N '000
wSHOP T_ILDING_ S Year 1                  eear 2 IYear 3 Year 4 |Year 5 ,Yr 6-201 TIO Ti,
4 T-hyv W'shop    (1)11.7 |                             i7
Office & Parts Rm(l) 5.4 1                                          . A
Furnishin{gs          3.0                                         3 1  3.0
fllrdstandin      I              I'             I 3.51I.
Pence                 2_4   .2e
W 'k-jIIOP )QUTIrMENT                           I
Fuel .>tora-,e        2.0.                                        2.0
Lube equipt.          1.0                              .          1.0
( verh'd H o s t      1.0                                          i 1
Welding Equipt .      3.5                                          3.5
T yre equipt .     14. 5      i      1       1       1           '
Air co,ipressor    A 0.8                                          0.8
I-T. Duty jDcks   1(4) 0.3 1     1                                0.3 1
Eench equipt.         1.8    0.2 |       2  0.2     0.2            2.6
Major t,ools          3.2   402      0.2    0.2     0.2            4 |
Mechanics' tools      0.6    0.11    0.1    0.1     0.1            1.0
O'u,,her          I_4,2 !     012 1  0.2]   0.2     0.2 1     ___5_°
ure  4.2 1  0.71   0       0.7°   0.7 T22.7
FIELD EQUIPVMENT j               I
4 ',,D Mob. Wkshop (2) 20.0 j(2r)20.0                            410.0
Lowbed &. Tractor (1) 20.0                                        20.Q
Tank trailer       4) 36.0              16.0
Pickup   - ton  4. __)34.0    ---        [r3.0
so  I3 .           (lr) 24.OL      , ___   1()4.0
TOTAI, CAPITAI    i 1 25,. J         0.7,   24. 071 1O.1
( r dienotes replacement unit )



ANNEX 3
Table g
NIGERIA
NORTH I"ESTERN STATF
iisau Agricultural Deveponnrent. Pro,iect
MAeh,nni C1 W67rVchen Qn ravt,ng rG.rcsts
N'I000
*T  ,~~TTTh  ~   t  ~   1TW. , ,,  '~7... ..7 _f~--  ..  ,   _  . _..  ,  _~n~
i". .OcUR Ia   !   iJi1Un1  I t5cl± L I  j.U I  3, Y I  -   rellti Tq t 5 ! t--2IU.I  j;   LkI  . T,i
1 WS F'rnan  1644 |
1 Cl'ei-k     726| 
1 Partsma.n   914
5 Mechanics 1324     14.0    14.0 | 14.0 |   14.01  14.0|         70.()0o
5 r7erh .TTelper928                                                     I
1 Lowbed Op. 878
1 " helnper    28R
'lOPIST:OP VEIHICLE,' OP-T7ATING &. P'.)AIRS             |
i Lo wbed  6hrs/dvay   5.0   10.0   10.0     10.0!   7.0        1 420
2 I:ob. Wks .4  "  I  5 5.6   5      5.6      5.6    5.61         28.0
1 --T.PU   4          1.01    1.8    1.8      1.8_   1._ I         7.5
r  1161    L7.4f  17 4 1   17: 41  15:>71       77-5-!
OFFICE SIJPPLIES      0.5     0 .5 I   . 5    0 _ 5  0 0.5      |  2.5
PAPT'S & i- ech.buppso. lO.o  1                 U   IO.  2  i
,777ortl ,5"ICES      5.0     5.0    7.0      10.0  10.0  51. |     .9
-Tv';- (.I ri     I     .0    2.0   2?.       ,f     c j   rn .
'q:'yltf  Cl'E'? A I U:G  ' 12.1  i  3.Q)   __ __  ______ |_ __ _  _____9'- tr z. . ;2



PLANT              5             ROADS              __DAMS)
TRAC TOR            0 H rs. Capit. Repis. Opg. Lbr.  To t.' Hrs,.iCapit. Reps. upg>. Lbr.  I'ot.
Track  ~~~~~     32.6   28.2~~~~~        6906628                          3.
180 EIP Track   3   13760; 132.1 68.1    59.3  5.5 265.0   6960  66.8   34.5  30.1   2.8   134.2
-40 tH,P  .,    2    93201 59.21 32.6    28. 2  i3.7 123.7  5160  3;2.8  18.1  15.7  2.1    68.7
65 HP          1    8240j  28.0   20.6  14.2  3i3  66.1
]L70 HP Wh hee l  2  16480  101.0  37.9  99.3  6.6 244.8
Scraper 300HP   2    5520   71.0   30.6  46.3  2.2 150.1   6960  89.4   38.7  58.2   2.B   189.1
Motor Grader    2 3 45320  152.6   67.5 145.9 18.1 384.1   5160  31.4    7.7  16.6    2 .1  57.8
LIoader 1L30HP  1    8240    38.8  14.8  31.9  3.3   88.8
TZippers        6   49440   96.0   79.1 180.5 19.  375.4                                            co
Ag.Tract.+Com .2    11000   12.2    8.8  18.7  4.    44.1  3400   3.8    2.8   5.9   1.4    13.9 
+ ]?lough  1                                          5160   5.0   2.1    5.7   2.0   14 8
4WD Crew Veh.   3 3  3310    7.4    2.5   5.5   -   15.4   6690  14.8    4.9  10.9    -     30:6
Pickup  ~2 ton  5 7 22500    32.0  14.4  32.6   -    79.0  4500   6.4    2.9   6.6          15.9      c
Dwelling trlr. 21             3.0                     3.0         3.0                        3.0
Generator       2            1.0                     1.0          1.0                        1.0
Water pump      1                                                 0.5                        0.5
Water trailer   2            0.8                      0.8         1.0                        1.0
t'onc. Yixer    21            3.0                     3.0         1.0                        1.0
___4 _ ___ 739      E       924 :f  8i4,.3  = 2    111.7 149.7  13.2   ,To
7  t,er than plant operators)                  7'7.'i  77,.7                         73.3    73.3
SUPPLIES
Survey Equi pt.                                       10.0                                   10.0
Concrete Supplies                                    50.0                                   20.0
Hland tools                                           2.0                                    1.0
Rleservoir F'ittings & Fencing_                        .234.o
_  _ 1984.0 _ _  _        _         _ 869.8
L2:
HEL'XI



ANNEX 3
Table 10
NIGERIA
NORTIH WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricultural DeveloPment Project
Cost Analysis
P1< a                                                                     -s oa   ls  2Ra   t-Ras  Dams-
200 km            650 km           850 km        60
Plant - Capital                    30h.1             434.0             738.1       25609
-I 19.            017 7             37A6.       " 1 7
Operating                  279.9             382.5             662.4      149.7
Labor - Operating                   28.3              38.6              66.9        13.2
Other                       32.8              1.19              77.7       '733
oI~ A      ~      '7 n                 A 
829.3           1,154.7           1,984.0       869.8
Unit Cost                       N4,146/km         Nl,775/km         N2,330/km al3s822/dam



c     , ) I  (,  !      , -
Cn                            0   ID              C,        CZ         c                                                                     n       T
>4                                                                            0                                                                Q-:j T -j
E-4
C          cz o
CO, 0                 0    C)   U 0      C,,8  o    o                                                                (IL
C,\        0                                                           7 a A   O.z
US
C LI CZ                     l LPI
C;_  0     ou        c :,-T                                                  'T            Z), a        L
c U        00'17                (O               C)   c        Io     07
09 IT'                          s     0    0,_ -                                                                    0     OT          Su, au IL
00, I                                      0-1, 0     O-l'!  0  o- -v
4_3   U)
ri)
0   ! c I -L   ov, o                cz   c))   ST, 0     S L I 0    0,
0 U
Sao')           J'C.1-11 Tv.31J.'i'v
r.   4,  iL9 1      09 11     0(l_ I o   .E) 0          o    05-        9 I e                 6, T        I       -v,  o                                  -E 1     T
0    Cd
0
H                                                                                                                                                                     T
IL't,     16V        :s S 14         0        -o    I 0.
OS   C)   'G 'T     02,   0                                                                       a -   a CT, o.1 (i-j -L a 2
pq                                                                    10),
tD                                                                ce     2   0                 9  ?,I                    L
S  co   ri                                                                                                                                                    Sao a -0, a Z)
z          4.5
A                                                                     0,-    9
09, 0                                                                                                           L
(d
a a Lip.,       F:j_a, ;-L,
_2 ot`                                     < 10    lo I T    C) I         II C)       T        '17      0  Z Z       U, Ul    +  a z 0      +,i    S 9
0                               71 0 L    'E 19
.9     o                                         0','v 2            1v I C)     Z  e                                                            0   T
:o                              C)     T         jS'lT.     b-  0'-f                                    Os! I
.7    :i                                                                                                           _-Z a d'c. -.l z o z o -p
L* IV-                 'L9
S.1 C) Q'Zl 7,L
-3      J
z:   N
Id
CD
F-`-                                             'r-I       61
IO            l                    o      p
C+   0                           C+
t7i
o    P
0.                                                       C+
00 0   17       Q      rllf T T -]'VD
__l 71,






ROAD SECTIONS AND SPECIFICATIONS
TYPICAL SECTION
FLAT TERRAIN I                                    tch droined
frequently by
run-out channels
20~    2            2
7-   - f !-j \m        2
I     ~I    I             I  iI
CLASS i     _ 4O0  ,2    _   75 -__   20,    4_0     metres
CLASS 2             20   __5-0        20     4 0
-- ~~~    ~~ 1'  ' f- - _-         'I      -  I
TYPICAL SECTION
SIDEHILL                                    F
I~~~~      M.
r% LA( I         1     7 7 520       metres
I             i   j
CLASS   2              5-0    2O 
SPECIFICATIONS
CIASS 1 Road     CLASS 2 Pon9d
SURFACING   (miinimum)       0.2m              Ni-l
GRAD%S      ( i a xIJIm uIm) 6I  %             8 %
CURVATURE   (Minimum)      10 degrees        20 degrees
RI GHl T0 F-WAY ( Ninirmum)  30m                25m
SUPERETLEVATTON (50'm/hr.)  Curve degree under 5
6-7-  .1  iii  ,le
8-9    " 30)
rlOTE*4;  Alove  .cmc4 Jri- _at ions n.re -I r -  10 t  20 max.
minimum rcquirerncnts, but may be reduced
in di ficLult terrain cunorlitions.






ANNEX I
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTEPN STATE
GUSAUT AGRICULTTURT   DEVETLPMFNT PROJEmCT
Wate- and So4 1 Conservation
1.        The project area suffers from extreme shortage of water for domes-
t1c purposes during the Ary season, and par- of the we- seaso. until village
wells start to yield properly. The area is also prone to soil erosion, prin-
cipally in the catchmi,ent areas of2 small streLTi-is andU rLivers.  UndLer tLie eco-
logical and climatic conditions prevailing in the Project area soil and water
conservation are SYL.onLYLIIUU,ou Lo each other, andh  possible should be
treated together, particularly as proposed under the project, water develop-
ment -oulU be ti'roughL1 the construction of surface water dams.
A. Water Conservation and Rural Water Supplies
2.        Shortage of water supplies for domestic use during the dry season
and beginning of the wet season, January through to August, is acute in the
Project area. It is estimated that the existing wells, dams and tapkis
(ponds) can serve only 10-20% of the total demand. Villagers depend for
their supplies on water from wells that on average can only be dug to 10-
20 m, most of which dry up during the dry season. An alternative source of
water are tapkis and smali earth dams, but these are infrequent, and at
times poorly sited and constructed, resulting in poor holding capacity and
at times breakages. The final alternative is stream bed wells. These are
seasonally hand dug in water bearing sands of some, but not all, rivers and
streams. In many instances these are the last resort supplies resulting in
carry distances of up to 5 miles for many farmers. Water collected from
such sources is either head or donkey carried, and during the crisis period
(from February to June) is sold at a standard rate of KIO (US$0.20) per 20
litres. The lack of water is a serious social constraint, and unless efforts
are made in the project to conserve and improve water supplies the project
is likely to only partially succeed.
3.        Existing plans by the State Government to improve State water
supplies in rural areas is high on budaetary priority. Plans are being pre-
pared to improve water supplies to larger towns, but for rural villages
efforts rarely go beyond providing assistance for well improvements. The
latter is not the correct policy since the ground water available in the
shallow aquifer is limited and new wells are found to dry up and cause ex-
istin- wells to dry up as well. In othler words it would seem that the
draw off of ground water is greater than its reservoir supply.
4.        Possibilities of utilizing ground water from deep aquifers have
been reviewed. UJnfortunately the geological conditions in the area are



ANNEX 4
Page 2
sulci tliat the Basement complex, whiclh is an aquici-udie, is of shallow
formation and precludes the possibilities of deep aquifers.   Furthermore
evell if utilization were possible some form of mechanical pumping would be
necessary, and it has been found that evea the most simple hand operated
pimp is impracticable due to complete lack of maintenance and appreciation
by villag,ers of such modern appliances. Most pumps are broken within a
year of installation and are rarely repaired.
5.        T1,us for reasons outl ined above duqwells and/or deep boreholes
are linpracticable, there remains the recourse to exploit surface water
supplies and to imnpound wqet seasonr (Jine-Sepntember) run off in small earth
dams. The topography and stream pattern for the project area indicate a
,ro. n  potential fo-r eairfth  rd.aTonstfriirtion.  This is further substan-
tiated by the 1:50,000 topographical maps with 50 and 25 foot contour inter-
vals which indicated a lar,e number of notenntal locations for small dam
sites.
6).       The hydrological data are generallv poor, but enough to give in-
dlcations for dam,i d.-velooment purposes. T.h.e annual rainfall in the project
arga 17,1ries from 700 mm-1,250 mm. A runoff yield varying from 0.0180-0.150
FTn/hillcanbe e          . The evaporation from thle natural water surface is
v.^ry high being about 1,600 mm per year. The basin erosion iTn terms of the
sediment yield established by NEDECO arnd FAO was 0.16 mn and, 0.23 mrm per
year, respectively. This should be increased by about 0.3 m,m per year for
tiie project area duet -- the  . --sn  typ  of sol  a         .-overs
7.        A c--re-Lu- L analysis of t4-1.        --,avilabilit-y of l ot:al con-
struction of materials and hydrology indicates thiat a network of small dams
of about, 120,000 Tmi in total capacity each, 2s1-ould be bul,t.  Lach wouldi be
fed by runoff from a catchment of 3 to 5 km   in area, and would be capable
of meeting the year-round demands of 2,000 people and 1,000 livestock.
Details of the hydrological features and reservoir operation study are
given in paras 10 - 12 of this annex.   The dams and reservoLrs would be
properly constructed and would provide a gravitational distribution system
to convey water from the reservoir outlet to the delivery poitS in. separate
locations for people and livestock. The construction costs of the dam and
facilities would average N12,000.
S.        A typical earthdam for the project area wouio 'have specifications
as detailed below.
(1)  Features of average dam
- 'I'otal height of dam from streambed      5.00 m
- free board                                1.50 m
- Deptli at spillway level                  3.50 m3
- Total capacity                         120,000UiU
- De,d storage or sediment space          20,000 M
- ULsefuil storage capacity              100,000^ m
- Spillway - free-overflow  (witih concrete surface in special



ANNEX 4
Page 3
cases) capable of discharging 1.5 m3 per second ner kxr! of
catchment.  For 4 km   of catchment, the spillwag would be
20 m wide with 0.30 m afflux; di   harging 6.0 m  ___r
-Dam - earth-fill with clay core if necessary, having 4 m
toD width and 1:2 to 1:3 side slones with rin-rnn on uin-
stream face, containing about 5,000 m3 of fill.
-Foundation - Treated tn imnperuivio   zon.  Cre wall would
be installed to an impervious foundation.
- Oitlet work - Oittlt pipes of 15 cm in diameter with at
least tliree concrete flanges, equipped with a strainer in-
let on uinstream ite, and a onato va-l    , the  ownstream.
-Dam design - Portions of the project area have soils which
contai-n a hi-Fal, percentage of ca, w-;le in -Me locations
there is considerable depth of soil that contains a large
amount of sand particles, the design of da, should be based
on the results of the soil tests of the proposed borrow
ma-terials ar.d of the foundation .materials as well.
Main gravLty   p1ie --1it - AsUestsL pLpt of 15 cm in diarneter
laid at 1:300 slope for a distance of at least 150 m from
the reservoir outlet gate valve.
Branch pipe-line - Asbestos of 10 cm in diameter conveying
water rorUi tLhe main pipe to the separate deiivery points at
a distance of at least 50 m for villagers and 100 m for
lilvestock from the main pipe.
- Villager delivery points - Installed with an adequate con-
crete platform and faucets for villagers: consumption.
- Livestock delivery point - Installed with an adequate brick
trough and faucets.
Criteria used for estiinating capacity of dam is as follows:
(i)  Estimated Demand on Water Supply
Assumptions:   - reopie - 100-125 litre/day (standard) 54 litre/
day/person (adopted)
- Livestock - average 1/                  45 litre/
day/head
Cattle         20 litre/day
Siheetp        10 litre/day
Goats          10 litre/day
Hforses        45 litre/day
Donkeys        30 litre/day



ANiEX 4
Page 4
1 - Water requirements for 2,000 people:
2,000 x 54 = 108,000 litre/day = 1,000 m /10 days (approximately)
2 - Water requirements for 1,000 heads livestock:
1,000 x 45 litre/day = 45,000 litre/day = 400 m3/10 days
(ii) Demand from tank for each 10-day period in each month-
Water Year             People       Liveqtock     Total
---------------m
April.                 1,000           400        1,400
lay
June.
Julv
August                                  I ,
September                "       
October
November
December
January                  "              "      
February
March                    "              "I
Annual               36,000         14,400      50.400
(iii)  Estimated sediment Load:
Assumptions:   Annual Erosion O)epth                   0.3 rm!/year
0.3 x 4 x 106 = 1,200T m
(iv) UseLul liLe oL tank:.                                   20 years 
3
Design sediment space in tank:       12,x 2x U     .35 =    2,00, m
Total tank capacity:
- Active or useful storage       0l0,00v T013
- Soace for sediment deposit      20,000 m
- Totai capacity                i20,0U0  m
1/   For this purpose, the first 20 years after completion of the tank are
rnrtnqidprpd as "Pro(luctive life of the reservoir" and the other years beyond
this are considered as "falli.ag."'Tor depleting life, during which time a
scondX or higher develonment starP is exoected.    The dam mav be heiThtened
to retain its capacity against sedimentation in future.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Summary of reservoir operation studies
10.       On the basis of a rare drought year (1 year out of 10), the annual
rainfall anticipated at about 700 mm would be sufficient. In order to as-
sess the adequacy on a seasonal basis and during such period of the drought,
reservoir operation studies have been performed using the storage capacity
and demands adopted. The operation indicates that though the evaporation
losses from the reservoir are very high, the reservoir is still capable of
meeting the full demands throughout the dry season.
11.       Tie results of the operation are as follows:
(i) The surfase runoff emptied into the reservoir woull be about
450,000 m from the typical catchment area of 4 km .
(ii) During the dry season, the release for domestic consumption Sor
2,000 people and for 1,000 livestock would be about 35,000 m , and
tje losses through evaporation and waste would amount to 70,000
m .
(iii) The spillage f5om the reservoir during the rainy season would be
about 300,000 m .
(iv) No shortages are expected, yet about 20,000 m  would remain in
the reservoir dead storage.
12.       The following table simulates the hydrology and reservoir opera-
tions for the 10 year drought year of a typical dam to be constructed.






NIGERIA
NORTP WESI'RERW STATR
nusau f nricult,zral Developnent Project
Reservoir Operation for 10 Year Drought Year
Approx.
10-Day                                                       Total      2/                         Reservoir
Periods  Rainfall  Inflow 1/  Evaporation  Release  Losses  Outflow  LS -    Se - /  Scm11  Short Elevation
mm- 000 m
120.0
Oct. 10     0.4       -           3.4       1.4       0.1     4.9    -4.9    U5.1      -      -     3.50
20      -        -           3.3         n        a      4.8     -4.8    110.3    -      -
3.     5.8       _           3.2         "               4.7     -4.7    107.1    -      -
Nov. 10      -        -           3.4                         4.9    -4.9    102.3     -      -     3.40
20      -        _           3.4         n               4.9     -4.9     97.3    -      -
30      -        _           3.3         n               4.8    -4.8      92.5    -      -
Dec. 10      -        -           3.2         .               4.7    - 4.7    87.8     -      -     3.30
20      -        -           3.2                         4.7     -4.7     83.1    -      -
31      -        -           3.1                         4.6     -4.6     78.5    -      -
Jan. 10      -        -          3-6                          5.3    -5.3     73.2     -      -     3.00
20      -        -           3.5              n          5.0    -5.0      68.2    -      -
31      -        _           3.2         "               4.7    -4.7      63.5    -      -
Feb. 10      -        -           3.2                         4.7    -4.7     58.8     -      -      2.80
20      -        -           3.1                         4.6    -4.6      54.2    -      -
28           -               3.0                         45      -4.5     49.7    -      -
Mar. 10      -        -           2.7         "               4.2    -4.2     45.5     -      -      2.50
20      -        -           2.5                         4.0    -4.0     I41.5    -      -
31     6.8       _           2.2                          3.7    -3.7     37.8    -      -
Apr. 10    14.4       -           1.7                         3.2    -3.2     34.6     -      -      2.20
20      -        -           1-5         n               3.0     -3.0     31.6    -      -
30     3.3       -           1.4         "               2.9    -2.9      28.7    -      -
may 10      1.7       -           1-3                         2.8    -2.8     25.9     -      -      2.00
20    17.3       -           1.1                          2.6    -2.6     23.3    -       -
31     6.8       -           1.0         n                2.5    -2.5     20.8    -       -     1.00
Jiue 1     58.4       8          0.7                          2.2    +5.8     26.6     -      -     2.00
20    16.2       -           0.9         n                2.4    -2.4     24.2    -      -
30    24.5       4           0.8                          2.3    +1.7     21.9    -       -
Jul. 10    36.7       8           0.5                         2.0    +6.0     27.9     -      -      2.00
20    57.5      32           0.7         n        n       2.2   +29.8     57.7    -       -
31    83.2      48           1.5                  Is      3.0   +45.0    102.7    -       -
Aug. 10    89.5      80           2.3         n        n      3.8   +17.3     120.0   58.9    -      3.50
20    45.8      44           2.5         n        n      4.0       -     120.0   40.0     -
31    56.3      6o           2.5         "        "       4.0      -     120.0   56.0     -
Sept.10   103.9      88           2.5         n 't            4.0      -     120.0    84.0    -      3.50
20    70.5      72           2.5        ft        of      4.0      -     120.0   68.0     -
30    14.0       4           2.5                          4.0      -     120.0        -
Annual    713.0     I48          84.6       50.4      3.6   138.6                    309.9    -
Dry period
(Oct.-June) 56.5     -           64.7       33.6      2.4   100.7                      -      -           t
I/ Inflow ?ram 4 k1m of catchment.
2/ Changes in storage.
3/ Storage at end of period.






1UNrA A 4
Page 7
13.       Tne project could not in the first instance provide adequate
coverage of dams to satisfy all project farmers. However, it would attempt
to satisfy the more critical areas, and provide reserve capacity for most
village unit areas. 65 dams would be constructed over 4 years of the pro-
ject.  5 would be built in year 1, followeq by 20 each in year 2, 3 and 4.     Thus
on average there would be one dam to 60 km , which approximates to one
village area of 2,000 farming families. Thus about 25% of the population
would be served by the program. However, over the years the ground water
table should also improve, thereby indirectly affecting a large number of
the remaining 75%. If successful this dam construction program could be
continued in another phase.
B. Soil Conservation Measures
14.       In a project of this size (3,800 km 2) it would be nearly impossible
to construct all the necessary conservation measures that are theoretically
required, and neither would it be economically justified at this stage of
development. However, as mentioned in para 1 of this annex, erosion pro-
blems can be considered serious, particularly in the catchment areas of
streams and rivers. It is therefore proposed that under the project the
catchment areas of the earth dams to be constructed under the project would
receive certain soils conservation measures. In this way eroding catchment
areas would be conserved, and siltation of the dams would be reduced.
15.       Virtually no soil conservation measures have been undertaken on a
large scale in northern Nigeria and there are no practical specifications
that can be followed, and it will remain for the prolece conservation en-
gineer to modify the proposed design and layout as experience is gained
during proiect implementation.
16.       However, the project topography is similar in tvye to that of the
Lilongwe Land Development Program in Malawi, an IDA financed project, and
has other similar features such as rainfall nattern (4 months wet RsoAdn)_
amount of rainfall 1,200-1,5S0 mm/annum ,2land use intensity, and very
similar runoff factors 1-5 m /sec per km . During the last four or five
years the type of layout has been improved at Lilongwe and has proved ad-
equate for the Drevailinc conditions.   It is nrooosed that a similar layout
is used for Gusau.
17.       The system is relatively simple in that a series of large "vee"
shaned cut off drains, with a catrhmont of A0 ha, are conr,ucted to drain
storm water into artificial or natural waterways, and thence to streams or
rivers.  Rptween thp ctut off drains the project lays out master ridges on
the contours to assist the farmers with his direction of cultivation. The cut
off drain system is tied in with the general road planning for the areas
concerned, and when planned correctly are built as extensions to road mitre
tl r  n.



ANMM1E 4
Page 8
Specif ications
,.    ~T.he dI"version d i t chcut 4off dri.4  w . ouldb  ot1,0r.lng
JLL   LVtO.I.Lt  JUL..L  ~L.LL  ~tL UtL k~I,  W S..Lu  IJC  atuUt   I  -JJU  LIi  LULL6,
250 m apart and have a cross sectional area of about 0.8 m    (37 cm deep and
3.6    A-% ,- wie)  T,i  dsch woull Ira-- at a  raeof1;0  an' wouldhv"
V II  WUJ. LLL    LL.L   It LJUU  U. aLLI  ciL  di  rLLLC  U~ lk. -*  VJU  dL   LU WLU±   u Vte ad
capacity of 0.6 m /sec.   The diversion ditch would drain into water ways,
wI. thL training b)anik's.  On adverage, eachiL catch [-1 le-Lnt area would Lequire oLLe
wate yay of 500 m in length fith an outflow capacity for the runoff from
-    rW               _   _ r   --   1  ^  _  _ _   --   -_  I   1   - _  - - I -_  . 
q uM  i.e. a Cap)acLity Ut U II IFEC.  1L1e toI) end OI L[le wauerway would pro-
oably be about 10 m wide, widening to 30-40 m at the point of discharge.
19.       Master lines are constructed, using a tractor and plough, between
division ditches. Normally three lines between ditches are sufficient to
serve the farmers as master lines. This is equivalent to about 1,500 m of
market line to 4 ha. For the small additional cost much unnecessary runoff
and silting into newly constructed ditches is avoided.
C. Construction
20.       Both dams and soil conservation works would be treated as one and
would come under the development responsibility of the Conservation engineer
who would be overall responsible for their survey, design and construction.
In order to make optimum use of equipment the engineering services have
been designed as a single unit and a substantial interchange of equipment
between road construction and conservation would take place.
21.       The basic construction equipment for the dams would comprise two
180 HP Bulldozers and two 300 TIP motorized Scrapers. Compaction equipment
would be necessary in those areas where soil types are very light. The
equipment used for soil conservation would be one 140 HP Bulldozer and
two 125 .-IP Mfotor Graders. Details are given in Annex 3. It should be noted
that darls can only be constructed during the dry season.   Including survey
work it is estimated that the average dam would be constructed in about
three weeks (2 units), and that a similar time would be required to com-
plete the conservation works in a given catchment area.
22.       During the first year of the project, most of the time would be
spent in staff training, in surveying, designing and engineering. It is
estimated that only about five dams are likely to be constructed.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
NIGERIA
NOKRI WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricultural Development ProJect
Training
Training Staff
1.        The Division of Agriculture and Livestock Services Training (DALST)
of Ahmadu Bello University, Samaru, Zaria, has the responsibility of training
students for certificates or diplomas in agriculture or related subjects
leading to their employment in the Ministries of Natural Resources, in the
northern States of Nigeria.
2.        There are 4 schools under DALST, they are:
a)   Samaru (N. Central State)
Offering, at present, certificate courses in Extension,
Farm Mechanics, Home Economics and a diploma course in
Home Economics. Expansion of this school planned for
completion by 1975 would add diploma courses in Farm
Mechanics and Extension to the syllabus.
b)   Bakura (NW State)
Offering a certificate course in Irrigation Agronomv and
presently located at Samaru pending completion of the new
school at Bakura.
c)   Kaduna Livestock Service Training Center (NC State)
Offering certificate courses in Livestock and Range
Management and diploma courses in Animal Products
Inspection, and Range Management.
d)   Kabba (Kwara State)
Offering diploma courses in Agriculture at present and
certificate courses in Agriculture from 1974.
3.        Present enrollment at these schools is as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page '
School     Course                           1st Year Students   2nd Year Students
Samaru     1st year Agricultural /1                215
AA. Farm Mechanics                                          16
AA Extension                                                59
A Home EcoRnomics                        40                22
Diploma Home Economics                                     12
Bakura     Irrigation Agronomy                      40                 25
Kaduna     Livestock Assistant /1                   81                 41
Diploma A-.-mal P1                       1- 13
Diploma Range Management                                   12
Kabba      Doploma in Agriculture /2               198                  -
TOTAL                        590               200
The capacity of all of these schools is being increased and it is
forecast that by 1975 S&amaru would have a capacity for 600 students and the
other schools 300 students each.
4.        In addition to DALST, individual northern States are developing
their own schools of agrLculture offering certificate courses th-us:
State        School           Reuarks
North East   Bauchi           Under construction, termporarily training 40
students, will rise to 60 when opened.
Kano         Kadawo           Due to open in 1973 with similar courses as
Samaru.
5.        With the majority of the AA (Extension) receiving their training
at Samaru, it is important to see if the output is adequate for the projects.
6.        N. Western State (Project)
In 1973 52 students from NW State started certificate courses at
Samaru. Of these 8 are taking livestock courses, 6 are taking Home Economics
and 38 are taking Agriculture. Another 40 students enrolled at Bakura to
study irrigation.
1/  1st year general course with opportunity to specialize in the second
year.
'l Special course to gi4e AAS the o-portur.it- to upgrade to Aq (1972 onnv).



ANNEX 5
Page 3
7.        The 38 students taking Agriculture will have the choice of specia-
lizing in Farm Mechanilcs or Extenslon kin 197 2 17 cnose Farm 'Mecnanics ana
44 chose Extension out of a class of 61 at Samaru). Their course will end
in December 1974 and by that time the Gusau Project wiii need 24 AA-S.
8.        In order to ensure that 24 AA's are working in the project by
January 1975 it would be desirable to (a) post as many of the December 1973
output to Gusau as is possible (D) persuade tne majority of students in
training to opt for the AA (Extension) course, posting them to Gusau at
the end of their course, e.g.
AA's in post now   5
AA's 1973 output   7
AA"s 1974 output   12
Total by Jan. 1975 24
9.        The project would require a further 25 AA's in December 1975, if
adequate numbers can go for training at Samaru or Bakuru in April 1974 no
problem should be encountered in fully staffing the project.
10.       No similar problems are expected to arise over the AO, AS or Al
staffing requirements as the numbers of AO's and AS's are relatively small
in relationship to the numbers at present in Post or in Training, and the
AI's would be trained by the project from local WASC holders.
Farm Training
11.       At present, farmer training consists of a nine month course for 22
farmers' sons at Gusau Farm Institute. At the end of their course the
graduates receive 2 work oxen, a ridger, 1 bag groundnut seed, 1/2 bag of
sorghum seed and 1/2 bag millet. In addition, those that did well may re-
ceive fertilizers and insecticides as well. The oxen and ridgers are to be
repaid over 5 years; the other items are free. The training is free, all
expenses being paid by MANR. The graduates are expected to work on their
fathers' farms at the end of the course.
12.       The project proposes to increase the capacity of the Farm Insti-
tutes to 40 residential students per day and to broaden the range of
courses so that more farmers have training opportunities on shorter courses.
The institute would also serve farmers outside the project area but within
the Sokoto East Division. The Home Agents Training Center would continue
to operate and should perhaDs broaden its intake to include farmers' wives.






ANNEX 6
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATF
G.usau Aerirultitral Tlevlnrnspent Prniect
qtaffinai of Fhieltd qpr-ef t
Technical Service
1.        The technical service headed by a Chief Technical Officer would
arovid  s taff for (a) seed ..O1tfla14-    and^" A*A (b) t:ai4n for
staff and farmers; (c) extension services and (d) tractor hire service.
2.        Seed Multiplication and Research.   The Gusau seed multiplication
farm Yw0o-1d provide the- initial -ukn   up  f coton   -ee   -,d thpodct-
of high yielding maize, sorghum, groundnut and cowpea seeds for sale to
farmers.  The fam would also Le a center for research    .ialso
The farm would come under the overall control of an Agricultural Research
Office-r (expatriate  withi W an1- Agriculturl             --eitedn   as - F A, M -ager.
~~~             W41u  /  . L&  =ALL £5J U. Ua.  0)UV=L.LII =LLU=LLL. 42   £'1LLL  J:U1CZ ,=LL
Two Agricultural Assistants would be available for field duties, plus an
AgrLcl-url            L nsIruaor  Udueonstrate ox traA n L nga.LL  dLU a' euIIIpmLL ue.
raCL1&.LL&r for Staff dnd  a-LIIuCLS
J.       P-Lrreseint Situation.  'universities cater for tne uraining or
Agricultural Officers (AO) whose qualifications is a degree in Agriculture.
Schools of Agriculture cater for diploma or certificate courses for Agri-
cultural Superintendents (AS) or Agricultural Assistants (AA).    Farm Train-
ing Centers train school certificate holders (or less) for 9 months and
produce Agricultural Instructors (Field Overseers) (AI). Farm Institutes
give training courses for farmers or farmers's sons.   (see Annex 5)
4.        In Gusau the Agricultural Assistant would have qualified at the
School of Agriculture, Samaru, and the Assistant Agricultural Superinten-
dents or Agricultural Superintendents would either have risen through the
ranks on experience and length of service or would have received diploma
level training at Samaru. Tnere are no training establishments above the
level of Farm Institute in the project area. There is one Farm Institute
at Gusau with a capacity of 22 students and a home economic training center
for 10 students.
5.        Future Proposals.   The capacity of the Gusau Farm Institute would
be raised to 40 residential students. An Agricultural Superintendent would
be the Principal assisted by three AA's, one AI and one Home Agent (Agri-
cultural Instructress) (HA). The courses should be widened to include:



ANNEX 6
Page 2
a)   initial training for AI's;
b)   in-service and induction courses for all staff; and
c)   farmer training.
Extension Services
6.        The extension services would provide the farmer with the technical
supervision and encouragement to imorove his farming syste.ms. Th.e Gcsau
.roject would be divided into 4 development units based on the present
district boundaries (Cusau and Kotnrknshi would ha prenineAl nnA saoffed by
1 AO (or AS) at the top and one AA in each of the major villages, each AA
being assisted by AT's aceording tn the demand in that an-re    A am1ll 
of Home Agents would be employed to teach farmers' wives on the basis of
one HA ner development unit.
Tractor Hire Service
7.        This provides a ploughing and ridging service to farmers, mainly
the larger ones and TwoulA cntinu   urntil s a-T, me as private contractor
services are available. The service requires one AS in overall charge and
an AA in rhhnrap nf Poe-h t-rqrt-tnr init which T.old,1z be basea in each - vA-el_
ment unit. A workshop for maintenance and repairs would be incorporated
within theo         HQ0 ore TO
Credit Servl.,ce-
8.        T71,Le   cred,t se4c  wou4 - ld a r l e th  extension   service  a d w r
very closely with it. The service would provide the farmer with his inputs
on creAdt or cor cash, recover paymiLents, procure a.i distribut  th Le inputs
and keep accounts. The service would be headed by a Credit Manager. There
would be a Credit Offcer at each Development Unit for control of the credit
services to farmers in that area.   In each village there would be two Credit
Assistants who would disburse inputs, collect repayments and, in liaison
with the extension service, scrutinize applications and defaulters. (See
Antnex 0 Lor deta±i)
Mr'arketing Service
9.        rne marketing service would maintain an inspection team and or-
ganize market liaison to ensure smooth operation at markets. The service
would be headed by a Senior Marketing Ofricer.    Each Development Unit would
have a Marketing Assistant (Senior Agricultural Assistant grade) who would
tour markets regularly and report on prices, organization and produce
quality and quantities.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricultural Development Project
Table 1
Staff Requirements (in field)
Branch                                      AO     AS     AA      AI     HA
1. Seed multiplication and research          1      1       2      2
Training                                         1      3       2     1
Extension Services                        2       2    4o    158       4
Tractor Flouah Service                     _            4
Total                         3      5     49    162      5
Go     CA
2. Greiit Srvie.s                                   80
mn     MA



ANNEX 6
Page_ 4
NIGERIA
NOXRTH WESTERN STATE
GTusau Agricultural Development Project
Table 2
Tncrermnt.lI Sitaffinq - Field Service I/
In Post before               Proj,ect Year
Grade     _                        Projiect          I    TT    III    TIV    T
AO        Increment                   _              R        _   _        _
Total                                      3     3      3     3    3
AS        Incr  ent                                  3     -      -     -     -
Total                       2              5     5      5     5    5
AA          .-                                      19            -
Total                      5              24    49     49    49   49
AT        T_ cres-nn=                               1'7   40    i40    Lo 
Total                     25              42    82    122   162  162
HA         Icremen t                  -              3     2      -     -     -
Total                       -              3     5      5     5    5
Co        Increment                   -              4     -      -     -    -
Total                       -              4     4      4          14
CA        Increment                   -             i    25      -     -     -
Total                       -             15    40     80    80   80
MA        Increment                   -              4     -      -     -    -
Total                       -              4     4      4     14   4
MO        Increment                   -              1     -      -     -    -
Total                      -               1     1      1     1    1
1/ Exclude senior staff.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
10.       Sources of staff would be as follows:
- Agricultural Officers. Qualified officers from within MANR;
- Agricultural Superintendents and Assistant AS. Qualified officers
from within MANR:
- Agricultural Assistants. Certificate holders from within MANR
supplemented by newly qualified AA's coming out of Samaru or
Bakora annually;
- Agricultural Instructors. Preferably West Africa School
Certificate holders who come from the area and who would receive
their training in the project;
- Home Agents. Certificate holders trained at Samaru or from
within MANR;
- Credit Officers. Degree holders preferably with commercial or
banking experience;
- Credit Assistants. WASC holders selected and trained by the
project;
- Marketing Officers. Degree holder or experience in market
organization; and
- Marketing Assistants. WASC holders selected and trained by the
proiect.






ANNEX 7
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricultural Development Project
Farm and Crop Development
A. General
1.        The major crops in the project area are sorghum and millet, cotton,
groundnuts and cowpeas. Minor crops include maize, sugarcane, peppers and
okra. Data on production of cotton and groundnuts can be compiled from pur-
chases by the Northern States Marketing Board (NSMB) (Tables I and 2). No
production data are available for other crops; nor is there other than qual-
itative information on farmers' yields, farm sizes or cropping patterns.
However, a detailed economic survey of three villages within 220 km of the
project area has been carried out and published recently. 1/ Ecological and
sociological conditions are comparable in many respects between the two
areas and, for this reason, the survey has been used as a basis for the for-
mulation of assumptions on present and projected farming activities.
2.        Cattle, sheep and goats are kept throughout the project area by
villagers, and in substantially larger numbers bv semi-nomadic pastoralists
(Fulani). The latter utilize fallow land, forest and grazing reserves, and
crop residues for their livestock.   Thev exist in an increasingly uneasy
symbiosis with settled cultivators as pressure on land increases with rising
populations.  Livestock management svstems are generally poor and produc-
tivity is low. There are no reliable data on stock numbers.
3.        Cultivations are carried out mainly by hand hoe and cutlass.
However, a small, and tnnuantified number of farmers are knon. to own work
oxen and equipment. The MANR tractor hiring service plows and ridges land
for farmers at subsidized rates but its overa1l impact is negligible.
B. Farming Systems
Farm Size
4.        Although no detailed surys have been carried out, field obser-
vations tend to verify estimates based on population and proportion of
cronnpd land derived from stud- of aerial photography mosaics of the area.
These point to a mean farm size of 3.5 ha.
1/   A.n Economic Survey of three -villages in Zatia Province, Samaru Miscellan-
eous Paper 37,1972: D.W. Norman.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Size of Farm Family
5.        The Norman study 1/ reports an average farm family of 8.5.   This
is not considered to be typical of the project area, where local opinion
considers that an average family approximates 6.5 persons.   Composition of
such a family has been assumed to be as follows:
Small                Large           Female          Male          Total
Child                Child          Adult            Adult      Residents
1.7                   1.0              2.2            1.6          6.5
Labor Availability
6.        Labor availability in mandays per day, on the basis of manday
equivalents used by Norman 1/ would be as follows:
Small      Large     Female     Male
Child      Child     Adult      Adult     Total
Farm family                     1.7        1.0       2.2        1.6      6.5
Manday equivalents               -         0.5       0.75       1.0
Available mandays                          0.5       1.65       1.6      3.75
In the Zaria study 1/, male adult labor accounted for 89 percent of the total
family labor input; female adult labor was insignificant. Thus, assuming
50 percent availability of labor from the large child in an average farm
family, daily labor availability would approximate 2 mandays.
7.        Labor requirements assessed by Norman 1/ on traditional methods of
cultivation, which imply mixed cropping and low yields, appear to be low re-
lative to data on similar crops grown under comparable conditions in other
areas. Substantially higher labor requirements have been assumed for pro-
posed project crops as shown in the model crop and farm budgets (Tables 3
throuah 9!.
8.        Adequate labor profiles are not available and, while it appears
that total labor availability (at 2.0 manday equivalents per day) is ade-
quate, there may be seasonal labor shortages, particularly at planting and
weeding periods in some seasons. However, the project would appeal pri-
marily to the most vigorous and efficient farmers and for this reason. labor
availability is not regarded as a serious constraint on development.
Cropping Patterns
9,.       I.nterroppi-n4gi  comon-ly  racticed in a wide variety of combina-
tions. The cropping pattern of an average farm, on the basis of adjusted
1,op cit.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
areas of sole crops might be as follows (ha):
Sorghum and Other Cereals             1.50
Cotton                               0.70
Groundnuts and Cowpeas               0.70
Others and Fallow                    0.60
Total                       3.50
10.       This pattern may be expected to change as a result of the project
which would promote sole cropping and the introduction of improved produc-
tion practices for cotton, sorghum, maize, groundnuts and cowpeas. These
would result in changes in areas planted, but overall farm size would not
be affected by the project.
11.       Samples of model cropping patterns resulting from project activi-
ties are compared with the assumed traditional pattern below (in ha):
Cotton &    Groundnuts
Traditional       Cereals      & Cereals
Traditional cotton /1                  0.70 
Improved cotton                         -             1.10            -
Traditional sorghum                    1.30             -           0.45
Improved sorghum                        -             0.50          0.50
Traditional maize                      0.10             -             -
Improved maize                          -             1.00          1.00
Traditional millet and
other cereals /2                     0.10             -             -
Traditional eroundnuts /1              0.54             -             -
Improved groundnuts                     -               -           0.75
Traditional cowpeas                    0.16             -           0.16
Improved cowpeas                        -            0.25             -
Other traditional crops and fallow     0.60          0.65           0.64
Total                        3.50          3.50           3.50
/1   Areas nlanted to traditional cotton and groundnuts are to some extent in-
terdependent and vary between different locations.   Cotton predominates
in the south of the uroiect area. groundnuts in the north.
/2   Traditional sorghum and traditional millet are frequently interplanted.
12.       The anticipated effect of the project on the five crops selected
for deplopmene vaz:   rnttnn; sorghum, maize, groundnuts; and cowpeKa  fi
considered in subsequent paragraphs. Proposed improved practices are de-
fined, and their likely impact Js analyz7d in tpm-sQ nf aa, number of
growers, and production on a crop by crop basis.



ANNEX 7
C. Cotton
13.       Cotton of the Improved Allan type (Gosypium hirsutum) has been
grown in the project area for the past half century.    Production fluctuates
widely due to the effects of climate and producer price. Tne mean level in
recent years approximates 15,000 tons of seed cotton, some 11 percent of
--san total proAuction Ifrm the northeri-i States (ai    )
14.       Seed of improved varieties produced at the Institute of Agricultural
Research (IAR) at Samaru is bulked up at the Daudawa seed multiplication
farm -in North Central State before distribution to farmers throughout the
northern States as shown below:
 ------------Seed------------
Received Produced Destination
S;age    Location                 ---------------tons------------    Remarks
A      IAR Samaru nucieus piots     -            -       B        Breeders
0.1 ha                                                     nucleus
B      IAR Samaru nucleus plots      -           2       C
h na
C      Daudawa Farm                 2          50-70     D        Variety S71
D      Daudawa Market Area         70           500      E
E      North Central State /1     500         3,000      F
F      NC and NW States /1      1,900         9,500      C        Distribu-
tion to all
area
/1   Selected areas under tight control.
Farmers at stage E receive new material three years after selection. Seed
supplies are provided free by the NSMB at a series of dumps throughout the
project area. Seed for planting is treated at the ginnery against Bacterial
Blight (Xanthomonas malvacearum) which is endemic to the area. One of three
dressings: mercurial (3 percent) at 1:180; copper (45 percent) at 1:180; or
Bronopal (12 percent) at 1:170; are effective and may be used.



AYNEX 7
Page 5
Variety
15.       The present variety, S71 has been bred to yield highly and to meet
the needs of the textile industry. Under farmers' conditions, yields average
no more than 250 kg of seed cotton per ha, about 10% of the variety's yield
potential. Its main characteristics are shown below:
Cinning percentage                    35.9
Fibre length (32nds of an inch)        37.3
Fibre strength (g per tex)             20.9
Yarn strength (40 count)            2,386
Blight grade (0 = none, 7 = max).       2.4
Recommended Production Practices
16.       Research carried out by the IAR at Samaru and at outstations has
given rise to a set of recommended practices for the crop. These presuppose
a low level of technical assistance to farmers and do not reflect optimal
production conditions. More advanced techniques including the use of ultra
low volume (ULV) snraving for insect control are being tested under farmers'
conditions at several sites in the northern States. They are likely to be
fully annrnved for use on a field scale under the conditions proposed for
the project in the near future.   Given adherence to the full package of im-
proved practie-cs euitlined below, average yields of seed cotton are predicted
to approximate 1,200 kg/ha.
17.       Land should be ridged at 0.91 m (3 ft) centers slightly off the
cottur to promote drainage, andn 20-25 cm (8-10 in) high- Al ternate fivrrews.
should be tie ridged to promote water retention. Ridges should be completed
to allow for planting in mid June. 6-8 seeds should be sown 2.4 a (1 in)
deep at 45 cm (18 in) along the top of each ridge. 125 kg of boronated
si4ngle supephoshat hsa            nnoua hbanpr1i.nat hafore vidging'  (0.7 1kg/
*5...~~~  o.j.J~~. jJ*-*- - --    - - - --*-- -            - .. -1
ha of boron).  Three weeks after planting, 125 kg of sulphate of ammonia per
ha should be applied close to planting holes.    (ralrimu arimmoniiuim nitvrte is
a possible future substitute for sulphate of ammonia). Plants should be
&thired to two per stand      tthree weeks after planting and preferably
after a good rain, to minimize the effects of root disturbance. Weeding
ar,d' ridUge ri-rintenance should bue unAertaken. before weed com.petition is
serious. Normally three weedings are required.
18.       The cotton crop is attacked by a range of pests at different stages
Jn the gro-wing period.
ILL LALI  ~LjWL  ~L LU.
a)  rPeriodU ubetween gerination and fltoering:
No major pests, Aphis goss-r-   ., may occur but selAom
build up to serious proportions.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
Empoasca spp occur but as the cotton is bred for jassid
resistance no serious damage is caused.
b)   Period of flowering and boll growth:
Pests of vegetation include the mirid Camplyomma
which can be serious, Lygus which is less serious,
Sylepta derogata (F)   (the cotton leaf roller), various grass-
hoppers, leaf hoppers, and leaf eating beetles occur in
August and September and are of varying seriousness depending
on the season.
Pests of the flowers and bolls include stainers, mainly
Dysdercus superstitiosus (F) but also D. Fasciatus. and the
red bollworm Diparopsis watersi (Roths) which are usually
more serious than the American bollworm Heliothis armigera
(Hb), the spiny bollworms Earias insulana (86isd) and Earias
biplaga (WLK), the False codling moth Cryptophlebia leucotreta
(Meyr) and the pink bollworm Pectinophora gossypiella (Sound).
c)   Pests of bolls after the rains:
Bollworms (particularly the red) and adult stainers
increase until the bolls have all matured. but the npet8 nf
vegetation decrease.
19.       Application of insecticides would be timed in accordance with pest
identification in the field.  A carbaryl/molasses mixture (48 percent car-
baryl) is currently being evaluated and, if satisfactory, this should pro-
vide effective insect control. It would nrobablv involve some 17 liters/tha/
annum.
20.       Harvesting should begin in October and be continued at regular
intervals to prevent boll snoilage. Picking should aim to avoid dirt, trash
and stained or damaged lint in order to qualify seed cotton for purchase as
Grade 1.
21I       All contton plants should be uprooted and burnt by Marc.h 1 and from
that date until June 1, no cotton may be grown.
Future Production
22.       Increased production is expected to derive partly from increased
araplant-ed but- ma4Iny from th-e alop-lon of new techniques.
area   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~  L  L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  LIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Uk  LL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L.   L%A& u L  .   . L
23.  Aea expansion over the project period is expected to be ffrom
42,000 ha in 1975 to about 51,000 ha in 1979. This would come largely from
LnLcreased numbers of cotton farmers bUt there would be some area redistribu-
tion.  It is estimated that the average farmer currently grows 0.7 ha. of



ANNEX 7
Pagoe 7
cotton. At the end of the project period those using advanced techniques
would average 1.1 ha; those using intermediate techniques would average
0.8 ha; and those continuing to use traditional methods would average 0.7
ha.
24.       AdoDtion of new techniques would be at two levels.   The us,e of
early planting, sole cropping, fertilizer and ULV spraying for insect con-
trol is described as 'advanced'.  Such meqsures would recult in yields
averaging 1,100 kg seed cotton per ha. The omission of insect control by
ULV spraving' from the above techninues would -give an 'intermediate' leve-l
of cotton production. Farmers applying intermediate technology should
average 540 kg of seed cotton per ha.
25       rCotton produced under 'tradI 4ivn.' syste.e  of late plnting and
intercropping without fertilizer or insect control would be unlikely to ex-
ceed average yieldAs of 2550 k-g seed cotton per hla.
26.  T* 4s asSU-     - the basis.UL o.l ongl 
26.       It is assumed, on the basis of o    ng prograwo, that at the start
of the project (1974) some 0.6 percent of farmers would be using advanced
techniques and 1.7 percent would be us'ing intermediate techniques.  Projected
build up in terms of percentages of farm families in the three categories
is sh-vqn be"--:
~ ~LIJLI  U~L%JW
±eartL         AuvuAvaceu        Ilntermeaiate          Traditional
.l              .3                  3                     94
2                8                  5                     87
3               .160                7                     77
4               26                 10                     64
J               36                 12                     52
A-verage size of cotton
plot (ha)                1.1                 0.8                   0.7
Average yield of seed
cotton (kg/ha)         1,100               540                   250
Production/plot. (kg)     1,210               432                   175
27.       On the basis of the foregoing assumptions, cotton production
would increase as follows, in tons of seed cotton:
Year            Production
0               10,330
1               12,130
2               15,300
3               20,600
4               27,050
5               34,250



ANNEX 7
Page 8
Table 10 provides additional details.
28.       A model budget for one ha of cotton grown under the three levels
of technology outlind eabove is given at Table 3. Thhis show's, assuming a
farm gate price for seed cotton of NO.08/kg that net returns per ha, ex-
cluding labor costs and returns to labor would become increasingly attrac-
tive as the level of technology is improved, as summarized below:
Net Returns excluding          Returns to Labor per
Labor Costs per ha of Cotton (N) ha of Cotton (N/manday)
Traditional           19.00                         0.31
Inte mediate          31.a 20                       0.37
Advanced              45.46                         0.46
D. Sorehum
Background and rraditional
29.       Sharing with bulrush millet, the role of the traditional grain
staple ofL the nausa people, sorghum Ls grown widely tnroughout the project
area. White to yellowish grained, open headed Guinea race types, known
locally as Rral'ara, predouilinate.  Ine grain is normally ground to a coarse
flour and eaten as porridge. The stalks, which are seldom less than four
rm,eters in heLght, are used for a variety of purposes of which building and
fencing are among the most important.
30.       Under the traditional systems of cultivation, mean yields are
said to approximate 750 kg of threshed grain per ha, but they vary widely
in response to intensity of intercropping, soil and climatic effects. No
data are available on sorghum production in the project area. Nevertheless,
it is safe to conclude that the crop is grown on all holdings, alone or in
a variety of mixtures.
31.       Norman:s studies 1/ indicate that sorghum occupied approximately
30% of total area planted and, whilst most commonly grown in a two crop
combination with bulrush millet, was also planted alone or with up to four
additional crops. It is probable that sorghum occupies a somewhat greater
proportion of land in the project area than the Norman study suggests
because of its popularity as a cash crop. For this reason sorghum's share
of cropped area is assumed to be about 37% or 89,000 ha. At an average
yield of 750 kg/ha this would produce some 67,000 tons or about 10 percent
of estimated production from North Western State.
1/   op cit.



ANNEX 7
Page 9
32.       Althougn its effects have not been quantified, the parasitic weed
Striga hermontheca is probably the most significant pest of sorghum. Others
include a range of stalk borers, but particularly Busseola fusca, and Sor-
ghum Midge Contarinia sorghicola. Major diseases include Downy Mildew,
Scierospora sorghi, a variety of leaf disease causing spotting and striping,
and a number of smut diseases, mainly of the genus Sphacelotheca. The lat-
ter are to a considerable extent controlled by seed dressing with copper
fungicides which are readily available commercially.
33.       i befits a staple grain, sorghum is normally planted on the main
farms in close proximity to the compound. Land is ploughed and ridged by
hand hoe or occasionally mechanically, prior to planting at approximately
0.9 meters between rows and varying distances within rows according to in-
tercropping practices. Sorghum is planted in the project area in May/June,
after such crops as early millet, when the rains are firmly established.
Two or three weedings and earthings-up are normally carried out. The crop
flowers at the onset of the dry season, in late September/early October,
and matures, utilizing residual soil moisture, by late November/December.
34.       The stalks are cut near ground level and stacked in the field after
removal of the heads, which are bundled and stored in mud plastered gran-
aries (rumbus) in the farm compound. Heads are removed from the granaries
as required for domestic consumption or for sale following threshing.
Storage losses are variable, one estimate is that on average 20% of the
crop is lost in store, and though control methods involving granary sanita-
tion and the use of insecticides have been developed, they are not commonly
used.
Improved Practices
35.       Research on sorghum has been carried out in the northern States
of Nigeria for the past 20 years. Higher vielding varieties have been
selected from local types. A number of dwarf varieties and hybrids have
also been developed.  This work has been accompanied by investigations in-
cluding time of planting, spacing, and fertilizer responses. Improved
local varieties grown under improved agronomic practices showed yield gains
over traditional types of six to 25 percent (averaging 18.6% or about 240
kg/ha) in over 90 trials planted at different sites in main sorghum pro-
duction areas up to 1970.  Such increases are of little interest to farmers.
The main thrust of sorghum research is now directed towards production of
high yielding dwarf varieties or hybrids. Material now available has a
yield potential under field conditions of around 2,500 kg/ha and 4,00 kg/ha
from dwarf varieties and hybtids respectively. The grain from these types
is not yet widely acceptable for human food in rural are-n but it car. be
sold readily in urban areas for human and livestock food.
Project Proposals
36.       Within the proposed project area, production of sorghum is expec-
ted to decline slightly despite a probable switch by some far.mers towards
impr -ed technology utilizing project services. Many farmers are likely to



ANNEX 7
Page 10
continue to grow some local sorghums traditionally but a substantial pro-
portion are expected to move part of their sorghum area to maize, see
Tables 11 and 12 and paragraph 40.
37.       Two levels of improved technology have been assumed, based upon
results from field trials and research recommendations.
Level of Technology     Traditional      Intermediate      Advanced
Variety                    local         dwarf             hybrid
Plant population/ha      19,200          34,800            48,000
Fertilizer application     Nil           IQ0 kg sulphate of 300 kg sulphate of
in kg/ha /1                              ammonia + 100 kg   ammonia + 150 kg
single superphos-  single super-
phate              phosphate + 50 kg
muriate of potash
Borer control /2          Nil            Nil                Nil
Anticipated yield of
threshed grain (kg/ha)    750            1,500              2,000
/1   At the advanced level of technoloevy two thirds of the nitro"no n-  fer-
tilizer would be applied as a side dressing about four weeks after
planting. ThF other fertilizer would be broadanst and worked in before
planting. Although sulphate of ammonia is quoted as the source of N,
calcium ammonium nitrate would be preferable, particularly at high.
application rates.
/2   No recommendations are currently available; insecticidal dusti.ng with
lindane or its equivalent may well prove to be economic however.
38.       In addition to the major elements indicated, farmers would be ad-
vised on field preparation, planting methods and other improved practices
by project extension staff who would be responsible for ensuring the acqui-
sition and delivery of dressed seed and fertilizer as required.
39.       It is estimated that numbers of farmers using improved sorghum
production methods would increase as follows:
Year                      Intermediate               Advanced
1
2                           1,000                       200
3                           3,000                       500
4                          9,000                      1,000
5                        118,000                      4.000



ANNEX 7
Page 11
In percentage terms, farmers using improved sorghum technology would in-
crease from about     pet two peren  in Year 2 to about 32 pe:cen. by vear So
which some six percent would be producing sorghum at the advanced level.
40.       As noted above, sorghum area is likely to be affected by promotion
of maize production under the proposed project. T^ble 1l shows that the
area of sorghum grown under traditional methods would decline from an es-
tim.ated 89,000 ha to 59,000 ha between Years 1and 5. Som.Ie 10,000 ha would
be planted with improved sorghum and most of the balance would go into maize.
This would result in an eight percent net decree 'n production between
Years 1 and 5 (see Table 12). Estimated changes in sorghum area and pro-
duction a.e summularized bbel;rw firomu Tables L.A and 12:4 
Year
1       2       3      42     5
Est'imated trauitional sorghum area (hna)  89,000  88,000  85,000  77,000  59,000
Estimated intermediate sorghum area (ha)    -       500   1,500   4,500   9,000
Esti'mated advanced sorgnum  area (ha)       -      100     250     500   1,500
Estimated total sorghum area (ha)        89,000  88,600  86,750  82,000  69,500
Estimated total sorghum production in
threshed grain (tons)                 67,000  67,000  66,000  65,000  61,000
41.       Estimated decreased production is such that prices are unlikely to
be affected directly. However, the estimated substantial increase in the
volume of maize produced (see below) could have a depressant effect on sor-
ghum prices.
42.       A comparison of costs and returns from sorghum grown at the three
levels of technology assumed for the project is made in Table 4. This shows,
on the basis of an assumed farm gate price of NO.075/kg, that net returns
per ha, excluding labor costs and returns to labor become increasingly att-
ractive as the level of technology is improved. The following table sum-
marizes the information.
Net Returns excluding          Return to Labor
Technology      Labor Costs in N/ha              in N/manday
Traditional             54.25                       0.64
Intermediate           101.20                       1.03
Advanced               120.90                       1.04



ANNEX 7
Page 12
E. Maize
Backgro und
43.       Although well Vna..n, mnq7a is presently a Tninr rop in the prn-
ject area. Cultivated mainly in crop mixtures on swampy areas (fadamas)
primal    as a1-,,e .g-ettab-le e^        - a, 44 ,  tvr hk1rn_A arn 1f4o obh - 4 -
HJ. .nL.at s.*3  a 6v~ 5a wv L- -  .te a
is unlikely that total area exceeds 7,000 ha.
44.       High yielding, short season maize varieties and hybrid have been
deve'lopedu recentlIy- bly I^AR ar.d oth1-er researcher in th'Le nr.the... Seta~tes.
Their promising performance under Northern Guinea zone conditions have cre-
atedU Iua1Lked interest iL. ,,L.aze as a gain. crop Afor the srea. FerfoLII.L ofJ_
promising types is summarized in Table 13. Trials at Gusau under different
levels of plant population. ard fertilizer rates using variety (096) Bulk 3
gave yields ranging from 1,500 to some 5,600 kg/ha of threshed grain depend-
ing on tne level of treatments applieu.  ac5poutsLLi -1urdL JaLiUmLb  CULLUELrtUL5i
in neighboring North Central State in 1969/71 ranged from 1,400 through
2,400 to 4,000 kg/ha using co0iiparable  reatmenlts. Planting mUaterial with
further improved yield potential is in course of development and is likely
to be avaiEa±Le for mULL.p      [.LcdL[ .LULI and distributior tVo faLumers wLtIhIln LWo
years.
Project Effects
45.       Tnese facts and the observation that the yelalow grained varieties
produce meal which is an acceptable (some say a preferred) substitute for
sorghum meal in traditional porridge in North Western State, indLcate the
probability that maize area and production could be increased markedly under
the project. Recent trends in maize prices, the burgeoning urban population
in the southern States along with the increasing demand for livestock feeds
provide further Justification for maize promotion under the project. Pro-
bable area increases are expected to be at the expense of sorghum and mil-
let area. They would occur mainly on the farms of the progressive individ-
uals who are expected to be affected by the project. The expected change
in cereal area is shown in Table 11. This indicates an expected increase
in maize area from 7,000 to 27,500 ha of which 2,500 ha (nine percent) would
be grown traditionally, on 0.25 ha plots, 13,000 ha (47 percent) would be
maize grown under intermediate technology on 0.5 ha plots, and 12,000 ha
(44 percent) would be grown under advanced technology on one ha plots.
46.       Numbers of maize growers are expected to increase from an estimated
27,000 in 1975 to 48,000 by 1979 of which 21 percent would continue as
traditional producers, 54 percent would produce at the intermediate level
of technology, and 25 percent would produce maize at the advanced level.
The expected rate of build-up is shown below in numbers of growers:



ANNEX 7
Page 13
Year
Estimated Numbers                     1     2       3       4       5
Traditional                     27,000  26,000  24,000  16,000  10,000
Intermediate                        -    1,000   4,000  12,000  26,000
Advanced                            -      200   1,400   5,000  12,000
Total aff.-.cted by project         -    1,200   5,400  17,000  38,000
Incremental affected by project     -    1,200   4,200  11,600  21,000
47.       Levels of technology selected for application in the project area
have been based on field trials and practices advocated by workers at the
IAR. They are summarized in the following table:
Levels of Technology        Traditional    Intermediate          Advanced
Variety /1                    local        improved variety      hybrid
Plant population/ha           19,200       34,800                48,000
Fertilizer (kg/ha) /2        nil           250 kg of             375 kg sul-
sulphate of           phate of am-
ammonia + 150         monia + 200
kg of single          kg single
superphosphate        superphos-
phate + 50
kg muriate
of potash +
trace ele-
ments
Borer control /3            nil           nil                    ntl
Projected yield of shelled
grain in kg/ha            900           2,000                  4,000
/1   Presently recommended varieties such a   096 (Bulk 3) and hybrids of Biu
Yellow (BY) with other parents, such as BY x C-10, may well be superseded
by 1974.
/2   Although present recoumendations are for sulphate of ammonia as a nitrogen
source, it is probable that calcium ammonium nitrate will be substituted
at these levels of application in the future.
/3   No recommendations are made for control of stalk borers.   These may prove
to be serious pests as area of maize increases, and a dusting treatment
with lindane or an equivalent insecticide could well be required.



ANNEX 7
Page 14
48.       The expected effect of the project on production of maize is a
function of the increased nunibers of growers, increased size of maize plot
and enhanced yields. Together these are projected to result in production
increases from estimated total production in 1975 (Year 1) of 6,000 tons to
over 76,000 tons by 1979 (Year 5) as summarized below:
Year
1        2      3      4      5
Traditional (0.25 ha plot)
Nunber of growers               27,000   26,000   24,000 16,000  10,000
Area planted (ha)                6,750    6,500    6,000  4,000   2,500
Production at 900 kg/ha (tons)   6,000    5,850    5,400  3,600   2,250
Intermediate (0.5 ha plot)
Number of growers                  -      1,000    4,000 12,000  26,000
Area planted (ha)                  -        500    2,000  6,000  13,000
Production at 2,000 kg/ha (tons)   -      1,000    4,000 12,000  26,000
Advanced (1.0 ha plot)
Number of growers                  -        200    1,400  5,000  12,000
Area planted (ha)                  -        200    1,400  5,000  12,000
Production at 4,000 kg/ha (tons)   -        800    5,600 20,000  48,000
49.       A del b-Aget for maifze, camparing traditional, intermteiate and
advanced technology on the basis of the above yield assumrptions and a price
of =0 O'.064/k  (trbl  5), sws that r.et retu=Iso -per IL-a excluding1 lauv
costs, and returns to labor improve markedly as technology levels are lifted:
NLe.t tunns/,a exc   ' cu gturLrs to Liabor
Technology                -   Labor Costs ()               (PN/manday)
Traditional                        54.60                      0.58
L.Mtermuedt:i'ate=               J.UJ . I i J
Advanced                          214.65                      1.65
F. urcunidnuts
Backoi d
50.       Grouridnuts (Arachis hypogea) are grown throughout the project area
but are of greatest commercial imporrance in drier, northern locations which
are clirmatically less well suited to cotton production. Production levels
may be inferred froim purchases by the NSiM which have averaged 21,000 tons
annuallv in recent years (Table 2). State authorities estimate that dom-
estic disappearance is equivalent to 15 percent of NSMB purchases. On



ANNEX 7
Page 15
this basis therefore, total production is probably of the order of 24,000
tons.
51.       The Nigerian groundnut crop is grown primarily for oil and aver-
age kernels contain about 45% oil with a Free Fatty Acid (FFA) content of
two to three percent. Kernel size is typically small but a small propor-
tion of larger than average kernels is bought by the NSMB in its Hand Pic-
ked Selected (HPS) grade which commands a premium price. HPS kernel pro-
duction is mnlikely to be of major significance in the project.   Yields
of groundnuts grown under traditional systems, which include multiple in-
tercropping wide spacing and late planting, vary considerably but are
probably of the order of 650 kg/ha of shelled nuts. At this yield level
and accepting the above production assumption, area planted, on a sole
crop basis, is about 37.000 ha. The high labor requirement and the present
comparatively unattractive returns from the crop probably limit average
groundnut plot sizes to about 0.5 ha. However, plot sizes are nrobablv
somewhat larger on farms which grow the crop for sale to the NSMB. These
are located mainly in the north of the nroject area.
52.       A long series of agronomic trials and a number of selection and
breeding programs by staff of the IAR have resulted in the formulation of
a number of recommended nractices for gronldnut production.   These re-
gularly lead to a doubling of kernel yields over traditional practices.
More advanced technolog, including the us1e of fungicidal sprays to control
cercospora leaf spot disease is still under investigation and may be avail-
able for dissem4nation in the near future.   However, a number of questions
still attach to the technical and economic viability of certain factors.
53.       For these reasons, only one level of improved technology has
been suggested.  This approximates to the practices recommiended by ETLS.
The practices proposed, which are outlined below, would be fostered by the
prov-.ision of a phys4calI pack-age of input-s -including seed, see' dressing,
fertilizer and advice.  This would follow the lines of a successful ground-
nut~   J- sedpouto  po  ti    eghnborling Kano StCate.
54.       The proposed level of improved technolo    would incorporate early
planting, i.e. shortly after the first rains, on land which has been pre-
pared as for cotto-L (para 17)   FertiLizer, slngle sprhp          at 75 kg
per ha, should be applied as a band in the old furrows before splitting to
mIIale new ri.Udges. S eed wo-LUd lue of th  vardlet .y SJV.L which should bue shelled
shortly before planting and dressed with Aldrex T or Fernasan D against
seed anLdA soiL borne diseases . Seed sloull be planted at two weverky 23 cm-
(9 in) on the top of the ridges i.e. ,a seed rate of 35-40 kg/ha. Weeding
and eartL'IILng up should bUe carri'Ledu out to minim.ize coUitpet'LtLion but shouid
cease once pegging starts. Harvesting should begin immediately the crop
reaches matur'Lty.  Pod aamage should be avoided by carefui lifting.  Tne
crop should be dried by inverting plants on the ridge i.e. with pods up-
permost for about six days. Thereafter the pods should be handpicked and
transported to an appropriate site for decortication. Care is needed,



A?N,EX 7
Page 16
paricu nla~rly Iin li fting, d ~,4ing &ndA p^kin  to zv4  th  crato   cn
--~~b' '~J '-~          k'~ '--' " W CXVWLU AL1IC %.;LC:LIUL[ UI. CUH-
ditions favoring the development of the fungus Aspergillus flavus, res-
ponsible for the carcingogen, aflatoxln which has been r-smit - -n-
1LCUd10U.L~LLWU UHl
mouldy groundnuts.
Effect of the Project
55.       The improved groundnut technology proposed for the project is al-
ready well established,     Its rate of spread has been limited largely by tbe
inadequacy of technical assistance and input supply services. For these re-
asons, the rate of uptake under the project is expected to be rapid.   By
Year 5 (1979), some 26,000 farmers (52 percent) are expected to be using
he ir.provedU technology as shown below:
Year
Groundnut Farmers           1         2        3        4        S
Traditional            50,000      47,300   43,300   36,000   24,000
Improved /1               -        2,700     6.700   14,000   26,000
Total                    50,000      50,000   50,000   50,000   50,000
/1   There are undoubtedlv some farmers applvine fertilizer and 8eA A dveaging
to their groundnuts in the project area. However, it is unlikely that
more than a handful will be applying the full pai-kagie nf inn,its when
the project is initiated.
56.       It is not expected that the average farmer producing groundnuts
for sale to NSh" will increase the size of his plot beyond 0.75 ha. On
this basis then, the area of commercial groundnuts could be expected to in-
crease as follows (in ha):
Year
Ara                                  2       3       4        5
Traditional             37,000    35,000   32,000  26,500  17,500
I     roved                -       2,000    5,000  10,500  19,500
Total                   37,000    37,000   37,000  37,000  37,000
,, P L r       Louct.ion oL groUILUIIULt WUU±U L[Us 'Lncrease trom an estimatea
24,000 tons in Year 1 to about 35,000 tons by Year 5 as detailed below (in
tons).



ANNEX 7
'I- -   4-7
nrage: i I
Year
P rod.4ucItin1                                  3 o4 
TradU.L.tiona'al (650. kg/ha)  2 0 2LLaI  2t2,JJ5  20,'-8I0 OV  17,22.,I  1L,37J
Improved (1,200 kg/ha)       -       2,400    6,000    12,600   23,400
Ioal                      24,0      2,1U z02,ouu       29,Z8    J4,775
58.       A model budget for groundnuts comparing traditional and improved
technology on the above yield assumptions is given in Table 6. At an as-
sumed farm gate price of NO.05/kg, net returns per ha excluding labor costs,
and returns to labor are both significantly improved by the adoption of
the technology recommended under the project thus:
Net Returns per ha            Return to Labor
excludine Labor (N)             (NWmandav)
Traditional technolozv                28.50        -03
Improved technology                   50.37                       0.41
G. Cowneas
Background
59.       Cowpeas (vigna unguiculata) occupy an important place in trad-
iitlnnl Niavin4n d4ets=   They prvnudd  valuablea U000tahlea protein feor sbshis-
     ______   ~__  --1I- - -   - - - - -
tence farmers and some cash income when surplus production is sold. The crop
is seldom. -!anted sole a-id norma- forms one part of a number of crop mix-'
tures of varying complexity.   Under these circumstances yields vary widely.
Futrther, betause of                                Y.e an of i  pet  to wt. b
before and after flowering, yields rarely average more than 200 kg/ha of
shelled peas.   Local varieties have both upright and spre        ohra.tereti
those producing a pale (whitish) colored seed are preferred.
60.        Research on the crop has isolated major insect pests and estab-
llish.-Leud the I.mportance of. their control fLor iLncreasedU production. *  ij2 'r
pests include Ootheca mutalilis, a leaf eating beetle, Alcidodes leucogrammus,
a weevil which, in both the adult and larval for.--
Maruca testulalis, the larva of whicV bore into and feed on young flowers
causi g   A   _~  _n_~__;them_ _w  U  V _ L  v kta___u_            J  .__   _--   .1-
LLO.LLI~ LLLLIL LU ULUp r~ULLd.LIL~ VdL±U1U~a WCCV±i. WILLU1LLy±d A. ±LS eggs LIn
green pods wherein thelarvae feed and pupate within the seeds. Further, a
ntL.Ub   L o ugs Lin LAM order H'em iLLa feedu on green pods caus'ng premature
drying and shrivelling.
61.        Improved practices, including sole cropping, the use of improved
uprLght varieties, such as Kwarra, phosphatic fertilizer and insecticidal



ANNEX 7
Page 18
spraying result in ten fold yield increases over traditional yields. The
latter treatment on sole cropped cowpeas is the most significant   Presenl:
recommendations are for six weekly sprays containing 20 percent DDT and two
percent gamma BHC at the rate of 5.5 liters of concertrate mixed in 109 l:i-
ters of water per ha. This recommendation is under review following inves-
tigation of ULV techniques.
Project Proposals
62.       No data are available on area presently planted with cowpeas but
it is unlikely that the crop is grown widely in sole stand.  Th1e project
would introduce cowpeas as a sole crop to those farmers who wished to grow
cotton using advanced technology since such farmers would already own ULV
sprayers and be competent in their use. It is not expected that large plots
would be planted on average and a mean size of 0.25 ha has been asswuned,
63.       Two levels of technology are proposed.  Their main elements are
summarized below in comparison with the traditional system.
Traditional     Intermediate        Advanced
Cropping        Mixed           Sole                Sole
Variety         Local           Local               Improved
Type            Upright or      Upright             Upright
spreading
Spacing         Variable        30 cm x 1 m          30 cm x 1 m
Fertilizer      Nil             50 kg single         100 kg single
superphosphate/ha   superphosphate/ha
Insect control Nil              ULV spraying as  recommended by IAR
Average yield
shelled peas
(kg/ha)         200             900                 1,200
64.       It is expected that uptake of improved technology would closely
follow cotton since materials, equipment and techniques for spraying cow-
peas aDproximate those used for cotton, and the benefits are considerable
(para 65).  For these reasons, it is expected that most farmers with one
season's exnperience of spraying cotton would also grow cowpeas with project
advice and assistance. Estimated number of such farmers, the area under im-
proved techniques and their effects on production are as follows:



A 1 CTrJ   /
Page 19
Year
1         2         3         4         5
Number of Farmers
Intermediate                 -        1,000     2,000     4,000     7,000
Advanced                                500     1,600     3,500     5,000
Total               -       1,500      3,600     7,500    12,000
Area (ha)
Intermediate )Plots          -          250       500     1,000     1,750
Advanced     )0.25 ha        -          125       400       875     1,250
Total                -         375        900     1,875     3,000
Incremental Production
Intermediate (0.7 tons/ha)   -          175       350       700     1,225
Advanced (1.0 tons/ha)       -          125       400       875     1,250
Total                 -         300        750     1,575     2,475
65.       Model budgets for one ha of cowpeas grown under traditional, in-
termediate and advanced technology are at Table 7. They show that attrac-
tive net returns excluding labor costs, and returns to labor can be obtained
using improved technology, assuming a farm gate price of NO.091/kg - which
is well below current prices in the project area.
Technology                     Traditional    Intermediate     Advanced
Net returns excluding labor
costs (N/ha)                    16.20          56.75          80.30
Return to labor (N/manday)          0.25          0.64           0.88



ANNEX 7
Page 20
H. Summary and Conclusions
66.       Absence of basic data on farming systems in the proiect area
severely hampers assessment of project effects on a farm holding basis.
Tables 8 and 9 Dresent Droduction costs and returns on the basis of hypo-
thetical farmers at full development, one of whom applies the full package
of the most advanced nractices to all Droiect crops except groundnuts: the
other does the same to all project crops except cotton. This distinction
is drawn because it is unlikely that any farmer would have both advanced
cotton and advanced groundnuts on his farm simultaneously. The salient
nninte of Tahlpe  R and 9 are oresented below on the basis of farms of 3.5
ha and assumptions made in model budgets for individual crops presented in
TabhleQ  through 7.
Per Farm of 3.5 ha                              Advanced      Advanced
at Full Develeopment            TvrnFtinnal      rntotnn     Crmiineinita
--------N -------
Gross returns                      113.34         455.10        404.18
Total direct costs                 141.29         300.93        262.13
Net returns with labor             (27.95)        154.17        142.05
Net returns without labor          107.26         345.19        339.84
Mandays                            276            368           377
Ru   to lzbor (=/I.u..d,.,A.,  0.           A 0.          0.90
67.       Although the above figures represent hypothetical situations, they
r.evertheless i'lluOstrate the volmUCe of benefit&sJ possible Ur.eAr the pro J
In terms of individual crops, on a per ha basis, farmers could expect to
obUta'Ln thle follo-wing range of net returns, includingU and exc.LUUdiLn lab
costs at the different levels of proposed technology:



ANNEX 7
Page 21
Level of Technology              Traditional    Intermediate       Advanced
Net Return/ha including Labor
Cotton                            (18.05)       (19.48)         (13.24)
Groundnuts                        (29.10)          -            (24.03)
Sorghum                             3.25         42.40           51.30
Maize                             ( 1.80)        36.15          136.65
Cowpeas                           (22.80)         5.15           25.70
Net Retun/ha excluding Labor
Cotton                             19.00         31.20           45.46
Groundnuts                         28.50           -             50.37
Sorghum                            54.25        101.20          120.90
Maize                              54.60        105.75          214.65
Cowpeas                            16.20         56.75          80.30
Return to Labor                   --------N per manday            -----
Cotton                               0.31          0.37           0.46
Groundnuts                           0.30           -             0.41
Sor2hum                              0.64          1.03           1.04
Maize                                0.58          0.91           1.65
Cnwneas                              0.25          0.64           0.88
68.       Although all proposed improved technology gives good returns in
comparison with traditional methods, the attractions Of Rrain crops, and
particularly maize, at the advanced level are most striking. They present
good reasons for the pnroected ra id incorporation of maize in farming sy-
stems and the implied decline in popularity of sorghum and millet grown
-nder traditional conditions.
69.       At intermediate technoloay levels the crons are more competitive.
Cotton and cowpeas still lag, however, and contribute no more than 29 and
54 percert res-ectively of expected net returns excluding labor obtained
from maize.
70.       Too much should not be read into the above figures in view of
the weakness of the data upon which they are based.   They are comparable.
however, and are thus indicative of the relative costs and returns obtain-
ab'le fromm proposeA p:o4pect crons.






ANNEX 7
Table 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricultural Development Project
Seed Cotton Purchases by the Northern States Marketing Board by Years (long tons)
Northern               Sokoto           Project
Year                States               Province          Area   2/
1960/61            148,962                 28,697            -    3/
q~~~~~~)            />               IZ  o nen -  a,
196O1/2             83,) 3 73             1U 047 
1962/63            144,004                 31,285            _
1963/63            128,585                 26,215           -
1964/65            128,684                 21,661           -
1965/66            127,296                 27,522           -
1966/67            146,368                 23,905
1967-/8             75,519                 12,157           -
1968/69            166,276                 36,331         15,407
1969/70           271,597                59,201          25,159
1970/71            111,389                 25,425          9,523
1971/72               -                   19,353            8,328
1972/73 4/            -                     -             16,400
Mean               139,277                 26,883         14,964
Mean as % of
northern States
purchases              100                     19             11
l/ Derived from the National Agricultural Development Committee, Report of the
Study Group on Cotton and other Fibers, Lagos 1971.
2/ Data supplied by MANR North Western State.
3/ Not available.
12/ Estimate.



ANNEX 7
Table 2
NIGERIA
NORTH hESTERN STATFE
Gusau Agricultural Development Project
Groundnut Purchases by the Northern States Marketing Board by Years (long tons) -/
Northern                Sokoto             Project
Year                 States                Province             Area _  /
1960/61             619,051                 85,923                -
1961/62             687,987                 84,002                -
1962/63             870,795                106,849                _
1963/64             802,500                113,782                _
1964/65             675,884                 90.,797               _
1965/66             921,358                 97.141                -
1966/67           1,053,668                134,125                -
1967/68             665,372                 85.968              3500
1968/69             753,626                 76,206              26,000
1969/70             633,782                 70;986              20q000n
1970/71             280,173                 43,294              13,000
1971/72             301,775                      912,000
Mean                688.831                  85932              21,200
Mean as T of
northern States
purchases               in                      12                  3
1T/ tim-" Tr from Na+t onal Agric-ltural Develop,nt Co-4- - Report of the St-udy
Group on Groundnuts, Lagos 1971.
2/ Estimated from    V data on groundnut grading at stationsj swEing the project area.
3/ Not available.



N IGERIA
NORTH Wv ESTERN STATE
Gusau AgricujLtura]l Develo pen  Pro,,ect
COe Hectare Cotton Budgets (Naira)
Actual                              IncremientaL
F'aLrmer Catiegorf 1/         .E                             II           IIT        I           II           III
Yield seed cotton (,k,Ahia)                 250           54°           1..100       -        290           8',0
Gross return alt NO.,08/kg 2/                20.00         43.20           88.oo     -         23.20         68.00
Expenditure
Cultivations 3/                            27.30         28.4o           28.4o      -         1.10          1.10
Fert,iliz,er appliation 3/                   ._           5.              5.OO                5 .00         5.0C
Spraying 3/                                                -              1.10      -          -            1.10
Elarvesting 3/                              9.75         17.28           24.20      -         7.53         ]4.45
Sub total: Labor                   37.O5         5o.68           58.70      -         14l3          21.65
Tools                                       1.00          1.00            1.00      -          -             -
Fertilizer: I'J 4/ 5/                        -            5.50            5 50      -         5.50 5O50
,2 5    i 6/                                  5.5                       -          550          55(
Insecticide                                                              20).40     -          -           20.4(
Sprayer  / 7/                                                             7'.50     -           -            7.5(
Batteries 47                                                              2.64      -                       2.64
Sub tota:L: Materials               1.00         1.2.00          42.54      -         11.00        ,L .514
Tote'l Costs                       38.o5         62.68          101.24      -         2'.13 -      63.19
Returns
Net return with :Labor                    (18-05)       (19.h48)        (13.24)     -         (1.93)         4.81L
Net return without labor                   19.00         31.20           45>.46     -         12.20         26.h46
Total mandays 8/                           62.00         84.o0           98.00      -         23.00         36.00
Return to l)'bor (N/manday)                 0.31          0.37            (.46      -          0.53          0.7.3
1/ Fairmer Category I: Traditional cotton growers; Categoriy I],: Intermediate us,ing fertilizers; Category III: Advanced
uEing fertilizers and insecticidies.                     -                                                          0, 
2/ Projected farn gate price.                              3/ Labor charged at P0.10 per manhour ](all fami.ly labor). 
. Includes interest at; 100% and service charge 10%.
§/ At NO.C44/kg:12' sulphate of amnmonia.
tA At 4O.C0U4,/kg:1615 kg boronated single sur.erphosphate.
7/e Renlaced after two -earr.
7/t AVerage six hours ner -mFnd&v.



NIGERIA
NORLTH VESTEN STATE
Gusau Agricultura]l Deveolop int Pro ect
One Hectare Srhum w     gts (Naira)
Actual                              Incrementsl.
Farmer Categor. 1/ o                                       II            II        E               II            I
Tield threshed grain (kNgha)             750         1,500           2,000          -            750         1,250
,ross ireturns at NO.075Ahg                                           1    0/ 56.25  112.50  5CI.OO  -  56.25   93.75
,xpendLture
Cultivations 3/                         43.80          46.80          50C.40      -              3.00           6.60
Fertilizer applicatio0                                                 7.20                      3.00           7.20
Harvesting 3/                            7.20           9.00          12.00       _              1.80          4.80
Sub total: Lalbor               51.00          58.80          69.60       -              7.80          18.60
.Fertilizer: N' 4/ 5/                     -             4.40          13.20       -              4&.40         13.20
:   5 O /6/                                   3.510          5.25       -              3.50          5.25
2 5 :/ 7/                                                 3.25       -               _             3.25
Seed etc., 4/ 8/                         1.00           2.40           6.40       -              1.40           5.40
Tools                                    1.00           1.00           1.00       -               -              -
'Sub total: Materials            2.00          U.30           259.10      -              9.30          27.10
T'otal: Costs                   53.00          70.10          98.70       -             17.10          45.70
Returns
'Net return with labor                   3.25          42.40          51.30       -             39.15          48.05
'Net retum without lalbor               54.25         101.20         120.90       -             46.95          66.65
Total mandays 9/                        85             98            116          -             13             31
Returns to labbor (N/manday)             o.64           1.03           1.04       -              3.61           2.15
7 Category I: Traditional sorghum grower; Category UI; Intermediate level of improved technology: Category III; Advanced
level ol' imrproved techno-Logy4
2/ Based on a calculated price in the northern States (Kaduna) assuniing import substitutiorL.
3/ Labor at NO.10/manhour (alL family labor).
7/ IncLudes interest at 10% and service charIge 10%.
7/ At NO.0144/kg :100 lcg sulphate of amnonia in Category II, and 300 kg/ha in Category III.
§/ At 140O.035/kg:100 kg single superphosphate in Category7 II, and :L50 kg/ha in Categor-y TTI.
7/ At NiO.0)5/kcg: 50 kg muriate of potash in Category III.
/ Local varieties at 110 kg/ha in Category I.  Dwarf varieties at 12 kg/hAE in Category II.  HIbrids at 16 kg/ha in    cr
Category III.  Prices include dressing costs.                                                                       I
B/ Average manday of siK hours.



NIGEELIA
NORTH WeESTE;RN STATE
Gusauriicultur a1 Deavelopment Project
One HectMare Iaize Budg    (Na Lra)
Actual                                Incremental
FarnxKr Cate.or3r 1                         I                                                      i ; III
Yield shelled grain (Icg/ha)             900         2,,000         4.000          -          1,100          :3.100
Gross Return at N0.061i/kg 2/             57.60         128.00         2%6.00       -             70.40         198.140
jEcpenditure
WLttva8   on 3/                          4-5.60         51.60          5;2.20      -              6.00           6.60
Fertilizer appJication 3/                 -             3.00           7.20       -             3.00           7.20
Harvesting 3/                           10.80          15.00         :L8.6o      -              4.20           7.80
Sub total: Labor                56.40          69.60         7r8.oo       -            13.20          21.60
Fertilizer: N 14/ /-                                   11.o00         l6.50       -             11.00         16.50
: P~ 0,  t6/                                 5.25           7.00       -              5.25           7'.00
:2 ' 11/7/                    _.                           3.25       -               _             3.25
Seed etc. 4/ 8/                          2.00           5.00         13.60       -               3.00         11.60
Tools                                    1.00           1.00          1.OC)      -               -              -
Sub total: Materia3Ls            3.00          22.25         la1.35       -            19.25           38.35
Total Costs                     59.40          91.85         119.35;      -             32.45          59.095
Rleturns
Net return with labor                   (1.80)         36.15         136.65       -             37.95         138.45
Net return without labor                54.60         105.75         214.65       -             51.15         160.05
Total mandays 9,/                       94            LL6            130          -             32             36
Returns to -labor (N/Ansanday)           o.58           0.91           1.65       _              1.6o           14.45
17i.tegory I: Traditional maize growers; Category II: Inter7ediate, usinig improved varieties and fertilizer;
Category III: Advanced, using hybrid and heavy fertilizer.
2/ Average of the estimated producer prices derived from the probable prices of imported maize at northern and soulherrL
markets; tlhese would be NO.79/kg and NO.049 respectively.
3/ Labor at NO.10/manhour (family :Labor).                    4/ Includes interest at 10%0 and service charge.
7/ At NO.044A-g:25>0 ksg: sulphate of ammonia in Category II, and 375 kg in Category III.
Z/ At, NO.035/cg:l5O kg; single superphosphate in Category II, and 200 kg in Category III.
7/ At, NO.065/kg:50 kg muriate of potash in Catelgory III (based on Sheill list price + 10%).
TS/ Local varietie's at 20 kg/ha and NO.10/kg in Category I; improved varieties  at, 25 kg/ha costing NO.20/kg for Category II;
hybrids at 314 kg/ha costing N0.140/kg for Category III.
9/ Average mandayr of 6 hours.



NIGERIA
NORTH WE,STERN STATE
t}usau Agricultoural Devlopment; Pro-ject
One Hect,are Grotmdnut Budgets (Naira)
Ac tuaL                            Incremental
Farrmer ,ategorv l/                                     I                II                     I          I
Yield of shelled kernels (kg/hA)                     65()            1,200                      -       550
Gross retun1 x NO.05/kg 2/                           32.50             60.)00                  -        27.50
Mndi-tures
Cultivation 3/                                      32.4o             38.13o0                           6. 4O
Harvesting 37                                       25.20             348 -0                  _         9.60
Ferti-Lizer application 3/                            -                O.                               0. -  o.80
P,70 fertilizer 4/ 5/                                 _                2.D63                            2.63
S8ed                                                 :3.00             6.00 ( L  5/           -         3.00
Tools                                                1.00             1.00                   -          _
Total Cost                                  6:L.60            84.03                   -        22.43
Net return with labor                                (29.10)           (24.03)                  -         5.07
Net return without labor                              28.50             50.37                   -        21.87
Total mandays 7/                                      96              1L24                      -        28
Return to labor' (N/manday)                            0).30             O.4l                             0.78
T7hategory I: Traditional grouLndnut grower; Category II employs a package of recomnmended practices including improved
seed and fertilizer.
2/ Projected farm gate price.
3/ Labor at MO.l0 per rranhour (all family labor).
1/ Includes interest at, 10%q and ser'vice charge 10%,.
&/ Single superphosphate at, NO., 035/kg and 75 kgr/ha
m/ Improved seed at, 40 kg/ha and costing NO(.15/kg with seed dressing.
7/ Average of six hours per manday,r.



NIGERILA
NORTH ESTERN STATE
Gusau AgricuturaL. Dnvecpmerlt Project
One Hectare Copea     ets (Naira)
ActuaL                             Incremental
Farmer CadteRcL  -                        I            II           III         I          II           III
Yield shelled c wpeac (kg/ha)         200           900        1,200           -        700        1,000
Gross return 4 N0.091/kg 2/             113.20        81.94)      109.20        -         63.70        91.00
!bcpenditure
CultivatorL 3/                        293.40        32.40l       32.40        -          3.00         3.00
Harvesting 37                          9.60         15.0)        18.00        -          5.40         8.40
FertiLizer application 3/                            3.00         3.00        -          3.00         3.00
Spraying 3/                                         1.20          1.20        -          1.20         1.20
Subt total: Labor             39.00         51.60        54.60 o                12.60         15.60
FertiliLzer hi 5/                                    1.75         3.50       -           1.75         3.50
Insecticide s 47 6/                                 20.40        20.40        -         20.40        20.40
Tools                                 :L.0O          1.00         1.00        -           -
Seeads 1/ 7/                           1.00          2.0)         4.00        -           -           3.00
Subi total: Materials          2.00         25.15        28.90        -         22.15         26.90
Subi total: Labor             39'.0C        51.60        54.60        -         12.60         15.60
Tot-al Cost                   41.00         76.75         83.50       -         34.75         42.50
NtJet retumn with labor                (22.80)         5.15        25.70        -         28.95         48.50
lNet retumn without labor               16.20         56.715       80.30        -         41.55         64.10
Total marLdays 8/                       65'           89           91           -         24            26
Return to labor in N per manday          0.25         0.614         0.88        -          1.73         2.47
17 Tategory I: Traditional covpea grower; Category, II: Internrdiate, using local seecd, low fertilizer and insecticide;
Category III: Advanced using improved seed, higher fertilizer application and insecticide.
2/ Projected farm gate price.
3/ Labor at NO.10 per manhour (all family labor).
17/ Includies interest at 10% and service charge 10%.
'/ Single superphosphate at NC.035/kg and 5'0 kg/ha in Cate-gory jI and 100 kg/ha in Categoriy III.                  HCD
t57 Assuming six sprav3 with ULV equipment charged to cotton crop_.
'/ Intermediate frrme'rs use 18 kg/ha lonal seed at NO.11k/kg; Advanced fa>rmers use inproved seed, 18 kg/ha at N0.22/kg.
8/ Average six houars per manday.



!IIGERIA
NORTH wIESTERN STATE
Gusiau Aericultural DeveloPment Project
Sunmary   de! Budget of Advanctd Faratr UtiliLtinR all Project Services- 'otton -'
Other                      Ground-
Cotton        sorg=        Miaitze      Cereals       CoDeas        auts         Others 2/    Total
Area (ha)
Traditional                                               0.70          1.30         0.10          0.10          0.16        0.54           0.60        3.50
Advwned                                                   1.10         0.50          1.00           -            0.25                       0.65        3.50
Increnental                                               0.40         (0.80)        0.90         (0.10)         0.09        (0.54)         0.05        ()
Yields (kg/ba)
Traditional                                             250           150          900               -         200          650              -
Advanced                                              1,:100        2,000        4,000              -        1,200            -              -           -
Incremental                                             850         1,250        3,100              -        1,000 
Production (kg/plot)
Traditional                                             L75           975           90               -          32          351
Advanced                                              1,:210        1,o00        4,o0o              -          300            -
Incremental                                           1,035           25         3,910              -          268         (351)
Gross Returns (N/kg)                                        0.08          0.075        0.064          -            0.091       0.05                        -
Trarditional (N/Plot)                                    14.00        73.12          5.76            -           2.91        17.55           -         113.34
Advanced (N/plot),                                       96.80        75.00        256.00           -           27.30         -              -        455.10
Incrementa.l (N/plot)                                    82.80          1.88       250.24           -           24.39       (17.55)          -        341.76
labor Coats (N/plot)
Troiditional                                             25.93         66.30         5.64            -           6.24        31.10           -         135.21
Advanced                                                 64.57         34.80        78.00            -          13.65         -              -         191.02
Incremental                                              38.64        (31.50)       72.36           -            7.41       (31.10)          -         55.81
Material Cos4ts (N/plot)
Traiditlonail                                             0.70          2.60         0.30            -           0.32         2.16           -           6.08
Advanced                                                 46.79         14.55        41.35            -           7.22:         -             -         109.91
Increnental                                              46.09        11.95         41.05           -            6.90        (2.16)          -        103.83
Total Costs (N/plot:)
Tratditiomal                                             26.63         68.90         5.94            -           6.56        33.26           -         141.29
Advanced                                                111.36         49.35       119.35            -          20.87          -             -         300.93
Incremental                                              84.73        (19.55)      113.41           -           14.31.     (33.26)           -         159.64
Net leturna with Labor (N/plot)
Traditioals                                             (12.63)         4.22        (0.18)           -          (3.65)      (15.71)          -         (27.95)
Advanced                                                (14.56)        25.65       136.65           -            6.4:1        -              -         154.17
Incresental                                              (1.93)       21.43        136.83           -           10.08      1]5.71            -         182.12
Net Naturna vithout Labor (N/plot)
Traditional                                              13.30         70.52         5.46            -           2.5 9       15.39           -         107.26
Advanced                                                 50.01         60.45       214.65            -          20.08          -             -         345.19
Io:rewntal                                               36.71        (10.07)      209.19            -          17.49       (15.39)          -         237.93
NandsvL (per plot)
Traditional                                              43           llo            9              7           10           52            45          276
Advanced                                                108           58           130               -          23             -           49          368
Increoental                                              65          (52)          121            (7)           13         (52)             4           92
Returns to Labor (9/manday)
Traditional                                               0.31          0.64         0.61            -           0.215        0.30           -           0.39
Advanced                                                  0.46          1.04         1.65            -           0.87          -             -           0.94
Incre,,ental                                              0.15         0.40          1.04            -           0.6i          _                         2.56
1/ Aestueing uptake of inproved technology at the advanced level for cottonr,sorgh-a, maize and ioapeas, but vith otheir crop. so longer occupying a major part of farm  °
a,ctivities. Data based on unit roodel budgets for indivi-ual crops, Tables 3 through 7.
2/ Ass.msing 75 andays per ha for 'others'.
May 7, 1973



NIGERIA
CRT WESRN STATE
Dusau Rricul urLl   ve     Pt Pro1eet
_urHodel Budtet of advanced Parmier     tiUzins all ProJect 8ertie    Grodnuts
other                      Groumd-
Cotton       Sor           Maine          Ce                        -U 5a  nuot  Qt   l 3!/   Total
Ara (ba)
Traditional                                               0.70         1.30         0.10          0.10         0.16          0.54         0.60          3.50
Advaced                                                                0.50         1.00          0.45         0.16          0.75         0.64          3.50
Incrmntal                                               (0.70)        (0.80)        0.90          0.35          -            0.21         0.04          -
Yields (a/ba)
Traditional                                             250          750          900           500          200           650             -             -
Advanced'                                                 -        2,000        4,000           750             -        1,i'00            -             -
Incremental                                            (250)       1,250        3,100           250             -          550             -             -
Production (kg/plot)
Traditional                                             175          975           90            50           32           351             -             -
Advanced                                                  -        1,000        4,000           337             -          S00             -             -
Incremental                                            (175)          25        3,910           287             -          549             -             -
Gross Return  (N/lkg)                                      0.08          0.075        o.064         0.075        0.091         0.05          -             -
Traditional (N/plot)                                     14.00        73.12         5.76          3.75         2.91         17.55           -         117.09
Advanced (N/plot)                                          -          75.00       256.00         25.27         2.91         45.00          -          404.18
Incremental (N/plot)                                   (14.00)         1.88       250.24         21.52          -           27.45          -          287.09
Labor Costs (N/plot)
Traditional                                              25.93        66.30         5.64          5.10         6.24         31.10           -         140.31
Advanced                                                   -          34.80        78.00         22.95         6.24         55.80          -          197.79
Incremental                                             (25.93)      (31.50)       72.36         17.85          -           24.70          -           57.48
Materials Costs (N/plot)
Traditional                                               0.70         2.60         0.30          0.20          0.32         2.16           -           6.28
Advanced                                                   -          14.55        41.35          0.90         0.32          7.22           -          64.34
Incremental                                              (0.70)       11.95        41.05          0.70          -            5.06          -           58.06
Total Costs (N/plot)
Traditional                                              26.63        68.90          5.94         5.30          6.56        33.26           -         146.59
Advanced                                                   -          49.35        119.35        23.85          6.56        63.02           -         262.13
Incremental                                             (26.63)      (19.55)      113.41         18.55          -           29.76          -          115.54
Net Returns with Labor (N/plot)
Traditional                                             (12.63)        4.22         (0.18)       (1.55)        (3.65)      ([15.71)         -          (29.50)
Advanced                                                   -          25.65        136.65         1.42         (3.65)      (18.02)          -          L42.05
Incrematal                                               12.63        21.43        136.83         2.97           -          (2.31)          -         171.55
Net Returns without Labor (N/plot)
Traditional                                              13.30        70.52          5.46         3.55          2.59        15.39           -          110.81
Advanced                                                   -          60.45        214.65        24.37          2.59        37.78           -          339.64
Incremental                                             (13.30)      (10.07)       209.19        20.82           -          22.39           -         229.03
Nandsn (per plot)
Traditional                                              43          110             9            8            10           52            45           277
Advanced                                                   -          58           130           38            10           93            48           377
Incremental                                             (43)         (52)          121           30              -          41             3          100
Returins to Labor (Ntmanday)
Tralitional                                               0.31         0.64          0.61         0.44          0.26         0.30           -           0.40
Advanced                                                   -           1.04          1.65         0.64          0.26         0.41           -           0.90
Incremental                                                            0.40          1.04         0.20           -           0.11           _           2.29
1/ ~Aswsmang aptake ovf 1npr,aved technology at th, advanced level for sorghu,, maize and groumdnuts, but with ccotton no longeir cultivated. Data based on unit model  a
budgets for individual ,crops, Tables 3 through 7.                                                                                                            m
2/ Assuming 'other cereals' at the advanced lev,el consist of sorghum grown traditionally.
3/ Assuming 75 mandays per ha for 'others'.
May 7. 1973



NIGERIA
NORTH ViESrERI STATE
Guisau &riaultural Devel2ent 2oect
Estimated Effect of Project on Cotton Area and Prodution ?y Years
Year
Before         Year 1         Year 2         Year 3          Year 14        Year 5
Develop- Incre-          In cre-         Incre-         Incre-         Incre-
Mnnt      mental.  2otal menital  Total raental  Total mental    Total mental   Total
Nunber of Cotton Growers
Tradlitional                     55,200           53,900          50,,700        45,200          37,500         31,0)00
Inte rmediate                       950      940   1..890  1,010   2,,900  1,200  4,100   1,700   5,80oo  1,300  7,100
Advanced                            350    1,34o   1.,690  2,810  14,500  4,800   9,.300  5,900 15,200   6,200  21,4(0)
Total                    56,500            5i',480        58,,100        58,60oo         58,500         59,5(0
Estimated Cotton Area (ha)
Traciticnal (ainsing 0.7 ha
per grower)                      39,530           38,600o         36,200         32,100          27,000        :22,200
Intermediate (arsuming 0.8 ha
per grower)                         750      710  1l,460   1,140   2,600    900   3,500   1,000   4,500  1,0CO   5,500
Advanced (as sumiLng 1.1 ha
per grower)                         380    1,,440  1,820   3,040  14,860   5,114i lOOOO  6,3o0  16,300  6,800  23,100
Tota,l                   40,660           4:L2,88()       43,660         45,600          47,800         50,800
Estimated Production of Seed
Cotl tons
Traditional (at 250 kg/ha)        9,500            9,30()          8,800          7,800           6,1400         5,300
Intermediate (at 540 kg/ha)         400     390      790     410   1,200    500   1,700     750   2,450    500   2,950
Advamced (at. 1,100 kghaa)          430    1,610   2, 04(0  3,260 55,300   5,,800 11,100  7,100 18,200    7,8c00 26,000
Total                    10,,330          1:2,130         15,300          20,600         27,050          34,250
CD U
0



NIGERIA
NORH 'WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricul.tural Development Prcoject,
Estiimated _Chaes in Area o±C Cereals
Year
1           2           3           I4.         5
Sorghulm
Estimated area grown traditlonaLly                       88,700      87,800     &E4,900      76,60t)     59,300
Estimated area grown under intermediate technology         -            500       1,500      [4,500       9,000
Estimated area grown under advanced technology                         1(OO        250          500      1,500
Estimated total sorghum areaL                    88,700      88,400      86,650      8L,600      69,800
Ma.ize
Estimated area grown traditionally                        6,800       6,600       6,oc        h4,000      2,500
Estimated area grown under Lntenediate technology          -            500       2,000       6,003      13,000CI
Estimated area grown under advanced technoloigy                         200        ,4co       5,o00o     12,00CI
Fstimated total maize area                        6,800       7,300       9,400      15,000      27,500
Other Cereals,
Estimated area in other cereals                   6,800       6,600       6,25;0      5,700       5,000
2ercDLtje of Total Cereal Area under Different Cereals                              %
-                                 86.8       ~~~~    ~   ~~~~    ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~85.9  82.4T.8  58.0
Tradit:ionl sorghum                                          86.8        B92.9
Intermediate sorghum                                           -          0.5         1.5         4.4         8.8
Advanced sorghtim                                              -          0.1         0.3         0.5         1-.5
Tradit:ional maize                                            6.6         6.4         5.9         3.9         2.4
Intermediate maize                                             -          0.5         1.9         5.9        12.7
Advanced maize                                                 -          0.2         1.4         4.9        11.7
Ot'her cereals                                                6.6         6.4         6.1         5.6         4.9
Total cereals                                       100         100         l()O        100         100
I-i--



NIGERLA
NORTH UESTERN STALTE
GusaL Agricultural Devel0Oent Project
Estimatet1 Changes in GereaLl Production
Erfect
'Year                         ofr thel
1         2         3          4         5        Project
-         .m          , 4-tOflS . e a
Sorgh-um                                              6           5,30     6.65      5j40       4,7
Traditional prodiaction at, 0.75 tonsAha            66,525     65,850    63,675    57,,450    4,475     (:22,050)
Intermediate technology production at 1.5 tons/ha     -           750     2,250     6,j750    13,500    :13,500
Advanced technol0gy production at 2.0 tons/ha          -          200       500      1,,000    3,000      3,000
Total production                             66,525    66,800     66,425    65,,200   60,975      (5,5550)
.1/
_  _ _ _  _  ._  _. __ _,% __.. _.- .ee.  ._ .___   _
Traditional production                                 100         98.6      95.9      88,.2      73.0
Intermediate tec'hnology production                     -           1.1       3.4      10.3      .22.1
Advancedl technology production                         -           0.3       0.7       1.5        4.9
Maiize
Traditional production at 0.9' tons/ha.               6,12C0    5S9140    5,k4co    3,600      2,250     (3,870)
Intermediate technology production at, 2 tons/ha       -        l,OO    4,0100   12,000     26,C)00    26,00wo
Advanced technology procilLtion at 4 tons/ha           _          800     5,600    20,0010    48,ooo     48,OO0
TotaL prcduction                              6,120     7,740     15,0CK)   35,600    76,250      70,130
Traditional production                                 10C)        76.B     36.0      10.1        3.C)
Intermeeiiate technology production                     -          12.'9     26.7      33.7       34.1
Advanced technology production                           -         10.3      37.3      56.2       62.co
Other Cereals
Traditional production at 50D kg/ha                   3,1400    3,300     3,125     2,850      2,500       (900)
lPrcentage ofia1, i  pro,duction.



ANNEX 7
Table 13
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricultural Development Project
Summary of Yields of Promisi   Maize Varieties and Hybrids: IAR Samaru
kKg/llad
Average
1970        1971        1967/1970
Federal Zonal Trial
NC-A                                    6,308       7,171 
NC-B                                    6,128       6,753
A306                                      -         7,237-
1West African Regional Trials
Ghana Composite 3                       6,140 
094 (096)                               6,011       9,137
X306                                      -         0,i              -
XB10l                                     -         9,734
NCB                                       -         7,723
NCB X NCB                                 -         8,119
Samaru Trials
C-8 X A-196                             7,252         -            6,786
A-49 X C-33                             7,059         -             7,267
BY X C-12                               5,968         -             7,o07
BY X C-10                               6,931         -             7,148






ANNEX 8
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricultural Development Project
Farm Inputs and Credit
1.   Cash Sale and Credit Arrangements
Crops presently grown in the project area are mainly traditional,
and production has been subject oniy to limited improvements in variety and
use of inputs. The projected project output would be dependent on the in-
troduction of technical improvements. Tnese would include the use of im-
proved seed, insecticides and fertilizers which are generally beyond the reach
of most farmers due to either (a) avaiiability or (b) lack of cash or credit
facilities. Both constraints would be considerably reduced under the project.
2.        With improved communications being developed as part of the project
and with increasing demand by some of the larger farmers for ploughing ser-
vices, the project would expand an existing Government scheme for medium
term credit for ox drawn equipment and tractors and medium term credit for
ULV cotton sprayers.
3.        Supply of Inputs.  At present there is no commercial retailing of
farm inputs in the project area, although this is likely to occur as the proj-
ect progresses. Consequently the project, during the disbursement period,
would be responsible for procuring farm inputs for cash, and for seasonal
and medium term credit. Total inputs valued at N 4.7 million would be procured
by the project under ICB during the development period which would involve
net cash requirements of about N 2.9 million. These inputs would be railed
to the project center at Gusau. Under the project, storage facilities, suf-
ficient for about 4,000 tons of fertilizer and other inputs, would be con-
structed at the Gusau railway yards, together with village stores each with
500 ton capacity. Rail to village transportation and handling would be un-
dertaken by contractors who in many cases would be LBA transport contractors
using the back haul from the gins to the village market. A handling charge
of 10% is included in the fertilizer cost to the farmer which would cover
handling and transporting, plus any short term finance charges for inputs
supplied for cash.
4.        Seasonal inputs include fertilizer, insecticides, seeds and battery
sets. Fertilizer would be purchased in 25 kg bags, color marked to differen-
tiate between nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizer. The landed price per m
ton in the village inclusive of a 10% service charge would be ammonium sulphate
N58, single superphosphate N55, boronated single superphosphate N58, and muriate



ANNEX 8
Page 2
of potash 1465. Cotton insecticide containing 48% carbaryl would be 141.1 per
liter, and battery sets about N2.4 per set.   Improved seeds would be provided
at varying costs (see Tables 1 and 2).
5.        Subsidies. It is Federal Government policy to subsidise nitrogenous
and phosphatic fertilizers.   At presernt fan ers pay 14 40 per m ton for ainnoniun
sulphate and N 32 per m ton for single superphosphate (approximately equiva-
lent to cif Nigerian ports price).   U'nder the project subsidies for these two
fertilizers would continue to provide incentive to the farmers and would re-
main in line (and therefore prevent smuggling) w' th farm-Lers outside the project
area within the State and neighboring States. FMG would discuss with project
management any proposed changes of this subsidisation policy.    To date miuriate
of potash has hardly been used in northern Nigeria, has not been subsidised,
and would remain so under the project. Conversely it has been Government
policy to subsidise cotton insecticides. In the expectations of increasing
yields by 400% under the project through spraying, and because some 27,000
farmers will be involved compared to the negligible number at present, cotton
insecticides will not be subsidised.   Tne subsidy element for fertilizers is
shown in Table 1.
6.        Sales of Seasonal Inputs.   It is expected that 25% of seasonal in-
puts would be sold for cash at village centers. Payments including the 107%
service charge, would be made to the credit assistants, recorded by cash re-
gister, and simultaneously entered in the stores register at the viliage
center. The remaining 75% of seasonal inputs would be sold on credit and an
additional charge of 10% would be made to cover interest (effective interest
12%). Sales on credit would by in kind and would be similar to the system
for a cash sale except that they would be registered on the farmer's credit
card. Tables 1, 2, and 3 show the amounts involved. Crop budgets on a per
hectare basis and probable farm budgets are shown in Annex 7. All farm inputs
include service charges and interest charges where relevant. The budgets in-
dicate that generally net incomes per hectare are about doubled as the farmer
moves from a lower to higher production level, and this would provide suf-
ficient incentives for farmer response to project actions.
7.        Farm equipment would be procured by the project for sale to farmers
on credit. ULV cotton spraying machines, together with protective gloves and
face mask would be sold for N 15 and the farmer would not be expected to make
a down payment (Table 4). The cost would include a 10% service charge and
interest for two years at 10% per annum. Larger farmers owning from 6-10 ha
of land under cultivation would be offered three year credit terms for the
purchase of an ox drawn equipment set at N 165. The farmer would be expected
to make a down payment of 20% or N 33, and would receive a loan of N 132 re-
payable in three equal installments at 10%, i.e. N53 per annum.    Tables 5 and
6 show model budgets for this type of farmer. It should be noted that a rea-
sonable income can be made by contract carting of crops for other farmers.
Farmers receiving ox drawn kits should be experienced farmers using advanced
techniques. Table 4 shows the number of loans likely to be made under the
proiprt. Loans would not be given for oxen since the type of farmer receiv-
ing the ox drawn kit (plough and cart) would be likely to own or have the
means to purchase oxen.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
8.        Tractor and Equipment.   At present the Government supports a totally
uneconomic and inefficient tractor hire service within the project area. This
service would be phased out during the project period and would be replaced
by making loans available for contract tractor operators. About 40 such loans
would be made initially to borrowers with the capacity to make a down payment
of 30% (N 180O) on the cost of the 'kit' N 6,000 (inclusive of service charge).
This would deliberately exclude the small farmers, but would provide sufficient
incentive for existing transport contractors and small businessmen who would
be encouraged to take up tractor hiring. The project would provide mainten-
ance serices-, short training courses for tractor drivers, and would direct
operators to selected area. The 'kit' would include a 65 hp tractor, trailer,
chisel plough and ridger. The proiect management would decide on the standard
make and specifications for the kit, taking into account bidding prices and
local maintenance servires. Thereafter all 'kits' would be of the same make.
The trailer is essential since it extends the operating season and enables
the contractor to enter the transnort business.   Each borrower would receive
the equivalent of N 4,200 at 10% interest with equal repayments of N1,325 per
annum for 4 years.  The project management would establish realistic and fair
minimum hire rates for contractors and farmers. A typical tractor contractor
budget WoUlA be a- follows:
Table: Tractor Owner Budget
Revenue                                                      N
900 hours   n 5 per hour                       = 4,500
Expenditure
1,000 hours   N 2.5 per hour                     -2,500-
Gross income                      2,000
Repayment of loan (N 4,200 at 10%
for 4 years)                                   1,325
Net income                          625
(Return on capital N 1,800 = 35%)
9.        At the end of the project the tractors could be handling some 3,000-
4,000 ha annually, and if successful could be further expanded through lending
from the Nigerian Agricultural Bank.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
10.       Credit Documents.  Seasonal loans would be registered on a farm
credit card against signature of the recipient and medium term loans (exclud-
ing loans for sprayers) would be recorded in individual project-farmer credit
documents. Seasonal credit and medium term credit for sprayers and ox drawn
equipment would be established by the Credit Assistant for authorization by
the District Credit Office.  Recommendations for tractor loans would be made
by the District Credit Office and authorized by the Credit Manager, after
consultation with the Senior Credit Officer.
11.       (rrdit Recoverv. Marketing within the proiect area is undertaken
by private traders and LBA, the latter under very inadequate supervision from
produce exaniners   UJnder this system, which is unlikely to change radically.
it would be impossible to recover credit at the point of sale. Land as a
security against a loan is also inapprnnriate and in the event of foreclosure
would be impossible to enforce. Security in loan recovery is therefore de-
-endent on the abilit- of the farmer to substantially inerpeae yields as nro-
posed under the project.  However, the project would lend to properly super-
vised farmers and would recover the loans thronigh a mutual liability system
whereby a hamlet group of farmers would in the first instance have the right
to ree-Ct individuals whose local 'credit rating' was bad; if a farmer is
accepted the group would be mutually responsible for repayments and for col-
lec-tlng aony b%A debts.  To ensure that the nroieert recovered its loans fArm-
ers would have to make a 10% deposit which would be held in trust by the
project against seasonal loans. At the end of the crop year (March 31), if
there were outstanding loans from a particular hamlet, the project would re-
cover through .he trust fundd. This fund would have to be increased annuallv
to the required amount before any farmers receive credit. If a hamlet repaid
l.ess thlan 90% then the who.l-e h-muletL would be nenalized and would receive no
further credit until debts had been fully paid. The hamlets, which are nor-
mal.ly coupposedu of familly clans with close ties and disciplines, have been
chosen as the mutually liable units. The essence of this type of system is
that Loa.is wouLUd fLrstL le made and re.ed on an individual basis; secondlV
the system should evolve into group borrowing and repayments and eventual
cooperat'ive ty.e 'lendi1ng chann.els; and th4irdly  ad most im ortantly the farm-
ers make their own rules and regulations for inter farmer relationships.
12.       Revolving Credit Fund. The project would set up a revolving credit
fund in the Central Bank ofilce at Sokoto. This would be solely for the ue
of the project but would be transferred to a State Credit Bank at some future
time as and when established.  Initially the credi;t und would be under the
control of the project Administration. Details of the fund are shown at
Table 5.
13.       A separate account would be established by the project for cash
sales, and any necessary short term financing should be made available from
the Central Bank.
14.       FMG would pay into the accounts the fertilizer subsidy due each
year on receipt of documentary evidence supplied by the Project Management.



NiGERI
NOBRM WESTERN STATE
Gu.su Agricultural Develoemmt Prolect
Seasonal Fertilizer Inputs
e-r1             Year 2            yoar 3           Year 4          Ynnr S             Totl1
Sulhate of _nSis 1/
Cotton n tons                                        410              935             1,690            2,600           3,575             9,210
MaiSe a tons 2/                                       10              200             1,025            3,375           7,750            12,360
Sorghum m tons 2/                                     10               80               225              600           1,350             2,265
Total a tons                                430            1,215             2,940            6,575          12,675            23,835
Total cost f.o.r. Cusau N 3/                        22,790           64,395           155,820          348,475         671,775         1,263,255
Project handling charges 10                         2,279            6,440            15,582           34,848          67,178           126,327
Tot-- c...t 0457C09                                      7In3 fl           1 .7fl40         38i 32          738,953         1,309 502
Cotton o tons if                                     410              935             1,690            2,600           3,575             9,210
Maize a tam 1/                                         5               115              580            1,900           4,350             6,950
Sorgho a tes 2/                                        5              125               375            1,125           2,250             3,880
Groundaut a toni  /                                    5               150              375              800            1,475            2,805
r-_a = ton 2/                                          5               25               '65             1140              215              4S0
Total a tons                                430            1.350             3.085            6.565          11.865            23.295
Total cost f.o.r. Cusau N 5/                        21,500           67,500           154,250          328,250         593,250         1,164,750
Add boron charge N 6/                                1,353            3,086             5,577            8,580           11,797           30,393
,.ojct handln-, . g,. chare                          2,2              7,059             5,983     ;      3,683          60,505           il9,5i
Total coat Naivr                         25.138           77.645           175.810          370.513         665.552         1,314,6S8
luriate of ?otaxh
Kaie matnsj7                                          2                10               70              250             600               932
Sorghm ru ton6 21                                      2                5                i5               25              75               122
Total atons                                   4               15               85               275             675             10 A54
Total cost f.o.r. Gusau N 7/                           236              885            5,015            16,225          39,825            62,186
Project handling charge Ivl                             24               89              502             1,623           3,983             6,221
Total cost Naivr                            260              974            5,517            17,848          43,808            68,407
Total tons (i) fertilizer                              864            2,580             6,110           13,415          25,215            48,184
Total coat fertilizer N                             50,467          149,454           352,729          771,684       1,448,313         2,772,647
Pament. Received fr armer.
Sulphate of nia        8/                         17,200           48,600           117,600          263,000         507,000           953,400
Sinale sunersobouhate 9/                          13.760           43   0            98,720          210,0nan        3     680         745 440
huriate of potaub 10/                                260              974             5,517           17 ,848         43,808            68,407
Total paynts                             31,220           92,774           221,837          490,928         930,488         1,767,247
Balance - nt: fertilizer subsidy                    19,247           56,680           130,892          280,756          517,825        1,005,400
Credit requirement fl/                              23,415           69,581           166,378          368,196         697,866         1,325,436
Cash sales  2/                                       7,805           23,193            55,459          122,732          232,622          441,811
1/ Farmers preaently use sulphate of amonia, research recmends CAN or urea. CAN costs 5V0 more per unit of N, whereas urea which is more
difficult to handle ha a ceoarable value omr omit nf N           lpe    of                I. T r t ' used -or t- purpose of project eatta.
2/ NonnlaI   ount of year 1 to cover _perSumstal and other uses.
5/ Landed cost at Gusau N53/ton inclusive of railaes, port and handling charges.
4/ Boronated superphomphate including 51 bora.
-      -sa  at JV. per I ton.
6/ e X3.3 per ton of sigle superphosphate for cotton only.
7/ e 159 per m ton.
0 e40 per a ton.
9/ eN32 per m ton.
0 No subsidy therefore full payment.
61/ 751 of paymets.
, Bla-C- between     rit requiree       ana  total payments.
May 8, 1973



NIGERIA
NORTH :WSTERN ;TATE
Gusau Agricultural Develor.0tfro1ect
Seasonal Seeds, Insecticides ad Battery Set Inpts
Year I           Year 2          Yesr 3           Year 4          Yeat 5          Total
Seeds
Sorghu« ~dwarf m toons                                            6               U               36              60              114
Sor*sI  hybrid a tans                                             2               4                8              24               38
maize synthetic a to"                         -                  13               38             100             188              339
MLize hybrid m tons                                               7               48             170             408              633
Groutdants                                    -                  EQ              120             220             460              880
Cowpeas                                       -                   2                5               9               9               25
Total o tons                           -                110              227             543           11,149           2,029
insecticide 1/
Cowpeas liters                              30,940           82,62'0         170,000         277,100         392,,700         953,360
Cotton liters                                 -               6,375           13,300          31,875          51,000          104,550
Total liters                        3Q,940           88,9S15         183,300          308,975        443,,700       1,057,910
Battery Sets 2/                                1,690            4,500            9,300          15,200          21,,400          52,090
B. COSTS 31 Naira
Seeds
Sorgbom dwarf 4/                              -               1,0912           2,184           6,552          10,920           20,748
Sorghum hybrid 5/                             _                 728            1,456           2,912           8,736           13,832
Maize synthetic Al                            -               2,346            15,916         28,200          34,,216          61,698
maize hybrid 7/                               -               2,548           17,472          61,880         148,,512         230,412
Grovmdnuts 8/                                 -              10,890           115,320         29,920          62,,560         119,680
Coupeas 9/                                    -                 4ce            1,000           1,80            1,,800           5,000
Sub total                             -              18,014           45,348          121,264        266,,744         451,370
insectitide 10/                               34,034           97,895          203,830         339,872         488,,070       1,163,701
Sattery Set I1V                                4,056           10,800           22,320          36,480          51,,360         125,016
Total costs                         33,090          126,709          27'1,498        497,616         806,174        1,740,087
Total cash sales 12/                  9,523          31,677           67,875          124,404        201,,544         435,023
Total credit sales. 1/               28,567          95,032          203,623          373,212        604,,630       1,305,064
/ 2 x 6 voLt or 16 x 1.5 volt.
2/ ILclusiv3 of Ift service chaxge.
J 11182/ is ton.
§/ e N364/u too.
y/ Q 1182/r ton.
J/ @ N364/n ton.
/ eI136/rn ton.
V @81200/r ton.
.Lo e NI.2 per lits.r. 
Ii/ ( N2.4 per set.
R/ e 25% of total cost.
Q3 ( 75% of total -ost.
May E, 1973



NIGERIA
NOBTH WESTERN STATE
Guiau ALricutural Developnt Prolect
Sury FNG Fertilizer Subsidies, CLagh Sales and SeasonaL Credit R_quirljewnti (N'    )
Foreigii Exchange     Local.      Year
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3!    Year 4     Year 5     Total        %           Cost      Cost        6-20
F1E fertilizer subsidy                                19        57         131        281.       517      1,005       315          362        6431        517
Cash Sales
FertiLlizer                                          8        23          55        123        233        442     100            442        -           233
Seeds, battery sets and insecticides                 9        32          68        124        202        435      68            296        1351        202
Total cash sales.                           17        55         123        247        435        877      84            738        139         435
Iacreasutal cash sales,                              17         38         68         124        188        435,     84            365         70         -
Seasonal CreLdit
Fertilizer                                          23        70         166        368        698/     1,325     100           1,325       -           698
Seed, battery sets and insectiLcideEs               28        95         204        373        605      1,305      68            887        418         605
Total seasonal credit                       51        165        370        741      1,303      2,630      84          2,212        418        1,303
Incremental seasonal credit                           51       114         205        371        562      1,303      84          1,094        20'3        -
Total iseasonal inputs                      68       220        493         988      1,738-     3,507      84          2,950        557          -
Total incrementaIL seasonal inputs          68        152        273        495        750      1,738.     84          1,459         279
Note: (a) FOreign exchange cost of fertilizer at farm gate is about 707..
(b) Foreign exchange cost of insecticides and batteries 85% - seeds 100% local - average F.E. 68%.                                                      , x
May 8, 1973



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Gusgau Az:riculturaL Devel oEgnt Proec2ft
Medium Term Insnput,_armer DM   Pagmts and Credit Recurments
Foreigrn Cost  Local
Year .    Year 2    Yealr 3   Year 4    Year 5     Total              Cos,t  Cost
A. QUANITIES
Sprayer kit 1/                   1,65,0    2,810    6f,490     8,710    12,,690     32,390
Tractor kit 2/                    -            5        10        10        10          35
Ox drawn equiJpment kit 3/        -          500       750     1,000     1,250       3,500
B. CODSTS
Sprayer kit                     21,97'0   36,530    84,370   113,230   164,970     421,070   85   357,91-0   63,160
Tractor kit                       _       30,000    60,000o   60,c00    60,000     210,000   75   1!7,500(   52,500
Ox drawn eqtipment kit            -       82,500   123,750   165,000   206,250     577,50O   50   288,750   288,750
Total                     21,970  149,030   2681,120  338,230   431,220   1,208,570   33   804.,160  1404.,410
C. FARMERS DNM PAYMENTS
TraCtor kit ¶T                    -        9,000    18,oOC)   18,C0O0   18,000      63,000
Ox drawn eqLipment kit J/         -       16,500    214,750   33,CO0    41,250     115,500
Total                       _       25,500    42,75()   51,C000   59,250     178,500
D. cREDiTRE RumENmS
Spray3r kit 6/                  21,97J0   36,530    814,370  313,230   164,970     421,070
Traetor kit 7/                    _       21,000   442,000    42,000 C  42,000     147,000
Ox ,drawn equipment kit 8/        -       66,ooo    99,000   132,000   165,000     462,000
Total                     21,970   123,530   225,370   287,230   371,970   1J,030J,070
67 tncludes   U                     g:Loves and 1 pair of ggIios 113 inclusive of 10% service charge.
Includes 65 hp tractor @ N3,800; 5 ton trailer @ N670; ridger @ N660; chisel plough @G 1360; service charge @ 14510  1N6000.
/ Includes lploug4ph @ N50, ox cart @  LOO; service charge 115 - N165).
30% down payment.
20% down payment.
/ 100% loan for 2 years a 10%.
/ 70% loan for 1I years g 10%.
E/ 80% loan for 3 years @ 10%.



141GEsRI
NOiN WE E     ST IATE
);!888..M'duatrae.l Deve1o0nt Pro.j45t
DVIpen P ,dFrej"
11111at/                                    Graa:ia, ti              1/
kI M (Ia)
Ttaditgl                                            1.0          -              3.0           0.              1.0           2.0                           7.5
MyiwI                                               .!i           2.0           1.0           o.5             1.0           1.5 L.I
71cr~itt                                           0.!i           2.0          (2.0)         *               -0.3)
T1loMi (kA/ba)
Traditlal                                         20             -            750            2C0
.d_                                             IZOO1.00      4.0a0            -             toDD0
aewtal                                           95 0            -             -IOD
h,v:cjm    (IM/tlot)
Traditiamal                                       250            -          2.50             LOD
I.5m           5.000          730           .500
1acr,ta                                         1,3IO        a 00o        (1500)            sao
Col    8.i9   (/Mg)                                  0.06           0.054         0.075          0.091
(U/1Let)                               20.00         -            168.75           9.10                                      1U..00
Usaco(l (RIpl:)                                   144.010       512.0)         16.23          54.60                                      120.00
t1ac   ta1l (U/plot)                              124.10        S12.0)       (1L2.30)        45.50
Id}Lbr CO!-f (U) _J'
Truditiamal                                        37.1i0        -             92.40          i8.55                                       2A,00
A6me1dI                                            91.10        110.60         30.80          27.30                                       24.00
locr,tal                                          54.10         110.640       (61.60)         8.75
Materigl C'j (U)
Traditkiaal                                         1.10        -              6.00           I.00                                        5.00
M,eIead                                           63.811         82.70          2.00          14.45                                        5.00
lmrewt.1                                          62.81          82.70J        (4.00)         13.45
IptalC Cst; (U)
Traditicmal                                        38.810        -             98.40          19.53                                       214.00
Mwca6I                                            135.61        193.31)        32.80          41.75                                       214.00
Iuereltal                                         116.811       193.30)        65.60          22.20
I9!t getur with 1Abor (N)
Traditieal                                       (18.801)       -             70.35         (10.45)                                      91.00          710.55
AMvecl                                            (11.li1)      272.70)        23.45          12.85                                       91.00          406.4
!neram ,tal                                        7.1L9        272.710       (46.90)         23.30                                       -               -
A!t fAturcJ vto. w t h Abr (5)
Tr.ditikrl                                         19.110        -            162.75           s.0 t                                      13.00          306.85
Advceedl                                          so0.19        429.30         54.25          40.15                                     I11.00           718.89
0nraemtal                                         61.19         429.3iD      (109.50)         32.05                                       -             414.05
M.ad-n 11'
T,-diti.I                                          63.0D          -           154.co          31.OD           60.00 t.30.00               4.00           375.00
M"nmed                                            153.10         14.0)        51.00          45.00          60.00         22.00          40.00          555.00
Iwr,ta l                                           950.0O       184.0a       (103)            14.00           -            (7)            -              177.00
0a.. Hear 3/
Traditicwal                                        53             -           177             31                                         244)            507
Adyo.ed                                            96            114           59             45                                         24(4            546
7.cr.ernt.1                                       43            114          (118)            _                                           -               39
OxCD Houra 3/
Traditca-l                                         53             -           177             31                                         240             307
Adv-eed                                            96            114           59             45                                         24o             546
I-erereta1                                        43             114         (118)            -                                           -               39
R.tare, to Labor (N4/u.d,y)
Traditftal                                          0.10          -              1.06          0.26                                         2.87           0.81
Adaeced                                             0.52           2.3 3        1.06           0.89                                        .2 .87          1.29
I-cre00 to)                                        0.68           2.3.3         1.06           2.29                                                        2.34
1/ Aasu,ed at 4 hoar. per day for 60 days char-ed at N0.50 per boo.-  l4otorial oosts i.ac- b-e arbitraxily a-Sete d at N5.00 pot year.
2L Labor itpot. derived ftoe IAR aed ai-sidn data. Labor iDpUtJ -:alrlatod o- the basit of a 6 hbor day charSed at N0.70/day, this iY a  h-orter day tha  toi
-xpecred of goSero.ret hired Labor for the  arn .rate of payaenI:.
3/ Derived fro- IAR dot..
M      t. . L973






N IGEPILA
NORTI WESTISRN TATE
twsau Aar cultujral Develcint Poiect
ItodlL Budget 7.5 ha lilxed Fnaur:m t;roamnyuLtjL
MiLlet &                              CraaLnS
totton       Gramdnnu"         !aize        SA           g           0tber!      lmd pal!       Ta    oet      Totul
Area (ha)
Traditional                                        1.0                           -              3.0         0.5          1.0          2.0                         7.5
Advamced                                          .              1.5              2.0           1.0                      1.0          2.0            -            7.5
Incrantal                                         (1.0)          1.5              2.0          (2.0)       (0.5)
LIAed (kgfha)
Traditional                                      22i0                            -            750         210           -            -               -
Advanced                                                     1.200            4.000            --
locremoL.                                                       ..--t..
]bvducti   (kg/plot)
Traditional                                      250            *                -          2,250        10D                        -
Advanced                                                     1,80l 0         (000            750
Iocremtal                                       (250)        1,800            ,000        (1,,50)       (D10)          -            _                           _
Gosa Ratsug (NAgW)                                  0.08           0.05             0.064         0.075       0.091
Traditional (plot)                                2O. 00        -                -            168.75        9.10        -            -              120.00      317.85
Advanced    (U/plLot)                             *             510.00          512.00         56.25                    -            -              120.00      778.25
Iocrental (U/plot)                              (2!0.00)        90.ao           512.00      (1t2.50)       (9.10)       .                            -          460.40D
Labor Cosp_ (N) 2/
Traditiaml                                       317.80                         -             92.40        18.55       -                            24.00      172.75
Advanced                                          *             511.80          110.60         30.80                    -            -               24.00      257.20
Increotal                                        (317.80)      511.80           110.60        (61.60)     (18.55)       -            *              _            84.45
Material Costs (Pr)
TraditLional                                       1.O                           -              6.00        1.00        -            -                5.00       13.0)
Advanced                                                        1 14.45          82.70          2.00                                                 5.00       10a.15
Icreraeatal                                       (1.00)        14.45            82.70         (4.00)      1:1.00)      -            -                           91.1S
TgtaI Coats i()
Traditional                                       I8.80         *                              98.40       19.55        -            -               29.00      185.75
Advance                                           *            IC06.25          193.30         32.80       -            -            -               29.00      361.55
Increntai                                        (38.80)       IC06.25          193.10         65.60      (1.9.55)      -                            -          306.80)
Nct R   tis w     Lbor (i)
Traditional                                      (18.80)        -                              70.35      (10.45)       _            _               91.00      132.10
ALdvanced                                         .            (16.25)          272.70         23.45       *                         *               91.100     370.9t
Increcmtal                                        18.80        (16.25)          272.70       (46.90)       1.0.45       -            -                          238.840
Net Ret i    thout lJhbor1 )
Traditionl                                        19.00         -                -            162.75        8.10        -            -              115.00      304.85
Advanced                                          -             75.55           429.30         54.25       *            .                           115a00      574.14)
lvcrnertal                                       (19.00)        75.55           429.30       (108.50)      (8.10)       -            -               -          369.25
Traditional                                       63            -                             1.54         311          60           30              40         378
AdvanceI                                          .            153              184            51          *            's           30             403         518
Itcrueotal                                       (63)          153              184          (103)        (211)         -            -               -          140
tcen Ho r 3/
TraditiLonal                                      5-3           -                -            177          211          -                           240         507
Advanced                                          -            162              114            58          *            -            -              240         574
lacresental                                      (53)          162              114          (118)        (311)                                      -           68
Returns toA Labor (foamdgty)
traditiomal                                        0.30         -                 *             1.06        0.26        -            -               -            0.BlL
Advanced                                          -              0.49             2.33         -           *            -            -               -            1.3tl
Iocre.oktal                                       -             -                -             -           -6 -                      -               -            264
1/ Assoed at 4 boors per day for 60 days charged at NO.50 per hour. Material costs of 'Tr.asport' have bees arbitrarily .s..ned at N5.00 per y,ar.
I Labor i.nputs derived fro  IAE and nmissii  data. Labor inputs calc-lated oa the basis of a 6 hon  work day, charged at NO.70. This is a shorter vork day than is
expected of goverv-nmn hired labor for the nose rate of payint.
3/ Deried fron 22LAR data.
May 9, 193






AAn,flv 0
t114t11 Z.A   0
Table 5 and 6
Page 2
Returns from Mixed Farmers with Ox Carts
The models compare farmers each with 7.5 ha. In one case, Table 5
the comparison is between traditional farming and advanced techniques involv-
ing maize and cotton. In the other, (Table 6) the comparison is between
traditional farming and advanced techniques involving maize and groundnuts.
Both are based on the following assumptions:
1.                                          Advanced             Advanced
Cropping Pattern (ha):    Traditional  Cotton (Table 5)   Groundnuts (Table 6)
Cotton                         1.0            1.5
Groundnuts                      -             -              1.5
Maize                           -             2.0            2.0
Sorghum/Millet                 3.0            1.0            1.0
Cowpeas                        0.5            0.5             -
Others                         1.0            1.0            1.0
Grazing and fallow             2.0            1.5            2.0
Total                7.5           7.5             7-5
2.        Yields would be as assumed for hand farmer, except that traditional
cotton was allocated 250 kg/ha seed cotton as the crop would probably tend to
be planted somewhat earlier.
3.        Price and cost of materials are as for hand farmer budgets.
4.        Labor costs have been increased to reflect the need for employment
of labor seasonally; 6 hour mandays costing N 0.70 have been assumed.
5.        Oxen inputs are based on IAR data.    These have been incorporated in
the assessment of labor inputs.
Returns
If labor is costed, annual returns from the traditional farm, N 70.
are inadequate to enable repayment at the proposed rate of N 53.00 per annum.
The farmer using advanced nractiees would obtain N 486 per year and thus
could well afford to repay at the proposed rate.    If labor is not costed,
traditiona1 and both advanced farmers could repay at the proposed rate, since
annual farm income would be N 300 and N 700 respectively. However, at least a
proportion of farm labor would need to be hired - estimated labor needs are
378 and over 500 mandays on the traditional and two advanced farms respectively.
For these returns, it would be inadvisable to make loans for ox
drawn equipment un.less farmers concerned are prepared to accent assistance
from the project which would enable them to increase their production and
far-m incomes.






NIGERIA
NoErH WTESlN 5TA23
Gusau jkhricultura. Deve:lot ro ljct
R1<DR Credit Fu-luara        OCLO)
L           2           3I ,2  3                                       16  7                            10-20
CashL leE L
IEoRD ft;6 for ssonal lans                        41         So1        164         297         450    .                -
nII funls for seasonal LoI                        1D          i!3        41          74         113
D,8D fond  for tdiLum tear loans                  LS         89         161         203         259
no0 fondi for  di- term louts                                 34         64          84         113
Sub total                                 73         2317        430        658         935
Seasonal loams I                                 -            56        1.82        4 07        815       1.433       1,433      1,43:3      1,433       1,433
8F.ayer. loam7                        .                       1U         34          69         113         160         160        160D        I2           94
Tractor kit louasll                              -           -            7          20          33          46           9          26         IS
O drmm kit loans                                             -           27          67         110         159         119         615 
Sub total                                -            69         250        561       1,071       1.798       1,751       1.68S       1,518      1,527
Allowance for bad debts 2I                         _             3)        (13)       (28)        (54)        (90)        (88)        (8S)        (9)        i(76)
Total cash inflow                         7:3        303         667       1,191      1,92       '1,706       1,663       1,60D       1,509      1,451
C"b Outf-IO
Seasonal credit                                   51         165        370         741       1,303       1,303       1,303       1,303       1,343      1,303
Sprayer loZs                                      22          37         84         113         164         113         164          82         132         82
eTractor kit loans                                 -           21          42          42         42         -           -           -           -
Ox drln kit loans                                             66         99         132         165         _           _                      _ -
Total cash outflow                        73         289         595       1,028      1,674      :1,416       1,467       1,38.5      1,385       1,385
Balance before capital debit service               -            14          72        163         278         292         196         215         124         66
1/ Inputs include 10. borrowing charge - slippaget into following year allowed.
2/ Repaid at 107X per annum over 2 years in iequal annual installments - slippage int:o following year allowed.                                                   Hi
3/ Repaid at l07. per annum over 4 years in equal annual installments - slippage into followirn year allowed.
4/ Repaid at 1070 per annum over 3 years in equal annual installments - slippage into following year allowed.
5/At 5%.
May 8, 1973






G-6.1 Ati,1.lt6-I Dgvplget PrXoleot
SVry of Prolsot Coots 01OW)
Total         Lotal         For-igo
Ys    IL      Yom 2          7     3     Y- r 4        Y   S.       Cost          Coet           Cost
Pfteoit AdAt.1tratioa
VWhI.lee. plsnt tmd sqr.1p.t                                         68            13             3            25            3           112           43            69
un   .  btildigc. ned 0    Ishing                                   340            S1           -             -            -             391           313           78
Salade.                                                              129          204           20o          2iO           210           963          696           267
nh1Itlo runnio'                                                       6            10            10            10          1t             46            28           18
General .. ei_es                      -                               85          128           149           151          148           661           440           221
Sob tot.l                                                628          406           372           396           371        2,173         1,520           653
Ttbchtc.l Set-i'..
:.h: l:-, pant .-d =.::i=-. .                                        84            33            10           45            16           18S           69           119
H-o..e, b.lldi.g. nd fr.-riehing.                                   307           100           -             -                          407           *Z5           8i
5-'--..                                                              126          198           222           246          246         1,038           894           144
V9h1,1. r-fnio8                                                       12           30            30            30           31           133            80           53
Sab tt0.1                                                529          361           262           321           293        1.766         1,368           398
Fr.- Credit Serves-
Vehicle., pI     , -d eqip.-t                                         89           76           -              13          -             178            71          107
ocea, boildi.g. .d f-nt.hbtng.                                       160           92           148           -            -             400           320           80
S^larois                                                             61           134           186           186          186           753          631           122
Vehicle -u.niog                                                        4            7             2             8            8            34            20           14
SOb t6t.1                                                314          309           341           207           194        1,365         1,042           323
Market Servt,..
Vehicle., plsnt nod equo      ent                                    44            40                           2            2                          38           34
00.600, boId.go. nd f-r.eiebng.                                     24           -             -            -             -              24            19             5
Serie.                                                                 6           12            12           12            12            54           49             5
Vehitle ruien                                                          1            2             2             2            2             9             5            4
Sub total                                                 75            54           is            16            16          176           108            68
Oneteerink Ser,iceS
V.hinleC, plant nd eq/ipeert 1/                                     971             6            65           42             i         1,06;           ;;2          93
H60,.    bWildie.   f= f t ihiogt sod nto.testioe  -tetials          197          125            93            93            6           514           356           158
Salaries                                                              95          145           145           145           97           627           330          297
VMhicl rtnieg                                                         6           11            11            11           11            S0            30           20
Plint otmine    td taeand cul Ibor               ;°4                                            244          246           142           918           797          121
workthop * d epeeo prt.                                               42           54            61            69           58           284           170           114
S,6 tot.!                                              1,561           575          621           606           315        3,478         1,835         1,643
Cinr.ry Cotton h    1t                                                 113          -             -                           -            115            88            27
Vill.e. Seevte istor.) C                nr                             162          270           -             -                          432           346           86
Fart Innot.
Fertilm-re * seed, battery ats     Wd i-titide.
lrrcro.eortt.1                                                     68          1352           273          495           750         1,738          279         1,459
F*ern aechinery, *quip  et ta; *rt3t                                  22          149           269          A3I           431         1,208          404           804
Sub t6t.1                                                 90          301           541           833        1,181         2,946           683        2.263
Ferttli-er Subeidv                                                      19           57           131          281           517         1,005           643           Ib2
Cnti"ter-ti.
Prt-e @ 67      e   d                                               198           287           436          697           976         2,594        1.479         1,115
Phyti     18 55                                                     i65           i;7           ii4          133           14463 
Sub totel                                                363          404           550           830        1,120         3,267         1,861         1,406
T.t0l Project Cost V 000                                            3,656         2,737         2,833        3,490         4,067        16,723         9,494        7,229
T.t.1 ProJect Cost US090o0                                           3.539        4,147         4,292         5,287        6,071        25,336        14,382       10,934
Di.trbutiobt   of Co.t 7                                                22           16            17            21           24           100            57           43
1/ This coet J dcev   by en Inslmpifi..nt N6,000 due to error in Anne- 9 Table 2, -oc    cor-ected. Thie table and ithe-e coltisng to it oill b corteccrd        e tpproitol
ry S, 1973






1" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~   ~   ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~  ~~~~~~;i "-
009090    00o096     09   )0:00099:g                                                       kz     ooo       o)     O'     0:z      -_                           ..09....9. '  9090 qo! q..
0900' z   0C9009     09,  OD000 ZS                                                 0000z   (0 )   0('9)0   0£      0     00S9£                           I-d991  i-I100 ...99 p.. 90)0 B. 0oav
0969!i    0'n,",I9   £s    00',' LE                                                9)     001       )00                                                                    9*o0ol 909
000",     000½:      0s   000'!                                                    ODO0'',  (0£)  09£','   (OZ)    o',   09£         I os              ... I... ftln;a .j 2.od9ob. II[- p0..10I.
000'I     o£o'       oo   000             -              -                              -D',               (I )    I       '£,       J.'s                          oo.; n.-qo .. :,ooo,d,b. 11-S
0on'      009½s-     09    000½!                                                   OO- 00L  (9£)  00' L    (',z)   69,   00£       ..,                                                OO.S
00£00       9½DO .   09   000'            -                                         '      (0£)   00',;   (0£)     09    09)       90)                                        90  19-f00
out'!     0)96'!     09   000£E           -                              -         09'!I   (9     00')'!  (0 )           09',      10WIl                                          .. iI d/
00*       019£'      09   OOD             -                                        000'!   (z )   009I     (z )    '     00         900s                                          Op!. 00019
0*9'!!    0:991      09   OO!''!         -               -                         0oo'!!         000£,                                                                    1090I-i q0
00£'!     019*'!     09   000£C                                                                   OWE--00'  (09)   0!    ODE      ...,                                                .0J*
00*       09£'!      09   000'            -                                                        £'      £o,z (  I     oD'£      ..-1                                       -)191-1 V.,Ld.
09!       090        09   00*            -                                                        O--  0   (I      I     099     .10.,u                                           10900ldoa
00',£     OD9gc      0-    00.                                                     090'!   (0))   0)DD',  (0£)     00    09£      '.W'*                                      III000909
000       on9"       09   000'                                                     090'',  (9 )   OD'',   9', )    *     OD'      90w))g                                    $1.00 .I 000
09900       £'OD     09   000'!!         '                                         D - 090"  (91)  OOD'!  (0£)     0f    09'      10)0ql                                          SO!Old
00D9'!    OD/'£      09    000`I-                                                  090£    (I     ODD0'£   (I )    £     OO'£       9"!                                   2.-d)6 10b90000)-
Ovi '9    09!'6      09   0D9'!!                                                                  OD ' 09'91  (9)  El   o0z'!I    90q.*                                       000'do!0 09p0'
099'El    0ZS09'     09   00£'99         '         00!'Ll               -               -DI00                                                                              900190
090!      06''       09   009'£          -         0*'!     9! 9                        -         00'!    (I 9           0o90'   .90.I9                                -999   091 9000)0 ...
0OO'      009'!!z    09   000'!!                    00009   (9                                    000:0!  (9       09    00'!     10D                                          ! :109
099'      0 96'!1    09   009" 9-                   )DE'9   (I )         --                        09      (I 9          090'     10)                                          0110 1010A
09'!      0900             we00's   0D9'!          000'!           009'1                          009£c                                                                    q00090
099'!     £99'!      00   00*''    O009'!    9 )                    99' (I    9                   009'!   (9 )     £     099      9094                                           090009)
009'      CO','l     09    o' '                     000'0   (9 9                                   o000    (I 9          oo'z      09)19                                            1009
099'0     0)96'!C    09   009"q          O,'       0!'      (0El09                                         (              9'      10990*                                       0*110 q 010S )
00)')v    00',",!    09   000",     000'',  (9)     00      (9 9        -         000')           Om9 0')  (99     9     009       09*99 090
0',9*I    o994'      09 O  0091')   -D       I     D909'!   (CZ    00, g)-        0     -  (Z     OD90'6  (n9 9    0     09!!     109*01.                                           *00
00'  !)O!'      09   ODO£'01   OC 9          099£9     (I )                      'g         00)90    9 9      9     0DO9*!   190                                   09099 !        0£
009                                             (I )           (                                                                           V-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0l1! 0990
009'',    Wo09'      09   000", Si00)                       (99 I00) I9 9                                          A     009'     109)910 *19)
06'       (969!      09   0096           -          966C It  (9                                   o -  -0096  9£ 9   9   ODE9'    --990                                       0*0910100)
099".,     996'      09   cog'!!                   09!'!    (9 9        -               -         00*'    (9Z     £1     09!'E    1.9909                               n91990 SOIl) 90-0( -1I0
0900))    )9         09     900.          911101a           (                                     o 010   9100   109)    o900                                                  IT-
M  lm,11  09  009'61.          006,6    (E                                    OW 6    (c       9     ocx' E                                                 M090. 9900909 P0 909,) -9,90,
0", 1F  *96'9  09  00,9,11     oot's    (I                                             (I      z     ooe's 900904  U"Na0 9 902091)-910 f.-II
3191! 9900990 609009 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~   ~   ~   ~  ~~IT.v 3--



NIGEM1A
N808TH WESTERN STATE
Gunau Asi..cl roal Oeel.een.t Proiect
V*hJL.le. PIeat ead Eeoleeet Costs
orit                                                                                                     F-.cige Becieeg    L-o.1
Ilcit     Coat   Nc.rb       Year- 1          Ye. 2          Ye." 3          'l-a 4         Ye.r 5        Total    I        Ceet      Co-at
Eogi-aeri  Serice
Soevey eq.ip.Inr ecd her,d tool.                     Bet      15.500     1             9.800           1.500           1,300           1.500           1.500   15,800   60       9,480     6,32-0
T..t.ge                                              Sat       3,1320    1             3.000         ---                                                        3 5.00(1  20      600      2,400
SOb wotl                                                                      12,800           1,100           1.500           1,500o          1.500   1s,00 34p 4      I208W      8.710
Cooat-,cti.. Eqoi~p..I
Track type -rgl., d-aerfipp-          1)10 hp I/     V-ber    46,300     3     (3)   198,900         --                                             -198,90(2           90     178,010    19,8s,0
Track type ..gl., do-aelippa-        140 hp I/       N.ceha   46,I300    2     (2)    92,000         -                              --92,000i                           90      82.800     9,2(0
Track type atr.:Lght deaer/.I..h      615 hp I/      W..br     28.000    I       1)   28,000                                                                   28,000   90      15,200     2,800)
Wheal type etraIght d-,c             170 hp I/       wd-e     10,30D     2     (2)   101,000         ----101,000                                                        90      90.900    10,10
S.lf propelled c-p-r IACY            130 hp 1/        ab-     80,2100    2     C2)   160,400         -                              --160.400                           90     160,38.0   16.0(,0
Ilot- rader                          1325 hp 1./     Lb-a     36.800     3     C2)    73,600                   C1)    36,800        --110.400                           90      99.360    11.0(0
Wheltrdar 3IN                      150 hp f/ b-.            38,800    5      ( )    38,80         --                                                         38,800   90      30,920     3,860
Agrlcolt-le Ct-ctr ilth vibrat.r .. p-t.  75 hp      H..b.r    8.000O    2     C2)    16,000         ---16,000                                                          90      10.400     1,600
Agri-Ilt-r1 t-.ctor elth pl.ogb       75 hp          N,.,ar    5.003    1I                      13     5,300OO                                                  5, =l   90       6,500      51)0
Preheel dcli- c-. -rhclal                         Nb.ar      3,700    6      (3)    11.100        -C 3)            11,100         --22,200                            6.0     13,320     0,800
Pcoptcrock                          toe           Noa8.e     3,2 00   9       4 )   13,800        -           5)   16,000                         -28,800i            60      17,280    11 320
Seelliog trailer                                     8,b.r     3:,DD0    2     C2)     6,000         --                                             -6,000              80         MO80    1.2110
G-crat-r                              2.5 leo        9,a-      1.1)00    2     C2)     2,00ooo                                                                  2.0oo1  80       1,800       400
Water poop                                           P,.r        6500    1     (1)       300-                                                                     s4x   80        400        11)0
Were trailer                          6,300 lit.-r  ftb-a      1, 000   1I      1)     1,000         -                                                           .,e oo(  '        600      61)0
Wat-r t-aller                         2,230 lit-ra   W..r-       600     I       1)      800         --                                             -801D               60        460        320
Coocrete eic- ICY                                    lIc.e-    2,5000    2     (2)     4,000                                                                    4 ,000)  90      3,60 GM     MI
Tipper t-ok 53CY                                     )Ote-    16,000    06      6)    96,000                                                        -8,0                90      86,400     9,600
Sob total                                                                    842,900           5,000          03.900                        -911,80(            88     805,930   107,5870
klIeh..ical WocAh8,
PoeI eco-ga                                          N-,b-     2,200     1     C1))    2,00-                                                                    2,000   50       1,000     10(30
L.bolcacor ad q9oipoect                              N-er      1,2000    1       1)   .I ODD-                                                                   1.002   so         8ao       2100
lII. Ite (15 Coca)                                  l6-a-        500     2     (2)     1,00          -              --                                          1.001)  90         gm0       100
Woldiog q9oip.an                                     Sat       3,500     1       1)    3.500         -                                                           .505   80       2,800       7)00
Tyre eq.,P-er                                        Sat       1.500     1     C1)     1.300         --                                                         1.501)  80       1,200       300
Co.apre....                                          N,-ber      BOO     I       1)      SW          -                              --                             0    so        64.0       1650
H.e.r dotYjack.                                      3ar          75     4       4)      300         ---                                                          303   80        240         60
Beec h eqopa,ec                                      S-c-                              1.800            200             200             21)0            200     2, 603  80       2,080       3)0
I aS                                                Sat         -       -8,000                         500             300             500             So0    10,0035  so       8,000     2.030
Poor h,Oe d,l-r eoil. etk.hep                        N..ber    10.00     4     (2)    20,000         --C2)                            20.030        -40.0015            so      312,000    8.030
Lee bad aed trator                                  ftb-       20, M     I     C1)    20.000--                                                                  20,001D  90     18,000o    2,020-
Tack traile                                          Mo,i,e    9,55)0   4       4 )   36,0g O                                       -                          36.000   90      32,400     3.61)0
PIcOo 3/ Coo..o=r                                              4,000     2     (1)     4',ODO--                                 1)     6,020O                   8,002   60       4.800     3.220
lS. -tota                                                                     99.900            700             700          24,70)0            200    126.700  83     106,880    21,6611
...e. Seed Fern
T- etee                               65 Op          ?1o.er    3.800     2     C2)     7,600         -                              --7.60D                             80       4,080     1,520
T-ok                                  5 tOe         fto~,      6.oco     I     C1)     6,000         -                                              -6,003              60       3.600      2,400
PIoogha                                              8,.br       380     2     (2)       760         -                                              -763D               75        370        1900
Dia haro,.                                          8,b-         200     2      2 )    1.400        --                                                          1,400   75       1,050       350
Seed dIl                                            e,r        1,200    I       1)    1,20          -       -       -                                           1,205   75        900       130
Cotti,,vato-                                        e.1-b-       500     2     C1)     1,00 ODO-                                                                1,000   75         750       230
Rol-ye alaher                                        8..br       720     1     (1))     720          ----710                                                            75        340        1SO
Kele -balN-b-~e                                                 1,00     1       I 1   1,(           -              --                                          1,)000  75        730        250
Sprayilog -ahl..                                     8..b-       300     1       )       300         -                              -                             3100  75         2373
S.b tota1                                                                     19,980         -                                                          19.980  72       14.465   5151.5
TUTAL                                                                       1,258,200        169,500         800500          128,00X)         22,600  !,658,981  78   1,287.775   371,105
17 Indc203for apa- parta at tI- of I.Itia1 p.-rhaee.



-p/ioooEm 9ny.1-j.T.  pn. .2u; nIl  ~did --   '-   ,~l .10   I  -''P "  t
1P-' p":I.p..  -  -   .-  p-  -s!j;o  d0,~*pO  '. CIL . . 
'0006e ,...dpb. pn. CO  S(nnJ  000  ..-IO .,lni spd '009'9M -II"  '0010M  1104 HnluP '000'01M  O0/4 0 "009  I (E)  -0.v   Oz' t 4solq .Uo096O0 t
OD'W-     Z~ 0                            ' oo  ,WEnnnonunn   0   -HP'0 R'  '009-1..I'ME C P1l0  qO'9OSn-  'O9 * -M,- *'OD9CT -S 110 
090990 1 &90 910  00  009'0900 0000  000'06  000 000  0006(9 ~~Z  OW-1-W-- 009(0'" .d..1A-'00g             l     O               10100..  -1)v 
00'9009  099D   00g  o  DOZ 000,  -                                 00000L       0000019                                                      1.,, q"S
00119K  0096    o 0  DD0091       -                         -       00'00  (s o)  ooo09e  (ST)  00?  D001   .n1W09                                 Sn~ £n-n.
000.99  009     00 ~0IP06                                           OO- D0000  (00z)  OOD'0(  (01)  007 OD 000  .--                                      00110
ODS*0 CZ 00-I9  00   00's         0      000o0000                          000Z)  00001Z  (00)  oo   u      --pm                                  0I - S 002(Ou
000'010  (0990  00  0OO0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  -  -  - ~~~~~000,001  (00)  0o0000  (0i)  O.,  009*9  .SY01I                            -4o ODS   I
00099   og Li90  40  GOOOOU       -            --                                 001110019
00*00 -D-            00"*0,i      -                                               oo,Ol  (  )  0    000'00    100                             (-od.9 .od  ")  qMIllOd
006   004      00  0000         -            -            -D oZ1                       (0      -   00&9g  .0l90l                         (l..o;o) -.o. ood.M.
0D0010  300O?   09   0001 9z                               O- 000'                       (0 )  0    001     .0l.090                                .n pj L11.OIO
0oo0900  DOVM0  10   0D00V)0  00D19       OO0'6                     00900OD0SZ  0001'961                                                       1"100 900
Om0L1 :at  011  0 0  00000        ~        00L   (00)  ODO000  (0Z)  OO'00  ((00)  0x0:91  (0 )  9  DOVE      -nS                         iT 2l-1-i1: P- ThR10j -a
90'0    -       -     OZ    ODS 0'0  00OD00 '        DO000O 0000               0000                                                         'l   .1.JP 
0011014         -z 0o'4      900'!. z 1                                                             o'1  g1 00                                  Ii *-00- d0-w4
00- C9  00091   00   000                                             00     0)   08o     9)          09C99                                     4II   10~
0X0)'49  00091  00(  0009:6   -            -'V               I         00     0009,  (0I  0I    00L9E   ..W9I                                l   i'( 300  0010f
00w91  ,0   00   OOD'00       -                                               DO 00                                                        o.o'i q"-P
ov 'It O%1r ol we'vi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9'~' OoOii
909000  090'09  00   000o'00                           009           00          0D0601                                                       101D,1 '0K  .70
009900  00060  00  000960  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 91V1  (0~~'  001'06  (00)  00000  (01)  09  000'0 ~~ODS'gq(I I6                        001,09 3I* jm  000000
00I0 9C  009'65  00  000'96Z                           OOD -   -         - OVZ   000'C90  (ST  De1  OOL1    00093. 09                                   .0000
0D90'OL  009'41  00  000990       ---                               046         0 090                                                         0101q"
oo00n  00000    00   00000        -                  -                           00000n  (0 )  Il   W000     l*9q                            19q Un00000190
00VU  0090  00  00090  -  -            -            -       000'90  (1 )   1    000'g0   :0.9             I? 2010003 p00 OSolIpIIllq 9'1(0I0100 .9  .0q01d11!0  9. 91-
00090t  09049e  00   04t                       00900666                          00L401  (9)   9    09       .01                             51.30 qs9* 00P~~
099000I 009601  00or   10               00000006,                          Qz    00960    a)                                                    101 9010 -7
0060 CZ        I0 04.-                                                           0090'O  (O 0       00CC                                        ji"1 001  5000011
Om49  01     00  0901         -                                 0000    ( 000  0400o  (9    0    00DD.9'S 095100 9109 00000000000
00U4li  oolOo   CZ   000'46       -            -            -                    00096C  (10   1    009      001                                    OOOo000
001'91  00901   00                                                               coo' --  -00   (I  I 0  'v'91   011909                      * y-   -3z 0j0.99j 000(n.0
ou's  0"I  (Pr  0 , 1.                                             '0:96    U     I    OD0:96                              i- 00V9  g._p_l
olig'  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~01 00*l1T00                   0*04 10I100, AL *01000   D0191-;n999909jj
Ozl:TZ  oz  OD9:svt                         ODZ'fX  (v  ODIVOL  (O r~~~_______i  w'IT-                                -  M  "T  - -
ocal  DOD."  Olt  000.08                        000191  (I   COO' "  (v    s    ow' 91 ~~~~~~Z-a                             -q ;;.3. -01900



20RTH 600Rt)) STATE
Staff S.larti.. -d Altl-ac.-
Uni r                                                                                                                                 tr-igo Etot2age        L.-s 2
0)1St  Coat    6~N-.er        Tes- I               Y-a   2              Y-a  3              Year 4              Yea   6          Ot-t       2Co                   Cost
Project Ad-inttier.s t),
fro)-t Ma-g-r 2/ .Mar-                                                     e      25.000       5        1 )     26000       2 2)     26,000       2)     26.000     2 12     2t,003        1)     26.OtY2    130,0'00    '35        97,500     32.5DO
Ftn... t1.1 C-ctro11, 1                                              MaI/et       2 2,00 MO             1)      22,000      L 2)     22,000     ( )      22,000     L 2)     22,000      21)      22.~  2 ,OC  10,00     '25        82.500     27.500
Senior Aftaii.-ti-t.   OffSon-                                       M., 'rear    13,400       5      21)       10,400      21)      10,400     L 2)     10,400     01)       10O400       12     10.400'     52,000     LO          5.200     46.8200
Sarto- Eaotoo       fficer 2/                                         1a er        2,000       41,      It4       6,000o      1)     12,000     21)      12,000     212      12,000        1)     12.000      54,000     25        40,200      13,540'
Aarti-lno-l Et-1.os                                                   Mtrer        5,200      13      2 S        5,200      23)      15,600     03)      15,600     23)       15,600     L3)      15.600l     62,600     10          6,760     60.840'
Priocip.1Al  --toorrc                                                M.. 'rea-     7.800       9      ( )        7,800       2)2     15,600     2 2)     15.600      2 22    15,600       2) 22    sI,600'    20,200    'l0         7,020      6 3,180'
,st--oat.                                                            M1.. frt      5,200      20        2)      IC,400      (4/      20,800     L 4)     2C.800D      4)     20.000      24)      20.80OCr    93,600     L0          9,360     84.240'
fa-ctfr   Offic..                                                     K- 88. - ft  5,200      23      23)       19,600      25)      26,000     252      28,000     25)      26,000)       5)     26,000'    119,600     'L0        11,960    107.84Cr
C.nfid-nttal SetrNaey                                                K-a yearn     3,100       9      2 )        3,100      22)       6,200      2)2      6.200     22)       6,200      2 2)      6.200)     22,900     L0          2.790     25,110,
CleIre-1 Officer   -rd St ... siph-r                                  Ma rec        .000      36      242        4)000      2) 02       000     282       8,~ 2tt     02      8,000      282       8,ooo      36,00       to         3,600     32.400'
Cl-it.1e rOs.fr. cososCp               ypi.t                          Moera          800     207       2192      25,200     244)     35,200     (08)     38,400     240)      38.400     (48)     38.400)    165,600      '-                  165,600'
Dtfna-/f8.. eeg-e/C-sol 1,a1-o                                       Mcess           600      60        5)       3,00)0o    2202      6,000     (35)      9,000     (13)      0,000      (132      9,000'     36,000      .36.00)
Sob t-0sr                                                                                          128,700              203,800             210,000             :10,000              210.000     962,500     28       262,290     695,310'
""  -taf -T-rf,rItaiOutcs                                               a 'er       8,800       3      () 2         ,800     2 )       8,800     2 )       8.800      2 )       8,800     2 )       8,800)     44,000     10          4,400     39,6300
iSed MtltipLitrati- sod R5.--rh Offit-e 2/                            Mofas       16,000       44     2 )        8,000        1)     26,000     21)      16.000O      1)     16,000      212      16.00Cr     72,000     73         54,00      18,00',
Teetio   OMfoe                                                        Ma- fa.-     3,900       3        1)        3,900     212       3.900     212       2.900      2 2       3,900    2L2)       3.90Cr     19,500     L0          1.950     17,550
Ssolee Ra--at- Offt-a                                                 Maofets      4,400       4ff    2 )        2,200      21)       4.400     21)       4,400       1)      4,4oo        1)      4.400'     19,800     10          1,980     17,820)
M.shsnft.1 S.p-riet-                                                  Ma   .-er    4,300       3      2 )        4,300      21)       4,300     L 1)      4.300      21)      4,300      21)       4,300D     22,500      10         2,150     19.350'
D-vl.p-n    Offce                                                     Ma    - fas  3,900      20        4)      15,600      24)      15,600     24)      13.600     24)      15,600      24)      15,600'     78,0030    00         7,800      20,200
Or-fL.Lg ichool potof-pelsK 88.                                              - sr  3,900       5      21)        3.900      21)       3.90D       15      7,900     212       3,900      2 2       3.900)     19,300     50          1.950     17,550'
Pam  Ma..ger                                                         Ifrfas        3,900       5        L )      3,000      2 )       3,800     21)       2,900      212       3,900     L 1)      3,900)     19,500     10          1.950     17.550
Ag"-colt-l Aaaiara-ta                                                 Man  ece     2,300     220      (24)      31,200      (49)     63.700     (49)     63.700     (49)     63,200      249)     63,700,    296,000     'L0        28,600    257,40C'
H8o  ARents                                                           M   fa.-     1,300      23      < 32       3,900      2 3)      6,300     2 5)      8.500      2 5)     6,500      2 1)      6.500)     29,900     10          2,990     26,910
Aoeiro-rcrs1                                                              Y...toa  a  f5.  600  120   (42)      23,200     (821      49,200    (122)     73.200    (162)     97,200     2262)     97.200'    3,42, 000   L0         34,200    307,800'
Cleical. Ofiftt-                                                      Ma   er        ,OO      27      < 3)       3,000      2 6)      6.000     ( 63      8000o      ( 6)      6,000     2 62      6, 000     27,000     10          2,700     24,100)
iioteee/Ils-h- ot ./ rFao/.   eeire                                    a  fears      600     100      (20)      12,000     220)      12,000     (20)     12,OOD     220)     12.000      2202     12.00'      60,000     '.60,00),
lob reril                                                                                          225,900               098,200            223,200             2146,200            246,200,   1.036,700     14       144,670     894.030
Pare Credt Serrira
Cred"It ifnag-r 2/                                                     ener.      16,000       419    2 )        S,Ooo        1)     24,000     0 )      16.000       1)     16,00       L 1)     1600OC      72,000     75        34,000      l8.000)
Senior Cs'etn Wficer                                                  Mnecs        5,200       44     ( )        2,600      21)       5,200     212       5.200     2 )       5,200      2 1)      5,20C,     23,400     L0         2.340      21,10'0
Peonnipal 0A-    -a,at                                               Ma    ers-    7,800       4f     0 4)       3,900      2 )       7,800       1)      7,800       I 1)    2,800      L 0)      2,600)     35,100     10         3.510      35,580)
Aonsoet-OtI                                                            a fa.-      4,200      1 8     22)        8.1400     24)      16,800     24)      18.900       4)     16,800      24)      16,800'     25,600     10          7,560     68,060)
Mhi4shn  ope-atr.                                                     Ma     - ero 2,600      36       24)       10,400     28)      20,800     28)      26I,800      8)      20,600     2 )      20.800      93,600     10          9.560     84,240)
Ceedin Officer.                               Mao faces    3,900       58      2 2)       7,900     2 45     15,600      2 4)    15,600 2a 2   42 2034.61500004)  1 600  4) 513,000'1570,2070,20D 17.0202              63,180
Credin A.i,   .at.                                                   280pas        1,500     295      (153       19.9SW     (401     52,000     (8)0)   101 ,00     (B0)     i0)t,000    280)    l0)a, 00    383,500     10         59,330    345.150)
S.6 rt.ul                                                                                           60,600              134,200             180.200             i86,200              186,200)    753,400     16       122.140     631,260l
Ma-tarMrrnn      Officer                                              Ma     - 5ar  ,200       ise       )       2.600      21)       5,200     2 )       5,200      2 )      5,200      212       5,200)     23,'40     10         2,340      21.060)
liarkar Aaai.tants                                  ~~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~     ~~        ~~Ma  Year  1,700  1is   2)  3.400  24)  6,800  24)  6,800   242       6,8000      4)       6,800)     30,600     10         3.060     27,540)
Sob noni,l                                                                                           6,0o00              12.000              12,000              12,000               12, 0010    34,00      10         5,400     68.600)
Sni       I= Enine 12                                               Ma   er     20,0o03       5      2 )       20, 000    1 )      20,000      2 )     2c),00        1      20,000     2I1      20,00)      100,        15        75,0)30    2 5.00C)
PleontrA  O fti.er j/                                                 Mt fears    16,000       4         ) 22    61,000o      1)     16,000       1)     16,000       I 2)   26,000             -64.'00                  55        48,000      18,001
C--retart- Oogi--ir2                                                  Man oncrs   16,00        3-3/4  (3/4)      22,000     21)      16.000       1)2    18,,000     212      16,o03                             OD6,00   75       453,OO      15,008)
Road Onilcs,er 2/                                   Mac~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K  Ye...  16,080  4-7/4  (3/4)  22,000  2 )  4,00    2)       21,.000    2 2      19,0)03       )      260         76,03      2          700        1.0
Work.h.p MI-5rg-r2                                                    Ma- fra-    16,0093     4c      L 42        ,000      2)       16,000     21)      18,003      2 1)     16,0000    24        8,00))     64,    ~    7         900        1,0
Irspscnnr cC Worba                               Mar peero    ~~~~~~      ~~~    ~~~~   ~~~~~~~~4, 300C 4  2,150  2 ) 4.300  212      ,300      2 2       4300                            15,050     10,55                 354
Rcrsf RE)gt,.sar                                                      20Yeer       4.300      224t    224)      10,750      2 S      22,500     25)      25,500      2 9     21,500      2 3      21,30))     96,750      10         9,623     87.07)2
.acanta  Oo ..e                                                 Mar far.     4,300      13      L 2)       4,300      23)      12,900     /3)      12.,9(00     32      12,900     (3)      12,900)     55,900      20         5,590     50,31))
lotc onlffier                                                   Mac years     3,403       44        ) 42    6700       21)       3,400     2 )       21,400    0 )       3,000      2 1)      3.40)1     13,300      10         1.550     13,77)1
S--rter                                                               Man   .ear   2,300       44      2 )        2,150     L 12      2,300     2 2       2,300      212       2.300       I"1/    2,3002     10,350      10         1,035      9, 325
ttrcneo/Orafneroer                                 Mac~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y. eaa 1,300  35  23)  3,900)  20)       10,400     0 )      i)).400    2 2       0,4(9      2 9      10,400)     45,500     10         4,550     40,95))
T   ..s. /Ty1.1.                                                      Maier          600      40        52       3,0o0      (102      6.000     O'Er)     8.,000     2202      6,0)30   2L52       3,000)     24,000      -           -        Z4,D00)
S~b tot),)l                                                                                         9,4,950             24,0,00             144.0800            144 ,803              97,500)    626,850     47        296,003    329,962i
.02,61 1,6.6020S AND A2LLOWASCES                                                                   416,250              693,400             775.200             799,200              751,00)2  3,435,450     24       036,285   2,599, 16).
I/ Salaie    .207 alJnoe       o    opt ste     d307. .2 Ioat    f,cr. Soca  saff ato- Al 4rsd-
Coa-td Sr t .11-Sa       opt L cm  enl-reec nIcecesssro
3/Reocl  rt-p-ot. r-gistr, ....r Ity -cd p.bl)toltlo        rfle.
'Scy 2, fyL)



NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN8 STATE
R...i.g C-ot of VehLcle. ood Ploct
unit                                                                                                                                      Foroig. E,c.oh-g         LcU.1
(Jolt        Coot        M4,bre        lee                  Yea0r 2              Soot 3               Ye,,r 4              Year 5                                   cot         £lj(,,.
VehicL.s
frteot-  dl0o1ot.,t0oc
Fo-, citl drloe, -.bio1C                                             K.Uy.er      0.06       30.00c0    I)       1,8003       1)      1,8000       1)      1.000     (1)        1,000       1 )      1.000       9.000     40          3,600         3,600
WW-tra    Utro                                                       KeJyco       0.06       30,000(l   2)       z.400      ( 3)      3,600      13)       3,600      13)       3.600     )3)        3,600      14.000,     40         6,720        10,000
M.torca   ecOl                                                       80/peo       0.03       20,00(l    2)       1.20)        4)      2,40D        4)      2,400     74)        2.1.00    (4)        2,400      10.800     40          4,320         6,400
I. ttor7cee80yea                                                                  0.01       20.000   (3)          60)      (9)       1.000      (11)      2 .20C0   (11)       2.2oo     (11)       2,200       0i,000     40         3,000         3,400
Sob ut.1O                                                                                              6,003                9,600               [0,000              10.000               10,000       41,600     40         10.260       27,360
Poo obeel fteo ,etSl.                                               W0Year        0.06       30,000     1)       1,8003       2)      3,600        2)      3.600      72)       3,600     72)        3.600      11,200      40         6.400         9,720
Motoc-o   Serge                                                      0.i'y..      0.04       30,0001    1)       1,200      71)       1.200     1:1)       1,200      11)       1.200      ) )       1.200       1,0),0     4,0         2,400        3,600
4otore,, eai1                                                        Ke/por       0.03       40,0)00    4)       4.00o        7 )     8,400     7: 7)      8,400      77)       8.400o      71       8,4030     36,400      40        15,340        23,060
T-oka S o     fl,,t                                                  K.)'per      0.00       40.001     j        1.400        2)      5,600      : 2)      5.600      7 2)      5,600       2)       3, )0      21,B00      40         9,520        14,200
PerconoA   cerri-                                                    1/po         0.06       40,00)     I000       Sa         1)      1,600     1:1)       1,603       1)       1,600     71)        1.600       7,200      40         2,8a0         4,320
Mct=r3I..                                                            80/pee       0.01       20.001) (12)        2,400      (49)      9.80       (6i:9)    9.000     (49)       9.000     749)       9.800      41,600      40         16,640       24,960
Sob t,ot.1                                                                                            12,400               10.200               50,20)              30.200               30,200      133,200     40         53.200       79.920
Fa.- Crellit Sri
lbtoro,                                                              WYnc  eceo   0.016      40,001                Soo 00     1)      1,600      11)       5,600      71)       1,600     71)        1,60D       7,200      40         2,880         6,320
-oocr   11                                                      Ia.'pro      0.03        40.003) (21k)      3.000      (  )      6,000      7 5)      6,00       1 )       6,000      (5)       6,0DO       27,000     40         10.800       16.200
sboO tot1                                                                                              3,OCO                7,600                7,600               7,600                7,600       34,200     40         13,600       20.520
Marker S-i"lce
M.ctn-c,r  -11                                                       K0.le.o      0.03       40.0O0OD   4          600D     ( 7)      1,200      (1)       1. 200       1)      1,200      (1)       1,200        5.400     40          2.160        3.260
(lotorcytlre                                        Xe/~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~year-  0.01  20.003  (2)  400o  4)  800    (6)         800     (4)          000       4)         020       3,600      40         1,040         2.160
Sub t,,tal                                                                                             1.10o                2.OD                 2,00                0,000                2,000        9,000     40          3,600         4,400
Oeeeoc5   large                                                      Xelpoe       0.06       00,000   1 0)         00D       IL)      1,600      (1)       1.600      71)       1,600      71)       1,600       7,200      40          2,080        4,320
Hotnon,,r    11                                                       WY/oo       0.0o3      40,000   (2)        3,00o      7 3)      6,000      (5)       6,0DO      7 )       6,000        55      6,C00      27,000      40         10,600       16.20)
Foo  cite   froon -obi.S.                                            K01yea       0.06       60.000   ( )          ,800     ( L       3,600      71)       3,600      (1)       3,600      11)       3,600      1.6,200     60         6,600         6.720
Sob octol                                                                                              5,600               11,200               11.200               11.200               11.20)      50,4oo     40         20,160        3(1,240
Pl[et 1/
rcktr-ttore                                                                                                     5.54,0              46,260               46,260               46,260               20.2.00     144,040      3          8,242      156,590
Wh-oI cocetor                                                                                                       3.141o             25,720               23,720               25.720               25,720      105,980     15         15.a02       94o.063
Orropor                                                                                                            4,2:10              35,120               35,120               35.120             .11)9,500                 13         16,432       931,043
Hotor grd1,7:10                                                                                                                        14,400               21,720               21.720               14.,400  -   (,150      13         110,2'       65,.020
Load,r                                                                                                              1,030o               0,340               0,540                8,540                0.5640      31.190     13          5.2711      20.,912
Tipper                                                                                                              3.010              40,600               48.600               40,600               40,400      200.340     15         20,034,     1702,204
OArSJ tr-tt- with copre...r                                                                                         1,0K10              0,400                8.400                8,40c                4,2l00      10,420     15          4,56:,       25,057
AgrS trctor, ctth ploogh                                                                                                                 1.740               3.00)                3,000                             7,740     13          0,167         6,579
Pon  ekedI ftlco -r, nlitle                                                                                         3.710o               3.710                3.710               3.710                1.650       16,490     13          2,47:1      1.,017
Pctk up jtoo                                                                                                       4.360                4,330                5,440                5.440                3.260       Z2,640     13          3,42(1      19,414
006hr lelco                                                                                                        19,1)0              36,870               39.640               29,607,              15,120      130.900     -          22,6351     12B.265
Sob toEd1                                                                                             49.730              233,790              :146.190             246,190              142,470     910,370      13       121,27.3      797, 100
Workoho Oerotoog,
Labor1,50-. 13:9.30                                                                                                                                                             3:,937              13.950       69.750      .           .           69,7350
Vehclel op.-aing0      ra tpacr                                                                                  160)                 1730                 730                  735)13,8000                      77,430     2)         14,362       63,000
Offoto eupplie. wo eoro..t.                                                                                         320                  300                  500                  507;                500        2.500      60         1,309         1,000
P-.00  .od -chaucoeco.l       2                                                                                  10,020               13 OCEO             20.000               25,00'               10.300       09,500      90        79,603         6.030
Spool.1 cornIce. 3/                                                                                               5,000                1.7000               7,00               10.001               10.DO        37,000      50        10,502        10,500
pn-o1ht                                                                                                           1,000                2.000                2,030               2.0000,              1.30')       6.500                  -            8,500
Sob local                                                                                             42,050               531.600              60.010               68.010               50.250     283,707      40        114,012      160,606
TOrAL,                                                                                               120.580              34 .6.1 90           5M,099               3 7 5 .9 9 C.27                  .4 74.70     2)3       347.242    1,170.226
2/ PolIo ool .uppli.c f.r h-ooy ....    tc c    q.ipeo- only - carlo fcc- o1hcc yth4l..t i0, udrd L.. 141-i00   -Otu of -ohilO,
it R.poli,.N   o by rOtJ.,t eloc1- o-



NI]GERIOA
NORTP WE:STERN STaE
GCea. Aaricultur-l flvsosvew  t Project
Cenera]. Se-vic e.
N l.r.
Unit                                                                                                                                     Foreign El.hange       Lcce;
Unit          Cost       Nuraber      Year                  Y year 2             Year 3              Year 4               Year 5             Total    7            Cost      Ccst
Pr,:j-t hed offic                                                                                              3,0                                      6,000                700                  7,000       28,000     50        14,0X       14,000
Devooloomeot Ur.it ol'ftcr                                        tEch            300       IS      ( 2)         600      ( 4)      1,200      ( 4)     1,20t      ( 4)      1,200      ( 4)      1,200        3,400     50         2.70C       2,700
I, lSe  oto.er off:L;,                                          E-ch           1iC       240     (20)        2,000     (44)       4,400      (44)                (44)      4,400      (44)      4,400       19.600     50         9,80t       9,800
I.e" l-ono                                                                                                     2,000                5,(000               6,000 6,000                              6,00         25,000    -                     25.000
Fi,r1d radio aej,tecanco                                                                                       2.000                4,1000              6,000                6,00                 6,000       24,000     -                     24,0DO
Sub1 tote]                                                                                             9,600               19,600              23,600               24,1500              24,600      102,000    26         26,500     75,500
CrediL QOeal:ig Cot:
-:a r, c *n . ao, and bt,.or.r.                                                                                  000                1, (1               2,000                4,D000               5,000       12,500     60         7,502C      5,000
l fi .,  jl . so .... -,  ' ;.7. a.:a I,ca .  -c-                                                                  32,595              48,570               54,595               56,920       192,680    20         38,536    154,144
o,-cd MolttOi,cOation Fare,                                         lW.a-o,t        170       2C0               34,000               34,000               34,000              34,U00               34,000       170,000    50         85,00tl    85,000
,r-<7<, . bire Service eI                                             cor         2,250    t   6      (15)      33,750     (15)      33,150      (15)    33.750      (12)     27,000      ( 9)     20,250       148,500    40        59,4DCI     89,100
Far-Lor Yroin:w.I Ce.tLr 2:                                         tratning      7,000s        5     ( 1)       7,000      ( 1)      7,00)      ( 1)      7,0       ( 1)      7,0DO      ( 1)      7,ODO        35,000    10          3,500     31,500
Tot.l                                                                                                 84,850              127.945             :148,920             151,195              147,770      66C.680     33       220,436    440.244
Cuoun see ..  m 3.                                                                                            34,40o               34, 00               344.0               34,34,40                          172,000    -            -
Tr-rtor hire sex-cI -  /                                                                                      27,000               27,000               27,000              21,600               16,200       118,800
707.1                                                                                                 61,400               614.400             61,400               56,000               50,600      290,a6o800  -
1   X 900 hours an 82.5 per hoar.  Iractor tArt nrrv,cn to hr pi,.,rrd o, r   90cr 6.
2/ 8,800 scleor days r(r y-or L 80.8 9cr do,
3/ 607. cotto- at N12, per ha 407 aol" at N250 p-0 '0
4/ A-orage rievecue at Y2 per It-r !.t   Yl.800 p- voer
may 3, 1973



ANNEX 10
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricultural Development Project
Marketing and Prices for Cotton and Groundnuts
A. Demand Projections for Major Crops in Project Area
1.        Cotton.   Against the background of an expected 1980 world consump-
tion of over 60 million bales of lint cotton (representing a world seed cot-
ton cron of about 33 million m tons) and expected world exports of about 20
million bales (11 million tons seed cotton equivalent), projected incremental
production of the Gusau. Funtua and Gombe prolects of approximately 100,000
tons seed cotton, representing only 0.3% of world production and (if wholly
exported) 0.Q9 of world exports, would have practically no impact on the
international supply and demand situation.
2.        However, local demand by the domestic textile industry is expected
to ashnrh the inrrpmental production as well as the existing production from
outside the project area. The total production for 1980 is estimated at
210,000 tonns asd cnttnn- or nearly 400.000 bales of lint.
3.        Demand prorections for lint cotton reauirements by the domestic
textile industry, as made by CSNRD, FAO and others around 1966-68, have
been over estimated. Fibre consnmntinn nper head of nonulation; cotton's
share in this consumption, real income development and income elasticity
of demanAd were over optimistic.  The nro1erted requirements for 1970/71
was put at 377,000 bales, whereas, the industry's actual absorption was
168~Q,000 bales and had regressed to       ___nnn in 1971-72.
4.         A comprehensive survey of the indusitrv's situation is beine car-
ried out at present (results being expected by July 1973). Present assess-
ments made by industry anrd Government are often rontradirtory and in some
cases are probably politically influenced. It seems certain that there are
som Le fact-ors preve.ting th.e 4iAustry from ex-andin- towards production levels
as previously projected, i.e. 680,000 bales for 1980 and 870,000 for 1985.
1LZrut La%LVL.L  1LLLL.LuULL
Thes   facor  in14clude:                                    lmAn   n
(a)  tLu e.ifl.atAio.znary ris-e lr. c-  -  --in  -i -a  h       ao
tracting effect on the scope of textile consumption, accen-
tuatedU uy th=e speLcif ic pric..e rise for cotton prdt  i  l
with increasing world market and producer prices;
(b) the growing trend towards suiting material, generally
synthetic-based, in dressing habits of the young generation;



A1NINj  I U
Page 2
(c) the inability of the domestic industry to satisfy the
demand for variety of style and texture; and
(d)  the competitive force of the legal and illegal import
trade.
5.        The projected decline of world cotton prices over the project
period would further the pressures on (d) above, since the marginal profit-
ability of Nigeria's cotton economy would not permit a proportionate decline
in local producer and consequently material prices. Without Government sup.-
port-price policies for seed cotton and/or drastic and unpopular import re-
striction measures, absorption of Nigerian lint by the domestic industry
should be modestly estimated at about 400,000 bales by 1980. This would
mean that any incremental seed cotton production, apart from that generated
in the three northern project areas, could create a surplus that might have
to be exported at a loss to Government. It is unlikely that there will be
a general increase in Nigerian cotton production with falling producer prices.
Rather the project areas could develop as relatively strong supply bases for
the industry, with other non project areas remaining static as prices decline.
The project investment in cotton development would be essential for the ade-
quate supply of the Nigerian textile industry. Similarly the seed crushing
industry, presently being established under joint (State/private) entrepre-
neurship in each of the project areas, would be dependent on project cotton,
and cotton mills would require 120-160,000 tons cotton seed, (their economic
utilization depends on a seed cotton crop of 180-240,000 tons).
6.        For the time being 90% or more of the mills' output would be con-
fined to the export market, and cotton seed price as a factor in the pro-
ducer price calculation for seed cotton, is unlikely to improve above those
levels for direct cotton seed exports. The situation will not change until
the development of livestock fattening schemes in northern Nigeria has proved
feasible on a large scale. This in turn is dependent, among other factors,
on a further rise of meat prices which are still below incentive levels for
profitable fattening schemes.
7.        Groundnuts.  The projected incremental production of groundnuts
in the project areas (approximately 17,000 tons) will be of insignificant
influence on the world (2% of world export trade) and domestic markets.
(3% of average Nigerian crop, 5% of average NSMB purchases). With rapid
increase in local crushing facilities, a production increase of at least
three times the projected incremental increase in the project area will
be needed to keep the crushing industry running at capacity (approximately
700,000 tons nuts by 1975/76). With the anticipated decline in world market
prices and their direct impact on NSMB purchase prices, and a consequent
decline in production, the increased groundnut production from the Droiect
should therefore be regarded as an essential contribution to providing raw
material for the expanding crushing industry.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
B. The Marketing Board System
8.        The statutory marketing system in Nigeria comprises three (ground-
nuts) and four (cotton) franchise operations, all with natural tendencies to
exploit their monopolistic position. The breakdown of marketing costs as a
% of the fob price for 1972 is shown below:
Groundnuts           Cotton Lint
N1PMC                                        1%                     1%
NSMN                                         3.3% )                 5%  )
BCGA                                         n.a. )  9.3%          8%   )  22%
LBA                                          5%   )                 7%)
Transportation, handling bags, insurance,
storage, including port charges                   13%            13%     13%
Produce sales tax                            2%   )                 2%)
) 18%                )   17%
Export duty                                 16%   )                15%  )
NSMB profits                                         4.7%                   -
45%                    52%
9.        Due to the largely fixed character of most marketing cost items, a
decline in world prices, as foreseen for the course of the project period,
would be reflected more than proportionately in subsequent producer prices,
although the NPMC, NSMB and LBA allowance could be made flexible and more
proportionate with producer price changes. This would mean adaptation of
marketing agency operation to the general degree of prosperity in the re-
spective industry served, i.e. sharing times of economic hardship with the
producers and thereby maintaining a producer price above disincentive levels.
This policy may be assumed under new federal marketing policies discussed in
paras 18 and 19.
10.       The statutory marketing system could break down should this flexi-
bility prove impossible. The textile and oil crushing industries, which
are vitally dependent on continued production of these crops, are soon like-
ly to absorb the entire cotton and groundnut crop, and may obtain approval
to short-cut existing (statutory) arrangements in order to save a marginally
remunerative producer price. Such action would be Justifiable unless the
services rendered by the present system are considerably improved.
11.       For the time being, the project would operate within the existing
statutory marketing system. It is therefore necessary to identify the maior
deficiencies of the system and measures by which improvements can be made.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
(a)  Late announcement of guarantee purchasing prices for the
season. The requirement that prices are fixed and announc-
ed well ahead of the planting season, is of particular im-
portance for the project, as the producer price level could
have an important bearing on seasonal loan policies and the
contingent procurement of seed and fertilizer to be issued
before planting.
(b)  Short-supply of working capital for crop finance to LBA in
the protect area. LBA currently receives working capital
from commercial banks. Under the project the management
would have veto rights on undesirable LBA, and would expect
commercial banks to increase the amounts of working capital
to nronect approved LBA so that the large increases in ex-
pected output can be satisfactorily financed. Efforts
should be made to induce NSMB to draw down sufficient crops
finance from the Central Bank and arrange for timely reimbur-
sement to commercial banks, there by allowing the commercial
banks to release more of their own funds to LBA.
(c) Under-payment of producers by LBA and their sub-agents. This
apparently is done by direct and indirect methods:
(i)  direct:  by under - weighing and imposition of "dash"
payments for purchasing and inspection services at the
gazetted markets;
(1i)  indi-t:    bIy de-.iberatelv deteriorating nurchasing and
inspection services in the gazetted markets (e.g. by
star.ing a market of purchasing funds or blocking it
by absence of buying agents and/or produce inspectors)
in order to pressurize producers to sell outside the
markets where the statutory price regulations do not
apply.
Effective market control in the project areas i8 there-
fore of foremost importance. With better supervision at the
markets due to ger.eraL project act-i-VIte4  the ist.llat-ion of
self recording scales, and a special project market intelligence
unit, the farmers should '.ncrease their gross receipts by about
10%. The cotton producer receives undue discriminatory treat-
ment since he cannot sell outs'de the statutory system. and is
rings.
(d) The seasonal and/or institutional lack of competitive buying
in the markets.



ANNEX 10
Page J
(i) seasonal: After the seasonal peak produce deliveries
become sporadic. As the markets continue to operate
daily, maintenance of full-time sub-agents in the markets
becomes uneconomical for LBA, and the number of sub-agents
are reduced which further reduces competition. To further
complicate the situation the produce inspectors slacken off
and are absent from the markets for considerable periods.
The project would consider having set market days, during
the offpeak periods, thus making the business of buying
more economic. It would also allow LBA or their sub-agents
to attend more than one market and thereby foster a great
degree of competitiveness. LBA could be committed, without
undue demands to be represented at each market on the al-
located market day. Produce inspectors would be better sup-
ervised and would be expected to be present at the market
throughout the day.
(ii) institutional: Cooperative orientated state governments'
policies have tended to favor replacement of LBA by
cooperative monopoly buying in the markets. This has
generally resulted in an even lower service to the pro-
ducer than that provided by the LBA, with the result that
the producer is now demanding re-installation of LBA
representation at the markets involved. It should be
noted that most cooperatives are not truly producers'
cooperatives but rather are dominated by trading groups.
While cooperatives should be encouraged to apply for an
LBA licence, they should not be allowed monopoly rights,
even in seed multiplication areas where other means of
securing unadulterated supplies can be employed. The
principle of competitive servicing of producers in the
markets should be given priority.
12.       To summarize, the main points for control and improvement of
statutory marketing within the project are as follows:
(a) that producer prices are announced well in advance of the
season;
(b) that sufficient and timely procurement of purchasing funds
be available;
(c) that a system of controls is effected to enforce higher
standards, and to exclude dishonest or inefficient LBA
and nroduce inspectors; and
(d)  that ronnideration be given to rescheduling market days to
once or twice weekly occurrence during the latter part of
the market season-* n aR tn Pnsure comnetitive buving.   Pre-
ferably cotton market days should be limited to traditional
m.arket days in the area,



ANNEX 1 0
13.       Pre-conditions for successful implementation of these measures
would b)-e:
\a/  costLantL contacLL an1U cUUooperaUlo  WLLII Nlrnu, -i1-D, Central
Bank and local commercial banks;
(b)  veto right by project administration in selection and annual
±lcensing oL LBA; and
(c) we'L'L tralrLed proj'ect staff dealing with marketing research,
liaison, and control tasks.
C.  Producer Price Projections for Cotton and Groundnuts
14.       The following producer price projections take into consideration
the declared new federal marketing policy for export crops. This policy aims
at: reducing the burden of taxation; reducing statutory marketing overheads;
and transferring gains out of fob price developments to producers.
15.       The April.1973 Budget abolished the export duty and the "produce
sales tax" which together represented about 17-18% of fob price (25-40% of
farm gate price) and instead introduced a 10% "produce tax". it is, however,
not yet clear if the 10% tax is applicable to the producer price or to a
higher value eg millgate or fob price.
16.       Overheads of the statutory marketing system are mainly found under
"NSMB administrative overheads"; "LBA (Licenced Buying Agents) allowances";
and IINPMC (Nig. Prod. Marketing Co.) agency commission". These overheads
could be reduced per unit of turnover with increased volume of turnover and/
or improved efficiency and/or subsidization. Under new federal policy action
may be taken on any or all of these items.
17.       In the past the Marketing Board has generally withheld more than
proportionate increases in price when favorable world market conditiotspre-
vail. This has resulted, particularly for cotton, in a virtually static in-
dustry, and unless measures are taken to more positively reflect changes in
world market prices a further degeneration of Nigeria's cotton industry can
be expected.  Producer prices could be kept from disproprotiona.e fluctua-
tions by developing a more closely linked market-producer price policy.
18.       The following producer price projections are derived from three
alternative cost data series, (all presumptuous since the present situation
of changing government policies does not provide a firm basis for marketing
cost data. It is assumed that by the time the project is appraised govern-
ment policies will be more clear):



ANNEX 1 0
Page 7
Alternative I (only of comparative value):   implies all taxes
nnd ma-kf4ng, costs as pea41i,n unti-41 the 1071 budget,+ 1.u.t-
. *, J  S~A5   t. uLA
definitely undergoing some changes in favor of a higher producer
price with gdl        pm     ao      fl~w ne  Govern*u.entpoU.Licies
announced in the April 1973 Budget Speech.
Alternative II: implies new principles of statutory marketing
opratiot4ns oA  -ax-ation  - -1 -4-A 1.y. `e     T    e.e__
_k-^Xv,  c.. .U)' LIA v   I rU=L dtfUVCL1LL11I"L L
under pessimistic assessment of the mode and scope of their
imp le-en tat ion..
~~ J.J.L.    ~~CO  AL,  U.AL  U&1UC-L  UPL.LUL±.LI$.Lk  i15t5511_1   U]
new policies, and (in case of cotton) assuming successful
project impU=L1Leatio.Ln wiLLch WoUUl a;L leaL Uouble the pre-
sent national seed cotton crop with the impact of lowering
g in-nir.g an.d baling Lfees.
19.       The followiL6 cust elements nave been varied in constructing alter-
natives II and III:
(a)  export duty: deleted in line with Budget proclamation;
(b)  NPMC and NSMB commission and overhead charges, including
contingencies: reducea in adaptation to more reasonable
marketing margins narrowed by Federal price fixing com-
mittee;
(c)  nanaling, storage and transport cost: slight reduction in
line with improved efficiency and better handling conditions
within Nigeria;
(d)  Dags: reduction in line with expected regression of import
prices and increasing scope and efficiency of local bag
production;
Ce)  LBA allowance: reduced in proportion with producer price
decline; this measure as proposed may find vehement objec-
tion from LBA. However, since the share of direct expenses
in the LBA allowance is negligible, while the major elements -
financing and risk taking - are value related, and "overhead
costs" are relatively adaptable in a typical LBA operation,
the proposal is justified. The LBA, as well as other
statutory institutions, should realize that they have to
share the bad as well as the good times with the producer,
lest the latter abandons the crop altogether.
(f)  finance charges:  adjusted according to value of transactions;
and



ANNEX 10
Page 8
(g)  "produce sales tax":  deleted in line with Budget proclama-
tinn and rpnlanced by "nroduce tax" rating "10% ad valorem"
(still awaiting interpretation as to the basis for the per-
centagp calrulation).
20.       The producer pripe nroneations are derived from export calcula-
tions, though a progressively larger share of groundnut export will reach
the market in fo_rm  f o41 nnd cak- e a- prnd-t  of rhe rxpnnding local crush-
ing industry, and most or all of the cotton crop will be absorbed by the
local textile ir.Adustry.  T  pr-4ic4ng mdis apnnliepd in airnnlvinc the ground-
nut crushing industry is that of export substitution, i.e. securing an NSMB
and prAUc    4-    -  -..1 f*^ t   ^n- ghtn4n:.hla fvi-n ul4ra-ct a'rnelnmnitu nor rnttntn
exportation. The only factor that could enable the crushing industry to
pay  S1AnevCIMra                                                          
pay higher th-1-an exportu substitution prices mwould be an ir.creasingsaeo
domestic sales in their operations.    With the fast rate of expansion en-
visaged, however, this shlare will Aecline during th- p04 ectperiod.    The.
same principle is applied in pricing cotton lint supplies to the local
Lex]e mlls  uu  UA;lUULII 61C.LI= ^ uu-) &-LV1 OL-W WL    --v_    V
ducts are sold locally. The poor cotton crops over the past two years, comr-
bined witn generous demari.d proJections luy  lle industry, induced One introduc=
tion of an "Extra Charge" of 2.5 k/kg (raising the lint price of 53 k/kg
spot Zari'a)j resultir.g in a producer price increa-se from 12  /kg to 14k/k
SPOL £~~i±~J L~~U.LL.LLA~ I.AA ~  ~   r~   -   -I -, --    -1 "b
seed cotton. While this "extra charge" temporarily raised the lint price
abo-ve (econ[omic) export substitution level's, the- fimn  up4 of prices cif
Liverpool quotations has meanwhile covered the "extra charge". However,
it is likeLy that witl proJecteU decreases i. worLU priLces the li,t price
for the local industry would be maintained up to 10% above export substitu-
tion level, in order to prevent producer (seed cotton) priLces fromULa falling
below incentive levels.
21.       The following tables summarize the economic and farm gate price
calculations for cotton and groundnuts.



ANNEX 10
Table I                                Page 9
ECUNUOM!C ANDi- FARM GATE SEED CUCiTOVi PRICE CAMuMATAION -
(N per m tonJ
I            II            III
Under
Early 1973
Conditions   Under New Federal Policy
Pessimistic   Optimistic
Assumption   Assumption
fob Apapa                                   346.0          346.0        346.0
Export duty 15%                              52.0            -             -
fob net sales income                        294.0          346.0        34600
NPMC agency commission, estimated             4.0   )                     2.0
Dues, handling, and storage charges at              )
port, estimated                              3.55 )                      3.10
Insurance                                     2.15 )        71.65         1.60
Rail freight gins ('base Zaria') - port      21.60 )                     21.60
Handling and storage at gins, and cotton           )
lint classification                          2.35 )                      1.60
Ginning and baling fees                      38.00 )                     31.10
lint:    222.35         274.35       255.00
seed cotton:     74.10          91.4b5       9.00
Handling and storage at dumps                 0.60 )                      0.50
Transport markets - dumpts                    4.35 )        20.55         3.95
LBA allowance                                11.30 )                       7.90
Baas:                                         4.30 )                      2.95
NSMB overheads, including 'capital                  )
expenditure' and BmA fee                     3.m5 )         2.00         l.ho
Finance charge (presently 2.25)               2.55 )         2.85         3.15
'Contingencies'                               1.30 )         0.90         -
46.5   -65.15  75.15
Net income from cotton seed sales 3           o.8o           1=0o        12.00
Economic producer price 4/                   46.95 (64.30)  6            87.15
Produce tax 5/                               3.25          11.f q 6/     7-9. 7/
Financial producer price                     43.70          55.20        79.20
= per kg Kobo   4.37    Kobo   5.52  Koho   7-92
1/ Assumed seed cotton crop: 110,000 tons for I and II; 220,000 tons for III.
2/ Projected (World Bank) cif %Erone price 1980/81: for 1YxiC. SM 1-1 /6
US030 per lb, for Niger NA lB US¢ 28.5 per lb.  Equivalent to 1973 prices
(assuming 29 annual production cost inflation trend) TjS24.8 per lb.   Freight
and insurance uS1.25 per lb thus fob Apapa US¢ 23.55 per lb or N346 per metric
ton.  Last 12-18 months. 1971-earlv 1973: 36-P2 A- April 1973 40-56¢.
3/ % expenses on cotton seed distribution.
Tn Tlnti  I only the price in bracks+q i..  ex-luding exrort duty.
§/ Presently 'produce sales' tax
10 (o nn fob value (e-to+.+.nm scge equiA%ty!1an')
/ 10% on producer price.



ANNEX 1n
Table 2                             Page TU
ECONOMIC AND FARM GATE GROUNDNUT PRICE CALCUATION (N per m ton)
I           II            III
Under
Early 1973
Conditions   Under New Federa. Policy
Pessimistic   Optimistic
Assumption    Assumption
fob Apapa 1/                                   97-5         97.5        97.5
Export duty 15%                                14.6           -           -
fob net sales income                              9    77    9          97.7
NPMC agency commission                          2.00   )                 1.00
Dues, handling and storage charges at port      2.50   j                  2.00
Rail freight, depots - port, including                 )
insurance                                     16.80   )                16.80
Depot running cost, including pest                     )
control, tarpaulins, etc.                      0.80   )    41.10         0.70
Road freight markets - depots                    3.60  )                  3.20
Bags                                            6.00   )                 5.70
LBA allowance                                   9.40   )                  6.oo
Finance charges                                 1.80   )      2.00        2.40
NSMB overheads 2/                               2.40   )                  1.00
'Contingencies'                                 o.80  )      2.00
Economic producer price 3/                     36.60 (51.40)327.L0      S.7o
Produce tax 4/                                  3.50         9-75   /    5.35/
Financial producer price                       33.30        42.65        53.35
Remarks: Prodiucer nrice 1970-72 of N66.50 allowed WN4-12 profit to NSMB.  The
increase to N78.50 for the 1972-73 season absorbed all potential profits under
1972 prevailing fnb nrices.  Actual fob prices. however, rose from November
1972-March 1973 by 20-45%. A producer price increase to N120 and even 130 would
still have allowTed the Board with -ample profits, the crushing industry being
charged with N148 (February 1973) 'spot - Kano' in correlation with fob price
development for nuts.
1/ Projected (World Bank) cif Europe price 1950 per metric ton = Lstg 78.8 =
in 1973 prices (assumed anniual production- cost inflation trend 2%) =6stg 67.14
less freight and insurance Lstg 6.5 = fob Apapa Lstg 60.9 = N97.5.  cif price
developer.nt 1970-72: L95-105, present (April 1973) qrnund 9145-150.
2/ Including produce inspection overtime charges.
Wi U1der IL only tLhe price in b-akes-, i.e  excluding export du ty
7/ Presently produce sales' tax.
/ 10% oI fuo price.
6/ 10% of producer price.



ANNEX 1 0
P_o P 1 1
22.       On the foregoing evidence it would seem that a case can be made
for a producer price forecast falling beeween alternatie TI and TTT, and
that it would in fact be nearer alternative III than II on the following
grounds
(a\ that M.". is more thar. 1ikely to base the lo70 produce t-
C, L*USL L V. , ErM   L /  --.S**  _-        s j--
on the first point of sales, rather than on an fob basis;
(b)  that if the statutory marketing system is unable to operate
or. a low cost basis t1hen direct produ.e buying arran.gements
by respective industries is likely to occur; and
(c) present high NSMB profits could provide sufficient price
support reserves for the projected low price period oL the
late 1970's.  Should FMG, under the new policy, distribute
these profits in the form of 'ncreased producer prices,
then it is likely that it would give support to producer
prices in the years of expected export price decreases.
23.       Tne cotton price as shown in Lthe preceding Lable shioulU be grdeUU
upwards by 10% to allow for an application of import subsitution pricing,
which will have to be accepted by the textile industry, to prevent producer
prices falling below minimum incentive levels of about kobo 8 per kg. The
blend between alternative II ana III as snown below arrives at an average oi
K7.83 per kg.   (Alternative III having twice the weighting factor to alter-
native IIj. This can be further projected upward to K8/kg to take into
account the narrowing of price differential between Mexican and Nigerian
cotton lint prices, as currently quoted on the Liverpool market. (April 16
quotation Mexican SM 1-1/16 at 46.25 ct/lb and Nigerian NA 13 at 45.45 ct/lb,
a difference of 1.8% as compared to 5% used in the price calculation).
24.       Producer price projections for the project are therefore taken as
follows:
Groundnut m ton     Cotton kg
Naira             Kobo
Pessimistic                                    46.25            5.52
Optimistic                                     53.35            7.92
Weighted average                               50.00            7.12
10% import substitution                         -               0.71
50.00             7.83
Recommended rounded price           50                8



ANNEX 1 0
Page 12
25.       The economic price projections for project commodities are as
follows:
Groundnut m ton     Cotton m ton
Naira             Naira
Pessimistic                                   52.40              66.75
Optimistic                                    58.70              87.15
Weighted average                              56.60              80.35
10% import subsitution                          -                8.04
56.60             88.39
Rounding                            57                89



ANNEX 11
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTP. WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricultural Development Project
MLa rkets    A l:rices a rAMarketing oF Maize, Sorghum and Cow-teas
A.  Preser.t SitLuat40r
1.        Traditionally Nigeria has been nearly self-sufficient in all cer-
eals except wLeat.   SorghuLim. and maize are the most im.portant staple grains 4n
Nigeria, with sorghum mainly produced and consumed in the northern part of
the country ana maize produced m-ore widely but beling consumed mainly in the
southern states. Data on food production and consumption are insufficient.
The FAO Commodity Balance Work Sheets for Niger'a and the Food Balance Sheet
for the year 1968/69 computed for the National Agricultural Development Co-
mmittee provided some indications on the exist.ng situation.    While it is
difficult to quantify amounts of those commodities entering the country, it
would appear that foreign trade on maize, millet, sorghum aid cowpeas was
rather insigificant in the past.
2.        This situation, however, has changed significantly in recent years.
Food shortages are persistent and more magnified in some areas. Maize im-
ports for food and poultry feed have been rising rapidly. Factors such as
repeated droughts and the effect of the civul war account partly for this
recent tendency, though the basic problem is that food production has re-
mained static in contrast to increasing population growth and urbanization.
This has been compounded by the growth of per capita income, in the urban
areas, that resulted from economic recovery, reconstruction and the boosting
of oil earnings.
3.        Consequently, food prices have tended to increase steadily.    Food
prices in urban areas increased by 24% in 1970 and 27% in 1971, accounting
for the bulk of the increase in the consumer price index in those years.
Prior to the recent gains in world prices, Nigerian prices were double the
US farm price for coarse grains and three times the world level for rice.
Prices observed in recent years for the commodities considered are shown in
Table 1.
4.        Trasnport bottlenecks and constraints in distribution constitute a
major item of marketing cost for all commodities. High freight rates hin-
der, to a great extent, long distance hauling of low unit value commodities
and thus constitute a major constraint to expanding market-oriented food
crops. A cut in transportation costs would be of the greatest impact on
both input distribution costs and produce marketing expenses.
5.        A number of detailed studies have concluded that the staple food
marketing system in Nigeria is performing fairly efficiently. This system
functions entirely in the hands of the private sector.    However, Govern-



ANNEX 11
Page 2
ment Local Authorities and Cooperatives run small scale storage programs
which are rather inefficient and have little impact, except on local shortages
due to droughts and floods. Most studies found that the food crop markets,
and activities of their intermediaries approximate the conditions necessary
for a competitive marketing system, leaving little room for exploitative
practices. An Institute for Agricultural Research study indicates that the
producers' share in the retail price of grain, mainly for sorghum and millet,
averaged 69%, while incomes of marketing intermediaries were low relative
to their services.
6.        Despite this, some improvements to the marketing system commands
attention. Spatial and temporal erratic price differences occur which are
related to the imperfections inherent in the system. The erratic nature of
supply, a lack of adequate dissemination of information on prices, demand
and Aupnnlv result in a lack of integration of the total network of markets.
This accounts for the extreme variation in prices which tends to occur more
freqniently in small and relative isolated markets.
7.        Stnrage dnes not appear t-n he a critieal matter under the nresent
circumstances, except for cowpeas. Most of the grain storage takes place,
f-irlv  r1PmiAItlV.v_ St the farm level.  Farmers eenerallv do not sell all
their surplus of grain (which is small) at the harvest season. Very little
!on--term storage occurs at t-hp rurnl and urban market levels. Although the
seasonal increase in grain prices was above estimated storage costs, the
m-rgin, it is believed, is not large, nor suff4ipntly denpendable to en-
courage development of specialized storage service.
8.        The deceptive outcome of several small-scale public storage pro-
g,,- m.s carried out to date suggest that some reliance should be -laced on the
responsiveness of the market to increasing marketable volumes. Although
seasonal peak storage of grain (a,irlu.4no on-far,,, storage for subsistence)
is forecasted to grow from 1.5 million tons at present to 3.3 million tons
1b 1085, there is only l4lkely to b- a role for larger centr-l --rehouses 4f
uy   U.   1L .     -   - .a~   t-    -t   it  -  ..8-6 -   - - -... ct....a~
the rise in production is achieved through increased regional specialization
andu .if frelghl clharges are drasti.ally reduced.  Concerning the latter, some 
improvements may be expected from recent investments for trunk and feeder
roadus andU thLe proJectelU  reorganization. of the railways.  1t .ts n.likely that
traders will need special credit facilities to construct the additional
storage neeueud ir 'Lo  thle Lor ese e-aUle produ io.  Concerning on-farmOsto
special efforts should be devoted to cut down the excessive cowpea storage
losses due to insect pests.   Adequate and economical storage facilities are
still to be devised for that commodity.
9.        Thus, the present food crop marketing system is able to absorb quite
adequately the impact of the project without major changes. Furthermore,
introducing improvements will be made easy by the extensive facilities planned
within the framework of the project. The market intelligence units should be
able to insure a better collection and dissemination of information concern-
ing crop prospects, market supplies and prices.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
B.  Mark1et and PriceP Prosnects
Markets
10.        There are a number of projections of food demand and supply for
'IA n                    ,Fq,irr Pn,rp,nt       ,nnlips and Demand in
Niseia. "A  uantitive Analysis of Food Requirements    up'eanDmndi
Nigeria 1968-85" is the most recent, and one of the most comprehensive
studies.   Some -uncertainties surronA the findings of that study, due to
quality of the basic data. For this reason, materials from the study used
in this report snoulu ub given UonL±y an 4-Acauo«v   -1-
11.        Food demand project'ons for 1975,1980 and 1985 have been based on
the 1968/69 food balance sheet, which leaves much to be desired in many re-
spects.  Annual rate of population increase was estimated at 37 and annual
growth of per capita income at 4%. Estimates of income elasticities of de-
mand are shown in the table Delow.    ML"ost assupILlos a recon ssten   wi,,t.r
rent rBank projections.
Nigeria Demand for Selected Footstuffs 1968-1985
tons '000
1968         1975       1980         1985
Ponulation:         62,985,000    75,135,000   87,526,000  102,456,000
Commodity        Income
Elasti C4 tv
Maize             0.4               832        1,034          1,200       1,423
Millet            0.4             1,909        2,373         2,755        3,267
Sorghum           0.4             2,985        3,710         4,308        5,108
Cowpeas           0.3               431          510           574          660
Sour--:   S.0. Ola,ide "A nuqntitivp Analyvis ,.."
Mean Annual % increase in demand
1968/69-1974/75      1975/76-1979/80      1980/81-1984/85
Maize      )
Millet     )         3.47                  3.69                 4.18
Sorghum )
Cowpeas              2.61                 2.77                  3.14



ANNEX 11
Page 4
12.       It is noteworthv that the above projections do not take into ac-
count odemand for animal feed.    About 45,000 tons ot maize was ted commercially
to livestock (mainly poultry) in 1971.    This use is expected to expand at the
following annual compound rates: 1971-74: 33.3%; 1975-79: 25% and 1980-85:
20%. On this basis demand for feed will amount to 106,000 tons in 1974,
323,000 tons in 1979 and level off at 804,000 tons in 1985. Sorghum has less
potential as stock feed and demand was estimated at 5,000 tons in 1971 and
projections for 1985 are 220,000 tons.
13.       Food supply has been projected assuming the continuing of the exist-
ing production system. Present growth rates estimated to that purpose are
shown in the table below. USAID provides the source for the following
information. The rates and consequently the estimates derived from them
carry the same degree of reliance as that for the production, acreage and
yield estimates contained in the Sample Survey. Thus, the projected sur-
plus and deficit should be regarded as a very broad order of magnitude.
Nigeria:   Projlections of Supply for Selected Foodstuffs
* Ions. InnnSJ
r L~~~LLL  u1Jp±  in     OUPL .LLI      LJUPjJ.Ly .LLL
rresent       Supply i         upyi            upy4
Growth Rate         1975            1980            1985
Maize       2.4             982           1,106           1,245
0             1,977            2,027           2,07
Sorghum    -0.3          2,923            2,879           2,836
e  -                             OO %            1A
Cowpeas     5.7            fl3J              0.30         1,105
Source:  Olayiae "A uuantlitative Analysis...
i4.        Comparison between demand and supply projections for tne period
shows a deficit for all the crops considered except for cowpeas.
Proiected Food Surpluses for Selected Crops
(tons '000)
1975                 1980               1985
'Maize                  -52                  - 94             - 178
rMi1llet               -396                 - 728            -1,189
Sorghum                -787               -1,429             -2,272
_owpeas                +129               +   264            +   445
15.        It should be noted that demand and supply for stock feed have not
been counted; neither has consideration been taken of possible changes due
to regional differences or adequacy diet. Possible adjustments will result
in a higher deficit for maize and a reduced deficit for sorghum. This is
however difficult to quantity since no information exists about present or
future rate of substitution of sorghum by maize in the north. The surplus



A NMIVY 
- -. T -   I.
Page 5
showLn fLor coiwpeas is hi' 'Lghf ly quest-ionable.  Lack. of data on this commLodity
are fragmentary and persistent trend in prices rather indicates a situation
OL tjIU L LlU .L & 11 :5 P L t UL 'LllA t Iles  reeva-tions, it iLs a ' acu- suypp'y shouldU 41-t
crease steadily in the future to keep up with demand.
16.       The National Agricultural Committee suggests the following annual
growtl rates:
Nigeria: Growth Rates of Food Supply
Average Annual            Suggested Annual         Suggested Annual
Growth Rate of            Growth Rate of          Growth Rate of
Demand                   Food Supply            Farm Production
Maize                3.8                       6.5                       8
Millet               3.8                       6.5                       8
Sorghum              3.8                       6.5                      8
Cowpeas              2.8                       5.7                      7.5
Those projections appear somewhat conservative, compared to USAID
projections based on supply for both food and feed.
Source: Olayide "A Quantitative Analysis..."



AiNEX il
Page 6
Northern Nigeria Rural Development Projects
Economic and Financial Farm-gate Prices
Estimates (in 1972 N/metric ton)
MAIZE
I                           II
(Ibadan)                    (Kaduna)
E       F                    E       F
FOB US Gulf                 36      36                  36       36
Ocean freight insurance     14      14                  14       14
CIF                         50      50                  50       50
Handling - Port charges      2       2                   2        2
Duty (42% of CIF)            -      21                   -       21
Value landed Lagos          52      73                  52       73
Inland Transport             6       8                  16       23
Wholesale Market value
at consumption area       58      81                  68       96
Transport from production
area (Funtua-Gusau)      -16     -23                  -6      -8
Wholesale Market Price
at production area        42      58                  62       88
Local Transport (assembly) -3       -4                  -3       -4
Intermediaries Martin       -5      -5                  -5       -5
Farm Gate Price             34      49                   54      79
SORGHUM
FOB US Gulf                                             33       33
Ocean frelght-insurance                                  14      14
CIF                                                     47       47
HanTdlin- - port char-es                                  2       2
49      49
DUt- (42Z of rTF)                                        _       n
Value landed Lagos                                      49       69
Inland transport                                        1C 6
Wholesale market value                                  65       92
aL conswiption area



ANNEX 11
Page 7
TT
(Kaduna)
Transport from production
area (Funtua-Gusau)                      -6        -8
Wholesale Market Price
at production area                       59        84
Local transport                            -3        -4
Intermediaries margin                      -5        -5
Farm-gate price                             51       75
I
(Ibadan)
E       F
COWPEAS
Market wholesale price
in the South (Ibadan)  165     165
Transport from Northern
production area
(Funtua-Gusau)         -16     -23
Local transport          - 3     - 4
Intermediary margin -
storage losses
(about 30% market
wholesale price)       47       47
Farm-gate price          99       91
Basis for the above Estimates
1.        Maize and sorghum prices nave been. computed on. an im,port substitu-
tion basis.
2.        FOB prices for maize and sorghum are Bank projections for the 1972-
80. They are expressed in 1972 US$. Price used for cowpeas corresponds to
the harvest season price.



rLcW   11
Page 8
3.        Inland transport is based on road transport. due to the present
congestion of the Railways. Costs used are the miminum freight charges
qotnted by Inoal firmn   Economic transoort costs have been extracted from re-
cent studies, particularly "The Nigerian Railways Corporation" Canac Con-
sultant  19Q72.  Shonild thpse rnmmodities be transDorted bv rail costs will
be about half of that shown by the estimates.
4.        Cowpeas intermediary margin and storage loss has been estimated
aeSiirniny an loss of 90T nf tho farmPrs' salpe and an intermediarv margin of
N 10/metric ton.



N I G IE R I A
Market Prices and Marketing of Maize. Sorithua and Coypegs
Recent Market Prices for Maize, Millet, Sorghum tnd
-  rwpeas
Jan.       Feb.      March      April    Ma        Jime        July     !q         Sept.       Oct.      I1ov.     Dec.
Market Prices 1971 tor Metric tons
Sorghum                                60.13     65.14      70.15     86.918     86.98      90.19     95.20      95.20      95.20     90.19     150.13      60.13
Millet                                 57.51     62.30      67.10     76.68      76.68      82.4:3    84.35     86.27      67.10     57.51      67.10      67. 10
Maize                                  82,67     88.18      99.21     110.23    110.23     110.2:3    132.28    110.23      93.70      88.18     88.18      55.12
Conress                                  -         -       220.46     244.96    244.96     293.95    293.95i    293.95     293.95     244.96    208.21     195.96
Market Prices 1972 in Metiric tons
G Corn                                 73.15     80.17     -80.17      80.17     85.18      90. 19     90.19   100.21      90.19      90.19     130.17     80.17
Millet                                 76.68     76.68      76.158     76.68     76.68      86.27      91.06     57.51      76.68      76.68      82.43     91.06
Maize                                 132,28     132.28    110.23     110.23    110.23     132.28     132.28     110.23    110.23     115.74     115.74    127.87
Cowpeas                               244.96    257.20     269.45     269.45    269.45     293.95     342.94     342.94    293.95     293.95     195.96    171.47
Market Prices 1973 in Metric tons
G'Corn                                 92.19     100.21    100.21
Millet                                115.02     115.02    115.02
Maize                                 132.28     132.28    132.28
Cowpeas                               176.37     176.37    176.37
Source:   Crop and weatherReport Gusau
Information collected on 10-20 of each month.
Sample alleged to be from 5 - 10 sellers
Price per bag and converted into price per metric ton.






NIGERIA
NORTH WESTEVN STATE
Gusau _r&icultural Drvelocent Pro1ect
Cash F]Lo to GovernmLent _4'000)
1        2.       3        4        5        6         7        8        9        10     11-20    21-50
Sources of Ftmdl
(a) Loans and Grants (including contirgencies)
DIBRD loam                                            2,245    1,444     1,390    1,618    1,685      -        -        -                  -        -        -
FM.' loan                                               979      609       528      6:17     667      -        -        -         -        -        -        -
FM'. grant: (subsidies)                                  42        82      165      3:32     585      585      585      585       585      585      585      585
Sub total                                         3,266     2,1L35   2,083    2,567    2,937      58.5     585      585       585      585      585      585
(b) Re-venue
Balance fErom revolving crediLt fuUnl                    -         14       72      163      278      292      196      215       124       66       66       66
Cotton produce tax /                                     97       1L22     165      216      274      274      274      274       274      274      274      274
GrDundnut produce tax 2/                                 L30      136      145      161t     188      188      188       188      188      188      188      188
Income from farmer tractor hire service                  61       61        61       56       51       34       34       34       34        34       34       34
Sub total                                           288       :133     443      5906     791      78S      692      711       620      562      562      562
Total -sDurce                                               3,554    2,468    2,526    3,163    3,728    1,373     1,277    1,296    1,:205   1,147    1,147    'L,147
ApplicatLon of F3nds
Incremental credit to farmners                               73       237      430      658      935      -        -         -        -        -        -        -
Develo,pment infrastructure and services                   3,184    1,975    1,611    1,546    1,189      546      546       546      546      546      473      473
Contingenciet; 3/                                            327      :164     493      750    1,011      218       218      218      218      218      189      189
Subsidt - fertilizer 4/                                      42        82      165      3:32     585      585      585       585      585      585      585      585
Sub total                                         3,626     2,;58    2,699    3,286    3,720    1,349    1,349     1,349    1,349    1,349    1,247    1,247
Debt Service
Repayment of IBRD loan 5/                                    163      267      368      486      608    1,102     1,102    1,102    1,102    1,102    1,102      -
Repayrment of FK  loan 6/                                     10       16       21      .27       34       34        34       34       34       34      104       104
Sub t:otal                                           173      283      389      513      642    1,136     1,136    1,136,   1,136    1,136    1,206      104
Total Application of Funds                                   3,799    2,!41    3,088    3,799    4,362     2,485    2,485    2,485    2,485    2,485     2,453    1,351
Balance                                                       (245)    (473)    (562)    (636)     (634)  (1,112)  (1,208)  (1,189)  (1,280)  (1,338)   (1,306)     204
Revenue iue to Gross Income Guararnteed 7/                     -         14       61      159      357       677      677      677      677      677      677       677
Government Surplus or Deficit 8/                              (245)    (459)    (501)     (477)    (277)    (435)    (531)    (512)    (603)     (661)    (629)     473
17 @ N5 per ton   ) Based on grosis production from project area since project inputs benefit befEore ankd after development.
2/ N15.4 per ton 
3/ Continigenciets exclude conitingericies on fertilizer,, from Year 6 40% contingencies on pro"ect serviceEl only.
4/ Includes coritingencies.
5/ 20 year loarn @ 7k% interest with 5 year grace peri.od for principal (1N8.382 million).                                                                              -3
6/ 50 year loark @ 17 with 10 year grace period for principal (113.4 million).
7/ Estimated at: 10% of incremental gross income due to project generated outpuit in year following produIction.
8/ Note existing Government costs in the project area which are minimal are not included.                                                                               - -
May 8, 1973






ANNEX 13
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agricultural Development Project
Rate of Return Calculation
1.        The annual costs and returns used in calculating the economic
rate of return for the project are shown in Tables 1-4. A sensitivity
analysis concerning changes in costs and benefit levels assumed in the
main calculation are shown in Table 5.
2.        The following assumptions and data have been used in the calcula-
tions:
(a)  Proiect Area.  At full development, the area cropped will
amount to 202,000 ha as opposed to 191,000 ha without the
nro4ect.  Thus an additional 11.000 ha of fallowed or un-
used land would be brought into production as a result
of the nroject. No value has been attributed to that
additional land because land is relatively abundant and
al1nrnted s1most at no cost on the hasis of the tradi-
tional right of occupancy.
(b)  Project Life.  Project life is assumed to be 20 years as
from Year 1.* Most construction works will be completed
by Year 5. Consequently, salvage value of equipment and
of some buildings is sho.n in project benefits in Year 6
(N793,000).
(c) Project Benefits.
(i)  Yields and outputs used in the calculation are
r4,.,. 4. T_S t
(i)   'Or-ices used in te cal.ulation are sho-wn below.
Prices for cotton, maize and sorghum have been
compultedu on an JI.J1L p oJrt subsitit. J. LtUo.LnLL Ubasis, Us±igA
the Bank's Economic Department's projections for
loon -in 1'973 US$L.  Si-. 1arly, price 'or ground-
IJ U%J .LL  IJI.J  Uo9  O.)LIu.L.LaLL, )L.t~.LL~LUI
nut has been computed using the projected FOB
pr'Lce.  izeLA..t prLoUULp U ULrUdL LLth  PLUJMLL is
assumed to be sold in the north and the south
equally.  IlhU8 s thIe maze priLce useu LlIn the main
calculation is N42/metric ton.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
Econo,mic PrIce   ceed C0tton   Groundnuts      Mlaize    SorghuTm Cowpeas
Basis                 CIF          FOB           CIF        CIF    Dom--ti-
market
price
Economic pr'ce                                 fN) 54
(NI metric ton)       89            57        (S) 34        51       99
(Av) 42
(d) Project Costs
(i)  Project incremental labor requirement anrd cost is
shown in Table 2. A shadow wage rate of NO.40 per
manday has been used for both family and hired labor.
The shadown price of labor used in the economic
evaluation is a weighted a-verage of the esti'mated
shadow prices during different seasons. During the
peak agricultural months, labor appears to be fully
utilized, and the shadow wage is close to the actual
average market wages paid by farmers of about 50K/day.
During the slack season, the creation of employment
would not reduce output elsewhere but would require
additional effort to which the workers themselves
attach a disutility, measured by their unwiiiingness
to work for returns of less than at least 25K/day.
The workers' preferences are taken into account in
the economic evaluation. Family labor is treated
the same as hired labor because the two are inter-
changeable. When both work on the same farm, there
is no reason to consider either more productive.
Also, a mnan working his farm alone with his family
may hire himself out part-time when the wage ex-
ceeds his expected marginal productivity on his
own land, and may hire labor when the marginal
productivity on his land is above the wage.
(ii)  All other costs used in the calculation exclude
identified direct tax and import duties. The full
unsubsidized cost of farm inputs and implements has
been charged in the rate of return calculation.
(iii) A 5% physical contingency on all costs, except farm
labor, has been included in rate of return calculation.
3.        On the above basis the economic rate of return is 11% as calculated
from Table 4.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
4.        Sensitivity Analysis has been calculated using the following
variLables:
(a)  sirce 4.he    is sensitive to the price of maize an analysis
has been made for maize being sold all in the north or all
in the south, giving a rate of return varying from 1 to 18%:
(b)  it could be argued, 11 comparisons are made with other Bank
financed projects under similar situation, that incremental
labor should be shadow priced at a zero opportunity costs,
in which case the rate of return would be 23% with a range
of 17-29% depending on proportion of maize sold in the
north or south; and
(c)  the project includes a considerable development of water and
road infrastructure the econormic costs of which have been
totally charged to the project. Since only 50% of the
population derives direct production increases under the
project it is argued that only 50% of the water and road
infrasturcture should be treated as an economic cost.    If
so the return increases from 13% to 14% with a range from
5% to 21% depending on location of maize sales.   ThLis
return would be further increased if road user saving
benefits were quantified and included in the calculations.
These benefits are likely to be quite considerable.






ANNEX 13
Table 1
-NIGERIA
NORTWH WE.STWRN STATE.
Gusau Agricultural Development Project
Project Benefits
Incremental Production (metric tons)
Without Project      1         2         3         h        5
Seed Cotton           10,330          1,800    4,970    10,270    16,720   23,920
Grund.,uts             2h,000           -      1,150     2,800     5X825   in
Maize                   6,150           -      1,620     8,880    29,480   70,130
Sorgh-w,              66,52f            -        279      (100) (7,325)    (550)
Other Cereals          3,400            -       (100)     (275)     (550)    (900)
wspeas                 2,2%            -        300N0     70r)    1-I      2, 66
Econornic V a- lue of Incrementl rI-oduction (N'000)
a) Ail maize sold in the north
Seed cotton (N89/metric ton)            160      4iu2      914     1,488    2,129
Groundnuts (N57/metric ton)              -        66       160       332      614
Maize (N54/metric ton)                            0 87     480     1,592    3,787
Sorghum (N51/metric ton)                 -        14        (5)      (68)    (283)
Other Cereals (-N50/metric ton)          -        (5)      (14)      (28)      (I5)
Cowpeas (N99/m6tric ton)                 -        30        78       117      264
Total Value                160      634      1,6i3     3,433    6,466
b) All maize sold in the south
Seed cotton (N89/metric ton)            160      442       914     1,488    2,129
Groundnuts (N57/metric ton)              -        66       160       332      614
Maize(N34/metric ton)                    -        55       302     1,002    2,384
Sorghum (X51/metric ton)                 -        14        (5)      (68)     (283)
Other Cereals (N50/metric ton)           -        (5)      (14)      (28)     (45)
Cowpeas (N99/metric ton)                 -        30        78       117       264
Total Value                 160      602     1,435     2,843    5,063
c) Maize equally sold in the
north and the south
Total Value                 160      618     1,524     3,138    5,765



ANNEX 13
NiCLJLA C
Gusau Arricu1tural Development Project
Incremental Farm Labor Cosst
Incremental Labor Requirement (mandays)
Without
Project        1         2        3           4
Seed Cotton        36536,500   129,680  291,500   521,700     765,300   1,079,100
Groundhuts         3,552,000      -      56,000   140,000     294h000     546,ooo
Maize                639,200      -      65,200   338,800   1,082,800   2,663,800
Sorghum            7,539,500      -      (15,900) (147,000)  (529,50o) (1,h43,000)
Other Cereals      5,780,000      -      (17,000) (k46750)    (93,500)   (153,000)
Cowpeas              707,200      -      17,050    439200      90,300     144,050
Total         21,754,400   129,680   396,850  849,950   1,609,400   2,836s950
Total Economic Value (N'O00)
NO.40/manday           -            52      159       340         644       1,135



NiG L;RIA
NORTH WESTR   STATE
Gusau Agricultiral DeveloEent Project
Economic Rate of Return Calculat:Lon *Prcject Costs
1                                            6         j7-10    11-20
TIcretnental Faxm labor                            ',2     159      .310     644     1,135   1,13!5      1,135   1,135
Farm Input  (imsubsidized)                        109      1426      892   1,608     2,685    2,685       2,685   2,685
Pro2ect Achinistration                            628      4.06     372      396      371        513         58      55
less tawes e                                     36        9         3        9        3      -           -       -
Siub total                            5'32     397       369     387      368        58          58      55
TRchniLcal Serv ices                              529      361       262     321       293      299         299     299
LlSE; twZl86E                                 139       21       10        19      12        19?         19      19
Sub total                             45)o     340       252     302       28.      280         280     280
Crediti Services                                  314      309      .341      207     194       199         199     128
Less taxes                                       31       26         9        5        2        5           5F      5
Sub total                             283      283      332      202      12        1917        194     123
Market Services                                    75       54        15       16       16      -           -       -
LMss taxes                                       12       11         1        1        1      -           -
Sub total                              6 3      1,3      14       15       15       _     -             -
Erzln&erimamrvices                              1,361      575       621      606      315       914         94      94
Less taxes                                       53       61        78       80       45       19          159     19
Sub total                           1,268      514       5743     526      27        715         75      75
CottorLnPmot and VMLe Stores                      277      270       --                                     -       -
Less taxes                                       14       14 
Sub total                             263      256 _
Ptyoica1 Contingencies (5% 1                      16,5     120       125      158       A       167         167     16l
Total Economic Coslt                            3,2d    2,1338    2,3(67   3 s842   ' -4                           51')



NIGERIA
NORTH WESSTERN STATE
Gusau ARricultural DevreloimntbProjet
Economiic Cash rlow  D'O)
1]       2        3        4        5        6         7-10     LL-20
3nefits
a       ma:Lze sold in the north                ].60     634   1,61:3   3,433   6j1466   7,259 1/    6,466    6,466
b) AL:L maize sold in the south                 1.60     602    L,43 5   2,8143   5,063    5,856 1/   5,063    5,063
c) A1L maize sold equally in the
north and the south                         1.60     618   :1,5214   3,1.38   5,765    6,558 1/   5,765    5,765
)Sts
Tincremental farm labor 2/                       52      159      34o      6i44  1,:135   1,135       1,135    1,135
Incremental farm inputs unsubsidized 3/        1]09      426      89:2   1,60&8  2,685    2,685       2,685    2,685
Development, construction and Adcministrative
Costs ne-b of taxes                          2,95 9   1 833    :.,510  1,432   1,:L26     607         607      533
Physical contingencies L/                       ].65     120      125      15 8    194      167         167      163
Total Economic Cost                 3,285    2 ,538   2,867    3,8142  5:,140   4.,594      4,594    4,516
et Retuarn
a    . maize sold in the north               (3,125)  (1,9014)  (]L2514)  (4lD9)  1,326   2,665       1,872    1,950
b)  ALL maize sold in the south              (3,125) (1,936)   (L,1432)   (999)     (77)  1,262         469      547
c) All maize sold equally in the
north and thB south                     (3,125) (1j,920) (I,3)43     (04)     6)25   1,964       1,171   1l,249
rEncludes N793,000 salvage value construiction equipie-nt and some bui:Ldings.
/  he totaL incremental farm labor has beein costed using a shadow wage rate of NO.140 per manday.
/ to tax or du-by is levied on farm inputs and implements.
/ 5% on alL costs rexcluding farm labor



AINEX 13
Table 5
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
Gusau Agriciltural Development Project
Economic Rate of Return (%) Sensitivity AnaLlysJs
Changes in Producer Prices
I.  Changes in Benefits                          -10%         0%        LI
(a) Selling all the maize in the south       -20         1           9
(b) Selling all the maize in the north        11        18          24
(c) Selling maize equally in the south
and the north                             3    fBi7           18
II.  Changes in Costs                             Opportunity Cost     With only 50% of
of Incremental      Road & Water Costs
Farm Labor           charged against
_______ ______ _____   RR.
( K4O/day @ Zero
(a) Selling all the maize in the south            1       17              5
(b) Selling all the maize in the north           18       29             21
(c) Selling maize equally in the south
nnde t.hp nnr+.h                           11       9R         /      T 17






IBRD-10487
3-   4°   5-   _~ ~ ~~ ~~-h'7T.              1-1-        ' ~  12-  1,     ,,
--           ~~~~~~~CHAD
. AEON I G___ EAIFL R 
NOMU~ ~ ~~~r'
DAHOMEY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.iCMRO
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
v-                                                   voLA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ~j0  0  2 U W 1  2
0020MEV) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   AMRO
(ANNUAL PATTERN OF EVAPORATION AND PRECIPITATION
-.FROO.                         IN AREAS DEMARCATED BY THIESSON POLYGONS
5*  00~~~~0   Th,boIIOdC"7720I,Ofl OR Au mop 10 702  RAINFALL~~~~~~~~~~~--- --- RAIFAL
AU/Vt     mplv  0000,IRRIRII 0' ocoop07o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ b~~EA-A2O






[BRD 10490
IDU aoi  10OttI UN                                                     1973
NIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KAUA NAMDA  I    \*                               Prnjenr He-dquorlers
_   Proposed All We-sher Agr,curol  Roods
y  -7 w  Proposed Dry Weather Crop Etoton Tracks
.  ....  D-lpe   J.t Cators
w  / \   |  t  \  /   \  KUKAR  JUNGARI
|/   _s [ tt  )  ~~~~~~~<<        \ ~GRAZING RESERVE
KO H  M.d. ~       aron  MrnRod
E ,N:fu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~chA           e       U  Skk*.,- ' 'o 
>  < > \\    0    / z    \    ~   ~   ~~~~~~/ KUA  JUnGARI  
V  I\          V     \                  '  I     >
.~~        o                 0\                               5       tO/ 
t__,<s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     0s      tO'  tO   2
,- ,     I.t^ .. B:bonaf   *\                                              0tl005t5|
r _ - ~~~ o  P1 1 G E 2 t o _ _ s {  ~~-       .    rJSakrco        om|      DnSot
0,°1   "      U 1 f,                                      .>A 






IYIGERIA
NORTH WESTERN STATE
GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
DEVELOF'MENT COMMITTEE
EDERAL CO( RDINAI           rGUSAU AGRICULTURAL
FED:RAL CEVELOPMENT PROJECT]                 No  I A         COMMITTEE
COMNITTEE     - __    .   AOMINISTRATION
[   PROJECT MANAGER_]
_        il                             _         _       __       _             _         _          _A_
IECHNICAL SERVICES    CREDIT SERVICES         FINANCE           ADMINISTRATION        EVALUATION        MAFRKET SERVICES    ENGINEERING SERVICES
HIEF TECH' OFFICER    CREDIT MANAGER    FINANCIAL CO[ER]  SL. ADMIN. OFFICER     S,. EVALUATION1 OFFICIER  S, MARKET OFFICER  SENIOR E14GINEER
FI~~~~YMULTIPLICATION]  [  1.  F  1   F          1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAPFKET               PLANNING  &
UTPIAIO        ACCOUNJTS      -     ACCOLINTS     -     PERSONqNEL            SURVEYS           INTELLIGENCE          LANE) USE
__]                : GUSAI__I                                                          ___                                      ___
TRAI NI   1           FIELL          ROCUREMENTS 1TRANSPORT                       EVALIATION           MARKET G           O  A 3OER &ATNN
C     _XTENSION                                STORES   J           REGISTRY  J         STATISTICS           LIMARKET            ROAD TN           IRAFTI N
TRATOR HIRE  177                               7                                                                           7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IASNCOSRUTO
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ WORKSHOP                                                                                        SURVEY
________]              _____}{____                             ________                                                     _________           ____R_V_Y
SE RVHICESHF UNIT             FARMERS                          SECUIRITY
KOTORKOSHI 1  FARMERS                         PUBL IC                                                       BU IDI NG
rLXIT      1L176500j                           RELA0IONS                                                    SUPERVISION
|LIJ1 rFARMERT]
UNUU UNIT 1~12,200
KAURA/AMMODA  F FARMERT
I  UNIT  C   26,500W
W  I.d 8 k-1,7E410






NIGERIA
NORTHERN STATES
HYDROLOGY AND RESERVOIR OPERATION
DURING TEN YEAR DROUGHT YEAR
rIJAN     FEB     MAR    APR     MAY  [JUN      JUL  I    AUG  SEPT    OCT     NOV  | DEC
1z 00i                                                                        T-
9                                 R     0  E   STORAGEFULLRETENTION 
0 60 
_  _                     _ _ F   |  lr   I  I  I  I  I  DEA SORAGE
r~~~~~Xt~1                               I II 'I                    f              60t 
L   ( .oYEAR DROU SHT RAINPAItL 713MM/Y[AR      I A      I [I,                         _s 80,
I0       NDT- OURIN4iVDRY SES                          IIi Af1 .                             1Iu.u
L: ~    N4   i  aeaefor 200AOR                        A  1iIRd  ( l  e   I
>  50 _     ~~~1,001f  2000ocs- , ol.........                        UN5F  INTqI ,11 | 1 65foM REFSERVOIR ABOUT |
UU         ~~~~ii Loss  thru Evaporal ion    i      3j ^             50.003/  R FRO  3-THMN  KM  OFl
uu          ~~~~~and  aste- - 1- -  70, 0oM3                     5   At; u  IC H M E NT  I  I
O  40 _                    Total  105 0oM3                           I ]|-|z; 
0 30 L   |  |     |      | RETURN TO[STORAOE |   S  A't   '  1   SPILLAGE^ 1| 
!30k 
20                  RELEAE+ LOSSES IjJ                I    _1
14! iiiV§tI/t5 , 0    1| 1000  1EAR     A                    I, l;|t  il
80                                                   III     IA    I II              I       6
World Sav1k-.7E2E






NIGERIA
NORTHERN STATES
TYPICAL SECTIONS OF SMALL DAM EMBANKMENT FOR TANK SCHEME
I -1 A4nn        Reif.orced Concrete Corewall
Max. Flood ILevel 1 50
Sand Gravel
0 50 Dumped                                        ,Ground Surface
Riprap
lImpervious Rock
1 DESIGN FOR SITE WHERE ONLY SAND IS AVAILABLE,
FOUNDATION IS PERVIOUS FOR CONSIDERABLE DEPTH
0 50 Dumiped Riprap on
/020 of Graded Gravel        \
0 50 umped-                                                        I : :<\'r t
Rirap on 0(20t/ Cors 1Coars .Il \                                            P
otGrdd Gravel         Sand      Slt                     Grun
|   _  \  /     Coarse Sand                         /            Fiow/
Impervious Bed                        1
2. DESIGN FOR SITE WHERE CLAYEY SILT & COARSE SAND
ARE AVAILABLE, FOUNDATION IS SAME AS 1.
Same as 2 inla                 v   e       eaio2 2            T          j |4 11                         [tX
Coarsc Send  ClSiity  Coarse Sand F// e  NS\                                        111 |4k|| 
Impervious Consolidated Clay                     I                   A   _-I     11{h}
3. DESIGN FOR SITE WHERE CLAYEY SILT & COARSE SAND              I                  A    K    1   |||
AVAILABLE, FOUNDATION IS IMPERVIOUS                                         /      ;
C|evec,  Same as n 2                     Same as in 2                E|     /                  '        II
Si,lt\          Sand               Sand     ravel Filter            o
| Blanket    \         Gravel  /   Gravefai,, _i
______ ______ _____ ______ ______ _____ ______ _____D rain- ge  -  
|                   ~     ~~~~~~~~~Sand Gravel                        /      -               llT 
4. DESIGN FOR SITE WHERE CLAYEY SILT & COARSE SAND              j :      |    /r
ARE AVAILABLE, FOUNDATION IS PERVIOUS FOR GREAT DEPTH.
Sodded Slope on Top Soil
Same as in 2  m                                         Poc Toe
silty Clay
i           tFPlastic Siltr Cla             \Filen r of Sand Gvelv1
5. DESIGN FOR SITE WHERE ONLY SILTY CLAY IS AVAILABLE,
FOUNDATION IS UNCONSOLIDATED SILTY CLAY IPLASTIC)
Same as in 2                        7Sodded Slope
Fi.   a.I-                       Ca    S-
gmpervious               Revers Filt.<
6 DESIGN FOR SITE WHERE CLAY & SAND ARE AVAILABLE,   i    '4f n
FOUNDATION IS IMPERVIOUS
Woidld Ra-rk - 767Fi






IBRD -10488
O   JON  't . F0 I*   ^.  APR  17  MAY ,  JUN  ,, JJL  *00 IJ . SR a   c   3   o   3 C *
,,.j ~ ~~~                   ~ ~~~~~~~~                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 34  SE .5^  CC  30 00  302t .
,._   _.  e                                           .POtIS8U   \  ^   "^|I,  0, 0  
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A  A M?<_ 
N G  E  R-- 
1g-~~~~~          ~      ~ S  I  ." X\                                  <--
.- _                                                                             ,.USA 
-j
L                                      A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA
DAHOMEY 3                    0Eb  *  R                                 I A>R   12   MAY   15   JJN   1   JUL   *1   vJC   *4   SEP   27   OCT   30   ZoDCME OO
-  CODED DECAC            A
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.0
Al~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
-.  (~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~0y o






IBRD 10486
VOC H A SDN
. /w
AHOMEY  ) R T H  W               N E  R T R 
N .T           EAGRICUTUERALDVLPETPOET
8                                                       B  e h t o f e en in \K BNC  E  N   T  R  SLuthern r en
0*
\t                                                  t  T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.IMBR_nternotlonol boundor,es
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ G0 4 F0                                          CO CO  00  20 EA  40X 60 rt 
4.  6.           6           -%,         r                      12-                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY 1973



