OFFICIAL        LOAN NUMBER 2024 PO
DOcumENTS
Loan Agreement
(Petroleum Exploration Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PETROLEOS DE PORTUGAL, E.P.
Dated                     2..      , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2024 PO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  Sce             *         , 1981, between
PETROLEOS DE PORTUGAL, E.P. (hereinafter called the Borrower) a
public corporation established and operating under Decree - Law
217/A76 of March 26, 1976 and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUC-
TION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agrees as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Area" means the concession blocks Nos. 45 to 50
in the southern portion of the Lusitanian Basin in the vicinity of
Lisbon;
(b) "Statutes" means Decree - Law 217/A76 of March 26,
1976;
(c) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is


﻿-2-
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries; and
(d) "Escudo" and "Esc." mean the currency of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, services and works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate petroleum industry, engineering,. financial and
administrative practices, and under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by qualified and experienced
staff in sufficient numbers.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank, including a senior explorationist
(about 7 man-months), a petroleum geophysicist (about 18 man-
months) and drilling management consultants (about 30 mn-months).
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall at all times maintain
its corporate existence and right to carry on its operations, and
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or
useful in the conduct of its business and for the execution of the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and properties and promptly make all necessary
repairs ,and renewals thereof, in accordance with appropriate
petroleum industry and engineering practices.
(c) Except in the normal course of its business, the Bor-
rower shall not, without the prior approval of the Bank, sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or
assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of its
business and undertaking.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to' insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿-4-
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall take all necessary
measures to ensure that the operation of the facilities included
in the Project shall be carried out with due regard to safety,
health, ecological and environmental factors.
(b) In the event of any accident (including any "blow out"),
during the carrying out of Part C of the Project, the Borrower
sball promptly allocate all appropriate funds (including foreign
exchange funds), as required to secure the services necessary to
assist the Borrower in attigating the consequences of such acci-
dent.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto,, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request,
including within the scope of this Agreement confidential
information the review of which shall be carried out under
procedures agreed to by the Bank and the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from i         to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank: (i) monthly
reports on the progress of each Part of the Project of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and (ii)
not later than 2 months after the completion of any of the
exploration wells under Part C of the Project, a well completion
report satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-5-
(d) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and if applicable, initial oper-
ation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) before the initiation of drilling operations for any
well under Part C of the Project, furnish to the Bank a preloca-
tion report satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to express its
views thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently applied appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition and,
separately, the expenditures made in carrying out the Project.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, etatements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank within nine months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; (iii) semi-annually, furnish to the Bank


﻿-6-
copies of the Project accounts referred to in Section 4.01 hereof;
and (iv) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. As used in Article IV:
(a) "Current assets" means cash, accounts receivable due
within twelve months, marketable securities, inventories converti-
ble into cash within twelve months, pre-paid expenses properly
chargeable to operating expenses within the twelve months follow-
ing the date on which such pre-paid expenses were incurred,
and all 4ther assets which could, in the ordinary course of
business, be converted into cash within twelve months.
(b) "Current liabilities" means accounts payable within
twelve months, customer advances, income taxes, dividends, bonuses
and all other liabilities (including debt) which will become due
and payable, or could under circumstances then existing be called
for payment pursuant to .their terms, within twelve months.
(c) "Internal cash generation of the Borrower" means gross
revenues of the Borrower from all sources related to the Bor-
rower's operations less all operating and administrative expenses
including all taxes and payments in lieu of taxes of the Borrower
and interest and other charges on short-term debt, excluding
depreciation and other non-cash operating charges and interest and
other charges on other debt."
(d) "Debt service" means the aggregate amount of amortiza-
tion (including sinking fund payments, if any) of and interest and
other charges on long-term debt.
(e) "Reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by the
Borrower in the fiscal year in which the debt in question is to be
incurred, which both the Bank and the Borrower accept as reason-
able and as to which the Bank has notified the Borrower of its
acceptability, provided that no event has occured since such
notification which has or may reasonably be expected in the future
to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or
future operating results of the Borrower.
(f) "Equity of the Borrover" means the sun of the total
unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves of the
Borrower not allocated to cover specific liabilities.


﻿-7-
(g) "Working capital" means the sum of current assets of
the Borrower less the sum of its current liabilities.
(h) "Short-term debt" means any debt incurred by the Bor-
rower maturing less than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(i) "Long-term debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is origi-
nally incurred.
(j) Long-term debt and Short-term debt shall be deemed to
be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or agreement or other
instrument providing for such debt or for the modification of its
terms of payment, on the date, and to the extent, the amount of
such debt has become outstanding pursuant to such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding.
(k) "Funds from internal sources" means the difference
between:
(1) the sum of gross revenues from all sources related to
the Borrower's operations, and any net non-operating
income; and
(2) the sum of all expenses of the Borrower's operations,
including maintenance and administration (excluding
depreciation and other non-cash operating charges),
interest and other charges on long-term debt and short-
term debt (excluding interest financed under a loan
contract), repayment of loans (including sinking fund
payments, if any), all taxes or payments in lieu of
taxes, all cash dividends and any other cash distribu-
tions of surplus, and any other cash outflows other than
cash expenditures related to the Borrower's operations.
(1) "Capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred
on account of fixed or capital assets, including interest charged
to construction, related to the Borrower's operations.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, from time to time, take or cause to be taken


﻿-8-
all such measures within its power (including, without limitation,
proposals to the Guarantor for adjustments of prices cnd margins
with respect to petroleum and products derived therefrom, for
withholding of dividends and for increases in equity) as shall
be required:
(a) to produce funds from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 15% of the Borrower's capital expenditures incurred or
expected to be incurred in 1982, 20% in 1983, and 35% in 1984
and thereafter, and the total of any increase in working capital
required to meet its obligation under paragraph (c) of this
Section;
(b) to maintain a ratio of long-term debt to equity not
greater than 65:35; and
(c) to maintain a ratio of current assets to current lia-
bilities at such level that its aggregate current assets shall
not be less than 0.92 times its aggregate current liabilities as
of December 31, 1981, shall not be less than 0.95. times its
aggregate current liabilities as of December 31, 1982, shall not
be less than 0.98 times its aggregate current liabilities as of
December 31, 1983, and shall not be less than its aggregate
current liabilities as of December 31, 1984 and thereafter.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not incur any long-term debt
unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and the expenditures
of the Borrower shows that the projected internal cash generation
of the Borrower for each year during the term of the long-term
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.2 times for 1982 and 1983,
and 1.4 times thereafter, the projected debt service of the
Borrower in such year on all long-term debt of the Borrower
including the long-term debt to be incurred.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall carry out the study under
Part A.3 of the Project by June 30, 1982, and shall review there-
after with the Guarantor and the Bank the financial obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement with a view to determine
whether, on the basis of a suitable financial and investment
strategy of the Borrower, the Borrower can further improve its
financial standards.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any of its outstanding debt
which would materially and adversely affect its ability to meet
its financial obligations.


﻿-9-
Section 4.08. (a) The, Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will 5e made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.09. (a) The Borrower shall take all suitable
action to reduce overdue payment obligations from public sector
companies and ensure prompt payments for its sales.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) hereof, the Borrower shall, by December 31, 1981
and each year thereafter, consolidate and convert to medium-term
assets for accounting purposes, all receivables not expected to be
paid within the course of the next following year.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that the Borrower's Statutes
shall have been amended without the Bank's concurrence or a
subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by the Borrower, if such amendment, creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or its financial situation or the


﻿- 10 -
efficiency of its management and personnel or the carrying out
of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that any event specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01.(c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Bank has notified the Borrower that the Bank has
concluded on the basis of satisfactory information furnished to it
by the Borrower (including a revised budget and a balance sheet
forecast for 1981) and prices and margins set by the Guarantor for
petroleum products that the Borrower is expected (i) not to incur
a net loss in 1981; and (ii) to achieve by December 31, 1981, a
ratio of its aggregate current assets to its aggregate current
liabilities as specified in Section 4.04(c) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date                   li1  1 , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Petroleos de Portugal E.P.
Rua Das Flores 7
1200 Lisbon
Portugal
Cable address:                       Telex:
PETROGAL                            12521
Lisbon
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 191 !ZOO,-&(              O9,.
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
PETROLEOS DE PORTUGAL E.P.
ByAtreRpsti
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Consultants                    900,000        100% of foreign
under Parts B                                expenditures
and C of
the Project
(2) Services under                 200,000        100% of foreign
Part A.1 and the                             expenditures
second program
of Part A.2 of
the Project
(3) Services under                 200,000        33%
Part A.3 of
the Project
(4) Seismic services             4,500,000    )
under Part B of                           )
the Project                               )
(5) Drilling and                               )
specialized                               )   100% of foreign
well services                             )   expenditures
under Part C of                           )
the Project                               )
(a) Down payments             500,000     )
on drilling                          )
services                             )
(b) Other                   7,500,000     )


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(6) Goods under                 4,500,000        100% of foreign
Part C of                                    expenditures
the Project                                  and 100% of
local expendi-
tures (ex-
factory)
(7) Unallocated                 1,700,000
TOTAL 20,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:


﻿- 14 -
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $1,500,000, may be made in respect
of Categories (1) and (4) on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1981;
(b) rayments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; and
(c) payments made for expenditures in respect of Category
(5) (b), unless the Bank has notified the Borrower that it accepts
the justification contained in the report referred to in paragraph
(a) of Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures;
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated
shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHZDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of a petroleum exploration program of the
Borrower and includes reprocessing of existing seismic data and a
seismic survey program, which have already been carried out by the
Borrower.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Studies
1.   Carrying out a study, with the assistance of consultants, of
geological and other data pertaining to heavy oil deposits in
the Project Area to determine whether the exploitation of such
deposits is commercially feasible.
2.   Carrying out, with the assistance of consultants, two
programs of laboratory services, the first to analyze existing
source rock and reservoir data and the second to analyze such
data as shall be obtained under Part C of the Project.
3.   Carrying out a study of the Borrower, with the assistance
of consultants, with a view to develop enhanced long-term planning
for the Borrower.
Part B:   Seismic Survey
Carrying out, with the assistance of consultants, a seismic
survey program acceptable to the Bank of about 500 km of seisaic
lines in the Project area.
Part C:   Exploratory Drilling
Drilling of 3 exploratory wells, with the assistance of
consultants, with an expected average depth of between 2,500 a and
3,000 a in the Project area.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1984
through   November 1, 1995                835,000
On May 1, 1996                                 795,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                              1.90%
before maturity
More than three years but                              3.85%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                                7.05%
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                             8.30%
not more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                               9.60%
before maturity


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods, works and ser-
vices shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods, works and services to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods, works and ser-
vices in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods,
works or services remain to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent possible, contracts shall be grouped into
single bids of more than $100,000 equivalent.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to 'be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied In connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 19 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Republic of Portugal. may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2. After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Republic of Portugal if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Republic of Portugal
equal to at least 20Z of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in* each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalua-
ted bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 20 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the ci.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for specialized services including seismic
and specialized well services available only from a limited
number of sources may be procured through limited international
tendering.
2.   Individual contracts for goods estimated to cost
$100,000 equivalent or less may be procured on the basis of local
procedures acceptable to the Bank, provided, however, that the
aggregate cost of contracts so awarded shall not exceed $1,000,000
equivalent.
3.   In the event where the estimated amount of any contract
or the aggregate amount specified in sub-paragraph 2 of this para-
graph is likely to be exceeded, the Borrower shall consult with
the Bank on the procurement procedures to be followed.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts for goods and services esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of more than $100,000:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of


﻿- 21 -
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform the
Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that
the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
rent.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   A      day of       , 198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


