Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repowt No. 8186
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
(LOAN 1751-IND)
NOVEMBER 21, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Name of Currency: Rupiah
Rate of Exchange:
Appraisal Year                       US$1.0 = Rp.  625
Nov. 16, 1978  - Mar. 30, 1983       US$1.00 = Rp.  625-909
Mar. 31, 1983  - Sept. 11, 1986    US$1.00   Rp.  909-1100
Sept. 12, 1986 - Present             US$1.00 = Rp. 1640-1750
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
GOI: April 1 - March 31
PTP: January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BPKP             - Government Audit Agency
BRI              - Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DGE              - Directorate General of Estates
GOI              - Government of Indonesia
NES              - Foreign-assisted Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders Project
PCC              - Provincial Coordination Committee
PIR              - Wholly GOI-financed Nuclues Estates and
Smallholders Project
PTP              - State-owned Estate enterprise with Limited
Liabilities
Repelita III    - Third Five-Year Development Plan (1979-1983)
Team Rhusus      - Special team in DGE for Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders Projects



FOR OFIILUEOL
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
0a at Dirn"lAW4
Opwatwm Evakstiun
November 21, 1989
1MEORANDUN TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia Nucleus
Estates and Smallholders III Project (Loan 1751-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Nucleus Estates and Smallholder
III Project (Loan 1751-IND)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part
II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rocipients only in the pefornnance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.
l



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
(LOAN 1751-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface.........  ........                                 ...............i
Evaluation  Summary ............                       ......0...... . ...... ............$
PART  I   : Project  Identity ..........................................                             1
Background ................................................                            1
Project Objectives and Descriptions .......................                            1
Project Design  and Organization ...........................    2
Project  Implementation ....................................    3
?roject Results ...........................................                            6 
Project  Sustainabily ......................................    7
Bank  Performance ..........................................    7
Borrower  Performance ......................................    7
Project Relationship ......................................    8
Consulting  Services .......................................    9
Project Documentation  and Data ............................    9
Conclusions  and Lessons Learned ...........................   10
PART  II  : Government's Evaluation ...................................   12
Factual Data ..............................................   12
World Bank  and Government Roles ...........................   12
Lessons Learnt ............................................   13
Suggestions ...............................................   14
PART  III:  Table   1: Related  Bank Loans..............................
Table   2:  Project  Timetable...............................
Table   3: Loan Disbursements..............................
Table   4:  Project  Implementation..........................
Table   5:  Project  Costs  and Financing.....................
Table   6:  Project Results.................................
Table   7:  Compliance with Major Loan Covenants............
Table   8: Use  of Bank Resources...........................
Table   9: Rubber  and Oil  Palm Yield Profiles..............
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table 10: Economic Rate of Return Calculations:............
(a) Danau Salak (PTP XVIII)
Smallholder Component......................
(b) Danau Salak (PTP XVIII)
Nucleus Estate Component...................
(c) Rimbo Bujang (PTP VI)
Smallholder Component......................
(d) Aceh (PTP I) Nucleus Estate Component.
(e) Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders III Project...................
Table 11: Financial Rate of Return Calculationss
(a) Danau Salak (PTP XVIII)
Smallholder Component......................
(b) Danau Salak Nucleus Estate Component.........
(c) Rimbo Bujang (PTP VI)
Smallholder Component......................
(d) Aceh (PTP I) Nucleus Estate Component.
(e) Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders III Project...................



- i -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT (LOAN 1751-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Nucleus
Estates and Smallholders III Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 1751-IND
in the amount of US$99.0 million was approved on July 23, 1979. The loan
was closed on December 31, 1987, ore year behind schedule. US$7.0 million
was cancelled following the devaluation and revision of project costs in
1986; a further US$0.6 million was cancelled at the close of disbursements
on June 27, 1988.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations
Division of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I
and III) and the Borrowar (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in October 1987, and is based, inter
alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Guarantee and Project
Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii. -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT (LOAN 1751-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Oblectives
1.          The Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III Project was the third of
a series of seven Bank financed projects supporting the Government of
Indonesia's Nucleus Estates and Smallholders (NES) tree crop development
program. The project's principal objectives were to: (a) support the
development of rubber and oil palm through settling poor and landless families
on land that was largely unproductive; (b) create productive employment and
raise the incomes of participating smallholders; (c) expand agricultural
exports to reduce dependence on oil exports; and (d) strengthen the
capabilities of the project implementing agencies (para 1.03).
Implementation Experience
2.          Project implementation was somewhat slower than anticipated at
appraisal due to: (a) delays in the allocation of land for project activities;
(b) inexperience of the implementing agencies in smallholder tree and food
crop development; (c) inadequate coordination among the project agencies at
the provincial and district government levels; (d) weak supervision and
performance control by the Directorate General of Estates (para 1.18); and
(e) delays in the approval and release of funds for smallholder development.
In spite of these problems, about 902 of the projects's main activities were
carried out within the seven year scheduled implementation period and the
remaining activities were completed during the one year loan extension period.
At completion, the cost of the project was within the levels estimated at
appraisal. Actual disbursements amounted to US$91.4 million out of the total
loan amount of US$99.0; US$7.0 was cancelled following the devaluation and
revision of project costs in 1986 and a balance of US$0.6 million was
cancelled at the close of disbursements in June 1988.
Results
3.          Largely as a result of the  above implementation problems, project
results fell short of expectations in three key areas: (a) the quality of some
of the smallholder rubber established und0r the project is below the expected
standard; (b) the development of food crops for smallholders' subsistence and
for supplementing smallholders incomes was not successful, (para 1.11 (b)];
and (c) the conversion of smallholder development er.penditures into
smallholder loans -- the first step in cost recovery is seriously behind
schedule (para 1.11 (c)]. Despite these shortcomings, the project's main
quantitative objectives were achieved. Overall, about 95Z of the project's
nucleus ectate and smallholder development targets were completed though one
year behind schedule. The project has directly benefited 12,000 smallholder
families as targeted at appraisal and has generated 24,000 new jobs on the



- {ii -
nucleus estates and smallholdings, or about 66? of the number expected to be
created at full development. Overall financial and economic rates of return
estimated at project completion are lower than appraisal estimates. The
economic rate of return for the project as a whole has been re-estimated at
152 compared to the appraisal estimate of 29Z. The reduction in rates of
return is mainly due to less optimistic price projections than at appraisal,
delayed benefits resulting from implementation delays and, more importantly,
lower yield expectations due to substandard plantings on smallholdings.
4.          The project also had a positive impact on the physical
environment. Prior to the project, the vegetation in the project areas was
either degraded secondary bush or coarse lalang. Planting these areas with
productive trees replaced large areas of lalang which is particularly
destructive to soil nutrients and reduced soil erosion in those areas that
previously had inadequate ground cover.
Sustainability
5.          Although the project's tree crop establishment targets have been
substantially achieved, large areas of smallholder plantings are of
substandard quality, resulting in lower yields than those envisaged at
appraisal. Moreover, poor field establishment and overtapping could reduce
the productive life of the rubber trees. On the whole, however, the project
is sustainable if GOI completes the upgrading program and if smallholders are
provided with effective extension service, particularly in the initial years
of the tree crops mature phase during which careful and proper tapping are
essential. Mature phase extension has been identified as a priority on which
the Bank is seeking GOL action in the context of proposed tree crop projects.
Findings and Lessons
6.          Experience with the series of seven nucleus estates and
smallholders projects suggests that the NES approach to smallholder tree crop
development has not worked as originally envisioned. The experience suggests
that alternative institutional arrangements for overall management and
coordination of smallholder block planting will be required and that increased
emphasis should be placed on giving smallholders responsibility for the
maintenance of their crops, establishment of food crop lots and housing
construction.



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLEOLDERS III PROJECT (LOAN 1751-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
Project Identity
1.00      The Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III Project (Loan 1751-IND)
was the third of a series of seven Bank financed projects supporting the
Government of Indonesia's Nucleus Estates and Smallholders (NES) tree crop
development program.  The NES III project was approved on July 23, 1979,
implemented over an eight year period and was completed in December 1987,
one year behind schedule.
1.01      Parts I and III of this Project Completion Report were prepared
by the staff of the Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department V
(AS5AG) of the Asia Region. The information is derived from field visits
to project sites, the Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 2350c-IND), the
Loan Agreement and other documents relating to the project. Part II was
prepared by the Borrower.
Background
1.02      The project was initiated at the request of the Government of
Indonesia (GOI) to support its investment program during the Third Five-
Year Development Plan (Repelita III) whose objectives, among others were
tos create productive employment to raise the incomes of the rural poor,
expand agricultural exports as a part of a policy to minimize dependence on
oil exports, and ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land,
water and other natural resources especially in the Outer Islands. The
development of tree crops was seen as an effective means of achieving these
goals. The NES III project focused on the development of smallholder
rubber on lands where no cash crop alternatives could be developed
efficiently on a sustainable basis, or on a large enough scale to have a
major impact on employment creation, poverty alleviation and promotion of
non-oil exports.
Prolect Obiectives and Description
1.03      In line with GOI's Repelita III objectives, the project's
principal objectives were to (a) support the development of rubber and oil
palm through settling poor and landless families on land that was largely
unproductive; (b) raise rubber exports and the incomes of participating
smallholders; and (c) strengthen capabilities of the project implementing
agencies.
1.04      The project comprised four main components: (a) expansion of PTP
XVIII rubber estates in South Kalimantan by establishing 4,000 ha of
nucleus estate rubber, and 12,000 ha of smallholder rubber and new rubber
processing facilities; (b) development, by PTP VI at Rimbo Bujang in Jambi



- 2 -
Province, of 16,000 ha of smallholder rubber for settled transmigrants and
local families; and of 5,000 ha of rubber for a nucleus estate;
(c) planting, by PTP I 1/ in Aceh Province, of 6,790 ha of rubber and 2,135
ha of oil palm for the nucleus estate, rehabilitation of 2,355 ha and 2,990
ha of existing nucleus estate rubber and oil palm respectively,
construction of two crumb rubber factories and expansion of an oil palm
factory; and (d) technical assistance to the Directorate General of Estates
and the PTPs to strengthen their project implementation capabilities.
Project Design and Organization
1.05      To minimize Govertment expenditures on agricultural support,
social services and project infrastructure, the project was designed to
utilize farm family self-help. Conceptually the project was identical to
the two preceding, NES I (Loan 1499-IND) and NES II (Loan 1604-IND).
Technical, organizational and financial features were, with a few
exceptions, the same as in the preceding projects. The project would
utilize State-owned Estate Enterprises (PTPs) to establish rubber
smallholdings. PTP VI and PTP XVIII were selected to undertake smallholder
development at Rimbo Buiang and Danau Salak respectively. PTP I was to
focus only on nucleus estate development in Aceh province. To strengthen
their capability to implement the project, PTP I and PTP XVIII would be
provided with technical assistance in key areas. In addition to planting
the rubber, the PTPs were to establish facilities for processing the rubber
produced on the nucleus estates and smallholdings.
1.06      At maturity of the plantings, smallholder families at Rimbo
Bujang and Danau Salak were each to receive 2 ha and 3 ha of rubber,
respectively. In addition to rubber as a cash crop, each family was to be
assured of basic food supplies. For this purpose, each family was to be
allocated 0.2 ha for a house lot and intensive garden cultivation, and
1.8 ha for rotational food crops. The PTPs would employ one member from
each household on the project site until rubber was tappable. Village and
social infrastructure at settlement sites was to be provided through on
going local government programs, coordinated by Provincial Coordinating
Committees (PCC) which would also assist in settler selection and later,
determine prices to be paid for settlers' rubber sold to the PTPs for
processing and marketing. Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) would be responsible
for transmitting funds to PTP I, PTP VI and PTP XVIII for nucleus estate
development, and for the collection of smallholder loan repayments.
1/    At commencement of project implementation this was known as PNP I,
one of several PNPs (Perusahan Negara Perkebunan), which were
Government-owned departmental trading enterprises controlled by the
Ministry of Agriculture. All PNPs have now been converted to PTPs
(Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan), which are limited liability estate
enterprises with the Government as the sole shareholder.



-3-
1.07      Overall responsibility for the execution of the project was to
rest with the Directorate General of Estates (DGE) within the Ministry of
Agriculture. The Special Team for Nucleus Estates and Smallholders
Projects (Team Khusus) was established in 1979 to assist DGE in the
planning, execution and monitoring of existing and future NES projects. In
addition, the DGE was to employ consultants to provide inspection services
in order to ensure sound management of project components and to monitor
implementation progress, particularly in rubber and oil palm establishment
and the construction of processing facilities.
1.08      The roles and responsibilities of DGE/Team Khusus, the PTPs and
the participating state commercial banks were clearly defined and
understood. On the other hand, local government officials at the
provincial and district levels, who were responsible for most of the
smallholder development activities, showed less understanding of the
project and of their responsibilities in its execution particularly during
the earlier implementation years.
Project Implementation
1.09      Despite initial implementation problems arising from delays in
the allocation of land for project activities, inexperience of PTP VI and
PTP XVIII in smallholder tree crop development, and inadequate coordination
among the project agencies especially at the provincial and district
government levels, about 90t of the project's main physical targets were
completed within the seven year scheduled implementation period
(1980-1986). The remaining activities were completed during the one year
loan extension period (January-December 1987). At Rimbo Bujang, plantings
and construction of settler housing and roads were accelerated in the last
three project years (1985-1987) following the appointment of a new and more
vigorous PTP VI First Director and were largely completed on schedule.
During the first two project years (1980-1981), implementation at Danau
Salak, was delayed considerably by local governments' slowness in selecting
settlers and providing suitable land and essential infrastructure for
smallholder development. With these delays, PTP XVIII, which had no prior
experience in smallholder tree crop development, 2/ was pressed to
complete project activities in the remaining implementation period. This
led to poor field establishment and maintenance standards for about 602 of
the smallholder rubber area. Extension of the project by one year enabled
PTP XVIII to successfully undertake an intensive program for the replanting
of grossly inadequate areas, the eradication of lalang, and the completion
of residual plantings, roads, and rubber processing facilities.
2/    PTP XVIII had run only small traditional estates, the largest being a
2,000 ha rubber estate at the Danau Salak site in South Kalimantan.



-4 -
1.10      At PTP I project sites in Aceh province, the project targets for
rehabilitation of rubber and oil palm were completed in the first year of
operation. The planting of oil palm was also completed on schedule.
Rubber planting proceeded faster than envisaged at appraisal, but the
quality was poor, with 332 of all plantings having to be replanted
following neglect in the initial stages. One of the two planned rubber
factories, each with 20 ton/day capacity, was constructed at Julu Rayeu.
In place of the second factory, PTP I renovated two small sheet rubber
factories, giving PTP I adequate capacity to process the rubber output.
Construction at Julu Rayeu was delayed due tc slow procurement
administration, but the factory finally came on stream in 1984. Expansion
of the Tanjung Seumantoh palm oil mill to process 60 tons of fresh fruit
bunches (FFB)lhour was completed about two years behind schedule due to
delayed approval by the GOI procurement administration agency (SEKNEG) for
the procurement of factory civil works, machinery and equipment.
1.11 Although the project's main physical targets were achieved,
implementation fell short of expectations in three key areas:
(a)   The quality of much of the smallholder established under
the project is below acceptable standards. At Rimbo Bujang
and Danau Salak, about 282 and 63? respectively of the
plantings are substandard (Class B and C) 3/ and require
upgrading to give the yield levels envisaged at appraisal.
Substandard plantings were a result of: (i) poor field
establishment and maintenance due to faulty management by
the PTPs, inadequate flnding and delays in the release of
funds for essential inputs such as fertilizers and
agrochemicals; (ii) inadequate monitoring of the project
ip.plementation progress by Team Khusus; and (iii) lack of
inspection services within DGE to visit project sites
regularly and provide objective feedback that would allow
GOI to take timely remedial steps. In the case of Danau
Salak, substandard plantings were also due to the planting
of rubber on excessively steep slopes due to lack of
suitable land for meeting the smallholder planting target.
3/    Under the present GOI system for classifying rubber  plantings, Class
A represents plantings of an acceptable standard expected to be
tappable at about 5-6 years of age; Class B plantings require some
upgrading to reach tapping size; Class C plantings require upgrading
to be tappable 12 months or more beyond the original schedule, and
Class D areas require extensive reha4ilitation effort or even
replanting if they are to become productive holdings. It should be
noted that neither the definition of the Classes nor the results of
the classification have been fully agreed by technical experts. The
system is being reviewed by DGE and Bank tree crop specialists.



(b)   The development of food crops for smallholders'
sul)sistence and for supplementing smallholders' incomes did
not meet expectations for three main reasons: (a) the PTPs'
lack of previous experience and knowledge of the technology
required for continuous or even rotational food crop
production on a sustainable basis, (b) lack of effective
extension service support and seasonal credit for financing
further inputs to supplement first year inputs provided by
the PTPs and (c) overly optimistic expectations about food
cropping on largely poor soils in the project areas. At
Danau Salak, only about 25% of food production targets have
been achieved. Most of the land cleared for food crops has
not been put to use and a large number of smallholder
families do not produce sufficient food for their
subsistence. They depend instead on their tree crop or
off-farm incomes for this purpose. While food crop
production at the Rimbo Bujang site was relatively more
successful, with production estimated at about 40% of
target, it has not been developed on a scale large enough
to meet the smallholders' needs. Overall, the food crop
component of the project was a failure;
(c)   The conversion of smallholder development expenditures into
smallholder loans -- the first step in the recovery of
credit, is seriously behind schedule. As for all Bank-
assisted NES projects, it was stipulated that at the end of
the third year after planting, NES III smallholder
plantation and housing expenditures by the PTPs would be
converted into standardized credit amounts for which
individual smallholders would then enter into loan
agreements with BRI. However, for NES III, conversion has
been completed in respect of only 1,000 ha out of the
28,000 ha of smallholder rubber established under the
project. Conversion is lagging behind schedule primarily
due to substandard plantings and delays by: (a) Badan
Pertanahan Nasional (the Government Land Survey and Mapping
Agency, previously known previously known as Directorate
General Agraria) in surveying smallholder plots and issuing
land use certificates required as collateral for
smallholder loans; (b) BPKP (the Government Audit Agency)
in auditing smallholder development expenditures to
determine the amount of individual smallholder debt- and
(c) BRI in finalizing credit agreements following inputs by
Agraria and BPKP. With respect to cost recovery, the
mechanism instituted for the recovery of smallholder tree
crop development costs has not functioned as envisioned. In
particular, the institutional framework for administering
smallhoder loans needs to be improved if smallholder tree
development costs are to be recovered. The Bank is
currently discussing with GOI a possible system which would
streamline smallholder credit administration and improve
cost recovery.



- 6 -
1.12      Completion of the NES III main physical targets was delayed by
one year, necessitatir.q a 12 month extension of the Closing Date. The
major causes for implementation delays and substandard plantings -- delays
in the release of funds for smallholder development and inadequate
monitoring and coordination of project activities -- had been correctly
identified at appraisal as potential risks that could inhibit
implementation of the project and realization of its objectives. Although
the Appraisal Mission reported that understandings had been reached with
GOI on actions for minimizing these risks, the agreed actions were not
implemented fully and remain a focus of discussions between the Bank and
GOI in the context of ongoing and proposed future tree crop projects.
Project Results
1.13      Despite shortfalls in the quality of smallholder rubber
plantings, the project's main quantitative objectives were substantially
achieved. Out of the planting targets of 15,970 ha of rubber and 2,135 ha
of oil palm for nucleus estates and 28,000 ha of rubber for smallholders,
14,900 ha of nucleus estate rubber, 3,078 ha of nucleus estate oil palm and
23,725 ha of smallholders rubber were established. In addition 5,426 ha of
rubber and oil palm were rehabilitated compared to the appraisal target of
5,346 ha. The project has directly benefited 12,000 smallholder families
as targetted at appraisal and has generated about 24,000 new jobs on the
nucleus estates and smallholdings, or about 662 of the number of jobs
expected to be created at full development. Yields will be less than
anticipated at appraisal due to the variability in the quality of plantings
but rubber production from the project plantings is expected to average
34 tons per annum over the 25 year life of the project and to contribute a
total of US$1.8 billion (in constant 1988 prices) to Indonesia's non-oil
export earnings. The institutional capabilities and financial positions of
the three PTPs involved in project implementation were strengthened. These
PTPs have subsequentlv been assigned responsibility for implementing other
tree crop development projects.
1.14      Financial and economic rates of return estimated at project
completion are, except for the financial rate of return for the PTP I
nucleus estate component, lower than appraisal estimates. The economic
rate of return for the project as a whole has been re-estimated at 152
compared to the appraisal estimate of 29Z. The comparison between
aplpraisal and completion estimates is presented in Section 6 of Part III.
The reduction in the rates of return are mainly due to less optimistic
price projections than at appraisal, delayed benefits resulting from
implementation delays and more importantly, lower yield expectations due to
substandard rubber plantings particularly on smallholdings. Although rates
of return are lower than appraisal estimates, they e-e above the generally
accepted cut-off rate of 12? for Bank assisted projects in the tree crops
subsector. Despite additional costs, the ongoing upgrading of substandard
plantings should increase the rates of return of the smallholder components
of the project above the revised estimates.



- 7 -
1.15      The project has also had a positive impact on the physical
environment. Prior to the project, the vegetation in the project areas was
either degraded secondary bush or coarse lalang. Planting these areas with
productive trees replaced large areas of lalang which is particularly
destructive to soil nutrients and reduced soil erosion in those areas that
previously had inadequate ground cover.
Project Sustainability
1.16      Although the project's tree crop establishment targets have been
substantially achieved, large areas of smallholder plantings are of
substandard quality, resulting in lower yields than those envisaged at
appraisal. Moreover, poor field establishment and overtapping could reduce
the productive life of the rubber trees. On the whole, however, the
project is sustainable if GOI completes the upgrading program and if
smallholders are provided with effective extension service, particularly in
the initial years of the tree crops mature phase under careful maintenance
and proper tapping are essential. Mature phase extension has been
identified as a priority on which the Bank is seeking GOI action in the
context of the proposed Tree Crops Smallholder Development and Second Stage
Transmigration Development Projects.
Bank Performance
1.17      Apart from taking the lead in the project appraisal process, the
Bank played a more prominent role in project implementation than had been
envisioned due to inadequate supervision and performance control by GOI.
Technical assistance provided by the Bank's Resident Mission during the
course of project supervision, partially filled the gap resulting from the
lack of capacity within DGE. However, the Bank's assistance was clearly
insufficient to forestall serious project shortfalls. In retrospect, less
involvement by the Bank in helping GOI agencies resolve routine management
and technical implementation patterns and a greater role by the Bank in
institution building would have, in the long term, benefited the
implementation and performance of future NES projects.
Borrower Performance
1.18      The Government played an active role in the preparation of the
project. With assistance of consultants supervised by the Directorate
General of Estates, GOI prepared a comprehensive report on which the
project Staff Appraisal Report was based. However, during implementation,
GOI's performance was weak in two key areas: First, project supervision
and performance control by GOI was inadequate throughout the implementation
period. The DGE did not establish an inspection service for ensuring
quality and cost control even though funding for these services was



-8-
provided under the project. Although Team Khusus was established as
agreed, it was not provided with sufficient resources to adequately assist
the PTPs in the implementation of NES III and other NES/PIR projects. With
a limited operational budget and responsibility for monitoring
implementation of several newly started NES/PIR projects, Team Khusus's
capacity to regularly supervise these projects and to assist in resolving
implementation problems was severely constrained. Second, similar to the
experience under NES I and NES II implementation, GOI did not comply fully
with the agreement reached with the Bank on the provision of funds required
for project execution. Throughout the NES III project implementation
period, there were delays in the approval and release of funds for
smallholder development; and the funds approved in annual budgets were
often less than amounts required to carry out planned project activities.
On average, funds for smallholder development were released five months
late throughout the implementation period.
1.19      Substandard plantings on smallholdings would have largely been
avoided if shortcomings had been detected earlier through intensive
physical monitoring and if releases of funds for smallholder development
had beer. timely. The Bank's effortb. during the implementation of NES III
and subsequent projects, to get GOI to address these weaknesses through the
establishment of inspection services, strengthening the capacity of DGE and
streamlining tree crop budgeting and funds release procedures, were largely
unsuccessful. These weaknesses continue to impede implementation of
ongoing projects. Remedial actions are currently being discussed with GOI
in the context of proposed new projects in the subsector.
Project Relationships
1.20      Through the staff of its Resident Mission, the Bank maintained
close contact with GOI and the PTPs involved in the implementation of the
project. Discussions between the Bank and GOI throughout project
implementation focused on actions required for resolving project specific
problems and systemic issues which impeded efficient development of the
tree crops sub-sector. While most project-specific problems were
eventually resolved, the main systemic issues such as inadequate and
delayed fund releases, lack of a tree crops inspection service and delayed
conversion and recovery of tree crop development costs were not resolved.
Action on these issues is being pursued in the context of ongoing and
proposed tree crop projects.
1.21      Successful implementation of the project required close
coordination between DGE, the PTPs and local government agencies which were
responsible for provision of land for smallholder development, recruitment
of settlers and provision of village infrastructure and social services.
Throughout the implementation period, however, coordination between the
various local government agencies themselves and between these agencies and
the PTPs was weak. In general, the role played by the Provincial
Coordinating Committees, which were meant to work closely with the PTPs in
project execution, was considerably less than envisioned.



-9-
Consulting Services
1.22      Contractors were used for land clearing and construction of
factories, major project roads, and estate and settler housing.
Consultants carried out a hydrology survey to test the suitability of
proposed locations for villages in the Danau Salak settlement area. To
strengthen their capacity to implement the project, PTP I and PTP XVIII
employed consultants-- engineers and agronomists and financial advisers,
each for an average term of three years. However, the benefits derived by
both PTP I and PTP XVIII from the employment of the processing engineering
and agricultural consultants were substantially less than envisioned due to
their neglect of the consultants'advise. On the other hand, PTP I made
adequate use of its Financial Adviser. In addition to designing and
implementing an improved system for the maintenance of PTP I financial
records, he provided on-the-job training to PTP I's staff in accounting and
financial management. PTP I staff have successfully taken over the
responsibilities previously assigned to the consultant.
Project Documentation and Data
1.23      The Staff Appraisal Report and the Loan Agreement were detailed
and provided a useful framework for both the Bank and the Borrower during
project implementation. However, some of the loan covenants, particularly
those relating to financial reporting and auditing of project accounts, set
unrealistic deadlines for compliance. These deadlines were not achievable
largely due to a shortage of accountants and auditors in Indonesia.
Audited corporate accounts, of the PTPs, which should have been submitted
to the Bank within four months of the end of the PTPs' fiscal year and
audited project accounts which should have been submitted within six months
of the end of the GOI fiscal year, were in all years submitted three to six
months late.
1.24      During the course of project supervision, monitoring of the
status of implementation was impeded by the lack of reliable and accurate
data on the status of project activities. Data compiled by Team Khusus was
often inconsistent with data provided by the PTP staff at project sites and
at the PTP headquarters. The data made available to the Bank for the
preparation of the PCR was inaccurate in several aspects and required
reconciliation and revision before use.



- 10 -
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
1.25      Despite shortfalls in the quality of smallholder plantings, the
project's main quantitative objectives were substantially achieved. The
project has directly benefited 12,000 previously landless families,
generated 24,000 new jobs and has expanded the country's non-oil export
base. Although the project's rates of return are lower than appraisal
estimates, they are expected to improve with the ongoing upgrading of
substandard plantings.
1.26      Shortfalls in the quality of smallholder plantings and in other
smallholder development activities, delayed conversion and cost recovery
are largely attributable to institutional weaknesses and lack of
coordination among the agencies which were involved in project
implementation, a lack of appropriate incentives for the PTPs to ensure
accountability and better performance in smallholder development, and
complex GOI budgetary procedures which inhibited timely funding of projects
activities.
1.27      Given the early promise of the NES program, and a relatively easy
Government financial position, the Government proceeded with four further
Bank-assisted NES projects, and commenced a large parallel program without
external assistance. The rapid increase in the burden upon the PTPs as
agents of development, and emerging problems, resulted in the Bank making
no new loans under the NES approach since 1983, in order to allow the
quality of implementation to improve. With emerging budgetary constraints,
the Government has reoriented development of block planting schemes to the
private sector, but it is not yet clear how the coordination of the many
public agencies that will need to be involved in parallel with the tree
crop establishment will be handled. Experience with the series of seven
NES projects indicates that the NES approach to smallholder tree crop
development has not worked as originally envisioned. The experience
suggests that a strong DGE project site implementation unit, with
responsibility for overall management and coordination of smallholder block
planting developments (including those where a private company plants the
smallholder areas) will be required, and that increased emphasis should be
placed on giving smallholders responsibility for the maintenance of their
crops, establishment of food crop lots, and housing construction. Other
lessons learned from the NES III and the earlier NES I and II
implementation experience are:



- 11 -
(a)   Bank Performance: While the technical assistance provided
by the Bank was vital for ensuring more successful project
implementation, it may have served as a disincentive for
GOI to create the necessary capacity to execute the
project. In retrospect, less involvement by the Bank in
helping the PTPs resolve routine management and technical
implementation problems might have encouraged GOI to build
up DGE's institutional capabilities to carry out its
designated role in tree crop development;
(b)   Cost Recovery: The mechanism instituted for the recovery of
smallholder tree crop development costs has not functioned
and the situation has been worsened by unexpected
substandard plantings. All aspects of the credit recovery
system, particularly the conversion of smallholder
development expenditures into individual loans and the
institutional framework for administering these loans need
to be overhauled and improved if a significant portion of
smallholder tree crop development costs is to be recovered.
The Bank is currently discussing with GOI a proposal for
the establishment of a Smallholder Tree Crop Development
Fund which would streamline smallholder credit
administration and improve cost recovery;
(c)   Project Relationships: Despite their having responsibility
for major smallholder development activities, local
government agencies were not fully involved in project
formulation and saw their role in the project as being only
peripheral. In retrospect, greater involvement of local
government authorities at the provincial and district
levels in the project preparation and appraisal process
would have assured a more active participation during
implementation. Further, it would have been beneficial if
at the beginning of project implementation, the DGE had
arranged seminars for working level staff in the local
government agencies to acquaint them with the project and
their roles and responsibilities in its implementation; and
(d)   Project Documentation and Data: Persistent delays in
compliance with audit covenants suggest that setting the
deadline for submission of audited project accounts at nine
months from the end of each fiscal year, as has been done
for some of the projects approved in the last 2 years,
would be more realistic in view of the critical shortage of
qualified accountants and auditors in Indonesia. To
improve the availability and accuracy of data for future
projects, introduction of computerized project data bases
would be beneficial. To allow timely preparation of PCRs,
project agencies should maintain monitoring data
accurately throughout the project period and start on the
preparation of the required data well ahead of the PCR
schedule.



- 12 -
PART II - GOVERNMENT'S EVALUATION
Factual Data
2.00      The adequacy and accuracy of the factual information contained in
Part III of the Project Completion Report for the Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders III Project may be categorized into:
(a)   Data on physical aspects on estate crops where cadastral
surveys have been completed, and all civil/social
infrastructures and factory complexes including their
cotresponding costs: these data have a high level of
adequacy and accuracy because aside from the fact that they
were properly documented, regular reporting on these
aspects has been instituted.
(b)   Data on areas for estate and food crops where cadstral
surveys have not been undertaken are tentative because
certain areas which have not been planted for estate and
food crops, such as creeks, ravines and other unusable
lands may reduce the area from the estimates. Nonetheless,
the corresponding costs on an aggregate basis are based on
records, and hence have a high degree of adequacy and
accuracy.
(c)   Data where assumptions had to be made such as production
from food crops areas, have a lesser degree of adequacy and
accuracy.
(d)   projected figures, especially on economic and financial
aspects, have lesser accuracy because of the interplay of
variables that will happen in the future, for which
guesstimates are made.
World Bank and Government Roles
2.01      Among foreign agencies assisting the development estate crops in
Indonesia, the World Bank has rendered the best performance in relation to
supervision missions on the physical and financial aspects, not only for
the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III Project, but in other similar
projects which IBRD has assisted. IBRD fielded during the loan period the
required specialists on these aspects, regularly reviewed the
implementation of the relevant physical items; performed in-depth analysis
of specific problem areas on physical and financial implementations in
order to propose realistic and practical solutions; discussed findings with
the field staff, officers of the implementing agencies and central GOI
agencies concerned to arrive at realistic and practical solutions; and



- 13 -
followed-up the implementation of agreed actions. IBRD professionals
assigned for supervision missions on the whole had the flexibility to adapt
to the charging situations to improve success of physical and financial
implementation even to the extent of amending Loan Agreement when called
for.
2.03      Nonethelhss, the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance could
have been enhanced further if Bank supervision missions, which were mainly
comprised of agronomists, had included other specialists such as food crop
extensionists, training specialists for smallholders and estate crops
enterprises, smallholder organization specialists, and sociologists/
anthropologists to analyze and identify problem areas, formulate practical
and realistic solutions, and evaluate progress of implementation in these
respective aspects.
2.04      In our considered opinion, if there had been an effective program
of extension to smallholders both for their estate crops and food crops, an
effective training program at least to key farmers leaders, and timely
effective and efficient smallholders organizations, certain problems
encountered would have been avoided or their negative consequences reduced.
In the absence of inputs from the above mentioned specialists, various
government agencies concerned had to deal with these areas on their own.
The progress in these areas, we believe, could have been accelerated with
advice from knowledgeable persons.
2.05      The implementing agencies varied in their performance in relation
to their carrying out of actions agreed with IBRD supervision missions for
resolving implementation problems. A faster pace of carrying out these
actions would have improved implementation, with agreement from IBRD.
Lessons learned from one project site were transmitted to other project
sites similarly situated. This process to a certain extent improved
performance. As enough experience was gained in one area, the appropriate
guidelines were issued, discussed with relevant personnel, and when
necessary, meetings and conferences conducted to exchange views, identify
problem areas and formulate solutions to common problems.
2.06      IBRD both during project preparation and implementation had been
in close coordination with government agencies concerned not only for the
NES III Project but for other IBRD-assisted projects in estate crops.
Specific issues have been jointly addressed by both parties.
Lessons Learnt
2.07      Considering performance of NES projects including NES III,
certain facts are to be highlighted, namely:
(a)   Emphasis was not placed on the smallholder as a person, who
would serve as a prime mover for the development of the
smallholders component;



- 14 -
(b)   Estate field establishment in certain instances had been
started with the expectation that the inflow of
smallholders would occur as programmed;
(c)   The area for a specific smallholder was delineated several
years after planting hence the exact area of the individual
smallholder and the block planted was not determined at the
start. Therefore, smallholders worked withini the estate
crops block that was planted which may have reduced his
motivation to work harder;
(d)   The construction of related civil and social
infrastructures were usually delayed in relation to the
requirements of the estate/food crops development and the
smallholders;
(e)   During certain periods the counterpart funds from GOI were
not given to the project on time, and not in adequate
amounts, due to fund shortages;
(f)   The state commercial banks assigned responsibilities for
handling credit to smallholders did not enter the project
at the start; hence their relationships with smallholders
were not firmly established;
(g)   There were delays in auditing smallholders credit
expenditures; and
(h)   In certain cases the budgetted amounts for specific items
were not sufficient.
Suggestions:
2.08      To improve future implementation of NES projects, it is suggested
that:
(a)   Emphasis be placed on the smallholder as the prime mover to
improve his standard of living. This will require
effective smallholders training, extension and development
of smallholders organization at an opportune time. This
would also mean a re-orientation of field staff of
implementing agencies for the smallholders components which
would require appropriate training;
(b)   Programming physical development to ensure that at start of
estate crops field development, a sufficient number of
smallholders are available; and that crops field
development be properly phased with construction of
civil/social infrastructures;



- 15 -
(c)   Immediately after planting the estate crops areas, they
should be delineated, and a specific smallholder
provisionally assigned to a specific lot. The smallholder
food crops areas should likewise be delineated at the
outset;
(d)   A study on possible sources and uses of funds for the state
crops subsector development program be undertaken, and a
revolving fund for the estate crops subsector be
established, with the identified sources and uses of funds
to be part of such revolving funds inflows and outflows;
(e)   The state commercial bank concerned should get involved at
the outset in the selection of smallholders, establish
their relationship with the smallholders, and provide
short-term needs. With this system, there will be greater
assurance of cost recovery, and selling of smallholders
produce to the nucleus estate, since the relationship of
traders and other lenders with the smallholders would be
reduced;
(f)   The capacity of the state auditor to conduct the annual
audit for smallholders, for purposes of determining the
amount of credit expenditures, should be assessed and any
identified needs addressed; and
(g)   Realistic cost estimates of budgetted items should be
developed and implemented.



- 16 -
PART III
Table I : Related Dank Loans
Lcan No/        Purpose           Year of          Status                Coffanonts
Project Title                      Approval 2/
Loan 1449-IND   To support             1976      CcFnpleted             FCR  issued
(NES I)         GOI's tree crop                                        June 88.
development
program   1/
Loan 1604-IND                          1976      Completed             FPR issued
(WES I1)                                                               June 88.
Loan 1835-IMD                          19W-8     Closed 12/31/68        FCR under
(NES IV)                                                                preparation.
Loan 2007-IND                          1981      Implementatiorn        Further extension of
(NES V)                                          has progressed        closing date will be
at a slower pace      reFuired to allow
than anticipated.     cOmpletion of
Closing date was      project targets.
extended by 1 year
to Jutne 30, 1989.
LoAn 212k-IND        "                 1982      Implementation is      Project expected
(NES VI)                                         1 year behind         to be completed
schedutle. Closinq    by June 1989.
date was extended
by a year, to
June 30Z 1989.
Loan 2232-IND"                         1983      Implementation         Extension of closing
(NES VII)                                        has progresfsed       date is requtired to
at a slower pace      campletion of
than anticipated.     project targets.
1/ All the 7 Bank v-inanced N\.tcleus Estates and Smallholders (NES) projects have an identical
purpose - supporting GOI's program for the development of the major tree crops (rubber
oil palm and coconuts) using public estate companies (FPTs) to plant and maintain tree
crops up to maturity for poor and landless project participants.
2/ IBRD Fiscal Year



- 17 -
Table 2 : Project Timetable
Date                Date               Date
Descriptien        Planned             Revised             Actual
Identification                                               May 8-3a., 1977
(Project Brief)
Preparation                                                  Nbv - Dec lqn
Appraisal Mission       Mar-Apr  1978                        Sep - Oct 1978
Loan Negotiations       Feb. 1979                            June 25. 1979
Board Approval                                               July  23, 1979
Loan Signature                                                Ltg. 13, 1979
Loan Effectiveness                                           Nbv. 12! 1979
Loan Closing            Dec. 31, 1986     Dec. 311, 1987     Dec. 31, 1987
Project Completion      Jutn. Z:,) 1986    Dec. 31! 1987     Dec. 31, 1967
Table 3  Loan Disbursements
Cumwlative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
US$' 0x0
Description           FYB)    FY81    FY82   FY83   FYB4   FY85   FY86   FY87  FY88
Appraisal Estimate  14,500) 38.0t0K  51, 55   65,5(00 803,000 98,000 99,000  99,C00  99 ,CX)
Actual *                                              1.1427 644266 75,116 83,941  91,3550
Actual as %-age
of Estimate            13.0   38.1   54.5   56.8   74.0   65.6   75.9   64.8   92.3
* Final disbtrsement was on JLtne 27, 198B



- 18 -
fe::ey Inciical-ors             Unit    Appraisal        Actual
Estimate    At Completion
A. Smallho1lder Dve?lopm.-nt
I. PiT XVIII Darua Salak
fRubbter Planting                         F[a         10CXkX)        11725
Village centers                           LIit          1              25
Settler hi-xies.                          Unit         4txX)         3861
Roads: primary                            k:             72            132
SeccriBldary                                     55           110
farm tr irc                        k:          ,3,) X71
2. PTF' VI F.imbo EBujaui
FAtRbber FPlar,tirig
Transmigiration area                    Ha          1'?Cx)        12 '0xYx
Mar-ga larnd                            Ha           4(X:x)        3994
Settler houses                            Unit        2CtX X )       15 Xt)
Rnoads: primary                                          25            35
secondary                          Km             13            62
farm tracks/collection             K:m 4nX)                   1789
B. Estate Development
1. PTP XVIII Danau Salak
Rotbber planting                          Ha           40X0)         .99
Staff and labour housing                  Unit          895           731
Processing plants
Crunb rubter factory expansion          Unit            1             0
CtrLunb r-ubber factory construLction   Unit            1             C
Sheet rubber factory construction       Unit            U             1
2. PTP I, Aceh
Rutbter planting                          Ha           6790          6710
Ruibber rehabilitation                    Ha           2-356         243k6
Oil palm planting                         H4a          2135          3078
Oil palm rehabilitation                   Ha           2X99          2990)
Staff and latcur houses                   Unit         2422          2065
Processing planits
Jultu Rayeu crLumb rubber factory       Unit            1             i
K:ebun Lama cri.nb rubber factory       Unit            1             0
Tg. Seumantol:h palm oil mill expansion  Unit           1             1
3  FTP VI, Jamnbi
RUbber planting                                Ha           5Cx:):)       219B
Coconut planting                               Ha              0           235.3



- 19 -
Table 5 : Project Costs and Finaneing
A. Project Costs
(LS$ Mil)
App.-aisal Estimate     Revised Estimate                Actual
Local ForeiQn   Total Local   Foreign   Total   Local    Foreiqrg  Total
Descrintian      Costs  Exchange         Costs   Exchange           Costs   (xchacnqe   37/
Cost            1/      Cost  1/                   Cost 2/
Smaliholder Dev.
PTP XVIII D. Salatl 1'.0   17.5    2.4.5    17.6         18.1-   35.7    29.8 ;j      .2  - i)
PTP VI R. ERLjana     2:,.o   2S.0    48.()    2.0       18.4    JM.4       3.2     3.5    .36.7
Sub-total       42.0    4C.15   82.5    -.7.6    :b.5    74.1        63.1     6.7    69.7
Nucleus Estate Dev.
PTP XVIII D. Salak     7.5   l;J.0    17.5    10.3    13.8    24.1    20.S'    4.1          2'.0
PTP I Langsa          19.0   31.5    90.5    21.9    36.2    58.1    45.8    13.5    59.2
Sib-total       26.5   41.5    68.0    32.2    50).Q    82.2    66.6   17.6    84.2
Technical Assistance   0.5     1.5      2.0      0.2      0.5      0.7      0.1     0.7      0.8
Total           69.Cx0  83..50)  152.50)   69.95    87.05   157.0P:0  129.78   24.94   154.73
1/ Estimates (revised in 1986 as a result of a cost update exercise) were not broken down into
lmcal and foreign exchange streams. This breakdc*an is based an the application of the relative
local/foreign cost proportions at appraisal to the revised total project cost.
2/ Actual foreign exchange costs are substantially lower than appraisal estimates because
the project's foreign exchange content was grossly over estimated at appraisal.
3/ Using annual averaged exchange rates.
B. Project Financing
(LES$ Coo)
Sotrce                   Planned -Revised  Final
IEFD                               99.0! 0   92,cx)  91.3Z>5-
Got053. 5)0  65,(XK)  673,378
of which   MinFin/BI             36,700   44!5E9  35.796
Estate Own Furnd      1.2.OCK)  t4.579   24,EB)
DGE and INPHES         4,(8)0   5. .2    2. 702
TOTAL                152J!() 157,.0y0  154,728



- 20 -
Table 6 : Project Results
A. Ecramic Impact
Descriptian                         9pr                           Project
t5i=at                    Caxnple xon  I/
ate ofcReturn
PIP XVIII D. Salak (SH)                 19                               15
PTP XVIII D. Salak (INE)                2B                               15
PIP VI R. Eujang (SH)                   14                              14
PTP I Aceh (INE)                        3L                               16
TTUrL PROJECT  1/                       29                              15
Price                            1979 Constant Terms    World Bank price comondities
projection as of October 2tl. 1986
auiLsted to 19E8 constant terms
Conversion Factors for       0.85 for Local Costs and    1.2. 1.5 and 0.8 for labor,
adjusting Financial to           Investment Costs        fertilizers/agrochemicals And
Ecrfonic Valute                                          others respectively
Exchange Rate to US 1                 Rp 625            Averaged quarterly actual exchange
ratesge
B. Financial Impact
Description                         Appraisal                     Actual
Estimate              (At Final Development)
Financial
Rate of Return
PIP XVIII D. Salak (SH)                 NA                              15
PTP XVIII D. Salak (NE)                 19                              16
PTP VI R. Eajang (SH)                   NA                              18
PTP I Aceh (NE)                         17                              26
TOTPL FRIJECT                           NA                              19
1/ Economic rates of return estimated at project completion are lawer than appraisal estimates
primarily due to lower rubber yields and less optimistic prices than those forecast at
appraisal, and delayed benefits due to imp1mentation delays



- 21 -
Table 7 i Record of Compliance With Major Covenants
Agreement Type of
Suction    Cw enant   Descriptian of Covenant         Deadline   Status                I
3.01       B.I    Etrrower to carry oit project                   Not in comliance.
in accordance with appropriate                 Project supervision
organisation and mrsagement                    and control, and
arranigetentads.aenn                           coordination of project
arranements.                                   arctivities were weak
3.01       C.1     Timely provision of fLnds for                  Not in compliance.
project execution.                             Funds budgeted for
smialholder development
were insufficient and
weve usually released,
after lorg delays.
3.03 (a)   C.1    DGE to enter into smaliholder                   In compliance.
I.reement with PTP XVIII and                   Agreements were
executed in August 1979.
3.03 (b)  C.1      Borrower to enter into financing               In compliance.
aqreemets with ERI and ensure                  Agreements were
EI Qnters into financino                       executed in August 1979.
agments with PTP XVIII and
3.10       B.1    PTP XVIII and PTP VI to purchase                In compliance.
smaliholder rubber at a price
agreed with the DGE.
3.11       B.I    Settlers to receive land titles                 Not in compliance.
within three years of settlement.              Certificates have not been
issued to the majority of
settlers due to delayed
conversion.
3.15       B.2    Borrower to set up within DGE a    93(0/79    While Tim Khusus was
team to assist with the planning,              established, it was not
execution, monitoring and                      provided with adequate
evaluation of the project.                     resca.rces to carry cut
its designated role.
4.03       8.1    Borrower to ensure that audited                 Not in compliance.
SCEs and financial statements                  Audited financial
of FTPs I, VI and XVIII are                    statements were, on
submitted to the Bank within                   average submitted 6
4 months after the end of each                 mantgs beya       6 agr
financial year.                                deadlines.
4.06     . .5    Borrower to ensure that PTP XVIII,               Generally ir compliance.
PTP I prepare and submit to the                Operations forecasts and
Bank, by October 31 of each year               annual budqets were
operations forecasts and annual                submitted to the Ebnk
budgets.                                       althogh later than the
agreed date in same
years.



- 22-
Table B a Use of Bank Resources
Missions
Stage of        Month/    No. of  Days in  ..pecialization Performance Types of
Project Cycle      Year       Persons  Field   Represend           Rating   Problems
1/        Status 2/       3/
Through Appraisal   09/78         7        21   AE,FA,A,CE           NA           NA
Appraisal through
Board Approval       08/79        1        10  oE                    NA           NA
Eoard Approval
through
Effectiveness        11/79        0        0    0                    NA           NA
Sapervision
First            Okt.'1979      3        7    FA, A, AE, CE         1            0
Second           Apr. 199)      2        7    CE, AE                1
Third            Oct. 1990      4       20                          2            F
Fourth           Apr. 1981      2       17   CE, FA                 2            M
Fifth           NWv. 1982       3       15   A                      2            M
Sixth            Nbv. 1983      3        6    A, A, FA              2           MF
Seventh          Apr. 1985      3       11   A, AE, FA              2            M
Eighth           Mar. 1986      1        4    FE                    2            T
Ninth           Oct. 1987       1        2    AE                    2            N
Tenth 4/         Jan. 1989      2        6    FA, FA
1/ Key to Specialization: FA   Financial Qnalyst; A   A Agriculturalist; AE   Agricultural
Ecnomist; CE = Civil Engineer; FE = Processing Engineer.
2/ Key to Status: I = Problem free or minor problems; 2 = Mbderate problems, 3 - Major
problems.
3/ Key to Problems: F = Financial; M   Managerial; T   Technical; P = Political;
0 = Other.
4/ PCR preparatian mission.



- 23 -
Table 9 : Rubber & Oil Palm Yield Profile
Rubber Classification (Kg/Ha)          Oil Palm
Planting -----------------  - -----------  (FFB Tons/Ha)
Year        A         B        C         D
3                                                3
4                                               10
5                                               16
6      400      299                             16
7      900      672                             19
8     1100      821       260      206          22
9     1200      896       585      464          22
10     1300      971       714      567          22
11     1400     1045       779      618          22
12     1450     1083       844      670          22
13     1450     1083       909      721          22
14     1450     1083       942      748          21
15     1450     1083       942      748          21
16     1400     1045       942      748          20
17     1350     1008       942      748          20
18     1300      971       909      721          19
19     1250      933       877      696          19
20     1200      896       844      670          18
21     1150      859       812      644          18
22     1100      821       779      618          16
23     1050      784       747      593          16
24      950      709       714      567          15
25      850      635       682      541          15
26      750      560       617      490
27      650                552      438
28      550                487      387
29      450
30      350



- 24 -
Table 10 (a)   PIP XVIII Dbna Salak Sallbolder Cospeet
Econo ic lte of 2eturn Calculation
At 1 billion Contact 196
-I       0        1       2       3      4        5      6        7      8       9      10      It      12      13      14      IS      16      17      18      19      20      21      22      23
1979     19     1911    1982    1983    1984    1985    1966   1967    1908    1989    1990    11    1M         i       1994    199"    199     1       1996    199    m                2202   2003
Plated Am:
- A Clsl                        11      497     260    636     462      145
- I Cas                         201    403      266    366    260 
- c Cls                         123    417    206    324       236      74
- I Cts                         216   1,162   1,845   1,405   1,022    319
- Total Are                   1,251   2,49   2,s5s    2,751   2,000    625
ield _sUtton
- A Closs                                                                      400    900   1,100   ,20    1,30    1,400   1,450   1,450   1,45    1,450   1,400   1,350   1,300   1,250   1,200   1,15O   1,100   1,050
-  C uns                                                                       29      672     821    896      971   3,045   I,06    1,06    1,063   3,063   1,045   1,006     971    9U       66      659     821     784
- c elm                                                                                        260    565    714       179    644    909       942    942    942    942    909    611          844     812    779    147
- I  lm                                                                                        206     464    567    61        670     121    74       748    748      746     7       696     670    644    618       593
lo  tiroin:
- 196 plating                                                                  344     775   1,024   1,206   3,330   1,43S   1,497   1,516   1,526   1,526   1,483   1,40   1,387   1,334   1,2M2   1,229   1,176   1,124
- 1go platite                                                                           319     i18   1,230   1,15   2,005   2,171   2,301   2.38    2,43   2,433   2,393   2,354   2,269   2,166   2,101   2,018   1,93
-  1W  plautila                                                                                190    426    956   1,547   1,810   1,966   2,096   2,201   2,262   2,262   2,236   2,215   2,136   2,056   I,3    1,903
- Il  slastiag                                                                                         370    62   1,391   3,ff    2,229   2,415   2,555   2,646   2,69    2,696   2,649   2,60    2,510   2,411   2,324
- ism PIMA                                                                                                     269    605   1,011   1,418   1,621   1,756   1,857   1,925   1,960   1,960   1,926   ,893   1,25   1,75
-  I   plantl                                                                                                          84     189    316    443       50      549    SO      602    612    612    602        591    570
- Toa (Too)                                                                    144   1,094   1,931   3,231   5,136   7,065   8,630   9,746  10,491  10,983  11,233  i1,297  11,236  11,040  10,76S 10.393  10,007   9,611
6t. Priein                                                              934    931   1,353  1,720   1,436   1,281   1,402   1,535   1,601   1,841   2,015   1,917   1,940   1,903   1,661   1,62   1,932   1,832   1,832
_    Iem )                                                                      323   1,480   3,321   4,640   6,577  9,907  13,249  16,363  19,311  22,135  22,209  21,913 21,3S  20,612  19,682  19,017  18,330  17,604
ur   s eeeO(lp)                  21      26      99     223      72    465      745    932   1,164   1,223   1,284   1,348   1,415   1,486   1,560   1,631   1,720   1,686   1,697   I,9    2,091   2,196   2,30s   2,421
jut.  b_m                      (21)  .426)       9)  (223)  (372)  (465)  (422)   548   2,157   3,417   5,293   8,SS9  11,634  14,697  11,750  20,491  20,439  20,107  19,467  1S,.l 17,590  16,841  16,025  15,181
1oSt fast:
cm  on.                       96   2,347   3,136   3,12   4,062   6,142   2,810   2,492   2,243   2,016   1,317   1,635   1,471   1,324   1,192   1,073    9S    669         782     704    633      570     513    46?
war enitEaC.                  412    629   1,606     619    293    764    233    350    315    284           255    230    207    166        167     153     136    I22      110       9      59      0       72      65
b    _b                       134      33    194    343       69      327    249    616    555       499    449    404       3U      327     m       265    239      215    193      174    157      141     127     114
TM   lmt.  uts               1,552   3,009   4,916   4,954   4,444   7,231   3,292   3,458   3,112   2,681   2,521  2,269   2,042   1,63    1,654   1,48    1,340   1,206  1,065      977    819      79L    712      641
St low. _mlits               (1,573) (3,035) (5,015) (5,177) (4,816) (1,697) (3,715) (2,910)  (955)   616   2,M    6,290   9,1M2  13,059  16,096  19,00   1,149  8L,9C1  16,401  11,644  16,711  16,050  1S,313  14U,S
E_nde b  oft :                   15 I  (bas)
13 4 (price   n 10 )
14 % (Predutioe Gn 104)
15 t (all cst a, 104)



- 25 -
Tasbe 10 (b): ;TP Vill Dan   Salak Noelen Esbtateonent
Eonoe  Rabts of btorn Calculation
At lp fillion   stant 191s
-I       0       1       2       3       4      S       6       7       8       9      10      11     32      13      14      is      16      17     le      19      20      21     22      23
1979     180   1981    1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1969   1990    1I   12    1993   1994   1m99    19                    99    199   .199    2000   2661   2002   2003
Planted Area:
- A Cas               n18      630   1,032    s70
- SCslm                49       92    322    375
- tl tl.
- Total Ae            767      921   1,355    950
Yield Asso"tion
- A Class                                                             400    900   1,100   1,200   1,300   1,400   1,450   1,450   1,450   1.450   1,400   1,350   1,30   1,250   1,200  1,150   1,100   1,050    950
- A Clms                                                              299    672    821    896    971   1,045   1,083   1,093   1,083   1,083   1,04S   1,006    971    933    896    859    821    784    709
- t Clas                                                                              260    585    714    779    844    909    942    942    942    942    909    877    844    912    179    747    714
bhrO Production:
- 1979 planting                                                       302    679    830    906   9"1   1,057   1,094   1,094   1,094   1,094   1,057   1,019    911    943    906    869    930     7s5    711
- 1980 plating                                                                359    808    919   1,079   1,168   1,257   1,302   1,302   1,302   1,302   1,257   1,213   1,168   1,123   1,078   1,033    988    943
- 1981 planting                                                                       509   1,146   1,400   1,523   1,655   1,782   1,846   1,844   1,846   1,846   1,792   1,719   1,655   1,591   1,528   1,464   1,400
- 192 planting                                                                                340    765    936  1,022   1,108   1,193   1,236   1,237   1,231   1,231   1,194   1,152   1,109   1,066   1,024    981
- Total (Too)                                                         302   1,039   2,148   3,379   4,224   4,688   5,029   S,287   S,436   5,479  5,442   5,359   5,213   5,024   4,835  4,646   4,457   4,266   4,042
Ec. PrieJIg                                                           934    937  1,353   1,720   1,436   1,291   1,402   1,535   1,681   1,841   2,015   1,977   1,940   1,903   1,867   1,832   1,832   1,832   1,632
haw  hme(up)                                                          282    973  2,905   S,812  6,066   6,003   7,052  8,117   9,138  10,005  10,967  10,596  10,111   9,561   9,027  8,510   8,164   7,918   7,403
Other Inecead)
Les Inceue(soIw)
Inr.    mae                                                           2M2    973  2,905   5,812   6,066   6,003   7,052  9,117  9,138  10,085  10,967  10,596  10,11t  9,561   9,027  8,510  8,164   7,918   7,403
lsetat toot:
Crop Dw.            458   2,246   2,844   2,3S8   1,75S   1,619   1,634   1,732   1,507   1,356   1,221   1,099    909    890    801    721    649    584    525    413    426    383    345    310    279
over                 46      225    284    239    176    168    163    173    151    136    122    110              W       89      00      72     65      Ss      53      47      43     38      34      31      23
ftos                333   2,694   1,080       10    20e      IS       e       0    406    366    329    296    267    240    216    194    175    157    142    127    115    103                  3      84      7S
Totl lit. COts   637   5,165   4,216   2,637   2,134   1,862   1,806   1,906   2,064   1,858   1,672   1,505   1,354   1,219   1,097    987    8J1    e00    720    640    53    525    412               425    382
Not lnr.    ibt (t87) (5,165) (4,216) (2,6371) (2,134) (1,862) (1,524)  (932)   941   3,955   4,394   4,498   5,698  6,899  8,041   9,099  10,079  9,797   9,392   8,913  9,444   7,996  7,692   1,393   7,020
Eo denl ote of eturn:           Is * (b )
13 t (price doom  30l)
14 t (Prdotion de. 10U)
14 t (all cost up 101)



- 26 -
table 19 (c)  7PP VI 11eo lu3ans Smallboldr Component
Economic Rate ot Return Calculation
At Ap Aillion Constant 1988
-l       0       1      2       3       4       5      6       7       8      9      10      11     12      13      14      IS     16      17     18      19      20     21      22-    23
Ieseription      19719    1960     81    1982   1993   1984   1S85   1996   1987   1988   1989  1mo    199I   192   1993   1M                199S   1996   1991      98    19      2000   2001   2002   2003
Planted Area:
A Clam  (lla)              1,809  2,210  3,087    672    986
- S Class (Ha)                      1,330   1,020    222    326
-C ela  (b)                   256    321    331       86    126
- D Clm  (PA)                 645    709  1,250    246    361
- Tol Aru  (Ha)             2,710   4,571   5,688   1,227   1,7S9
Yield Assmption
- A elas (IgA)                                                               400    900  1,100   1,200   1,300   1,400   1,450   1,450  1,450   1,450   1,400   1,350   1,300  1,250  1,200   1,150   1,100  1,050
- S Clan (4/b)                                                               29     672    821    896    971  1,045  1,083   1,083   1,083   1.083  1,045   1,008    971    933    696    859    821    784
- t Clia (IgnH)                                                                             260    585    714    779    844        09    942    942    942    942    909    877    844    812    779    747
- D Cln (4/a)                                                                               206    464    567    618    670    721    748    748    748    748    721    696    670    644    618    593
_br Prodotios:
- 190 plate, (Ton)                                                           724  1,620  2,190  2,620   2,900  3,131   3,271  3,321  3,346  3,346   3,256   3,166  3,05s   2,935  2,819  2,704   2,588   2,473
-1911 pltag (Teo)                                                                  1,282  2,883  3,753  4,361   4,796  5,173   5,391   5,449   5,478  5,478   5,317   5,157  4,968   4,779  4,s59   4,402  4,212
-1982 plot", (IN)                                                                         1,540  3,464  4,577  5,392   5,948  6,418  6,617   6,783  6,827   6,827  6,634  6,441  6,206   5,970  5,735  5,500
-1903 plateg (TOm)                                                                                  335    155    9S  1,171  1,291  1,393   1,453   1,472   1,481   1,481  1,439  1,397   1,346   I,m    1,244
- 194 plte, (lon)                                                                                          492  1,106   1,459   1,117  1,893   2,042  2,131   2,156  2,171  2,171   2,110   2,048  1,973  I,98
- Total (Ton)                                                                724  2,910  6,613  10,173  13,085  15,421  17,022  10,138  18,778  19,103  19,163  18,948  18,493  17,955  11,310  16,658 IS,93  15,327
Ee. Priesilg (Ip)                                                    934    937   1,353   1,720  1,436   1,281   1,402   1,535   1,681  1,841  2,015   1,977   1,940  1,903   1,867  1,832   1,832   1,832   1,832
r_ I(umO(p)                                                                 678  3,936  11,373  14,608  16,756 21,622  26,134  30,491  34,564  38.500  37,890 36,755 35,193 33,522 31,707  30,513 29,294 28,075
La$ Immem(lp)                  M82   1,660  2,598   3,486   4,528   5,510   7,188   4,S85  6,131  6,518   6,914  7,319   7,735  8,362  9,000  9,650  10,113  10,588  11,278  11,782  12,301  13,636  13,188 14,257
lar.   m_                    (782) (1,660) (2,5S9) (3,486) (4,528) (5,510) (6,510) (1,049) 5,242  8,090  9,843  14,303  18,39  22,129 25,564  28,850  27,777  26,166  23,715 21,740  39,406  16,877  16,106 13,818
ontwa t tos :
crp k.                     2,079   3,087  4,153  4,913   4,4"   5,121   4,265  2,130   1,917   1,726   1,553   1,398   1,258   1,132   1,019    917    825    743    669   602    541    487    439    395
Otlmr Credt Ex.             441    262    520    706    446    637    556    654    589    530    477    429    386    348    313    2M2    253    228    205    185    166    150    135    121
DOrbmads                     144    170    217    127    345    137         95    119    307      97      87      78      70     63      57      51     46      42      37     34      30      27     25      22
TSa twt. costs               2,665  3,519   5,490   5,747   S,290   S,895  4,916  2,904  2,613  2,352  2,117   1,905  1,715   1,543   1,389  1,250   1,125   1,012    911    920    738    664    598    538
let lar. hft ib             (3,447) (5,179) (8,089) (9,233) (9,018)(11,405h)1l,426) (3,953) 2,629  5,738   7,126  12,398  16,684  20,586 24,175 27,600 26,652  25,154  23,004 20,920  18,660  16,213  15,508  13,2
_SAme m     ot oetun            14 t (bt)
9 t (price dom 10%)
12 * (PredItion dom  10%)
13 * (all cost up 10)



-27-
Table 10 (d) P7P I kch Nlucleues Esdte Coaponent
Ecor,ic late of Return Calculation
At Rp lillion Constant
. .... .... _........ ............ ............... ...................... ..... ............. ...... ..  ........................  .................. .. _..... ............... .. ...........  .... .                     . .....
-I        0        1       2       3        4       S        6       7        8       9       10      11       12      13      14       IS      16       17      18       19      20      21       22      23
1979     1960    I961    1982    1933    1964    19S0       1966   197    1968    1989    190          91    1992    1993    I934    1995    196    1997    1936    199          2000    2001    2002    2003
Rber  atured Area (Ka)
- Ne  Planting                                                           350   1,217   3,259   7,143   7,237   8,037   0,942   8,942   9,130   9,130   9,130   9,130   9,130   9,130   9,130   9,130   9,130   9,130   9.130
- kw3m.              2237     2237    2339    2339    2339    2339    2339    2339    2339    2339    2306    2269    2166    1682    1579    1239            917     720      466     39       371     201      201     102      102
Total            2237      2237    2339    2339    2339    2339    2689    3556    559B    9482    9543   10306   11130   10024   10709   10369   10047    9650    9616    9529    9501   9331    9331    9232    9232
_be  Probction
- u  Planting                                                             123     461    1299    2962    3769    4669    6259    7696    8661    9462    9469   10145   11160   11192   12433   13073   13508   13964   14215
- Meo.               2707     2665    3069    3207    3321    3396    3464    3492    3469    3409    3314    3170    2997    2785    2349    1944    IS19    1127    B69              612      492     447      250     241      130
Total             2707     2865    3089    3207    3321    3396    3506    3953    4767    6391    7063    8039    9256   104B1   11010   11406   10968   11272   12049   12404  I1 4   13520   13036   14205   14345
Oil Pale   tured Area (HA)
- Nm  Planting                                  518    1396    2713    2713    2713    2713    2713    2713    2713    2713    2713    2713    2713    2713    2713    2713    2713    2713    2713    2713    2113    2113
- he.                1494     2966   2986    2966    2966   296         2966    2966    2966    2966    2966    2966   2986    2966    2966    2966    29B6    2966    2966    2966    2986    2966   2966    1387
Total             1494     29B6        2 63504    43         5699   5699   56995699   5699   56               5699  5699    5699    5695699    569                56       5699    56S9    5699    5699    5699    4100    2713
Oil Palo Production
- "F                6663    23354   4087   60016   79664   94599  1122  121556  124422  129365  129572  130209  129499  127059  124227  IM19  116452  114506  1I1804  106468  102166   97677   94242   67537   44736
- CPO                 631     3337    6622   10526   ISOSS   19024   23097   25S61   27066   26365   28769   26876   28692   28137   2750t   27051   26208   25316   24727   23534   22562   21631   20821   14741    9525
-   rels              133      467      940    1406    2105    2904    36S1    4071    44 47 4111    4894    5059    5054    4969    4866    4792    4655    4511    4400    4201    4032    3860    3723    2773    1961
- CPM  (tlb)          831    3,337   6,622   9,663  12,720  14,660  15,876  16,356  16,314  16,191  15,I93  15,639  15,296  14,662  14,436  14,166  13,608  12,983  12.471  11,962  11,465  10,966  10,521   4,859
-      Ier $els (Rbab)    133  467      940   1,362   1,753   2,193   2,454   2,495   2,489   2,470   2,433   2,386   2,334   2,268 2 ,203   2165   2,076   1,961   1,903  I,25   1,750   1,677   1,606                 739
Eco. Price (cone. 68)
-     I              1075     1130      864     725    1283    1299    1151    1249    1596    1979    1660    1560    1742    1944    2166    2412    2682    2700    2716    2730    2744    2755    2815    2675    2935
-r8e                  902      723      702     541      635     971     640      241     306      399     350      349     358      367     376     38       395     366      377     369      360     352     352      3       352
-NIsrel               709      435      396     331     460      720     379      1.39    166      223     241      250     252     254      256     256      260     252      244     231     229      m       m        m222    m
ume
-  ubber             2909     3236    2669    2325    4260    4411    4126    4938    7650   12646   11900   12536   16125   20371   23848   27506   29475    034   32722   33868   3549   37252   38S5B   40842   42104
- tm                  749     2412    4646    5695    95S0   10472   14782    6189    6268   11326   10069   1007    10267   10321   10341   10426   10352    9774    9329    8677    6136    7614    7329    5189    3353
- lIenel               94      203      372     465    1011    2091    1395       567     745    1065    1ISO    1265    1274    1262    1246    1236    1210    1137    1074          994     924      657     027      616     435
Total          3753      5651    7690    8485   14830   24974   20306   11694   16663   25037   23148   23681   27665   31954   35435   3916    41037   41344   43125   43539   44519   45723   47114   46646   45892
Oratot Costs
- O1Palo              232      782    1363    2833    2767    3380    4032    4385    4541    4731    4762    472    4755    4667    4566    4494    4360    421U    4123    3933    3761    3626    3499    2059                821
-Mb        tr.Ab)    2452     2590    2790    2693    2993    3058    3117    3142    3139    3069    2979    258s    2704    2506    2114    1746    1363    1013             m       550     44       364     193      161      64
-   _low  (I)                                                            121      451    1263    2669    3580    4570    5622    7076    7926    6625    6631    9221   10107   16659   11216   11777   IM7   12555   12774
ltat  Cots              831     5503   13491   15398   13229   15673    8944    8217   14439
Total             3515     6675   17643   20325   16989   22111   16215   16196   233B2   10689   11320   12210   13260   14250   14606   14666   14354   14453   IS026   15143   15443   15769   15918   14774   13659
Mat oen. 3/0 Pro).
-   _r                 75      193    -363    -687      58i      641     297      540    1391    2267    1535    1174    1492    1764    1671    1884    1763    1320    1053          730     589      571     339      356     216
- we                  339     1063    2163    2109    3440    7274    3867    -749    -138         73B      97       -5      26      82      147     232      274     133       -5     -60    -133    -19    -206    -450    -657
-elt                   66      142      261     316      589    IIOS     651      243     269      386     410      418     412     403      395     391      378     349      32S     302     2B1      261     250      115       0
Total              480     1396    2061    1737    4617    9021    4835         34    1542    3390    2022    1567    1931    2269    2412    2507    2415    1803    1374          972     736      636     382       21    -441
l1rmoal Betit   -242    -4422  -12014  -13577   -8775   -6157    -744   -4536   -8241   10956    9607   1O84   12454   IS43S   16417   21796   24268   2506S   26726   27423   2633    29318   3014   31850   32674
Eooot  tc  otef btbrn    :         16 % (ba)
14 t (price down 10%)
13 ' (Probation d6o t0%)
13 t (all cost up 10%)



- 28 -
Toble 10 (e): Nucleus Estates And Sullbolder III
*Ecnreic  ate ef  eturn Calculation
At 9p Billion Constant
-1        0        1       2        3       4        S       6        7       8        9      10       11      12       13      14       Is      16       17      to       19      20       21      22       23
U?9      1980    1911    I92    1983    1984    1985    196    1981    1988    1989   I199             1I99    192    1993              1995    1996    1997    1998    19       2000    2001    2002    2003
In. at Wuits
mP  I I           -242    -4422  -12014  -13577   -8775   -6151    -744   -4536   -8241   10958    9807   10084   12454   15435   18417   21796   24268   2508    26726   27423   2833    29318   30814   31858   32674
RP VI a                   -347   -5179   -9   -233   -9818  -11405  -11426   -3953    2629    5736    7726   12398   16644   20566   24175   27600   26652   251                   23004   20920   1668   16213   15503   13279
nP  iviii U               -1573   -3035   -5035   -5177   -4816   -7697   -3715   -2910    -955          616    2772    6290    9792   13059   16096   19808   19149  I8I   18401   17644   16711   1650   15313   14543
PYP VIII K        -637    -5165   -4216   -2637   -2134   -1862   -1524    -932         841    35S    4394    44UI    5698    6099    8041    9898   10079    9797    9392    8913    84              7ff     7692    7393    7020
Tetal      -1079   -14607  -24S  -29337  -2532   -22654  -21370  -2060   -14262   16536   20555   2508    36639   48810   60103   71165  s809S   8O687   00173   77742   7348   72683   70769   70065   67517
_~~~~~~~~~ -  ----- ----------_--- - --- - --- -  ------- - - ---- ---- _----- --------------- -__ -------
Ee lc bte of  utmn    :                 5   (base)
12 8 (price dun 10)
13 * (Production Oen 108)
14 1 (all cost up 101)



-29-
Table It (a) :PTP XVIII panne Sadk seallIioldof Coepnet
Finanicial Rate of Returni CalculatUOn
At Up million Constant
-1        0         1         2        3         4         5        6       7        9       9       10       11      12       13      14       is       It      ii       18       19      20       21      22       23
-  -  - --------1979      1990      1991      1992      1983     1964      195    1966    1997    1999    1999    199          1991    199      1        199     199      156    199T    1999    1999    2000    2001    200          200
Planted Area:                                                                                                                                                                                 ------    -----------------
- A Clms                         711       497       260      636       462       145
- Class                          201       403       266      386       280        es
-CC las                          123       417       20       324       236        74
- II Clas                        216    1,182    1,945    1,405    1,022          319
- Total Area                   1,251    2,499    2,599    2,751    2,000          625
yield Assuties
-A Clasi                                                                                 4000    0O  1,100   1,200   1,300   1,400   1,450   1,450   1,450   1,450   1,400   1,350   1,300   1,250   1,20    1,1ISO   1.100   1,050
e  las                                                                                  299      672     821      896      971   1,045   1,013   1,093   1,083   1,093   1,045   1,008         971      93       696     859      921      784
-Celas                                                                                                   260      585      714     779      944      909     942      942     942      942      909     977      644     912      179      147
t-0Cas                                                                                                   206      464      561     618      610     721      749      748     749      748     721      696      670     644      619      593
base Prootion:
- 1990 planting                                                                           344      775   1,024   1,206   1,330   1,435   1,497   1,516   1,526   1,526   1,483   1,440   1,387   1,334   1,29    1,229   1,116   1,12d
- 1991 pleating                                                                                    319      719   1,230   1,150   2,905   2,172   2,301   2,389   2,433   2,433   2,393   2,354   2,269   2,196   2,101   2,018   1,933
* 1982 planting                                                                                             19      426      956   3,547   1,910   1,966   2,091   2,201   2,262   2,262   2,238   2,215   2,136   2,058   3,98    1,903
- 1983 planting                                                                                                     370      83    3,391   1,951   2,229'  2,415   2,555   2,649   2,696   2,696   2,649   2,603   2,510   2,417   2,324
- 1994 platitn                                                                                                              269     605   1,011   1,418   1,621   1,756   1,957   1,925   1,960   1,960   1,926   1,893   1,92    1,75?
- 196  pleating                                                                                                                       84      189     316      443      504     549      50      602      612      612     602      591      570
- Total (TOo)                                                                             344   1,094   1,931   3,231   5,136   7,065   8,630   9,746  10,491  10,983  11,233  11,29?  31,236  11,040  10,745  10,393  10,007   9,611
fin. PriceJUg                             -                                       840     844   1,217   1,548   1,29    1,153   1,262   1,382   1,513   1,657   1,814   1,779   1,746   1,113   1,680   1,649   1,649   1,649   1,649
NWb  Re"weu(up)                                                                           291   1,332   2,969   4,176   5,919   8,914  11,924  14,744  11,379  19,921  19,999  19,122  19,245  18,550  17,713  11,133  16,497  15,943
Les  INOom.(oep)                  27        34       127      297       478       597     957   1,197   1,496   1,541   1,567   1,635   3,684   1,7T4   1,79    1,940   1,89    3,952   2,011   2,091   2,175   2,262   2,352   2,446
leer. I   -Ie                    (27)      (34)    (127)    (287)    (418)    (597)   (661)    135   1,493   2,635   4,332   7,291  10,240  13,010  15,593  18,081  18,093  17,770  171,34  16,459  15,539  14,872  14,145  13,397
lUsteet Cost:
crop 3n.                       79      1,867    2,494    3,016    3,231    4,886   2,235   1,982   1,784   1,685   1,445   1,300   1,170   2,053             948      853     768      691     622      560      504     453      408      367
Owe  Credit Exp.               520       786    2,008    1,024        367      954      291      438     394      355      319     297      258     233      209      199     170      153     137      124      III     100       90       e1
04srAse                        167        41      242        429      III       408     311      770     693      624      561     505      455     409      368      332     298      269     24       219      196     176      159      143
Total Invest. tests            1,487    2,694    4,744    4,469    3,709    6,248   2,838   3,190   2,871   2,564   2,325   2,093   1,88    1,695   1,526   1,373   1,236   1,132   1,901                 901     81t      730      617      591
aot leer. "Wetits             (1,514)  (2,728)  (4,871)  (4,155)  (4,186)  (6,845) (3,505) (3,055) (1,378)           51   7,006   5,188   8,357  11,315  14,067  16,709  16,857  16,657  16,233  15,559  14,72   14,142  13,488  12,806
Fineial Rate of Return            1s5I (bas)
12 9 (price dOm 109)
13 % (prootio dOsm  100)
24 9 (all cot up 109)



- 30 -
.able 11(b) :PTP XVIII Oama  Salak Nuleus Estate Cocponnt
Finncial Rate of Return Calculation
At BP Hillion torantnt
-1        0        1        2        3         4        5       6       7       8       9       10      11      12      13      14      IS      16      17      1o       19      20      21      22      23
1979    1O    191       1922     1993     1984      1985    1966    1997    1998    1969    199     1991    It9    1993    1994    1         1996    1997    199     1999    2000   2001    2002    2003
Plated Aru:
- A  ael              718      830    1,032       570
- IC1as                49       92       322      375
-    Class
- Total Are           767      921    1,355       950
Yield Asspont
- A ela                                                                      400     900    1100    1200    1300    1400    1450    1450    145    1450    1400    1350    1300    1250    1200    1150    1100    1050       950
- B cls                                                                      29      62      821      896    971    1045    1063    1083    1093    1093    1045    1009       971     933    896      859     821      7E4     709
- C Cla                                                                                      260      585     714     779     844    909      942     942     942      942     909    871      844     812     m       147      714
_iW Prodotion
- 1979 plnting                                                                02     679     830      906     99I  1,057   1,094  ,14   l,04   1,094   1,057   1,019           981     943     906    868      830    193       717
- 1I0 platieg                                                                        359    IIB    98B   1,079   1,168   1,257   1,302   1,302   1,302   1,302   1,257   1,213   1,166   1,123   1,018   1,033    9S8          943
- 191 plating                                                                                509   1,146   1,400   1,528   1,653   1,782   1,8       1,846   1,846   1,846   1,782   1,719   1,655   1,591   1.528   1,464   1,400
- M2 plutiag                                                                                          340     765     936   1,022   1,100   1,193   1,236   1,237   1,237   1,237   1,194   1,152   1,1 0    1.066   1,024    99I
- loal (ee)                                                                  302   1,039   2,140   3,379   4,224   4,688   5,029   5,207   5,436   5,419   5,442   5,359   5,213   5,024   4,835   4,646   4,457   4,268   4,042
Fla. Prios/Ig                                                                840     844   1,217   1,548   1,292   1,153   1,262   1,382   1,513   1,657   1,814   1,719   1, "   1,113   1,680   1,649   1,649   1,649   1,649
_       smm(up)                                                              254     876   2,614   5,231   5,459   5,403   6,347   7,305   6,224   9,076   9,870   9,536   9,100   8,604   9,124   1,659   7,347   7,036   6,662
OtWr 1eeeq)
Lk   Iase(up)
lInr. aenae                                                                  254     876    2614    5231    5459   S5        6347    7305    6224    9076    9870    9536    9100    8604    8124    7659    7347    7036   6662
tIsut Cost:
Crm bs.             364     1787     2262      1899     13"      1336     1300    1378    1199      959     767     614     491     393     314     251      201     161     129     103      82      66      53       42      34
nru_et               36       119     226       190      140      134      130     138      120       6      77      61      49      39      31      25       20      16      13      10       6       7       5        4       3
Wers                416     3360     1360        13      250       19       10       0     508     406      325     260     20B     166     133     107      85       68      55      44      35      28      22       18      14
Toetl lIest. Costs  817       53       3848      2102     17BS     1469     1440    1516    1826    1461    1169      935     748     598     479     383      306     245    16      157     126    l1O       co      44      Sl
Ml litr. uufib   -811    -5333   -3848    -2102    -1789    -1489    -1196    -640           788    3770    4290    4467    5598    6707    7745    8693    9564    921    84    847    799           75S9    7267    6912   4611
Fimeial ba of btern             16 t (bae)
13 t (price dm  1st)
15 I (prodection du   10)
IS I (all cost up 10)



- 31 -
Table 11 (c) :  979 VI liubo Suvja  Iullbolder Couponeft
_  - ---   - ---   -_-- .     ... .  .. . ._........
Financial late of Return Calculation
it RR fllion Consttnt
-I       0        1        2        3        4       5       6       7       a       9     10      ll      12      13      14      tS     16      17      to      19      20      21     22      23
heaiption       1979    1988    198        1982    1983    1984    1985   1986   197         190 88    9            1991    I2   1993    I94   1995 S96   197   1998   1999   20                  2001   2002   2003
Plate  Areas
- A Class (Ha)              1,809   2,210   3,087       672      986
- I ClAss (I)                        1,'30    1,020     m        326
-C Cel  (a)                   256      321      331      86      126
-D Clas (H)                   645      709    1,250     246      361
- Totl A     (HA)           2,710    4,571    5,688    1,227    1,7"
Ytild Aaetio
- A   lin (JHA)                                                                   400    *0    1,100   1,200   1,300   1,400   1,450   1,450   1,450   1,450   1,400   1,350   1,300   1,250   1,200   1,150   1,100   lOSO
- I elas (Wa)                                                                     29      612    821    896    971   1,045   1,083   1,083   1,083  1,083   1,04S   1,008    971    953    86    '859    821    784
-e Clm  (K/ol)                                                                                   260    58    714    779          44    909    942    942         2    942    909    877    S44    812    779    741
e C Clas (1/                                                                                     206    464    567    618    670    721    748    748    748    748    721    696    670    644    618    593
MAw  froatios:
- 3988 platleo 17e)                                                               724   1,628   2,190   2,620   2,900   3,131   3,271   3,321   3,346   3,346  3,256   3,166   3,050   2.935  2,819   2,704  2,548   2,473
- 1981 plat  (Tee)                                                                      1,282  2,883   3,753  4,361   4,796   5,1T3   5,391   5,449   5,478  5,478   5,317   5,157   4,968   4,779  4,590   4,o02   4,212
-1982 pi    (ToO)                                                                               1,540   3,464   4,577   5,392   5,948  6,418   6,697  6,783  6,827  6,827   6,634  6,441  6,206  5,970  5,735  ,500S
- l   plate  (TOe)                                                                                       33S    755    995   1,171   1,291   IS,9    1,453 t1,472  l,4l  1,481   1,439   1,397   1,346   1,M    1,244
-14 plotag (ten)                                                                                                 492  1,106   1,459  1,717   1,893  7,042  2,131   2,158   2,171   2,171   2,110  2,048   1,973   1,89
- Ttl (Teo)                                                                       724  2,910   6,613  10,173  13,085  15,421  17,022  18,138  18,778  19,103  19,163  19,948  18,493 17,955  17,310  16,658  IS,993  15,327
Ftn. Pricels (Up)                                                         840    844   1,217   1,54    1,2    1,153   1,262   1,532   I,SiS   1,657   1,814   I,779   1,746   1713 J  ,680   1,649   1,649   1,649   1,649
Mb _s Rela p)                                                                     610   3,542  10,236  13,147  15,080  19,460  23,s20  27,441  31,107  34,649 34,100 33,078  31,673  30,169  285S36  27,461  26,364  25,267
La  inewo/p)                  224      565      981    1,33S    1,878   2,34    2,935   3,669   4,586  4,724   4,865   5,011   5,162  5,316   5,476   5,640   5,809  5,94   6,163  6,610   6,666  6,933  7,210  7,498
l cr.  _um                   (224)   (565)   (981)  (1,33S)  (1,878) (2,348) (2,325)   (127) 5,65s   8,424  10,215  14,448  18,358  22,125 25,631  29,009  28,291  27,095  25,510  23,760  21,870  20,529  19,JS4  17,768
lest_t Cos:
CrUV  D".                 1,654   2,455   3,781    3,908   3,578   4,073   3,32   1,694   1,525   1,372   1,235  1,112  1,00I    9D0    810    729    656    51S    532    479    431    388    349    314
tAr Credi Ei.               552      328      650     883      558      796    695    818    736    662    596    537    483    435    391    352    317    2M5    257    231    208    187    18    152
barba                       1BO      213      271     159      432      171    119    149    134    121    109          98    e8       79      71      64      58      52     47      42      38      34      31      28
Toawl l t. Costs            2,386   2,996   4,702   4,950    4,567   5,041   4,206  2,661   2,395  2,156   1,940   1,746   1,571   1,414   1,273   1,146   1,031        928    835    752    676    609    54          493
bt far.  wmtits            (2,610)  (3,161)  (5,603)  (6,28S) (6,446)  (7,389) (6,531) (2,788) 3,255  6,268   8,275  12,702  16,787  20,110 24,358 27,863 27,240  26,161  24,675 23,008  21,193  19,920  18,606  17,275
Fioi_a3 bte of bth             ls   (bas)
15 % (price dwm 10%)
17 t (Prodtaion Oma 10%)
17 * (all cost up 108)



- 32 -
Table 11 (d): PIP I Acel Nucleus Estate Cesponent
Financial Rte of Return Calculation
At Rp Nillton Coutant
-I       0        1        2        3        4        5       6       7       a       9      10      11      12      13     14      15      16      17      18      19      20      21      22      23
1979    1980    1981      1962     1983    1984    1985    1986   1987   1988    1969    1970    1           1992   1993   1994   1995    1996   1997    1998   199    2000   2001    2002   2003
Rubber Natured Area (Ha)
- Ne Planting                                                            350   1,217   3,259   7,143   7,237   8,037   8,942   6,942   9,130   9,130   9,130   4,130   9,130  9,130  9,130   9.130   9,130  9,130   9,130
-  kw.            2,237    2,237    2,339    2,339    2,339    2,339    2,339   2,339   2,339   2,339  2,306   2,269   2,188   1,882   1,579   1.239    917    720      46      3gg     371    201    201    102    102
Total         2,237    2,237   2,339   2,339    2,339   2,339    2,689   3,556  5,598  9,482  9,543  10,306 11,130  10,824  10,709  10,369  10,047   9,850   9,616   9,529   9,501   9,331   9,331   9,232   9,232
1er  Procution
- Hu Planting                                                            123    461    1259   2982    3769   4849   6259   7696    6661    9462   9469  10145   11160   11792   12433   13073  13568   13964  14215
- ReRib.          2707     2865    3069    3207       3321     336      3464    3492   349   3409   3314    3170   299          2785    2349    1944    1519    1127    689    612    492    447        250    241      130
total           2707    2865     3069    3207    3321    3396        3586   3953   4781    6391    7083   8039   9256   10481   11010  11406  1096B   11272  12049  12404  12924   13520   13838   4205   14345
Oil Pals Natured Area (Ha)
- On  Ianting        0        0        0      518    1,398    2,713    2,713   2,713   2,713   2,713   2,713   2,713   2,713  2,713   2,713   2,713  2,713   2,717  2,113   ^,713   2,713   2,713   2,713   2,713   2,713
- le  l.          1,494    2,986   2,986   2,986    2,986   2,986   2,966  2,986  2,966  2,966   2,9B6  2,986   2,986  2,986  2,986  2,986  2,986   2,986  2,966  2,986  2,966   2,996  2,986   1,387                     0
Total          1,494    2,986   2,986    3,504    4,384    5, 6"    5,69   5,699   5,699   5,699   5,699   5,699   5,699   5,699   5,699   5,69    5,6     5,669 5,699   5,69    5,69    5,69    5,699   4,100   2,713
Oil Phls Prdction
- FF8             6663   23354   40687   60016    79664    945s9   11M2  121556  124422  129365  12972  130209  1249  127059  124227  122219  118462  114506  IIIB04  106488  102188  97877   94242  67537   4473
- CPO              831    3337    6622    10526    15055   19024   23097  25681  27066  26385   28769   28878   26692  28137   27500  2M0    26208  25316   24727  235S4   22582  21631  20821   14741   9525
-  ernels          133      467      940     1406    2105      2904    3681    4071   4487   4777    4894    5059   5054   4969   4866   4792   4655    4511   4400    4201   4032    3S60   3723   2773    1ff1
- cPU (Rebt)       831    3,337    6,622    9,863   12,720   14,680   15,876  16,356  16,314  16,191  15,943  15,639  15,296  14,862  14,436  14,186  13,608  12,963  12,471  11,962  11,465  10,968  10,521   4,859
-   aels (Rehbl)  133       467      940    1,362    1,753    2,193    2,454   2,495   2,409   2,470   2,433   2,386   2,334   2,268   2,203   2,16S  2,076   1,93I  i,903   1,825   1,750   1,677   1,606      739
Fin. Price (cons. 68)
- Bbr              967    1,017      776      652    1,154    1,169    1,036   1,124   1,438   1,781   1,512   1,404   I,568   1,749   1,949  2,170  2,414   2,430  2,444   2,457  2,469  2,480  2,534  2,588  2,642
- CO                m       578      562      433      508    7m         512    193    245   M39         260     279   M26       293    301    308      316    309    302    2m         268    262    282    282    282
- Iwral            603      370      337      281      408      612      322    116    34        190    205    213    214    216         218    219    221      214    20M    201       195   IS       189    189    1n
- ber            2,610   2,912    2,403    2,093   3,634    3,970    3,716   4,444   6,685  11,361  10,710  11,264  14,513  18,334  21,464  24,756  26,527  27,390  29,450  30,481  31,913  33,527  35,062 36,757  37,893
- CFO              5S      1,930    3,719   4,556    7,646   14,778   11,826   4,951  6,631   9,060   6,05   8,063   8,213   8,257   8,M    8,341   8,2M2   7,619   7,467  6,941   6,504   6,091   S,863  4,151   2,682
- Isral             Be       173     316      396      859    1,777    1,186    482    633    906   1,003   1,075   1,083   1,073   1,059   1,051   1,029       966    913    645    7t5    728    703    523           370
Total       3,296    5,015       38    7,044   12,341   20,525   16,727   9,877  14,149  21,347  19,768  20,422  23,809  27,664  30,795 34,147  35,838  36,176  37,03  38,267  39,202  40,347  41,628  41,432  40,946
eratlg Costs
- tSI Falo         128      430      749    1,118    1,522    I,858    2,217  2,411   2,497  2,601   2,618   2,630   2,615   2,566   2,51   2,471   2,m    2,320   2,267  2,163   2,079   1,995   1,924   1,132        452
- bWer (lebe) 1,346    1,424    1,534    1,591    1,646    1,682    1,714   1,726   1,726   1,68   1,638   1,571   1,487   1,378   1,162    960    749    557    437    306    244    200               106      O8      35
- bbbr (Us)                                                               67    248   1,015   1,588   1,968   2,514   3,261   3,691   4,356   4,743   4,746   5,070   5,556   5,861   6,169   6,476   6,723   6,904   7,024
II"mnt Cots          457   3,026    7,418   8,467    7,274    6,618    4,918   4,518   7,939
TotUl          1,933   4,810   9,701   11,176   10,441   12,158    8,916   8,906  13,377   5,877   6,225   6,715   7,302   7,835   8,031   8,174   7,893   7,947  6,262   B,330  6,492  8,671   8,753   8,124   7,511
at on. 5/0 Proj.
- after             754     S9W      455      192    1,367    1,434    1,41   1,366  2,131   2,900  2,197   1,857  2,100   2,308  2,276  2,18S   1,968   1,472  1,171    BOB    654    616              359    366    21?
- CM               317    1,007    2,004    2,094   3,306   6,46    3,916        276    179    1,537   1,030    953      974   1,000   1,031   I,0    1,092     951    823      739    68       570    535       52      52
- NIe               56      121      221      268    5s0        940      553     206    246    326       349    355    350    343    336    332    321          297    276      257    239    221       212      98       0
Total           126    2027    2660    2554    5174         6869    5610   18S1   3175   4764   3577    3165   3424   3650   3642   3602   3381    22               2270    180    1541    1407    1106    S15       264
swssbl leit   237  (1,892)  (5,943)  (6,686) (3,274)   (502)  2,201    (879) (2,204) 10,706   9,967  10,542  13,062  16,178  19,121  22,371  24,564  25,509  27,29   26,133  29,169  30,269  31,769  32,792  33,171
Fimeil Rt ot Steurn           26 t (bae)
23 t (price dOn 10)
22 * (Production dos 108)
22 8 (all cost up 108)



- 33 -
Table 11 (e): bleus Estates And Suallbol0ers 111
FiNnial Rate of Return Calrclation
At p Killion Contant
-1       0        1       2        3       4        5       6      7       8       9     10      11      12     13      14      IS     16      17     18      19      20     21      22     23
197     1980    1981    1982    1983    IS84    1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990  19I   1992   1993   194   1995   1996   19"7   I98    19                    2000   2001   2002   2003
lec. Mt keeits
PTP IIE         237  (1,892) (5,93) (6,666) (3,274)   (502)  2,201   (879) (2,204) 10,706   9,967  10,542  13,082  16,178  19,121  22,371  24,564 25,509 271299 28.133 29,169 30,269 31,769 32,1     3,171
PnP VI            0  (2,610) (3,561) (5,6e3) (6,285) (6,446  (7,3S9) (6,531) (278) 3,25S    6,269  8,275  12,702 16,787 20,710 24,358  271,63 21,260  26,167 24,675 23,008  21,193  19,920 18.606  17,215
MP MXi ON         0  (1,514)  (2,728) (4,871)  (4,75S)  (4,196) (6,e45) (3,505) (3,055) (1,378)    51  2,006  5,18   8,357  11,315  14,067  16,708 16,857  16,657  16,233  15,559  14,728  14,142  13,488 12.806
PTP mul     (817) (5,333)  (3,84) (2,102) (1,769) (1,489) (I,186)  (640)    88  3,770   4,290  4,467  5,598  6,707  7,745  8,693  9,564  9,211  8,904  8,447   7,949  7,559  7,261   6,912  6,611
Totl      (S58) (11,349) (16,080) (19,343) (16,103) (12,622) (13,219)(11,554) (7,258) 16,353 20,576 25,290 36,571  48,028  se,e92 69,489 78,699  78,91) 79,027  71,488  75,135 73,749  73,098  71,859 69,863
_~~~~~~~~~~~~-- _ ___ _ _ _ _ _---                                                                                 . _  _......... .   _._._.._....__
Fimmal boe ot 2tura           19  (bse)
16 t (price dO  108)
17 8 (production den 1R)
1l 8 (all ost up 108)



