Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FILE  COPY
Report No. P-2609-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND
SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
July 23, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution snd may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -  Rupiah (Rp)
$1              =  Rp 625
Rp 100          =  $0.16
Rp 1,000,000   =  $1,600
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
Adat          - Body of Traditional Law
BAPPEDA      - Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS     - Badan Perancana Pembungunan National, National Development
Planning Agency
BIMAS        - Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan, "Mass Guidance
Program for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs" - a farm input-
credit package program
BRI          - Bank Rakyat Indonesia - People's Bank of Indonesia
DGE           - Directorate General of Estates
DIP           - Daftar Isian Projek - Project Budget Document
GOI           - Government of Indonesia
Hak Milik    - Right to full ownership of land
INPRES       - Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction" - a special
program
IPEDA        - Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - Land Tax
Lalang       - A coarse grass, establishing itself after the slash
and burn cycle
Marga         - Community grouping under Adat Law
MOA           - Ministry of Agriculture
Repelita I   - First Five-Year Development Plan (1969/70-1973/74)
Repelita II  - Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974/75-1979/80)
Repelita III - Third Five-Year Development Plan (1979/80-1984/85)
PNP           - Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan, State-Owned Estate Enterprise
PT            - Perseroan Terbatas - State-Owned Corporation Operating Under
the Commercial Code with Limited Liability
PTP           - Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan, State-Owned Estate Enterprise
with Limited Liability
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower            : Repub:Lic of Indonesia
Amount              :  $99 million
Terms               :  20 yeiars, including six years of grace, with
interest at 7.9% p.a.
Relendin Terms
(a) Smallholder development - to Danau Salak new settlers, 15 years,
including three years of grace, with interest at 10.5% p.a. with
capitalization of interest during the grace period.
(b) Smallholder development - to Rimbo Bujang smallholders, 16 years,
including three years of grace, with interest at 10.5% p.a. with
capitalization of interest during the grace period.
(c) Nucleus Estate Component - to PNP I and PTP XVIII, 12 years,
including six years of grace, with interest at 13.5% p.a.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project )escription:
The project will assist the Government's program of nucleus estate
and smallholders (NES) development, which is mobilizing public sector estates
(PNPs/PTPs) as development agents to settle and generate incomes for small-
holders. Major components would be: (a) expansion of PTP XVIII (South
Kalimantan), adding 4,000 ha nucleus estate rubber, new rubber processing
facilities, and a Planting Material Supply Unit; and development of 12,000 ha
smallholder rubber and 4,000 ha smallholder fooderops to settle landless
smallholders; (b) smallholder development by public-sector estate PTP VI
(Rimbo Bujang) in Jambi Province comprising 16,000 ha of smallholder rubber
development and a Planting Material Supply Unit for settled transmigrants;
(c) development of the nucleus estate component of PNP I (Aceh) consisting
of 9,000 ha rubber, 5,000 ha oil palm, 2 crumb rubber factories and expansion
of an oil palm factory; and (d) technical assistance to the Director General
of Estates for project preparation, planning, implementation and for construc-
tion of housing, field nurseries and procurement of essential machinery for
future nucleus estate and smallholder projects.
The project will, benefit directly about 12,000 smallholder families
(about 60,000 people whose average net per capita incomes would, in Danau
Salak, :increase from about: $83 to $285 at full development and in Rimbo Bujang
from $64 to $205 (constant: 1979 prices). Total employment generated by the
project will amount to 36,000 jobs. A total of 64,000 mt of rubber will be
produced at full development, of which about 40,000 mt will come from new
settlements and smallholdings. Incremental production of oil palm will be
about 14,000 mt. Experience to date with the First and Second Nucleus Estate
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
and Smallholder Projects (Loans 1499 and 1604-IND) shows no evidence of
particular technical or economic risks. There is a risk that inadequate
management and coordination and delays in budgetary allocation may delay
project implementation. However, measures are being taken to assure
appropriate budget allocations for this project, and to coordinate project
and site management.
Estimated Costs:
Local   Foreign   Total
-------($ million)-----
I. Smallholder Development                               25.25    24.98    50.23
II. Public Sector Estate Development                      17.41    27.96    45.37
III. Technical Assistance                                   0.20      1.00     1.20
Base cost                                             42.86    53.94    96.80
IV. Contingencies
Physical                                            4.29      5.39      9.68
Price                                              22.35    23.67    46.02
Subtotal                                           26.64    29.06    55.70
Total                                              69.50    83.00   152.50
Financing Plan:
(net of taxes)
Foreign      Local       Total
-------- ($ million) --------
Bank                             83.0         16.0        99.0
Government                          -         53.5        53.5
Total                          83.0         69.5       152.5
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY            1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
-------($ million)---------------
Annual               14.5   23.5   13.5   14.0   17.5   15.0    1.0
Cumulative           14.5   38.0   51.5   65.5   83.0   98.0   99.0
Rate of Return: The economic rate of return for the project is estimated
at 29%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 2350c-IND, dated July 13, 1979.



REPORT AND R]ECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR
A NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $99 million to help
finance a Third Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Project. The loan would
have a term of 20 years, including six years of grace, with interest at 7.9%
p.a. The proceeds of the Loan would be relent to smallholders for 15 years
in the case of Danu Salak, and 16 years in the case of Rimbo Bajang, including
three years of grace, with interest of 10.5% p.a., and to PNP I and PTP XVIII
for 12 years, with interest at 13.5% p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /I
2.         Tthe latest economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Growth
Patterns, Social Progress arid Development Prospects," of February 20, 1979
(No. 2093-[ND) was circulate!d to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979.
This repor.'s main findings are that:
(a) aided by a massive improvement in the country's resource position
during the early 1970s and by innovative policies, considerable
progress has been made towards raising the level of material
well-being for the bulk of the Indonesian population, including
the lowest income groups;
(b)  due to a number of new, mostly exogenous circumstances,
including an expected slowdown in the growth of oil production,
Indonesia is now Eacing a rapidly tightening overall resource
position which will make it more difficult to maintain high levels
of income and employment growth, while at the same time preserving
monetary stability and external balance;
(c) the recent (November 15, 1978) devaluation of the Rupiah from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 to the US dollar, while strongly supportive of
the structural changes required to reduce economic dependence on
oil and to improve long-term development prospects, should not be
regarded as a substitute for efforts needed to remove physical and
administrative bottlenecks and to develop effective support services;
(d) although the Government (because of the structure of its revenues
and expenditures) is a prime beneficiary of devaluation-induced
income shifts from import users to net exporters, significant
additional public sector resource mobilization efforts will be
needed to prevent a sharp decline in the share of Government
savings in GNP beyond 1979/80;
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Yogyakarta
Rural Development Project (No. P-2603-IND), circulated under cover of
IDA/R79-92 dated June 29, 1979, and approved by the Executive Directors
on July 12, 1979.



(e) while the next five to ten years may be difficult because of the
structural changes needed to adjust to a post-oil boom era,
Indonesia's long-term development prospects have been significantly
enhanced by the Government' s successful population policies which
have already contributed to a substantial (approximately 20%)
reduction of fertility in Java and Bali during the past decade.
These crucially important demographic developments will, in due
course, particularly after the mid-1980s, be reflected in reduced
and declining rates of growth of the labor force. Declining labor
force growth rates and the prospects of declining income elastici-
ties of demand for food justify the hope and expectation that, with
sound policies, Indonesia can and will eventually - possibly within
the next two decades - overcome the severe poverty and food security
problems that still plague the country today. The solution of
these fundamental problems through the pursuit of a pervasive
employment-oriented development strategy would set the economy
firmly on a long-term growth path towards much higher levels of
social and economic development involving all Indonesians. One of
the key components of such a strategy would be to aim at a high
rate of labor-intensive manufacturing development.
3.        The above conclusions require only minor modification as a result
of the increase in the export price of crude oil to more than $20 per barrel
for top grades in June 1979. Although Indonesia can now expect large resource
surpluses which could total $2.4 billion annually for the next several
years, in the medium and long term the fundamental issue remains the need for
structural adjustments in order to sustain a broadly-based development in the
resource-constrained post-oil era.
Social Developments Since 1970
4.        Analysis of data from the National Household Surveys for 1970 and
1976 suggests that while overall income disparities have almost certainly
widened, the rapid overall growth of the economy /1 has contributed to a
considerable improvement in consumption of all income groups, including the
very poor. The data further suggest that increases in per capita consumption
were higher in Java than in the other islands and higher in urban areas than
in rural areas. Notwithstanding this, many Indonesians remain extremely
poor: in 1976 when average per capita income was about $280,/2 over
50 million Indonesians (38% of the population) spent less than $90 (1976
prices and exchange rate).
5.        Analysis of data from National Labor Force Surveys shows a remark-
ably high rate of employment growth (over 4% p.a.) between September 1971
and October 1976. But, during this period, the labor force also grew at a
very high rate and the data suggest that there was a slight increase in the
rate of open unemployment. Since the labor force grew much faster than
population in the relevant age groups, a sharp increase in labor force
/1 GDP grew at 8.0% p.a. As a result of favorable terms of trade develop-
ments during most of the period, GDY grew even faster - about 9.5% p.a.
/2 World Bank Atlas. (Preliminary estimate for 1977: $300).



participation rates, from 50% in September 1971 to 55% in October 1976, was
observed.  Thus, a substantial part of the increased per capita consumption
levels is be].ieved to have been related to increased labor force participa-
tion and declining dependency ratios.
6.        The share of agricultural employment between 1971 and 1976 declined
from 66% to 62%, implying rapid growth of nonagricultural employment - over 7%
p.a. or 54% of the total incre!ase in employment. Within the nonagricultural
sectors, the increase in employment occurred largely in proliferating small-
scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors where labor produc-
tivity is thought to be extremely low. This is indicated, inter alia, by the
stagnation of real minimum wage levels which are among the lowest in the
world. Employment growth in raedium- and large-scale enterprises, which absorbed
the bulk of industrial investment, was very modest.  The broad picture of
rapid employmnent growth since 1970, though encouraging in many respects, thus
reveals that a relatively large part of the incremental employment has been
of poor quality in residual types of activities.
7.        Much progress has been made in recent years with the provision of
education services.  Enrollment rates increased at all levels of education.
For example, primary school enrollment (excluding over-age students) is ex-
pected to reach 85% in 1979 for the 7-12 age group, compared to 60% in 1974;
dropout rates - while still high - declined, and universal primary education
appears to be in sight. A promising nonformal education program has been
introduced to increase the basic employable skills of those who never attended
school (presently estimated at 23 million people) and others who left school
without completing primary education (a further 22 million). Indonesia's
adult literacy rate increased to 62% in 1974 which is much higher than in
India (36%), Pakistan (21%), or Bangladesh (23%), but lower than in Thailand
(82%) or the Philippines (87%). Within Indonesia, large differences in levels
of educational attainment between urban and rural areas still exist, but
differences between Java and other parts of the country are relatively small.
8.        In the field of health care services, there has been a tremendous
expansion of physical infrastructure including medical training facilities.
Almost 3,000 rural health centers, designed to become the principal vehicles
for the deli-very of basic health services, were constructed between 1969 and
1977. But tmuch of the new physical infrastructure has so far remained under-
utilized due to personnel shcrtage and a range of other factors, including
popular pref-erence for traditional health care services in several areas.
9.        Inadequate sewerage and sanitation facilities are still major
health hazards, especially in crowded urban areas. Even if the various
targets for rural and urban water supply for the Second Five-Year Develop-
ment Plan (Repelita II), which ended in March 1979, were fully met, over
100 million Indonesians will still remain without easy access to safe water
in 1979. Similarly, housing conditions are generally very unsatisfactory,
especially in crowded urban areas.   Although simple and inexpensive improve-
ments in water supply, drainage, footpaths and community facilities, executed
through Kampung Improvement Projects, including those supported by the Bank
Group, have contributed to better living conditions in several overcrowded
urban areas, specific socio-economic support programs to improve the living
conditions of the urban poor are needed.



-4-
The Devaluation of November 15, 1978
10.       The devaluation of the rupiah from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US
dollar was designed to encourage labor-intensive import substitution and
nonoil export growth by reversing some of the adverse relative price shifts in
the economy that had occurred earlier this decade. The opportune timing of
this drastic and unique policy action is believed to be a strong factor
enhancing the probability of its success. The strongest immediate effect of
the devaluation, however, will be a dramatic increase in budgetary revenues in
local currency terms. Government expenditures will, of course, also increase
as a result of the devaluation but the net budgetary position in terms of
rupiahs should improve strongly.  While the devaluation will generally
tend to facilitate export promotion efforts, great emphasis needs to be placed
on the importance of developing effective support services and of reducing
administrative obstacles and other unnecessary cost increasing factors.
11.       A number of supportive measures to prevent an upturn in domestic
inflation from eroding the potential benefits of this devaluation have already
been taken. Such measures include the lowering of import tariffs by 50% on a
wide range of intermediate inputs, stringent temporary price controls, and a
temporary increase in budgetary subsidies to initially isolate key consumption
items, such as rice, from the effects of the devaluation. Aside from the
budget's influence on prices via subsidies, the degree of monetary control
exercised will also be an important factor in minimizing devaluation-induced
inflation. There is likely to be conflict, however, between the need to
contain devaluation-induced monetary expansion and the need for additional
credit to promote new private investment in line with the structural objectives
of the devaluation. Nonetheless, a sizeable budget surplus in fiscal 1979/80
almost certainly will be needed to assist in neutralizing the effect of a sudden
sharp increase in the rate of monetary expansion following the devaluation.
12.       Prior to the November exchange rate adjustment, balance of payments
projections based on current trends and expectations suggested the probability
that, without special export promotion efforts, a shortage of foreign exchange
would become a binding constraint on development efforts within the next few
years. Although it is too early to make more than a very preliminary and
speculative assessment of the effect of the devaluation on imports and exports,
there is now less ground for the fear that the balance of payments will become
a development constraint. No dramatic changes, however, are foreseen in the
immediate future; the short-term export response, in particular, is likely to
be constrained by supply rigidities. Ultimately, changes in the size and
structure of imports and exports will be strongly influenced by the effect that
the devaluation will have on the overall growth performance of the economy.
Food Supply and Demand Prospects
13.       In spite of impressive increases in rice production, Indonesia's
food self-sufficiency has declined continually over the past decade. In par-
ticular, there has been a growing import-dependence on rice, sugar, wheat,
and recently coconut oil, which is predicted to continue (paras. 28-29). To



meet this problem, an overall food production and consumption strategy is
vital. The Third Five-Year D)evelopment Plan (Repelita III) has placed new
emphasis on the need to increase production of secondary crops such as maize,
cassava, soybeans, and grouncdnuts, particularly in order to decrease Indonesia's
import-dependency on rice.  Yields of secondary crops in other countries
indicates t'hat they hold significant potential for increasing Indonesia's food
self-sufficiency and improvinig the food security of low-income families in
Indonesia's unirrigated areas (para. 30).
Overall Growth and Employment Prospects
14.       Medium-term prospects, as determined by developments already in
motion and by exogenous factors such as the expected temporary stagnation
in oil production, suggest tlaat it will be difficult to achieve an overall GNP
growth rate of more than 6-6.5% during the next 3-5 years. This is consider-
ably less than the average growth performance of the economy during the
past decade. But if the broad pattern of relationships between output growth,
employment growth, and personal consumption growth observed for the period
1970-76 does not drastically change, a GNP growth rate of 6-6.5% could still
be consistent with an overall employment growth target rate of around 3% p.a.
The Government has already announced a GNP growth target of 6.5% p.a. for the
Third Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita III), which started in April 1979.
15.       As the economy is entering a difficult period of adjustment to post-
oil boom conditions involving structural changes in the pattern of production
and the sources of savings, more reliance will have to be placed on agricul-
ture and irdustry and on the mobilization of Indonesia's most abundant and
inexhaustible resource: people. The devaluation may be expected to facilitate
the structtural changes that are needed. With improved incentives for an employ-
ment-oriented strategy and adequate Government investment and institutional
support services for agriculture and small industries, it should in due course
be possible to raise the overall growth rate of the economy to at least 7% or 8%,
which woulcl be a major help in accelerating the further elimination of poverty.
External AiLd and Creditworthiness
16.       The heavy foreign borrowing in 1974, 1975 and the early part of
1976, togelher with a hardening of average terms during those years, has
raised the level of debt service payments which reached about $1.5 billion in
1978, or about 18% of projected export earnings. The debt service ratio /1
was 16% in 1976 and 17% in 1977; as a result of the oil price increase of
June 1979, the ratio for 1979, 1980, and 1981 is now expected to be below 16%.
This is the encouraging result of restraint with regard to new borrowing in
1976 and 1977 and the recent: replacement on more favorable terms of $575
million remnaining payments on cash loans (originally totalling $1 billion)
which had been obtained in 1975 from a number of private banks in the wake of
the Pertamina crisis. Total new loan commitments declined from a peak of
$3.4 billion in 1975 to $2.3 billion in 1978. Most of the decline was
achieved through a reduction in commercial borrowing. This means that
average loan terms have rec(ently begun to soften again, which will be
reflected in future debt service payments.
/1 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



- 6 -
17.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) continues to be
the principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral)
commitments in 1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the
IGGI (including the Bank Group and Asian Development Bank) accounted
for over 90% of this amount. The Bank's most recent economic report on
Indonesia recommends that total ODA to Indonesia should reach at least
$1.93 billion in 1979/80, including both loans and grants, of which at least
70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. At the meeting of
the IGGI in April 1979 the indications of probable commitments in 1979/80
made by bilateral and multilateral IGGI members amounted to about this level;
the meeting therefore concluded that the Bank's recommendations would be
approximately met.
18.       The Bank's overall assessment of Indonesia's external accounts
indicates that the country will be able to finance essential imports of
consumer, intermediate and capital goods and to meet its debt service obliga-
tions. Although the November 1978 devaluation will provide a one time
revenue windfall, the Government will need to raise substantial additional
non-oil revenues over the coming years if the relatively high rate of domestic
investment already reached is to be maintained. The Government has been
quite cautious in increasing current expenditures and there does not appear
to be much scope for reducing them further; expenditures should, in fact,
rise in step with the growth in GNP and inflation, to permit reasonable
growth in Government salaries as well as materials expenditures, a significant
part of which is development related. In view of the pressure on public
sector resources and since Indonesia's total external financing requirements
are in excess of the foreign exchange components of the many projects planned
for financing from external sources, a limited measure of local cost financing
is considered justified.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
19.      As of May 31, 1979, Indonesia had received 42 IDA credits totalling
$701.4 million, and 39 Bank loans amounting to $1,995.0 million./2 IFC invest-
ments have totalled $61.3 million. The share of the Bank Group in Indonesia's
total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1977 was about 8%,
and the share of debt service about 1.8%. By the end of 1978, these ratios
are estimated to have increased to around 12% and 5%, respectively. Annex II
contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of May 31,
1979, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Yogyakarta Rural
Development Project (No. P-2603-IND), circulated under cover of IDA/R79-92,
dated June 29, 1979, and approved by the Executive Directors on July 12,
1979.
/2 Since May 31, 1979, one loan and one credit agreement have been signed for
a Second Transmigration Project; loan agreements have been signed for Second
Water Supply, Fifth Highway, Fourth BAPINDO, and Eighth Power projects; and
one credit for a Yogakarta Rural Development Project has been approved by
the Board.



- 7 -
20.      To date, the Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of the Indonesian economy, although there has been particular stress
on agriculture, which accounts for over one third of all lending. Most of
the loans fDr agriculture have been for rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity, both for food and tree crop development. Several
national programs to provide credit inputs and advice to farmers and to
promote agricultural research have also been financed by the Bank Group.
More recently, an effort to aid the Government's transmigration program
has been initiated. In the industrial sector, while the major thrust has
been on expanding fertilizer production on the basis of Indonesia's gas
resources and on establishment and improvement of development finance institu-
tions, a credit has also been extended to finance a small enterprise develop-
ment project. The main emphasis in education has been on upgrading the qual-
ity of education, improving primary and secondary education and manpower
training as well as on expan,ding non-formal education. In the social sector,
the Bank Group has financed projects for urban development (through neighbor-
hood improvement programs), uLrban water supply, family planning, and nutri-
tion. A major portion of Bank Group financing has been used to rehabilitate
and expand Indonesia's inadequate infrastructure, particularly in the power
and transportation sectors. Credits have also been extended to finance a
telecommunications project and a tourism project. Finally, the Bank Group
has assisted the Government's efforts to prepare and formulate its develop-
ment programs and projects through five technical assistance credits and a
loan for a natural resource survey and mapping project.
21.      The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for a
development. program which will provide increasingly productive work oppor-
tunities arid incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing labor
force and increase agriculture production, particularly of food crops. One
of the major objectives of Repelita III is to increase employment through
programs directed towards improving the incomes of the poor and their living
standards. While several of these programs are likely to be suitable for
Bank Group financing, it will be some time before they are ready for imple-
mentation. However, as part of this new focus, a small enterprise development
project, designed to increase non-agricultural employment in rural areas and
small towns, and a project designed to support rural development in two
particularly poor districts of Yogyakarta Province have been approved by the
Executive Directors. With respect to agricultural development, projects are
being prepared to further improve and expand research and extension services,
rehabilitat:e and expand irrigation systems, help replant smallholder rubber
and coconut plantations, assist in watershed management and village development,
and develop presently underutilized land in areas outside Java for transmigrants
and other smallholders.  In addition to the family planning program, which
continues t:o have high priority, other areas of particular importance for
Bank Group assistance will be the improvement of urban services through
construction of urban water supply systems and further expansion of neighbor-
hood improvement programs, support for industrial financing and the improvement
and expansion of higher education particularly of engineers, accountants and
agriculture specialists, as well as primary and nonformal education. Finally,
Bank Group financing continues to be important for the Government's program
of infrastructure rehabilitation and expansion, particularly in transport and
power, which will continue to require very large investments for many years



before these facilities are adequate to support Indonesia's development.
Compared to past lending activities, many of these projects and programs
reflect the shift of emphasis in Government's development objectives from
rehabilitation and expansion to a better balanced and more equitable and
employment-oriented economic growth strategy.
22.       From initial Bank Group lending to Indonesia in 1968, until 1974,
all lending was on IDA terms. Since 1974 the preponderance of lending to
Indonesia has been by IBRD, due to the country's improved creditworthiness
following the commodity and oil price boom of 1973/74. Nevertheless, Indo-
nesia's poverty and projected long-term resource deficits have necessitated
that a proportion of Bank Group lending continue on IDA terms.
23.       Although overall project implementation performance in Indonesia is
now about the average for the Bank, the Bank and the Government have
become concerned in recent months about the level of disbursements which in
the last year or so has shown a declining trend. Many of the problems seem
to be attributable to cumbersome procedures for procurement and payment under
contracts, including issuance of letters of credit. In other cases, project
specific problems and unfamiliarity of some project executing agencies
with procedures also cause difficulties. A number of steps have been taken
by the Government and the Bank in an attempt to address these problems. In
the last year, two Bank missions were sent to Indonesia to analyze and make
recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures; the
Government is now reviewing their reports. The Government and the Bank are
holding regular joint review meetings in order to identify project specific as
well as more general problems and to work out corrective measures. The first
of these meetings was held in early March this year and the second in June on
a number of general issues affecting project implementation and on some
selected projects. During the IGGI meeting in April 1979 the Government
announced several ameliorative measures designed to streamline the more
complex budgetary and financial procedures which seem to affect implemen-
tation of almost all projects. Although, as a result of these initiatives an
improvement in implementation performance is now anticipated, constant follow
up in this area will be necessary in the coming months.
24.       The proposed loan is the second lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year and would bring total lending for FY80
so far to $111 million. Projects for irrigation, agricultural research,
agricultural extension and coconut and rubber smallholder development are
expected to be ready for presentation in the next several months.



PART III - TIHE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
25.       Objectives.   The Government's major objectives for the agricultural
and rural sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise the
incomes of the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with
rising demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder
tree crops; and (d) ensure lproductive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land,
water and other natural resources.
26.       Role and Performaince.  Despite a 4% average annual growth rate of
agricultural production since 1968, the contribution of the agricultural
sector to GDP has declined from 40% to 30% over that period. Agriculture's
relative share in total exports has simultaneously declined from 45% to 33%,
a result nainly of the markedly increased importance of oil exports./1
Nevertheless, the agricultural and rural sector remains of overwhelming
importance to the great majority of Indonesians in terms of employment,
income, and food production. Nearly 80% of the population lives in rural
areas, agriculture still employs between 60% and 66% of the total labor force
depending on the season, and about two thirds of rural households and one
tenth of urban households continue to rely on agriculture as their major
source of income. Except for oil palm and tea, agriculture is dominated by
smallholder production; there are nearly 16 million smallholder families
producing subsistence and cash crops on about 16 million ha. There are also
1,800 estates occupying 2.2 million ha producing mainly rubber, sugar, tea,
palm oil, and tobacco.
27.       Employment.  The share of the total labor force employed in the
agricultural sector has apparently decreased over the past 15 years, although
precise estimation is difficult due to shifting survey definitions and
seasonal l:iming of surveys. In spite of its declining share, agriculture
has remained by far the largest single source of new employment, accounting
for 46% oi- incremental employment during the period 1971-76. Furthermore,
while the articulation and implementation of a strategy designed to promote
labor-intensive industry is; critical to Indonesia's long-term development, the
success or failure of the Government's agricultural policies will have a much
greater influence on employment in the immediate future. Outside Java, future
employmenit prospects in agriculture appear quite promising, given the employ-
ment potential for sustained increases in smallholder areas, land development
and increased use of contract agricultural labor by the agricultural estates,
and publicly sponsored and spontaneous transmigration. While the rehabilita-
tion investments on Java wiich were responsible for the generation of signifi-
cant employment opportunities in the last decade have been largely completed,
/1 Among agricultural exports, the effects of slow growth in the production
of several traditional export crops have been largely balanced by
increased timber, fish and palm oil exports.



- 10 -
there is still scope for significant intensification of agricultural produc-
tion. In the short- and medium-term, the Government's rural works program is
being used as an employment generation mechanism in the rural sector.
28.       Food Crops.  Given the limited manpower and financial resources
available, the Government's agricultural strategy over the past decade has
been to concentrate on increasing the production of rice, the preferred
staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production increased
rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to intensified programs
of irrigation rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated rice producers of
high-yielding variety seed, fertilizer, and short-term production credit
through the BIMAS (agricultural credit) program. The growth rate slowed
markedly to 1.7% over 1974-77, in the wake of restrictions on private sector
participation in the fertilizer trade and subsequent severe declines in
fertilizer usage, successive seasons of untimely rainfall, and unprecedented
attacks by pests and diseases, principally the brown plant hopper and
associated viruses. In 1978, a record rice harvest was achieved, with better
weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution, and a concerted
effort by BIMAS officials and extension workers to distribute pest resistant
rice varieties throughout the country. Over the same decade output of
secondary food crops (maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts, and sweet potatoes)
grew more slowly, at a combined annual rate of 1.6% composed of a 1.1% average
decline in area (much of this land shifting to irrigated rice) and a 2.7%
increase in yield.
29.       Unfortunately, these gains in food output did not keep pace with
increases in demand, stimulated by large increases in aggregate income. Over
the decade Indonesia became the largest rice importer in the world, with
record imports of 2.3 million tons in the poor harvest year of 1977, declining
to about 1.3 million tons in 1978. Simultaneously, wheat imports rose to
1.4 million tons in 1978, cassava exports nearly disappeared, and soybeans,
maize, and coconut oil imports have grown in the past year. The general food
security prospect is not encouraging. A recent Bank study /1 concluded that
even assuming expanded Government capital investment in the food crop sector
(e.g., irrigation), improved technology, more efficient credit and marketing
systems, improved extension, and a consequent 3.5% annual growth rate of food
production, Indonesia would continue to face a basic food deficit up to at
least 1990, when the rice deficit alone could be between 2 million and 3 mil-
lion tons.
30.       Although relocation of inhabitants of potential reservoir sites and
conflicting claims of other users may delay progress, major increases in
rice-cropping intensity could be achieved through water storage projects. In
the short- and medium-term, however, there is still ample scope for achieving
/1 Report No. 2374-IND, "Indonesia - Supply Prospects for Major Food
Crops," of March 3, 1979.



- 11 -
higher yields by conserving water, increasing cropping intensity in existing
rice areas through construction of tertiary irrigation and drainage systems,
and improving support services. In order to achieve this production increase,
the recent Irrigation Program Review (Report No. 2027a-IND, dated October 16,
1978) concluded that steps to strengthen the planning and implementation
capacity of the Directorate General of Water Resources Development would be
needed. These conclusions are currently being reviewed with the GOI. In the
Other Islands there is considerable potential for new irrigation systems,
including tidal and swamp land development. Yields of secondary food crops,
both in Java and the Other Islands, remain far below potential. While the
Government has over the last decade given considerable attention to programs
designed to support increased rice production and marketing, it has not
focussed sufficiently on research or supporting services to increase
production of secondary crops. This would require, inter alia, attention to
marketing arrangements, price supports, and appropriate credit arrangements.
31.       Tree Crops.  Tree crop products have for decades been an important
source of export income for Indonesia, and still generate about two-thirds of
total nonoil export revenues. Tree crops occupy more than a third of total
cropped land, with coconuts and rubber accounting for 80% of tree crop stands.
Smallholders account for 80% of the area under rubber, the remainder being in
Government and private estates. Coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper are
almost entirely smallholder crops, while tea is chiefly, and oil palm is
entirely, cultivated on estates. Although Indonesia has profited enormously
from recent world price trends for its tree crops, production of rubber and
coffee stagnated between 1969 and 1976. Some 95% of smallholder rubber
consists of unselected clones with yields half those of smallholder rubber in
neighboring Malaysia. Only oil palm has shown sustained large increases in
production due to large investment programs by Government and private estates.
Deteriorating transport infrastructure and shipping in the Other Islands since
the 1950s, increased marketing regulations and other Government actions
affecting private sector participation, and inadequate tree crop research,
extension, and particularly, replanting programs for smallholders contributed
to this situation.
32.       Efforts to revitalize the tree crop sector are in their infancy.
One of the new approaches (which would be supported under the proposed
project) has been to rely on public sector estates /1 with their proven
technical. and managerial expertise to meet the demanding requirements of
settlement and land clearing for tree and food crop production, to provide
settlers with employment during the initial three years of settlement, and
thereafter to assist them by purchasing and distributing inputs during the
period of tree crop immaturity and by providing processing and marketing faci-
lities. The crops which best lend themselves for development by nucleus
/1 The estates enterprises (PNPs) are presently being converted by GOI into
limited liability companies (PTPs).



- 12 -
estates at present are rubber, coconuts and oil palm. These crops have
satisfactory export potential; their returns to the farmer after provision
for debt service are satisfactory; the production and processing techniques
are well known to many of the estates; and the crops are well suited to the
poorer soils of Sumatra and Kalimantan where there are large tracts of under-
developed agricultural land available for settlement.
33.       In addition to the nucleus estate approach, the Government has
prepared projects to plant and replant smallholder rubber and coconuts on an
intensively managed block basis, financed through credit arrangements. But
the largest and most important task, the institutionalization of easily
administered low-cost replanting programs for existing smallholder stands,
remains to be articulated. This is largely because no technically proven,
low-cost systems of treecrop replanting have yet been identified and tested in
Indonesia. This problem is particularly grave since the country has a backlog
of nearly 400,000 ha of smallholder rubber and coconuts, which are overaged
and unproductive. Given that the market prospects and employment potential
for these crops are good, and large regions in the Other Islands have natural
comparative advantages for these crops, the rapid expansion of smallholder
planting and replanting of tree crops is a high priority.
34.       Apart from foreign investment, especially for oil palm, and intensi-
fication of cropping on a few of the larger Indonesian-owned private estates,
there has been little development of most of the private estates which cover
some 430,000 ha (100,000 ha of which have foreign participation). At least
half this area is abandoned but will become available when leases expire after
1980. Limited domestic funds have been made available since 1977 to improve
up to 40,000 ha of locally owned and operated private estates. GOI is
considering increased incentives for additional foreign estate investment, and
is seeking Bank Group support for private estate development and possible use
of relinquished private estate land for smallholders.
35.       Area Development and Transmigration.  Certain critically poor areas
of Java and productive areas available for settlement and development on the
Other Islands have provided the focus for rural development programs to meet
basic needs and to generate employment, productivity and incomes. For Java,
the Government is preparing local rural works projects geared to strengthening
planning and investment activities at the local level. Cultivable land in
Java is almost fully utilized, and in some areas, particularly the higher
watersheds of its silt-laden rivers, agricultural land use already exceeds
ecologically safe limits and is contributing to increasingly severe problems
of erosion, downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and irrigation
canal systems. The Government is preparing a program of watershed development
and integrated development projects designed to address some of these
problems.
36.       The primary vehicle for new area development in the Other Islands,
as well as for creating employment and settlement nuclei for Javanese
migrants, is likely to be the transmigration program. Unfortunately, this
program has been hampered by unrealistic expectations of its potential for



- 13 -
resolving Java's population problems and stimulating large-scale regional
development, by overly ambitious targets, and by weak, uncoordinated implemen-
tation. Confronted by management problems the Government reorganized the
management of the transmigration program in preparation for Repelita III.
This culminated in a Presidential Decree which transfers responsibility for
project imkplementation to the appropriate line agencies. The revised
instituticinal arrangements will need to be supported by continued attention to
a variety of technical and policy issues: these include the appropriateness
of land use for food crop production, appropriate target incomes, farm size
and village plans, the extent of Government support to settlers, the provision
of adequate support service and marketing mechanisms and the potential role of
spontaneous migration in the transmigration strategy.  The Second Transmigra-
tion Project (Loan 1707-IND and Credit 919-IND, approved on May 29, 1979),
will address these issues.
37.       The Role of Government.  While the private sector should be encour-
aged to expand its role in agricultural input supply, marketing, and process-
ing, the Government bears the major responsibility for infrastructure,
resource conservation, and other services, particularly outside Java
(para. 35). The capacity of the Indonesian Government to plan and implement
agricultural and rural development programs has improved over the past decade.
However, overly centralized procedures, weak regional planning and technical
and managerial manpower constraints, including difficulties in attracting
personnel to remote rural locations, have impeded agricultural planning,
programmin.g and implementation, including difficulties in attracting personnel
to remote rural locations. Further, the Government's concern for area
development has also increased the need to strengthen provincial and local
planning capacities. Future programs responsive to the Government's stated
objectives will necessarily be more complex than those which the Government
has followed up to now.  They will require closely coordinated programs of
agricultural research and extension, input supply, credit, land development,
transportation, pricing policies and marketing arrangements. It is therefore
important that the Government continue to strengthen the key rural development
institutions, particularly through the education, recruitment, training, and
retention of qualified technical manpower.
38.       Bank Group Lending Strategy.  There is general agreement between the
Bank and the Government on the overall objectives and strategies proposed for
the rural sector. While views sometimes differ on the relative emphasis to be
given to different investments and on the technical design of some projects,
such differences are not impeding Bank Group operations generally and are
usually resolvable following further analysis and dialogue. The Bank Group
has devoted considerable staff time to various analyses of the rural sector
(e.g., employment and income distribution, irrigation development, agriculture
support services and food crop production) to improve its understanding of the
needs of the sector and the Government's policies.



- 14 -
39.       Since the first of 13 irrigation projects was approved in 1968, the
Bank Group has rapidly expanded its agricultural and rural lending to include
support for estate and smallholder tree crops; fertilizer production and
distribution; sugar estates; agricultural research, extension, and training;
transmigration; livestock; fisheries; and resource survey and mapping. In
1978 a Sector Operations Review was issued on the Bank Group's agricultural
program in Indonesia (Report No. 2166, dated August 9, 1978), which concluded
that despite deficiencies in some projects the Bank's portfolio in Indonesian
agriculture was "of overall good quality and likely to contribute substan-
tially to increased production." To further that aim within the context of
the Government's overall agricultural strategy, Bank Group lending within the
next few years is expected to focus on:
(i) secondary crop production, e.g., through the second phase projects
for agricultural research, extension, seeds, and an initial agri-
cultural credit project;
(ii) a diversified irrigation program designed to intensify rice crop-
ping on Java and to extend water management to the Other Islands;
(iii) development of smallholder tree crop replanting programs designed
to complement the Nucleus Estate and Smallholders projects
(paras, 32 and 33);
(iv) area development projects aimed at evolving a viable model of
watershed management to conserve soil and to ensure long-term
productivity in the densely populated areas of Java; developing
strategies for the integrated rural development of critical areas
on Java; and stimulating transmigration to the Other Islands.
These projects will be complemented by sector work. A cassava production and
marketing study planned for later this fiscal year will assist the Government
in developing a secondary food crop strategy. A transmigration program review
will be undertaken later this year which will,inter alia identify strategies
to reduce cost per family and stimulate spontaneous transmigration. In
addition, a review of supply and requirements of technical and managerial
manpower for agriculture planned for early 1980 willexamine short term
training measures to alleviate critical manpower shortages.
Bank Group Lending for Rubber
40.       Proposed development of the tree crop sector, including nucleus
estate and smallholder schemes, have been outlined in paras. 32 through 34.
Bank Group assistance for smallholder rubber has included Credit 358-IND
(North Sumatra Smallholder Development Project) $5 millon, Loan 1499-IND
(Nucleus Estats and Smallholders I Project, NES I) $65 million, and Loan
1604-IND (NES II) $65 million. The oil palm and rubber replanting under
Credit 358-IND, now nearing completion, has been successful. Although



- 15 -
project cosl:s have doubled, h'igher than anticipated selling prices and
production have more than offset this.  NES I, which became effective in
January 1978, has started slowly due to inadequate budgeting of local funds.
The NES II loan became effective in September 1978. Smallholder rubber
development has also recently been started on a modest scale in South Sumatra
under the Transmigration and Rural Development Project (Loan 1318-IND). A
proposed Rubber Replanting Project is intended to support the new National
Smallholder Rubber Replantingr Program to be implemented by the DGE. The
rationale for each of these projects acknowledges that significant increases
in national rubber production can be achieved only by massive planting in
smallholder areas, including new plantings in smallholder settlements schemes.
41.       Rabber rehabilitation on public-sector estates is being financed
under Credits 155, 194 and 3]L9-IND. The recent project performance audit for
Credits 155 and 194-IND rated both projects physically and financially
successful. Credit 319-IND (Fourth Agricultural Estates Project) is ahead
of schedule and rubber and oil palm planting standards are good.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The proposed project was identified by the Government, with Bank
assistance, and prepared by the Government using reports by the consultant
firms PT Dian Utami in association with Booker Agriculture International Ltd.,
and PT Agriconsult International. The project was appraised in July/August
and September/October 1978. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2350c-IND dated
July 18, 1979) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data
are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from June 25
to June 29, 1979 with Indonesian delegation led by Gen. Pang Soeparto,
Director General of Estates.
Objectives and Formulation
43.        The proposed project is designed to help achieve the Government's
objectives for development of the rubber subsector and will include some oil
palm development. The project would settle poor and landless families on
largely unproductive land, while raising rubber output and export income.
To strengthen the organization and management of the project and future NES
programs, the project would provide technical assistance to the implementing
agencies.
44.        The project has been formulated to utilize farm family self-help,
to minimize Government expenditures on agricuLtural support, social services
and project infrastructure. Conceptually, the proposed project is identical
to the First and Second Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Projects. Technical,
organizational and financial details are, with few exceptions, similar to
these projects. The project components have been selected to give emphasis
to smallhoLder development while providing financial assistance to strengthen



- 16 -
the nucleus estates. To implement the project, it is essential that the
nucleus estates control the resources, machinery, inputs, and training of
labor, funding required to achieve high smallholder rubber yields.
Project Description
45.       The proposed project would be in the undeveloped provinces of Aceh
and Jambi (Sumatra) and in South Kalimantan. About 12,000 smallholder
families would be assisted at two different sites to establish rubber and
food crops on family-sized holdings. In addition, the project would assist
two existing public sector estates, which would implement the smallholder
component, to rehabilitate and expand their facilities. Each nucleus estate
would be responsible for land clearing and rubber planting, settlement of
smallholders and debt recovery of smallholder credit. The estates would also
train smallholders in rubber and food crop production. Initially settlers
would be employed by the estates for three-years as rubber laborers. There-
after they would operate as independent farmers although marketing of their
rubber, and some surplus food crop production would be undertaken by the
nucleus estate. The main project components are:
(a)  Smallholder Development - Danau Salak
About 12,000 ha of rubber and 4,000 ha of food crops would
be established for the settlement of 4,000 poor and landless
families. Each family would receive 3.0 ha of block planted
rubber and 1.0 ha prepared for food crops. Village facilities
including schools, health facilities, community halls and mosques,
and materials for settler housing would be provided under the
project. Roads in the project area would be upgraded and where
necessary additional primary and secondary village roads would be
constructed. A Planting Materials Supply Unit would be established
and managed by the nucleus estate to provide smallholders with farm
inputs, extension services and marketing facilities.
(b)  Estate Development (PTP XVIII) - Danau Salak
4,000 ha of rubber would be block planted and rubber processing
facilities expanded to meet increased nucleus and smallholder produc-
tion. Estate housing, offices, workshop and garage facilities would
be constructed/rehabilitated to implement smallholder development.
(c) Estate Rehabilitation (PNP I) - Aceh
New planting of about 6,800 ha of rubber and about 2,100 ha of
oil palm would be undertaken, and the rehabilitation of a
further 2,400 ha of existing rubber and 3,000 ha of existing oil
palm plantings. Two crumb rubber factories would be constructed and
the existing oil palm factory expanded. Staff housing, buildings,
garages and workshops would be constructed or rehabilitated. These
improvements are required to enable PNP I to assume the role of a
nucleus estate under a future project.



- 17 -
(d)  Estate Development (PTP VI) - Rimbo Bujang.  About 5,000 ha of
rubber would be etablished, together with nursery facilities and a
1 mt/hr capacity cassava processing plant to process transmigrants'
production. This would take place on land adjacent to the trans-
mrigration site and would be financed entirely from PTP VI's
own funds.
(e)  Smallholders Development - Rimbo Bujang
16,000 ha of smallholder rubber would be block planted (12,000 ha in
the existing Rimbo Bujang transmigration scheme, and 4,000 ha in
forest land owned by local farmers). Each of the 6,000 transmigrant
settlers and 2,000 local farmers would receive assistance to plant
2. ha of rubber. A Planting Materials Supply Unit would be established
and managed by the nucleus estate to supply food crop planting
material, fertilizers and extension services.  Primary and secondary
village roads, offices and rubber collection tracks would also be
constructed or upgraded.
(f)  Technical Assistance.  Internationally recruited advisors would
provide technical assistance to PTP XVIII (six man-years) and
PNP I (nine man-years). The project would also finance about 100
man-months of consultants' services to be provided to the DGE,
comprised of 60 man-months of inspection services and 40 man-months
to assist in village planning, pest and disease control, food crop
niarketing, surveying, road engineering and preparation of NES
projects. Assistance would also be provided to the DGE for
housing construction, nursery development,, and procurement of
essential machinery for NES project preparation.
Project Implementation
46.       Farmer Selection and Land Title.  New settlers at Danau Salak would
be selected on the basis of criteria which give priority to landless farmers
in the area, and when these have been accommodated, to transmigrants from Java.
New settlers would, inter alia, have to have some farm experience, be between
the ages oi- 20-40 years, in good health, and have annual family incomes below
$350. Responsibility for settler selection would rest with the Project Manager
of the nuc:Leus estate in consultation with the provincial authorities. Under
the project, new settlers would receive within six months of entry to the
settlement area in Danau Salak, certificates of "conditional" ownership (hak
milik) to 4 ha of land; Marg;a land settlers and existing transmigrants would
receive these certificates to 2 ha of land for rubber in the Rimbo Bujang
area. Each smallholder would work as a laborer for three years and, if his
performance is judged satisfactory, the settler would receive "full" hak milik
(unconditional ownership) at the end of the third year. These titles would,
however, be retained by the agricultural development bank of Indonesia (BRI)
until loan obligations of each smallholder had been fulfilled (Sections
3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
47.        Organization and Management.  Overall responsibility for execution
of the project would rest with the Director General of Estates (DGE) in the
Ministry of Agriculture. The smallholder components would be implemented by
central government agencies, the provincial governments of Jambi and South
Kalimantan and the nucleus estates PTP XVIII and PTP VI. The DGE would sign
Smallholder Rubber Development Agreements with PTP XVIII and PTP VI respect-
ively to specify works to be carried out for smallholder development (para.
57). The PNP I and PTP XVIII estates would be responsible to the Ministry of
Agriculture in Jakarta for their own expansion program under the proposed
project. The DGE, appropriately strengthened by technical assistance provided
under Loans 1499-IND, 1604-IND and the proposed project, would have primary
responsibility for project and village master planning; preparation of annual                       I
budgets and work program; advice to the Project Managers and Provincial
Coordinating Committees (PCCs) for recruitment of new settlers; design and
supervision of smallholder participation agreements, crop processing and
marketing arrangements; approval of project budgets; coordination and organiz-
ation of project financing arrangements; advice on project procurement;
formulation and execution of the contract between the DGE and the nucleus
estate for rubber development, and at a later date, for extension, processing
and marketing services; as well as project monitoring and evaluation with
regular quality control inspection services. These activities would be
coordinated with the PCCs for Jambi and South Kalimantan.
48.        The DGE would be represented at each site by a Project Mlanager
who would be responsible to the DGE for preparation of action programs and
budgets, and supervision and coordination of all project activities undertaken
by the nucleus estate and the PCC. The chief executive of each PCC would be
the Chairman of the Provincial Development Planning Agency (BAPPEDA), who is
responsible to the Governor of the Province. He will assist the Provincial
Government in providing village infrastructure and services, determining the
rubber price paid to smallholders by the nucleus estate, and advising on
settler selection. The delegation of greater responsibilities to the Provin-
cial Governments is consistent with the Government's objectives of regional
development.
Project Cost
49.        The Bank loan would provide financing over the initial six-years of
a total ten-year implementation period. Project costs during these six years
are estimated to be $152.5 million, of which about $83 million or 54% is
foreign exchange. The Government would make available the funds required
from year 7 to project completion ($87.5 million). Base cost estimates are
in early 1979 prices. The cost estimates include physical contingencies (10%
of base costs). An allowance for expected price increases during project
execution (47% of base cost plus physical contingencies) were calculated on
the basis of a 15% escalation in the second half of 1979, 13% in 1980, 10% in
1981, and 7% thereafter. Costs for internationally recruited consultants
have been estimated at $72,000/man-year (including all overheads, housing and
travel).



- 19 -
Project Financing
50.       The proposed Bank loan of $99 million would finance 65% of the project
cost for the initial six years of project implementation (para. 49). The loan
would finance the full foreign exchange cost, amounting to $83 million, and
would contribute $16 million equivalent to local costs. From the total loan,
$56 million would finance smallholder development, and $43 million, expansion
of the public sector estates and technical assistance. The Government would
finance about $53.5 million of the proposed project (35%) from the following
sources: Ministry of Finance ($22.2 million), Bank Indonesia ($14.5 million),
the DGE and INPRES programs ($4.8 million), and the self-generated funds of
PNP I and PIP XVIII ($12.0 million).
51.       Smallholder Development ($82.5 million)./l  Noncredit items to
smallholders carried out by the Provincial Government and from DGE annual
budget sources (US$4.3 million) would include village infrastructure, health
services, schools, and rubber development fees. All financing required by
the nucleus estates for smallholders (US$78.2 million), including credit
for rubber and food crop development and the noncredit costs of resettle-
ment, project buildings, and some vehicles, will be provided by the Ministry
of Finance t:hrough Bank Indonesia.
52.       Financing of the expenditures for smallholder development by the
nucleus estates would be passed from the Bank to Bank Indonesia, and then
through BRI, acting as the handling bank, to PTP XVIII and PTP VI. These
funds would be used to develop each area of block planted rubber through Year
3, at which time development expenditures made by the PTPs would be translated
into standardized credit amounts for individual settlers in credit agreements
with BRI. Loans to the smallholders would be for 15 years in the case of
Danau Salak new settlers, and 16 years for smallholders in Rimbo Bujang,
including a three-year grace period, with repayment starting in the seventh
year after planting. Interest would be at 10.5% p.a. with capitalization of
interest during the grace period.  The GOI would bear the risk of default on
all funds on-lent to smallholders.
53.       Estate Components ($68.0 million).  Expansion of PNP I ($50.5 million)
and for PTP XVIII ($17.5 million) would be financed from self-generated funds
of both estates (US$12 million) and by funds onlent to PNP I ($42.5 million)
and PTP XVIII ($13.5 million) from Bank Indonesia under separate subsidiary
loan agreements. Both loans would be for a 12-year period, including six
years of grace, and repayable in 12 semi-annual annuities starting January 1,
1986. Interest would be 13.5% p.a. and would be payable from the date of
signing of the subsidiary loan agreements.
Cost Recovery
54.       Since BRI has had little experience in lending for smallholder
tree crop dievelopment and no facilities for credit operations in the
project areas, the Government: has proposed the adoption of a flexible cost
/1 Costs in this section are quoted in current prices and include price and
physical contingencies.



- 20 -
recovery system with repayments by smallholders "in kind", the same
procedure as in Loans 1499-IND and 1604-IND. Loan accounts in financial
terms would be standardized for all smallholders but would be payable in dry
rubber collected by the nucleus estate processing the rubber. Collection of
rubber for debt service would amount to about 25% of annual rubber production
during the first 13 years of rubber production. The price received by
smallholders for the rubber would be 70% of the f.o.b. value, allowing the
nucleus estate to cover its processing, marketing, collection and overhead
charges. With these debt service arrangements, about 80% of smallholder
development costs would be recovered.
Procurement
55.       All agricultural machinery and vehicles ($19.4 million), fertilizers
and agrochemicals ($19.6 million) and processing plant machinery and equipment
($12.2 million) would be procured through international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference equal to 15% of
the c.i.f. cost, or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to
qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Miscellaneous
equipment and workshop tools ($1.3 million) and small lots of agrochemicals
costing less than $100,000 annually ($1.4 million) would be procured locally
following prudent shopping procedures after obtaining at least three price
quotations. All civil works contracts for housing, project buildings and
related infrastructure ($15.3 million) would be awarded after bidding locally
advertised in accordance with Government procedures which are acceptable to
the Bank. Rubber and oil palm development (excluding agrochemicals, machinery
and equipment) which involves the integrated service of labor and machinery
would be carried out by the estates.
Disbursements
56.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against: (a) 70% of total
expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% of the cost of agrochemicals and 50%
of the c.i.f. cost of urea; (c) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly
imported agricultural and processing plant machinery, vehicles and equipment,
95% of the ex-factory cost of equipment manufactured locally, and 65% of the
cost of imported farm equipment purchased locally; (d) 65% of rubber develop-
ment expenditures for the smallholders and 20% of the rubber and oil palm
development expenditures for the estate components; (e) 65% of the resettle-
ment costs for new settlers and 60%, for resettled estate labor; and (f) 100%
of the cost of all consultancy services and of expenditures for housing,
nurseries, and machinery for future NES project preparation. About $1.2
million would be disbursed retroactively for expenditures incurred since
November 1, 1978 for the project start-up activities (para. 4(a) to Schedule 1
of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 21 -
57.       The completion of a satisfactory Financing Agreement between Bank
Indonesia and BRI, and satisfactory Subfinancing Agreements between BRI and
PTP XVIII and PTP VI, would be conditions of disbursement for the respective
smallholier components (paras. 4(b)(ii) and 4(c)(ii) of Schedule 1 to the
draft Loan Agreement). The signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between
Bank Indonesia and PNP I and PTP XVIII would be a condition of disbursement
for each of these estate development components (paras. 4(d) and 4(e) of
Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement). Signing of Smallholder Rubber
Development Agreements between the DGE and PTP XVIII and PTP VI to specify
work to be carried out for smallholder development in a form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank would be conditions of disbursement for smallholder
*       components (paras. 4(b)(i) and 4(c)(i) of Schedule 1 to draft the Loan
Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
58.       At full development in 1995, following completion of the project,
rubber and food crops would be produced on 50,000 ha, of which 38,000 ha
would represent new land development on unutilized secondary forest and
lalang grass areas. The project would directly benefit 12,000 smallholder
families (or about 60,000 people) in the rural target population; about 4,000
of these families would be new transmigrants from Java. It would generate
some 30,000 permanent jobs in agriculture plus an estimated 6,000 jobs in
trade, services, etc., thus bringing the total employment generated by the
project to 36,000. A total of 64,000 mt of rubber would be produced at full
development of which about 40,000 mt would come from new settlements and
smallholdings. Incremental production of palm oil from PNP I would be about
14,000 mt. Food crop production from project smallholders is expected to be
about 12,000 mt. The total value of all project incremental production would
be about $76.5 million p.a. (f.o.b. constant 1979 prices).
59.       Nel: family incomes after debt service would grow from about $320
(constant 1979 prices) at project start-up to over $1,000 by year 15 for
Rimbo Bujang smallholders, and from about $400 in year one of the project to
over $1,400 by year 15 for Danau Salak smallholders. These incomes levels
are sufficiently attractive to encourage active settler participation and to
ensure debt recovery. Non-quantifiable benefits include improved health and
sanitation, the nutritional status of smallholders, improved transportation,
and the multiplier effects on the regional economy of local capital formation
and increased levels of consumption expenditure.  Additionally, taxes from
PNP I and PTP XVIII accruing to the Government over the entire life of the
project would amount to over $650 million. The economic rate of return would
be 19% for t]ne Danau Salak new settlement, 14% for the Rimbo Bujang smallholder
scheme, 31% for PNP I, and 28%' for the PTP XVIII and components. The overall
rate of return would be 29%.
Risks
60.       Experience to date with the First Nucleus Estates and Smallholders
Development Project (Loan 1499-IND) shows no evidence of specific technical
or economic risks. There have been delays, however, in project implementation
as a result of difficulties relating to budget preparation and subsequent fund
releases, and inadequate coordination of project activities. The following



- 22 -
adjustments have been made to minimize these problems under the present
project: overall responsibility for all financial matters would rest with the
Directorate General of Estates, the present staff of the DGE who are
responsible for project implementation would be strengthened and re-organized,
the nucleus estates would have full responsibility for the smallholder
components, and the Government would allocate start-up funds for the project
in advance.
Ecology
61.       The project design calls for the introduction of rubber on steeply
sloping areas where the use of standard soil conservation practices,
a leguminous ground cover and the tree canopy would prevent erosion and
increase soil fertility. This reforestation with productive tree crops would
replace large areas of lalang, a weed which is particularly destructive to
soil nutrients. Food cropping would be confined to flat and gently undulating
lands on individual farm holdings rather than the destructive pattern of
shifting cultivation presently used in the project areas. The new rubber and
palm oil factories would occupy a relatively small area and would not be sited
in the vicinity of residential areas. Appropriate national standards for
the disposal of liquid effluent to ensure the health and safety of factory
employees would be met.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment s                                          by Ernest Stern
July 23, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -
ANNEX I
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                          Page  1  of  5
INDONESIA                   REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ EM.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTA L          2027.1                                                    SAMlE        SAME     KEElr HIGHER
ACRICULTIJRAL    292.9                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAl?ITA (USS)                  90.0        140.0     300.0            450.6      181.9        430.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRA11s OF COAL EquIVALENT)     129.0       120.0      218.0           371.1        83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      94.7       117.6      133.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.6          17.1      18.4             27.4       16.2         24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULArION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       207.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         357.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHE8                   2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        47.0        58.0       66.0           154.8        49.4        45.3
PER Sq. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    337.0        419.0      456.0           566.7       252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                          40.8        44.0       41.0            41.3        43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                         56.1         53.5      56.0             54.9        53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.1         2.5        3.0             3.3         3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.1         2.2        1.8             2.4         2.4         2.7
URBAN                               ..          3.7        3.3             4.3         4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      47.0        43.0       37.0            30.2        42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.0        18.0       16.0             8.3        15.9        11.7
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.a         3.2        2.4             2.1         2.9          2.7
FAMILY FLANNING
ACCEPIORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       181.1    2213.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          0.2       19.0            34.1        12.2        13.2
POOD AND SUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER C/PITA (1969-71-100)           96.5       100.0      105.0           106.2        98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SL'PPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   89.0         91.0      98.0            104.1        93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0         43.0      43.8             57.4        52.1        54.3
OF V'HICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       15.0/f      14.0       16.6            16.9        13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      31.0        22.0       19.0             4.8        18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.0         46.0      48.0             61.1        49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TdOUSANI)                              ..       126.0        ..             46.6       105.4        68.1
ACCESS 7ro SAPE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULAT]:ON)
TOTAL                                ..         3.0       12.0            21.9        26.3        34.4
URBAN                                ,.        10.0       35.0            46.2        58.5        57.9
RURAL                                ..         1.0        6.0            12.8        15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPUL.ATION)
TOTAL                                ..        12.0       15.0            28.4        16.0        40.8
URBAN                                ..        50.0       60.0            65.0        65.1        71.3
RURAL                                *-         4.0        5.0            14.7         3.5        27.7
POPULAT'ION PER PHYSICIAN         41000.0/g   26830.0   16430.0           3790.5    1139b.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      8010.0    4670.0           1107.4      5552.4      1522.1
POPULAT ION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1370.0      1670.0    1560.0            613.3      1417.1       726.5
URBAN                                ..      1130.0         ..           203.6       197.3       272.7
RlURAlL                             ..       1890.0         ..          1110.3      2445.9      1404.4
AIIDISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..           ..      22.4             23.9       24.8         27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.4         4.8         ..             5.2         5.3         5.4
LURA                               A.9           _          ..              ..          .9          S.1I
PURAL                               4.3         4.7         ..              .,         5.4         5.5
AVERACE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                           1.5         ..
URSAN                                ..         1.6         ..
RURAL                                ..         1.6         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..        63.5         ..               ..       22.5        28.1
IMIsAw                                         75.5          ...                      17.8        45.1
RIURAL                                         39.1                                    7 8        4 9.9



- 24 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyEXAGES
INDONESIA                      - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOKE        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 67.0         75.0       82.0             97.9       63.3         82.7
MALE                  79.0         80.0      86.0             98.7        79.1         87.3
FEHALE                55.0        70.0       77.0             97.4        48.4         75.8
SECONhDARY:   TOTAL                 6.0         15.0       20.0             42.2       16.7         21.4
MALE                  10.0         20.0      25.0             46.7        22.1         33.0
FEMALE                 3.0         11.0      15.0             40.9        10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (T OF SECONDARY)  20.0          22.0       21.0             12.5         5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRI2/ARY                           39.0         29.0       30.0             32.5       41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                          14.0         13.0       18.3             25.8       21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        39.0         57.0       62.0             84.1        31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0          2.0        3.2              6.1        2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0           ..      37.0             84.4        27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          0.7        2.0            22.4         2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..          ..       16.0             24.2         5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        0.9              3.6         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    34027.0       42209.0   51000.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   27.9         31.0      30.5             36.7        24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              74.8         66.3       60.1             54.6       69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  8.4          9.7      12.0             16.3        10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.7         35.3       34.6             40.7       36.9         37.1
MALE                                  54.2        49.5       48.6             49.9        52.4        48.8
FEMALE                               20.0         21.6       20.8             31.0       18.0         20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2         1.3        1.1              1.1         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         33.7/h       ..             14.9         ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          52.0/h       ..             46.8         ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         6.8/h       ..              6.2         ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        17.37W       *-             16.8         ..         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      190.0            193.1       99.2        241.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..      117.0            128.7        78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      125.0            136.8       91.9        179.7
RURAL                                ..           ..       88.0             9.8        54.8        103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       59.0             32.0       44.1         24.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..       65.0             52.5       53.9         37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
It    lAst Asia 6 Pacific;   /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976),   /e  Lower middle Income ($281-550
per capita. 1976);   /f  1961-63;  /L  1962;   /h  Income recipients.
IMy, 1979



-25 -                                                         ANEX I
Page 3 of 5
MrP~rfi0iel of SOCIAL ftDICAT0O"
.toot    Atohoosh th. data 'to  dt.n  Ion  s-Ct.. gasaiyfdgad tic. aa  auhtisiaad  -os.lchia, Ic  toud si.o  h. total that tha  say not ha i-trn-
tonal ly onpatab Ia t.scaoa. of tho  look of aoandec~~dt.od:4 Irit too1~.:I1 -c otpa   odb    fat ctcct-i.a  It coil.' 0" It'h. dote.  Tho dal..1,tothl
Tho  dotdaooaeao   for aao 6   ditoaota-    popotattot-taahtsd1 gaitt                           .a aIaIo  .  aitoo   nolas  o  to  tcloo     and oth, .oa  paniatd
sotatoy  to esob trot..  loot to look of  ata, group aaara5aaof all ledicatots  fr Capital Soepiut Ol fopoetat. aod of  odlootorc  of icon...",oIter and soorst
LA.    Alffioan           sq. hl                                                               kof oatssdeos   etato   tualn       oa.oht  n
Toa .     Ttl..i.ara...tn   ad  raao   nan    onn                                              otl-ttStf    opafota                   nhn   ndforl   orn    y  artad.
LOD REA(II,to    :tootH: orcan  adtca.c   gtoirlat   sdtsoaty                                   ptlaapaatgoo   t.I   tpcioppltoa                                  ott         di.-a
Alia  fo,lo                                                                                   has..t0-0.-0fand   aatL-to.ar by not-hornaatr -5  o  lit. dusa of                 I
C"?PE APER        ' CAPITorAplaOs  aasaooenratanpla.looaoto   oraa.ttn-Ppoaln   llddhriaha                                                                      tfhroico.        tyi
IShI. 1970  and  .977data.                                                          nela linfsat nrIna- aes.i    PpdictI.t diio   h   ot                t  fpaciii
lhRyCfhhtg  rh  9: Ct      Io-to        tncpItio   of c aria   soty  moat                PnenItatn   Pec h-onPIa, bd-ttl.hradroaI-Pptto                                  ttl
Totol totolactot. old-toot ftlillcna   - t-I of  P-l  ', it.0  1970,  ad9nar  All not tolude .d. tal oeot.  hoontei                       ,   nlud I  hpaih so,dnd-
a.toncootIt  1960,  (1970 andJly1,190 19750dta.                                           ltsaloa no  Phoatcil.hd-Tttoohto  athbio-.P             id tioa t  cJc,.j  Ite_-dtgo
ant .ini  i to otpa  oltIct 0   birh...oa. n fflob cnoetoy."I   p 4 apta-          ahnte- l   oaLeti f.a .troo  o-   , odf- ido ptal tohear  lbInqca
Pt-ttolocal. ilY         20   to C. Itt .l.I      .                  btotnriablllgc7.5ya..  andI chopIr sl  telsi.d cy thsrdabr   fb.d.o.a   rernnkaOtlddI   h
Iho  pa-yttaifo  trt11c  tt  a                    .ht     I ecloat olo   dau tine,               ianoal   Ifoh ..a..lc h.L porp.t.s
inttliyacdt "Cc  mono1 ian   n    ottrlnpinn   IPot'                            Acosoota   Ocnnpa   ontclIht  ndrri-douocnt
on ui- tin and  art ii t'if rnd   o  poe tin   ltPO 5 .rnattai.TiIlotecicdp to-p  rnnn d                                                       rtton    nd00c po   pt
he  itc   rte  . eua  ccthada thtac,  td  lt  th-geCnIn bn    ulln.a-haicottc   nIdro   qualconpahat purodttaga  of
nbf=st etc Imat -III tO  n  he  an   -f otoprfocta-car-te-a-to  o  te                                                                                              --to ad  ndilon.caIo
00 rplacnato oral                                                                    no   ofAll aOat t.rh.prctar  larlao   ercetato  ofensprcio   ptttah
,Per,c  Ae.  a            20c00ota .la d   h- r Cnc.Oafahd.ctl onioor        ad             tI    oucea    eatfo    are of.1 appora   ltoot  Icartort: Icc: ptId
icoatcaei  . otctao-ftido    oI   aos.atltst                                             1  to h 17g yeats. of.aa. rotnpodotorost  t                   .tdc  i  sorlodod,.
oarf          atn    9f190ad  9    at                                                        ehnoi  ldnotl   r  ce pdo-arn   htc   Cp..   Odpcdeooo
P.,lo ton otono  to ti ...     trrp...1  coat   Ot-  o kitoIIStates  ot.r. totlLapaan-o   of thc  ffd ciy -t h-lorboo
nId-psa.r.pool  toioSt-16                         n    97-7                                oI - iachrta  to - etat -1 and too  ndat -  Top tat utodeoc    ..ct            d lt  c dc
Population oro-i utorot      latndt - - C   -d  Abno-  ftont  cOO          I ohn             piayadso  notlcl                      4dbtocado   eahc    ttacca
prpiaOlotc  fOr  550-2. 19,0->. ard  197~~~~0-75 1                              2.. ap 1d7 leel.I f       -rpd-I.....g-Iy-1.d
Stt   ac    _o12-oo)110Srhapr drin   of_                                      Adult lIterar  taco. II-rrc---  Lfcc o-dolts - hotora   nod 1                attlott
Cooo dathtot   car0  1970 -o d  1-t9oc7  daatht par -ohhouaoodr ofic aid--d-
yast popolac ton; ISo . ~~~195r0   60 7970- data.                               COittoty_t_Plo-to
Spree toptdotlot-        e-rt......        otof  a..tesatonnh           11  hoa              ,,!  IIlr Poasaconeptori  ot   thoa d tlaton   - Tanrotoot  r           -pIse1oecoc
Feoinolaccc-are  tri   ooa If honarnt- cco In,oho  ofdradatorpotto   phl o   er  hoead cc poplatot  soc loencc 1000
accop dethrsaoth cot-or orl ,,doloa --dtaI ploe   ofnard tona  fitld-oco    ncroii  n   nts,oo   ol caino   al                                                                st
ecatotad nocon ri rhtld-Saitttg -at   fI-cer r-h- Io -a,  birt-cnro Tbetoo-fo  oh.....d potoloto -r   -  P ....elre-  tot- Irodottogeer
decloet coo II nartiad rotor It son  age pgroup,                                  pub.. t  tlRIc.po  thoon   popoht  ton-  ocrIlden  onbiloonca   h.etora.t.      con
F000.0itltT0                                                                                ttl-tooottcca t-nrea -hc                rth.ooattn  - PShone th   roeo d           ro
hOto  fr   ro _ _lo   o  ott  riOho-_d aI0.        -ldn  fptcpt ..on.otidalyfgenera  ttrae esttaoI paph-                                            f o  o daau trdcolp
ontalprooclt  f  ll  ro  codiia.   Podcoln  tolods tede fdcaIo   deroon frnai   t y.reoottSnc.                               os    tl   oadcdc
toad at PIHi-orcloo    erhot.fdca    aa  potat  goods                                        ho  'dotty'd ItoIt  po-     natlas   oo   lot
tag   itgatac  locea   otcoacorhlh 00  dISe ad  Ooitnotttttt Cleno anualscottuoc  ae colg  oa  occ-ano   onthooreTa  oftloot
ot.  .  tt ta aci  ia oe atlredr     Agrsote podotlocof  sohcounry  nldduo og  he   oot  tn ltdtogadtlsn otato  olceIn tIeae  ad ahtt
to boond on tatonti ooacapo  prodotot poice aaighte .  roicT.'ob.
dPta  aIt  ecct  or ralotced     tItrt  or te-picOtObcicdI-rfoaputod.tot..
etotcctcqoioalant of too  trod irpolloc  acallotlo  Itruocoto  pat capita  i.azog tort~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
qoto. ted      otOi  forfp-osipto - aod69  I osn   it0  Idlit Ihoi         . On-             t tooiIn crtcoAoototisa'dttInttblt
fa.ols  000o dt-.tt ft-    otdt -                    Ptotitn  content ot- patelctic to i, c                       pcac an    Ita asprnad ofctlahtOt.
catt e   otit-o  rod  pot  ha     h tot  doblco  toad  it.tit   0               Ptl e       L     I-nrac :r n p.rt  -poctl p- -nie  ad  twlaPat   Ips f                - o
shr.    acctntc    otal     oc-etaotIiha   y  hd  oodaft                                 olat    nin00    nptd.stta-Isl  -adIo, I   abrfooa
o otohata olin anti of if dtdst   of  ota   prtei par Oar- and 10A I ar-           potnigosn iotah         .tl   ndcta    pool clot-of  ll a=oa   repotbionlv
t  A, ntoTItn   rtl  roo   _oire.                                                       arolec    ntIona
Per atfa ooOoncocfntoo atyd  it  tue  -  toiia  uppr o  icd     tonolo  o           pLden .e tat to - ta ticofpoultio   aide  I..sod hic aD. io   n
deordtrt'  ctac   ,  tlaioortc   rtda.thelbe  oo  I   g  gopa  1-4 rst,,,
Chld'Ot  7Arctt  IIt   at  'u  cotad r-tnaI.....      t        rtou-b                   iftgTcl
and   cac  gorp  t-oeac .crohldtn  lohtago  Ottt;  fonoa  N centne o  ecracococon   bth   ntasandtndroeotcadraihAi
daceirirgoci.ooio  Ost  ditita  tonitta   ailot
':Id   II                                   F- 1~~~~~~~aran.   oI.cha-t 20 L p.b0.poreo  26I opIn. adfoes  40 pefneIo
cit 0179                                                                                of honothoidp.   -          ..        --     .,                             I     It
t,inll",coc o   "irc dioersr-oroooga oconcatat-  ..ad o11t If  ana
itt at cloth    At,f  7._ shIdI  Io   o1a.P dt-lhTitiF   000                                               .b           --It
Lt,.ottft   ar    e   ronr,-  rtol    -coniOfns   ca                                    acoa-ah,ttrrococor   e-itn    erala  -ctoan                                    doa 
P"cc rPicdt.1acccsriba totpott-tnr.tolrltaha                                                                                      itroee l    Ieft,t,a,ooItte
acd  anltamn  -I).,.  porcottara. or irectrrcporg~~Id  ppLaton.              pr.,.It.o          o   ot Icnao         ta  It1-at  1-. toifc  rose oho rura
Or7TItr      _ot              I:.occ,toeoot haotu-hi taartrl                              1ti9a60    e.o170l.tt975hol,na achIte .rrtt 11.0%      t p-ttrel t.  -e ot'.tcI      lan
S3          .et ,-Ir 'p-terI,a        ..... .  h   "t .tr ld do cot..wAe cr-port
1K pr't.,tc',o,.a  rict rr tho Oat to  otchIno  tho ~~rd.nl pr.aato     b,sIl-                                               corp.ti., sod 7d,I tat  or,
FO  1.  h. Thfid  -Id 1. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~rot rS.---                                            ourt  ac oto .frO'tr
f..d    Ic~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.t o



- 26-                                   ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GRO'TIH (l, constant piices)
US$ Mln.        %                         1960-65            l965-70         1971-77
GNP at Market Prices           44,386        100.0                           1.9                4.9            7.6
Gross Domestic Investment       8,667         19.5                           3.3               11.5           13.4
Gross National Saving           8,448         19.0                           5.8                5.1           16.9
Current Account Balance       -   725      -   1.6
Exports ofI Goods, NFS          7,592          17.1                          1.5                7.8           10.0
Igports of Goods, NFS           7,489         16.9                          0.2                10.9           18.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY Ih 1976
2/
Valve Added                    Labor Force-                    V. A. Per lWorker
US$ Yan.    _                     Min.                             US $ -         f
Agriculture                    11,624       31.1                  35.3      62.6                   329          49.7
Industry                       12,672       33.9                   4.7       8.3                 2,696         407.3
Services                       13,043       35.0                  13.4      23.8                   973         147.0
Unallocated                      -            -                    3.0       5.3
Total/Average
37,339     100.0                  56.4     100.0                   662         100.0
GOVERNMENT FrIA NCE
CENTRAL GOVERNM1ENT
(Rp. Billior.  % of GDP
1976/77             1977/78                           197G                  1977
Current Receipts               2,877                3,535                            18.6                  18.6
Current Expenditure            1,610               2,149                             10.4         .. 11.'
Current Svrplus                1,267                1.387                             8.2 ..
Capital Expenditures           2,044                2,157                            13.2                  11.3
External Assistance (net)        784                  773                             5.0                   4.0
MODNEY, CREDIT and PRICES                   19i2          1973         1974         1975         1976         1977
( vllion Rp  outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                        695           987        1,452        1,978        2,631        3,147
Bank credit to Public Sector                 129           153          209          990        1,051          865
Bank Credit to Private Sector                524           932        1,186        1,376        1,737        2,063
(Percentages or Index Numbers.)
Money and Quasi lMoney as % of GDP            15.2          14.6         14.8         16.3         17.0         16.5
General Price Index (1966 = 100)             807         1,028        1,370        1,640        1,873        2,094
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                           25.7          27.4         33.3         19.7         14.2         11.8
Bank credit tc Public Sector                 -14.0          18.6         36.6        473.7         -6.2        -17.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                 65.3          77.9         27.2         16.0         26.2         18.8
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 415 - US$1
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not ayailable
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
February 28, 1979



ANNEX I
- 27 -                         Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FI'WS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1975      19'76     1977 (Provisional)                                      US $ Hln    %
(Milli7ons US $)
Exports:                        4.738   6,18:3    7,592                  Oil                                  2,906      57.1
Oil (net)                     2,921   3,567    4,243                   Timber                                 605      11.9
Non oil                       1,817   2,216    3,349                   Rubber                                 461       9.1
Imports                        -5,533  -6,35:2  -_7489                   Palm Oil                                117       2.3
Resource Gap                 -  795  -  169         103                Tin                                    107       2.1
Factor service:                -  462  -  646   -  828                   Coffee                                 104       2.0
Interest                     -  178  -362i   -  473
Investment Income            -  284 -  284   -  355                     Al11 other commodities                791      15.5
'Balance on Current Account  -1,257  -  87-  -  7=                              Total                         5,09      100,0
Direct Foreign Investment         497      329        286               EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1977
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                2,?95   2,327      1,988                                                              US $ Mln
Amortization                -  322  -  625   -  826
Subtotal                     2,C073   1,702     1,162                  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                 11,391
Capital Grants                                        .lon-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)            -2,250  -  205   )474                      Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i              -   46  -  604   )                                                     I/ 2/
Increase in Reserves (+)    -  983         736    1,197                 DEIIT SERVICE RATIO for 19771  -
Gross Reserves (end year)         590   1,494    2,494
Net Reserves   (end year)         490   1,226    2,423                     :ublic Debt, incl. guaranteed                17.1
lion-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Rela-ed Materials                                                'notal outstanding & Disbursed
Irfoorts                         93      119        28
of' which:  Petroleum          89      114        26
Exports
of which:  Petroleum        2,S21   3,567    4,243           IBRD/IDA LENDING,  (May 31, 1979) (Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                               IBRD          IDA
2/                Outstaitding & Disbursed                 654.4      512.1
Throu,jh $P. 17 GO =Since  -                      419717            Undisbttrsed                           1,3406       189.3
Us $ 1. 00= p-- 37 j             T$ 1.00  R7p 415                   Otttdn   nl              nibre          ,9.          0.
Rp  10 = US $2.67              PF   lQ00 = US $2.41                 t
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Expotts of Goods and Non-Factor Services. with oil exports on a net- basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies)
2/ Since 11/15/78
US$ 1.00 = Rp 625
Rp  1000 = USS 1.60
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Prog-:ms
May 31, 1979



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of May 31, 1979)
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year                Purpose                       Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
One Loan and twenty Credits fully disbursed                50.0  287.1        -
220     1971    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                    14.5      0.2
259     1971    Tea                                                15.0      0.5
289     1972    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                   12.5      0.2
300     1972    Population                                         13.2      2.7
318     1972    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                  8.5       1.7
319     1972    Fourth Agricultural Estates                        11.0      1.9
355     1973    Beef Cattle Development                             3.6      0.2
358     1973    North Sumatra Smallholder Development               5.0      0.8
387     1973    Third Education                                    13.5      4.4
399     1973    West Java Thermal Power                           46.0       3.6
400     1973    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                  7.8      6.2
405     1973    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                     50.0       0.7
428     1974    Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                      16.5      9.9
436     1974    Private Development Finance Co.  of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                              10.0       0.7
451     1974    Fourth Technical Assistance                        5.0       1.8
479     1974    Bali Tourism                                       16.0      9.9
480     1974    Fisheries Credit                                   6.5       1.8
514     1975    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                    30.0      21.6
785     1978    Small Enterprise Development Project              40.0      31.7
827     1978    Rural Credit                                      30.0      29.8
869     1979    Polytechnic                                       49.0      49.0
898     1979    Fifth Technical Assistance /a                      10.0     10.0
1005    1974    Railway                                    48.0              3.2
1040    1975    Jakarta Urban Development                  25.0              2.4
1049    1975    Five Cities Water Supply                   14.5              6.9
1089    1975    Second Fertilizer Expansion               115.0              1.2
1100    1975    Sixth Irrigation                           65.0             47.3
1127    1975    Fourth Power                               41.0              3.6
1139    1976    Fertilizer Distribution                    68.0              1.1
1179    1976    Agricultural Research & Extension          21.5             18.0
1197    1976    National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.0              8.4
1236    1976    Fourth Highway                            130.0             96.9



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal.                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year                 Purpose                        Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1237    1976    Fourth Education                             37.0               30.8
1250    1976    Second Shipping                              54.0               45.4
1254    1976    Third Fertilizer Expansion                   70.0               12.7
1259    1976    Fifth Power                                  90.0               62.3
1267    1976    National Food Crops Extension                22.0               14.3
1268    1976    Seventh Irrigation                           33.0               19.9
1318    1977    Transmigration. and Rural
Development                              30.0               21.5
1336    1977    Second Urban Development                     52.5               19.6
1337    1977    Tanjung Priok Port                           32.0               22.1
1363    1977    Second Private! Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                               15.0               11.0
1365    1977    Sixth Power                                 116.0               82.6
1373    1977    Nutrition Development                        13.0               12.7
1433    1977    Teacher Training-Fifth Education             19.0               17.8
1434    1977    Eighth Irrigation                            63.0               60.2
1435    1977    Ninth Irrigation                             35.0               29.4
1437    1977    Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO IIIt)                           40.0               22.9
1472    1977    Second Population                            24.5               23.0
1486    1978    Non-Formal Education                         15.0               14.2
1499    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I           65.0               59.8
1513    1978    Seventh Power                               109.0              108.4
S 009   1978    Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport
Engineering                               10.0                8.3
1578    1978    Tenth Irrigation                            140.0              136.2
1579    1978    Eleventh Irrigation                          31.0               28.5
1604    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II          65.0               65.0
1645    1979    Irrigation XII                               77.0               77.0
1653    1979    Third Urban Development /a                   54.0               54.0
1691    197SI   Irrigation XIII /a                           50.0               50.0
1692    1979    Second Agricultural Training /a              42.0               42.0
Total                                            19995.0  701.4   1,529.9
oi- which has been repaid                         17.6    0.1
Total now outstanding;                           1,972.4  701.3
Amount sold                                         28.2    0.0
Total now held by Banik and IDA /b               1,944.2  701.3
Total undisbursed                                1,340.6  189.3   1,529.9
/a Not yet effective.
/b  Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of May 31, 1979)
Fiscal                               Type of                    US$ million
Year         Obligor                  business            Loan    Equity    Total
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               10.6      2.5        13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                  Textiles              2.5      0.8        3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia              Textiles              2.0      0.5        2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                 2.8      0.4        3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.           Textiles              4.5      1.5         6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0      -         11.0
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                5.4     0.7         6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia              Textiles              2.0      0.3        2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics           0.9       -         0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles              2.4     0.6         3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                5.0      1.5        6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.           Textiles              0.3       -          0.3
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles              1.4     0.1         1.5
Total                                               50.8    10.5         61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                  29.9      1.8       31.7
Total held by IFC                                    20.9     8.7        29.6
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)          -       -           -



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20 pages
C. ]?ROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Agriculture                                                                  Pages
Irrigation (Cr. 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,
1579, 1645 and 1691/2)                                         5-6
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400, 405,
480, Ln. 1318, 1499, 1604 and 1707)        6-9
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                            9-10
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                   10
Education (Cr. 387, 869, Ln. 1237, 1433, 1486 and 1692/2)                    10-12
Energy (Cr. 399, 1127, 1259, 1365, 1513 and 1708/2)                          13-14
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                  14
IndustriEal Estates (Cr. 428)                                              14
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1363, 1437 and 1703/2)                  15
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9)                                                      15
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                          15-16
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                       16
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451, 898/2 and Ln. 1197)                           16-17
Transportal:ion
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                         17
Highways (Ln. 1236 and 1696/2)                                             17-18
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                    18
Ports (Lni. 1337)                                                          18
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                            19
Urban Development (Ln. 1040, 1336 and 1653/2)                                19-20
Water Suppky (Ln. 1049 and 1709/2)                                           20
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
/2 Not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and late awarding of the
first construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the
project schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977
and contracts for over 70% of the project works have been let. Based on bid
prices for the first contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of
detailed design, total project cost is now estimated to be about 140%
over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but
construction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. The two largest contracts have still not been let.
Substantial cost overruns are anticipated due to unavoidable major changes in
the design of the Sampean Baru dam and unit price increases in other compo-
nents. These will be verified as bids are received for the major contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have engaged the consultants. Construc-
tion is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary development areas, and
studies being funded under the project are expected to be completed shortly.
The mapping program is progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead
of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
Disbursements are somewhat ahead of schedule, and the project is
being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
While delays have arisen due to inadequate mapping in the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung area, the project is ahead of schedule and progressing satis-
factorily. Some tender documents have been prepared and contracts are
expected to be let this year. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  US$140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Initial delays in hiring consultants and in preparing tender
documents are slipping the start of project construction behind the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  US$31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to uniforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  US$77 Million Loan of December 29,
1978. Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 19134.
Consultant contracts are being finalized and a smooth start to
project implementation is being made. The Loan has just been declared
effective.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  US$51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Not yet effective; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
T'his loan has not yet been declared effective.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective Date:
September 17, 1971; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completion, but factory capacity still has to be expanded
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent. Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above appraisal
estimate, but the economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over
20%.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be good, with planting of
rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,000 ha (originally 11,400 ha). The



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20 pages
remaining area to be planted is about 3,500 ha, of which 2,300 ha have been
cleared and are ready for planting. Technical problems exist in processing
and equipment maintenance, but construction of the oil palm mill will be
accelerated and additional capacity for crumb rubber production will also be
provided. Profitability and cost of development at PNP X are satisfactory,
while the capital structure of PNP X is to be improved during the course of
the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND). PNP X is
also participating in the Transmigration and Rural Development Project
(Loan 1318-IND).
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Several problems seriously delayed project implementation. The
Government's budget allocation was insufficient, and financial management and
coordination were weak. Changes in the scope and design of the project,
from one of breeding and fattening of beef cattle for export to that of
production of improved cattle for domestic sale as draft and breeding
animals, were approved by the Executive Directors in June 1977. The project
was reviewed in November 1977 and May 1978 and is now being implemented
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 358   North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.
Credit No. 400   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Since smallholders and estates prefer a heavier concentration on
replanting and less on rehabilitation, the mix had to be changed, thereby
reducing the overall area from 13,200 ha to about 10,200 ha. Although
production will not be affected, since yields from replanted tea are higher
than from rehabilitated tea, costs will exceed appraisal estimates by about
77%, since replanting is more expensive than rehabilitation and costs have



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20 pages
generally increased because of inflation. Delays were experienced in imple-
menting the institutional framework for long-term lending, a new venture for
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). Because of this, and difficulties in involving
the private estates in the project, disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates. A major review of the project is currently being undertaken by the
Resident Staff in Indonesia. While the project has experienced difficulties,
it is estimated that, because of the project-induced spin-off effects, an
area at least equal in size to the project is being improved. Over 500
farmers' groups have been formed to improve tea production supported by a
project training program presently involving nearly 4,000 farmers. These
developments have been helped by a surge in tea prices (2-1/2 times appraisal
estimates). Considerable investment in factory and field development is
taking place outside the project, largely financed by short- and medium-tern
loans from BRtI and by private investors.
Credit No. 405   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The rehabilitation of two sugar factories and the construction
of one new factory, financed by the Credit, have been completed on schedule
and trial runis are taking place. The research part of the project is slow in
materializing; the sugar research station still requires a major consultant
input. The two PTPs involved in the rehabilitation process are both in a
particularly weak financial position, and this problem requires attention.
The Government has started an evaluation of the financial status of the
industry, but progress of this study is slow.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
After some initial delays, the overall project is now about 18 months
behind schedule. Construction of shore facilities at Ambon is virtually
completed. Boat construction is under way and all related equipment is on
site, ready for installation. While the quality of fishpond lending has
suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action taken by Bank Rakyat
Indonesia is gradually improving the situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind ap-
praisal estiLmates, partly because of the initial delay in project effective-
ness and weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 1,300
migrant families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing
food crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate fertilizer
supplies and poor seed supply, although one third to one half originates from
construction and rubber planting. These incomes are substantially above



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20 pages
incomes the transmigrants received in Java. As evidence of the relative
attraction of the Baturaja community, 485 spontaneous settlers have already
been attracted to the site. In the existing settled area at Way Abung, there
has been little improvement in incomes because fertilisers are not available
on site and delayed road construction limits marketing of cash crops. Experi-
ence to date highlights the need for improving project management and ensuring
that agricultural support services and input supply systems are in place as
settlement proceeds.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of November 18, 1977; Effective Date:  January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project's overall physical progress has been generally good but
unequal. While in some areas the planting program substantially exceeded
the target, in others it remained behind schedule, but recently, energetic
measures have been taken to make up for the delays. Housing, roads and
village development is behind schedule but preparations are under way which
should accelerate implementation in the forthcoming months.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan has recently become effective.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  US$157 Million Loan and Credit of June 1,
(Cr. No. 919)   1979; Not yet effective; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985.
This project has not yet been declared effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension I: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Due to prolonged negotiations over selection and terms and condi-
tions of employment of consultants, including architects and engineers, the
project is about 18 months behind the appraisal implementation estimates.
Design of all civil works has been completed, construction of extension
information centers is progressing well and expected to be completed in FY79,
and the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) plans to let
contracts for the remaining civil works shortly. At the present projected
pace of implementation all components, except fellowships, could be completed
by the Closing Date.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension; US$22 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective! Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created. Ap-
pointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project director-
ate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional Assistant
Directors. Civil works have been resumed and, after recent approval of
prefinancing requests for 197,7-78, the training program has been started.
Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing difficulties
and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with supporting documen-
tation for equipment and furniture. The new procedure for prefinancing
(outlined by the Finance Ministry in October 1978) is expected to help solve
the problem and speed up projeact implementation and disbursement.
AG1O-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785  Small Enterprise Development:  US$40.0 Million Credit
of April 7, 1'978; Effective Date:  August 17, 1978;  Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
This credit became effective on August 17, 1978. Despite start-up
difficulties, Bank Indonesia (BI) is making good progress in revising lending
procedures and establishing new lending approaches to serve the medium-term
credit needs of small entrepreneurs. Training of BI and handling bank staff
is progressing and preparation for studies is on schedule.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: US$30.0 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallhold-
ers, primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical
assistance t:o Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. BRI,
the implementing agency, is in the process of evaluating proposals for
project consultancy and preparing the lending program for the first year
(April 1, 1979 to March 30, 1980).
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387   Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks in four subjects, and related in-service training
for 350,000 primary school teachers and 2,800 supervisory personnel. About



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20 pages
90 million project books have been printed and 3,800 tutors and administra-
tors and about 400,000 teachers (114% of the project target) have received
training nation-wide. Despite the remarkable quantitative achievements,
problems of management, distribution, technology and pedagogy make the
project less effective than it could be. The training program, although on
schedule and making good progress, is out of phase with book production,
which is almost one year behind schedule due to delays in paper procurement.
Textbooks and teacher manuals would benefit from better design, organization
and illustrations, and their content is limited by the national curricula.
In response to Bank proposals, the Government has started a major review of
the project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook
programs and overall future needs for production of instructional materials.
Credit No. 869   Polytechnic:  US$49.0 Million Credit of December 29,
1978; Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
The project is designed to help the Government meet the demand for
engineering technicians and trained accountants. It will introduce a new system
(polytechnics) for training technicians at the diploma level by establishing
a Technician Education Development Center and six polytechnics in Java and
Sumatera, and improving the quality of accountancy training by establishing
four Accountancy Development Centers in existing universities. The two
additional conditions for effectiveness: signing of contracts for architec-
tural services and technical assistance have been met. The contract for
technical assistance was signed with the selected technical assistance
organization (Swiss Contact) on April 7, 1979. The Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) has selected three architect firms who will each handle about one
third of the work. The PIU signed the contracts on May 6, 1979. The project
was declared effective on May 11, 1979.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Initially, all three subprojects - under the Ministry of Education
(MOE), Ministry of Manpower (MOM), and National Institute of Administration
(LAN) respectively - suffered a ten-month delay due to late signing of
the Funds-in-Trust (FIT) Agreements with the UN Agencies providing technical
assistance, as well as contracts with the consultant architects. Further delays
have occurred in the tendering and awarding of civil works contracts for the
Manpower and LAN components. Overall, the project is about 1-1/2 years
behind schedule. About 80% of civil works, 50% of furniture, and 100% of
technical assistance have been contracted. Implementation of the technical
assistance programs of all subprojects is in line with the FIT Agreements.
Overall, the Ministry of Education and LAN components are going well, but the
Ministry of Manpower has had difficulty in managing its diverse program of
establishing 17 training centers. Delayed implementation may require post-
ponement of the Closing Date by about six months.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1433 Teacher Training: US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project finances the development of primary and secondary
teacher training. The implementation of the project closely follows the
appraisal schedule, with minor delays. The 40 key educators have returned
from a five-month overseas fellowship program and have made a good start on
the training of a further 110 educators, development of learning materials and
curriculum revisions. Plans for continuous in-service training of teachers
are being drawn up and a general guideline for evaluation is being prepared.
Phase I of a three-phase civ:il works program is about 60% completed and Phase
II will begin shortly. There are minor problems in book procurement and site
acquisition for some schools.
Loan No. 1486  Non-Formal Education:  US$15.0 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven provinces. Overall progress in
project implementation is good. All positions in the project unit are filled
and key staff of the provincial centers have been appointed. A technical
assistance firm has been contracted and the technical assistance program
has started; experts are now in the field. Rehabilitation of two existing
provincial centers is now completed. The devaluation of the Rupiah in November
1978 has further delayed commencement of construction of the four new Penmas
Centers by two months. Total delay of civil works is now about seven months.
Equipment procurement is delayed by nine months, so far about 20% has been
awarded. Initial staff training, learning materials development, and evaluation
activities are being carried out.
Loan No. 1692 Second Agricultural Training: US$42 Million Loan of May 7, 1979
Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of the Government's long-term
strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower
through construction furniture and equipment for 31 agricultural development
schools and 23 in-service training centers and related technical assistance.
The loan was presented to the Board of Executive Directors on April 24, signed
on May 7 and is expected to become effective soon, since the agreement does
not contain additional conditions of effectiveness. Consultant architects
have prepared preliminary sketch plans for all project institutions. The PIU
is negotiating a contract for expert services with FAO and for overseas
training with the University of Texas.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20 pages
ENERGY
Credit No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet much higher costs of
equipment resulting from rapid inflation in 1974/75. However, implementation
is now progressing smoothly. Both 100 MW generating units have been syn-
chronized with the grid and are being loaded slowly.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975; Effective
Date:  October 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Construction of the third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The scheduled commissioning date of February 1980
is about seven months behind the appraisal target, but no further delays are
expected and there is a good possibility that some of the delays may be
made up.  The loan disbursement is proceeding as scheduled in the appraisal
report.
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976; Effective
Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All equipment required for the project is scheduled to be procured
in three lots. Nearly 75% of the equipment which was covered by Lot 1
(valued at $13.6 million) has been received; orders for equipment covered by
Lot 2, (amounting to $32.4 million) are now being placed. The project
suffered an initial setback of about one year in procurement action but is
now progressing satisfactorily. It is expected that loan disbursements will
be completed prior to the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1365 Sixth Power: US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Implementation of the project, consisting of 2 x 200 MW steam
generating units at Muara Karang, is progressing satisfactorily.  Orders for
major electrical and mechanical equipment were placed during the period
December 1977-February 1978. So far progress is on or slightly ahead of
schedule. Currently, estimated commissioning dates for the units are about
four to six months ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1513 Seventh Power: US$109.0 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Tenders for major electrical and mechanical equipment required for
the 200 MW unit, including turbine generator, steam generator, cycle equip-
ment, electrical equipment and power transformer, were opened on August 21,
1978. Bids have been evaluated and the Bank indicated no objection to the
recommendations for award of contracts on February 6, 1979.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1708 Eighth Power: US$175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979; Not yet
Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Tlis loan has not yet been declared effective.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer ]'roduction
Loan No. 1039  Second Fertili'zer Expansion:  US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1979.
The project (PUSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977, one month
ahead of schedule. During the eight months of operation in 1977, the project
operated at 66% capacity utiLization, which increased sharply to about 92% in
1978 with the overcoming of initial technical problems. Certain auxiliary
facilities, now being installed, are expected to be completed during 1979.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion: US$70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned November 26, 1977, about
four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly 470,000
tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first year
of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded by
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 313 ha has been acquired and acquisition of
another 31 ha is under negotiation. 119 ha of developed land have been sold
to 99 firms. Employment in these firms at full capacity will be around
19,000 and an estimated 1,400 persons are employed on the average in both
factory construction and land development. Overall, operations are profit-
able. The return on capital investment, which is now projected to be 22%, is
significantly higher than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is due to
developed land values rising faster than the cost of raw land and development.
The project's development has been slower than forecast at appraisal.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20 pages
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1437   BAPINDO III:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
At the time of loan appraisal (October 1976) BAPINDO was facing
many problems, including high portfolio arrears and slow loan processing.
Accordingly, the Bank sought and reached understanding with BAPINDO and the
Government on a comprehensive Program of Action designed to remedy BAPINDO's
weaknesses and achieve further improvements. A recent Bank mission found
that BAPINDO has effectively implemented the Program and achieved satisfac-
tory progress.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  US$50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979; Not yet
effective; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
This loan has not yet been declared effective.
Coal Mining
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering:
US$10.0 Million Loan of May 19, 1978; Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan became effective on December 22, 1978, and consultants
are in place.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The Indonesian national family planning program appears to have
slackened somewhat. As of October 31, 1978, 30.0% of eligible couples in
Java and Bali were estimated to be currently using contraceptives; the
comparable figure for the 10 provinces of the Other Islands covered by
the program is 8.2%. These figures as of March 30, 1978, were 30.1% and
9.6%, respectively. However, during the period covered there have been
some problems with data collection, which may be part of the reason for
the decline. The report of the consultant engaged to determine the needs for
in-house computer facilities for the National Family Planning Coordination
Board (NFPCB) is now being evaluated. Of the construction component, the



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20 pages
remaining two paramedical training schools are scheduled to be completed by
August 1979. No completion date has yet been estimated for one provincial
office building, which was destroyed by fire in September when it was half
completed. Other project activities which remain to be completed, including
the fellowship training program. and several research studies, will also be
completed by August 1979.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date:
April 30, 1983.
Considerable progress has been made on the civil works and procure-
ment aspects of the project. Of the 21 facilities, contracts have been
awarded for 20, and design drawqings for the remaining building approved. The
provincial offices and training centers are scheduled to be completed by
September 1979, and the National Family Planning Training Center (NFPTC) by
May 1980. Development of the national population education program and the
national family planning training program is proceeding well.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial progress under the project is satisfactory. The Nutrition
Intervention Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components,
as well as the fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The
Nutrition Academy has increased its student enrollment from 100 to 160, and
48 graduates are expected this year, compared with 25 prior to project start.
Construction of the Nutrition Academy was completed in February 1979. The
Food Technology Development Center is about 50% completed, and the Center for
Research and Development in Nutrition about 63%. While monitoring and
evaluation uniits for each component have been operational for six months, the
central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is just
starting to be staffed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress under the lproject is satisfactory and the bulk of the
funds have been committed.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: US$10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Not yet effective; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
This credit has not yet become effective.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  US$13.0 Mil-
lion Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The BAKOSURTANAL complex at Cibinong is now structurally completed,
and most of the cartographic, photographic processing, and printing equipment
required to produce maps has arrived and is being installed. Resource evalu-
ation activities, including the compilation of data for Southern Sumatra
and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of coconut lands to be
replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in the new complex.
Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior operatives,
has accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian parallel
project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have
installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained special-
ized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project has been substantially completed at a cost 20% below
the appraisal estimate. Work on the five original port depots is completed
and the sixth depot, which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as an extension
financed from project savings, is nearing completion. All four ships,
including the additional ship approved in 1977 and paid for from project
savings, have been delivered and 52 of 58 inland storage depots are com-
pleted. All the ships, port depots and storage depots are operating.
Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be, due to
some extent to existing large stocks of fertilizer requiring ships to be used
for longer distances for exports. Costs have also been increased because of
delays in ship turnaround time caused by the need to clear customs on inter-
island voyages and the cumbersome procedures involved. These matters are
being taken up with PUSRI and improvements are expected.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Virtually all key activities in the initial implementation schedule
agreed with the Government have been completed, although with delays of up to
one year. Construction of 1,200 km of roads has been started. Some problems
in executing the road works have been revealed on contracts started in 1976
and delays were encountered in awarding some contracts in 1977, causing a
slower rate of progress than scheduled. The project is about 25% complete.
The delays, combined with slow progress, indicate that the project will
probably be completed about 15-18 months after the Closing Date.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1696 Fifth Highway: US$130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979; Not yet
effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
This loan has not yet become effective.
Marine Transport
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy applicants,
just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been
rehabilitated.  The Credit has been entirely committed and is expected to be
fully disbursed by the Closing, Date.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
DeLay in the appointments of a number of consultants has caused a
slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and disburse-
ments. The acute financial problems of the State Shipping Company (PELNI)
have been tackled by the Government and new management is instituting a
recovery plan. The project entity (PANN) has committed, and the Bank has
approved, $22.3 million of subprojects; the Bank has disbursed and made
qualified agreement to reimburse, funds totalling $6.0 million as of
December 31, 1978. The recent change in exchange rate may adversely affect
this project in the future and slow disbursements further. This matter is
under study and being reviewed with the Government.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works
has delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made
and these works are scheduled for completion in July 1979. The first construc-
tion contract for Basin III back up facilities has been awarded and work is
underway.  The regional berthLs component has been delayed by slow withdrawal
of the Army, which was using the site for storage. However, 90% of the land
has now been released, the old buildings are being demolished, and a contract
for the new works has recently been awarded. These delays will probably
postpone overall completion of the project to mid-1981; it is too early to
estimate the full effect of delays on project cost. The Government intends
to establislh statutory agenciLes (PERUMS) during 1979 for ports and dredging
functions #iich are currently administered by government departments.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20 pages
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in mid-
1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e., roads) is scheduled
for December 1980, about two years later than planned at project appraisal.
Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8% in 1977 to 286,000
visitors and by a further 11.5% in the first eight months of 1978. Air
access is improving with the introduction of new international flights from
Singapore. At present, three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are under
consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made, changes
in the project description (approved by the Executive Directors last year)
which would allow use of savings in credit funds for hotel construction may
encourage hotel investment. It is unlikely that a first hotel at Nusa Dua
could be completed in 1980 to coincide with completion of the infrastructure.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 75% complete.
Problems which have arisen with regard to the standard of materials and the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots were resolved last year.
About 2,000 settlers have moved on the site and the remaining plots are
currently being allocated.
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development: US$52.5 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date:  March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within appraisal estimates. Although land acquisition is causing
some delays, efforts are being made to speed up procedures. Progress is
being made in developing Government capabilities to undertake a nationwide
kampung improvement program in the future.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1653  Third Urban Development: US$54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Not yet Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The national kampung improvement program has been expanded in this
project to include Ujung Pandang, Semarang and Surakarta, as well as follow-
up components in Surabaya and Jakarta. The latter includes a new solid
wastes component, and will stress drainage and maintenance.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Dle to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. This delay, together with higher rates of
inflation than anticipated, is expected to increase project costs about 30%
above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents have been completed, and contracts for all equipment and for major
civil works have been signed. The project has reached the construction
phase. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water enter-
prises is proceeding satisfactorily. In September 1978, the Government
issued an interministerial decree defining relationships between the various
Ministries and the Water Enterprises, which is expected to expedite current
and future projects in the sector.
Loan No. 1709 Second Water Supply: US$36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Ihis loan has not yet been declared effective.



- 48 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:        One year
(b)  Project prepared by:                      Government of Indonesia/Bank, with
assistance of consulting firms
PT Dian Utami, Booker Agriculture
International Ltd., PT Agriconsult
International
(c)  Date of first presentation to Bank :  March 1976
Date of first Bank mission to
consider project                   :   October 1976
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal            July 20, 1978 (PNP I)
mission                                 September 23, 1978 (remainder)
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations :   June 29, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness             November 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(A) Within six months after settlement, each participating settler in Danu
Salak shall receive evidence of "conditional" ownership to 4 ha of land.
They shall receive full ownership to this land three years after settle-
ment. The BRI shall retain titles to this land, and to the 2 ha portion
of Rimbo Bujang transmigrants' holdings to be used for rubber development,
as security against the settlers' loan obligations (para. 46).
(B) Conditions of disbursement for the respective components of the project
would be as follows:
(a) For Smallholder Development
(i) signing of a Financing Agreement between the Borrower and BRI
and Subfinancing Agreements between BRI and PTP XVIII and BRI
and PTP VI in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 57);



- 49 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(ii) signing of Smallholder Rubber Development Agreements between
the DGE and PTP XVIII and the DGE and PTP VI to specify work
to be carried out for smallholder development in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank (para. 57); and
(b) For PTP XVIII and PNP I Estate Development. Signing of a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Borrower and PNP I and the Borrower and
E'TP XVIII in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (para. 57);






________________________________                                         ~~~~~~BRK   14020R
THILOI \     Ckh;                                                                                                                                      U     tIi6 4XR no    LY 1979
ALYS  5a14      99d                                                -                                            \ iE          )'
/~ ~~~~~hn .7~fn dN  7'                              t       5      tt,                         
I N LA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AN  SML.ODR                                                                             R-RJCTt          \Pue
~    AAYSIA1                           2                                              Rns 
PRELIMIN R MKALIMANTAN       N 7            " 
*~~~ /                                                                                                                 N...
 j ~~-  B I N UAN G -  . .:N-,
TRANADN
Inc/con~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SETLMET   ..
4tp ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I NDCNESIA                                                  l
.  ,.,,,',,,',,',,  }'                       I Soot
N'Xi'  NS,".'  {,   t
.-- ' AXTA'    1'S                                '
/~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ . r                              - 
BINUAN(
- (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vilg Set _Z[1)15tle  ,t Wth Vdil.ge N,,n,b., and F-1i e
t  / oV ~~~~~~~~ Z ~~~~ _ _ ~~~~~~ ooun~B~,dory of Lond A\ss,,,ed to New V,lolge
A)   *///z/4'/  /  w_  SSt                                             ~~~~~~~~~~Land Unswatble ForDe,elop.e,t
'               <                                                                    N- Se-vAdry 4 I ae ' ud~~~~~TR A SA
SR ST LF- P                 we  o.E
Taigoap  ~           Eis,g  a,pt~  od
t 1 /',  <t    . 0-                                                           Jueli l'~~~~~~~~N P--y -lg R..
DANA BaALAKas      ESTPtnc                                                                                  Prf  , Vtc bon age   RasUp,d
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             
sN         NN~~~~~~~~~*&N>                                   Pru-d` h-- h,e-p ondart py,-t.ptfM W,lB.kda
fN  ~ ~ ~~~~f.- - y jd-l -Bodh. 01g. Ls- Asife -y -ey  VIlyl-dge
7~~ 8-/--                                                                               -pf-'- ~~~~fN-h25bard.-sial  o leeunei






Tic. -np has been prep-rd by tha  5   s sci
Wold Bak/ stff -u-ly fo         L I :           A -               9 0 C 5 f  
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h /p~ /  ~ , . .-hI X                                              \IDOdI
The de-minas-n usd -nd rho 
\\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~budre shw so tOs :a'    ,                                                     s /rs   \         ANUCESETATE
do not -Ply s. Xo the Par of the  5J
A   5 
UNIT Xi NI T X 11  *   0  <  11INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES
AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
____                                                ~~~~~~RIMBO BUJANG COMPONENT
y \ ' ' ! t ,;' ,,8".', _ . ; ' ,' ' ' ---, ', X~~~~~~~~~~UNIT XV   
KIOMETERS         5 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UI V                                                                                      N         
Ne--   oundPrryrf V,LandAgne Roads  dlge=
New PrIsI Vslloge Roods Upgrs N   l
Eosstirg Seconoary Vilage Roads ri
Po--.Fresi Reserves                                                                                                                                                             c i-
=D:    Rivers                                                                                                                                                                         cr
Sawash Land Areas                                                                                                                                                           d on






IBRD 14183 R
UAAY 1979
NUCLEUS ESTATES ANfD SMALLHOLDERS 111 PROJECT
PNP I ESTATE CONCESSIONS ACEH PROVINCE
N O  R T H  k                                      elem t
&  h   ,    tX  f   >     S                    KtOMETER5 t;        5     -t~~~~~~1    1,5    20  25
A        C     E    H   tf                       \        ,        ~    Pudwa                      MILES
/                          INU                                                                            N A,iE       S
/    /                ESITE                                  CiE                                       { |A|
'a, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~a
*       t' -.  BoruEstate Rosts
\ ~~~BAR U Xg
- ------ Sub -  District Boundaries                 {                      (eadarters
- - -  Internationsl Boundaries /a\ 
7h, map hasenbm prepeed hiyhe Wond anks staff escpsenra,uh5shecsnvenlencn                              IC  { Lnma Estrate) 7       
shth rneeassess ott/senrepat o at, i Sa ataches) rue densns,setons osed and sue| PUA:\
uosnde,t nhssns on s sn ap do not imntp/p on the pert af the Wor/d Bank and 5   \        T I r A                  Zngcu
ahf,haraa. asyudsmest ons the legefaltatsa of andiemnas                                             SEMA NTO edanse or
acn.tense shssssEstatesRoads
acceweaneofsuRailwayse                        jESTAETAEJTEt                                                 (        >
aMifY51Af    BS   ffi      t7C@fJn             .                          g.             /           n~~~~~~~~~KrgBor
;:t  /8-tS    Dstt                Boudaie                                              S  bo
*^X~~ItZernationa                                                    \,u <cr,.
|t~~ZO          s/IAN              a                                AA
'5555    -                                                                                                       - M.



