Document of
The World Bank   Fit                                l
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2350c-IND
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
July 18, 1979
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1              Rp 625
Rp 100         =  US$0.16
Rp 1,000,000   =  US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)       1,000 grams (gm) = 2.205 pounds
1 metric ton     =   1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds = 0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)   =  10,000 square meters (sq m) = 2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
APBD         - Anggaran Pendapatan dan Belanja Daerah - Regional Budget for
Revenues and Expenditures
APBN         - Anggaran Pendapatan dan Belanja Negara - State Budget for
Revenue and Expenditure
AARD         - Agency for (Agricultural) Research and Development
BAKOSURTANAL - National Coordinating Agency of Survey and Mapping
BAL          - Basic Agrarian Law
BAPPEDA      - Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS     - Badan Perancana Pembungunan National, National Development
Planning Agency
BIMAS        - Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan, "Mass Guidance
Program for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs" - a farm input-
credit package program
BPPB         - Balai Penelitian Perkebunan Bogor (Rubber Research Institute
Bogor)
BPPM         - Balai Penelitian Perkebunan Medan (Rubber Research Institute
Medan)
BRI          - Bank Rakyat Indonesia - People's Bank of Indonesia
BULOG        - Badan Mousan Logistik (rice procurement agency)
BUUD         - Badan Usaha Unit Desa - Forerunner of KUD as Village Unit
Cooperative
CCL          - Critical Consumption Level
CP           - Cooperative Program
CRIA         - Central Research Institute for Agriculture
DGA          - Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs
DGE          - Directorate General of Estates
DGFC         - Directorate General for Food Crops
DGH          - Directorate General of Highways
DIP          - Daftar Isian Projek - Project Budget Document
DPD          - Dinas Perkebunan Daerah - Provincial Estate Crops Services
DPUP         - Provincial Public Works Services
DRC          - Dry Rubber Content
FAO          - Food and Agriculture Organization
GOI          - Government of Indonesia
INPRES       - Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction" - a special
program
IPEDA        - Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - Land Tax
JMO          - Joint Marketing Office



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS (contd.)
KUD           - Koperasi Unit Desa - Village Unit Cooperative
md            - man days
MOA           - Ministry of Agriculture
MOASS         - Minister of Agriculture Supporting Staff
MOLT          - Ministry of Labor and Transmigration
MOTC          - Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives
MPW           - Ministry of Public Works and Power
Mil.          - Million
MSL           - Minimum Subsistence Level
REPELITA I   - First Five-Year Development Plan (1969/70-1973/74)
REPELITA II  - Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974/75-1979/80)
REPELITA III - Third Five-Year Development Plan (1979/80-1984/85)
PMU           - Project Management Unit
PMSU          - Planting Material Supply Unit
PNP           - Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan, State-owned Estate Enterprise
PPL           - Field extension worker
PT            - Perseroan Terbatas - State-owned Corporation Operating Under
the Commercial Code with Limited Liability
PTP           - Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan, State-owned Estate Enterprise
with Limited Liability
PTPT          - Directorate of land clearing for transmigration settlement in
Ministry of Public Works
RISPA         - Research Institute of the Sumatra Planters' Association
GLOSSARY OF INDONESIAN TERMS
Adat                   -  Body of traditional law
Bupati                 -  Kabupaten Chief
Department Kesehatan  -  Department of Health
Desa                   -  Village
Dukuh                  -  Hamlet of 25-30 houses
Gotong-royong          -  Community self-help project
Hak Pakai              -  Individual's right of use or exploitation of assigned
land
Hak Milik              -  Right to full ownership of land
Kabupaten              -  District
Kecamatan              -  Subdistrict
Lalang                  -  A coarse grass, establishing itself after the slash
and burn cycle
Marga                   -  Community grouping under Adat Law
Mushalla                -  Small prayer house
Puskesmas              -  Community Health Center, subdistrict level
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  THE SECTOR AND SUBSECTOR ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    1
A. Background .I.. 1
B. The Rubber Subsector                       ..7
C.  The Palm Oil Subsector .             ........   .. .......    .    9
2.  PURPOSE, PRIORITY AND FORMULATION OF THE PROJECT . .  . . . . . .  13
A.  Project Objectives . ................... .  13
B.  Project Formulation   ...... .  .    .  . .. .           * . *. .*. .  14
C. The Project Areas            .. .......... . 16
3.  THE PROJECT  .. . . .....  .  .         .  .  .    .. . ........  .     .   22
A.  Project Summary  ....  .  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  22
B.  Project Costs and Financing Arrangements  . . . . . . . . .   31
C.  Budgeting  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   35
D.  Procurement .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
E.  Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .       .   37
F.  Quality and Cost Controls  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  39
G.  Accounts and Audit ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   39
H.  Cost Recovery  ....  .  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  40
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ................... . 42
A.  Borrowing/Executive Agency Functions . . . . . . . . . . . .  42
B.  Aspects of Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  46
C.  The Environment  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  46
5.  DEMAND AND MARKETING ....  .       .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  47-
A.  Rubber ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  47
B.  Palm Oil ....  .      .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  48
C.  Food Crops ....  .  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . . . . . . .    .  50
6.  PRODUCTION ASPECTS, TECHNOLOGICAL FACTORS, AND FARM INCOMES  . .  50
A. General    ...                                 ...50
B.  Crop Recommendations         ...                  . . .51
C.  Yields and Production..                               .   .  .     52
D.  Farm Incomes ....  .  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......   .   53



Page No.
7.  COSTS, BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  55
A.  Project Benefits and Justification . . . . . . . . . . . . .  55
B. Costs. ............... .....   56
C.  Financial Results  ............... .....    57
D.  Economic Results ............ .. ......    57
E. Project Risks ........... .........   61
8.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . .  61
List of Tables in Main Report
1.1  Indonesia Average Annual Rubber Production
1.2  Indonesian Oil Palm Production Data
3.1  Summary of Project Prefinance
3.2  Annual Inflation Indices
3.3  Project Cost Summary
3.4  Sources of Project Finance
6.1  Farm Income - Danau Salak New Settlement
6.2  Farm Income - Rimbo Bujang Smallholders
7.1  Results of Financial Rate of Return Analysis
7.2  Results of Economic Rate of Return Analysis
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1   PROJECT PHASING, PROJECT COSTS AND EXPENDITURES, DISBURSEMENTS, AND
RENT AND COST RECOVERY
Table 1:   Project Phasing
Table 2:   Project Cost - New Settlement - Danau Salak
Table 3:   PTP XVIII - Nucleus Estate - Danau Salak
Table 4:   Total Project Costs - PNP I
Table 5:   Rimbo Bujang - Project Costs - Existing and New Settlement
Table 6:   Technical Assistance to DGE
Table 7:   Estimated Schedule of Project Expenditures
Table 8:   Sources of Finance - Project Costs
Table 9:   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 10: Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table 11: List of Agricultural Machinery, Vehicles and Equipment
Table 12: Rent and Cost Recovery
ANNEX 2   DETAILS OF PROJECT PROCUREMENT
ANNEX 3   SMALLHOLDER FARM MODELS AND INCOME STATEMENTS
Table 1: Smallholders Rubber Yield Projections - Danau Salak
Table 2: Smallholder Rubber Yield Assumption - Rimbo Bujang
Table 3: New Settler Crop and Livestock Production from 0.15 ha
Garden Lot - Danau Salak
Table 4: New Settler Crop Production from 0.8 ha Field Crop
Area - Danau Salak



- iii -
ANNEX 3   SMALLHOLDER FARM MODELS AND INCOME STATEMENTS (cont.)
Table 5:   Farm Family Labor Availability and Labor Requirements
for Proposed Development - Danau Salak
Table 6:   Existing Settler Food Crop Area and Yield Projections
with Project - Rimbo Bujang (pages 1-2)
Table 7:   Farm Family Labor Availability and Labor Requirements
for Proposed Development - Rimbo Bujang
Table 8:   New Settler Farm Income Statement - Danau Salak (pages 1-2)
Table 9:   Income Statement for Existing Settlers with Project -
Rimbo Bujang (pages 1-2)
Table 10:  Income Statement for Existing Settlers without Project -
Rimbo Bujang (pages 1-2)
ANNEX 4
Table 1:   Comparison of Development Costs per Family
ANNEX 5
Data Available in the Staff Working Papers (pages 1-2)
CHARTS
1.  Organization Chart of Directorate General of Estates
2.  Organization Chart of a Government-owned Estate Group (PTP)
3.  Project Implementation Schedule - Smallholder Components
Main Activities - Danau Salak
4.  Project Implementation Schedule - Smallholder Components
Main Activities - Rimbo Bujang
5.  Smallholder Components - Organization Chart of the Flow of
Funds - Noncredit Items
6.  Smallholder Components - Organization Chart of the Flow of
Funds - Smallholder Development by the Nucleus Estates
7.  Organization Chart of Provincial Government
8.  Organization Chart of Settlement Projects
FIGURES
1.  Proposed Village Layout for the Danau Salak Area
2.  Basic House Design for Kalimantan Settlers - Danau Salak
3.  Basic House Design for Javanese Settlers/Upland Areas - Danau Salak
4.  Indicative Road Cross Sections - Danau Salak and Rimbo Bujang
MAPS. Nos. 14020R, 14099R, 14183R
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. G.B. Fox, D.C. Carlier, P.R. Melkye, and Ms. A.L. Grossman (Bank)
and Messrs. R.R. Fuentes, C.T. Relf and J.B. McIntosh (Consultants) which
visited Indonesia in July/August and September/October 1978.






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
1. THE SECTOR AND SUBSECTOR
A. Background
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance
to develop 50,000 ha of rubber and food crop land to settle 4,000 land-
less families in South Kalimantan province and improve the incomes of a
further 8,000 families in Jambi province, using the public sector estates PTP
VI and XVIII as the development agent under the nucleus estate development
scheme. Assistance is also sought to strengthen the PTP XVIII nucleus estate
and to rehabilitate PNP I, the sole public sector estate in Aceh province, so
that it may be used to implement a future NES smallholder development scheme.
1.02      The project was identified by the GOI with Bank assistance.
It gives expression to national needs and priorities as outlined in GOI's
Second Five-Year Plan. The project was prepared by GOI and the Bank using
reports by the consultant firms PT Dian Utami in association with Booker
Agriculture International Ltd., and PT Agriconsult International.
The Agricultural and Rural Sector
1.03      Objectives.   The Government's major objectives for the agricultural
and rural sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise the
incomes of the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with
rising demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder
tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land,
water and other natural resources.
1.04      Role and Performance.  Despite a 4% average annual growth rate of
agricultural production since 1968, the contribution of the agricultural
sector to GDP has declined from 40% to 30% over that period. Agriculture's
relative share in total exports has simultaneously declined from 45% to 33%,
a result mainly of the markedly increased importance of oil exports./I
Nevertheless, the agricultural and rural sector remains of overwhelming
importance to the great majority of Indonesians in terms of employment,
income, and food production. Nearly 80% of the population lives in rural
areas, agriculture still employs between 60% and 66% of the total labor force
depending on the season, and about two-thirds of rural households and one-
tenth of urban households continue to rely on agriculture as their major
source of income. Except for oil palm and tea, agriculture is dominated by
smallholder production; there are nearly 16 million smallholder families
producing subsistence and cash crops on about 16 million ha. There are also
1,800 estates occupying 2.2 million ha producing mainly rubber, sugar, tea,
palm oil, and tobacco.
/1 Among agricultural exports the effects of slow growth in production of
several traditional export crops have been largely balanced by increased
timber, fish and palm oil exports.



-2-
1.05       .2loyment.  The share of the total labor force employed in the
agricultural sector has apparently decreased over the past 15 years, although
precise estimation is difficult due to shifting survey definitions and
seasonal timing of surveys. In spite of its declining share, agriculture
has remained by far the largest single source of new employment, accounting
for 46% of incremental employment during the period 1971-76. Furthermore,
while the articulation and implementation of a strategy designed to promote
labor-intensive industry is critical to Indonesia's long-term development, the
success or failure of the Government's agricultural policies will have a much
greater influence on employment in the immediate future. Outside Java, future
employment prospects in agriculture appear quite promising, given the employ-
ment potential for sustained increases in smallholder areas, land development
and increased use of contract agricultural labor by the agricultural estates,
and publicly sponsored and spontaneous transmigration. While the rehabilita-
tion investments on Java which were responsible for the generation of signifi-
cant employment opportunities in the last decade have been largely completed,
there is still scope for significant intensification of agricultural produc-
tion. In the short- and medium-term, the Government's rural works program is
being used as an employment generation mechanism in the rural sector.
1.06      Food Crops   Given the limited manpower and financial resources
available, the Government's agricultural strategy over the past decade has
been to concentrate on increasing the production of rice, the preferred
staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production increased
rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to intensified programs
of irrigation rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated rice producers of
high-yielding variety seed, fertilizer, and short-term production credit
through the BIMAS (agricultural credit) program. The growth rate slowed
markedly to 1l7% over 1974-77, in the wake of restrictions on private sector
participation in the fertili-zer trade and subsequent severe declines in
fertilizer usage, successive seasons of untimely rainfall, and unprecedented
attacks by pests and diseases, principally the brown plant hopper and
associated viruses. In 1978, a record rice harvest was achieved, with better
weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution, and a concerted
effort by BIYMAS officials and extension workers to distribute pest resistant
rice varieties throughout the country. Over the same decade output of
secondary food crops (maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts, and sweet potatoes)
grew more slowly, at a combined annual rate of 1.6% composed of a 1.1% average
decline in area (much of this land shifting to irrigated rice) and a 2.7%
increase in yield.
1.07      Unfortunately, these gains in food output did not keep pace with
increases in demand, stimulated by large increases in aggregate income. Over
the decade Indonesia became the largest rice importer in the world, with
record imports of 2.3 million tons in the poor harvest year of 1977, declining
to about 1.3 million tons in 1978. Simultaneously, wheat imports rose to
1.4 million tons in 1978, cassava exports nearly disappeared, and soybeans,
maize, and coconut oil imports have grown in the past year. Thus the



- 3 -
general food security prospect is not encouraging. A recent Bank study /1
concluded that even assuming expanded Government capital investment in the
food crop sector (e.g., irrigation), improved technology, more efficient
credit and marketing systems, improved extension, and a consequent 3.5%
annual growth rate of food production, Indonesia would continue to face a
basic food deficit up to at least 1990, when the rice deficit alone could be
between 2 million and 3 million tons.
1.08      Although relocation of inhabitants of potential reservoir sites and
conflicting claims of other users may delay progress, major increases in
rice-cropping intensity could be achieved through water storage projects. In
the short- and medium-term, however, there is still ample scope for achieving
higher yields, conserving water, increasing cropping intensity in existing
rice areas through construction of tertiary irrigation and drainage systems,
and improving support services.  In order to achieve this production increase,
the recent Irrigation Program Review (Report No. 2027a-IND, dated October 16,
1978) concluded that steps to strengthen the planning and implementation
capacity of the Directorate General of Water Resources Development would be
needed. These conclusions are currently being reviewed with the GOI. In the
Other Islands there is considerable potential for new irrigation systems,
including tidal and swamp land development. Yields of secondary food crops,
both in Java and the Other Islands, remain far below potential. While the
Government has over the last decade given considerable attention to programs
designed to support increased rice production and marketing, it has not
focussed sufficiently on research or supporting services to increase
production of secondary crops. This would require, inter alia, attention to
marketing arrangements, price supports, and appropriate credit arrangements.
1.09      Tree Crops.  Tree crop products have for decades been an important
source of export income for Indonesia, and still generate about two-thirds of
total nonoil export revenues. Tree crops occupy more than a third of total
cropped land, with coconuts and rubber accounting for 80% of tree crop stands.
Smallholders account for 80% of the area under rubber, the remainder being in
Government and private estates. Coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper are
almost entirely smallholder crops, while tea is chiefly, and oil palm is
entirely, cultivated on estates. Although Indonesia has profitted enormously
from recent world price trends for its tree crops, production of rubber and
coffee stagnated between 1969 and 1976.   For example, some 95% of smallholder
rubber consists of unselected clones with yields half those of smallholder
rubber in neighboring Malaysia. Only oil palm has shown sustained large
increases in production due to large investment programs by Government and
private estates. Deteriorating transport infrastructure and shipping in the
Other Islands since the 1950s, increased marketing regulation and other
Government actions affecting private sector participation, and inadequate
tree crop research, extension, and particularly, replanting programs for
smallholders contributed to this situation.
/1 Report No. 2374-IND, "Indonesia - Supply Prospects for Major Food
Crops," of March 3, 1979.



- 4 -
1.10      Efforts to revitalize the tree crop sector are in their infancy.
One of the new approaches (which would be supported under the proposed
project) has been to rely on public sector estates /1 with their proven
technical and managerial expertise to meet the demanding requirements of
settlement and land clearing for tree and food crop production, to provide
settlers with employment during the initial three years of settlement, and
thereafter to assist them by purchasing and distributing inputs during the
period of tree crop immaturity and by providing processing and marketing faci-
lities. The crops which best lend themselves for development by nucleus
estates at present are rubber, coconuts and oil palm. These crops have
satisfactory export potential; their returns to the farmer after provision
for debt service are satisfactory; the production and processing techniques
are well known to many of the estates; and the crops are well suited to the
poorer soils of Sumatra and Kalimantan where there are large tracts of under-
developed agricultural land available for settlement.
1.11      In addition to the nucleus estate approach, the Government has
prepared projects to plant and replant smallholder rubber and coconuts on an
intensively managed block basis, financed through credit arrangements. But
the largest and most important task, the institutionalization of easily
administered low-cost replanting programs for existing smallholder stands,
remains to be articulated. This is largely because no technically proven,
low-cost systems of tree crop replanting have yet been identified and tested
in Indonesia. This problem is particularly grave since the country has a
backlog of nearly 400,000 ha of both smallholder rubber and coconuts, which
are overaged and unproductive. Given that the market prospects and employment
potential for these crops are good, and various large regions in the Other
Islands have natural comparative advantages for these crops, the rapid
expansion of smallholder planting and replanting of tree crops is a high
priority.
1.12      Apart from foreign investment, especially for oil palm, and
intensification of cropping on a few of the larger Indonesian-owned private
estates, there has been little development of the private estates which
cover some 430,000 ha (100,000 ha of which have foreign participation). At
least half this area is abandoned but will become available when leases expire
after 1980.Limited domestic funds have been made available since 1977 to
improve up to 40,000 ha of locally owned and operated private estates. GOI is
considering increasing incentives for additional foreign estate investment,
and is seeking Bank Group support for private estate development and possible
use of relinquished private estate land for smallholders.
1.13      Area Development and Transmigration.  Certain critically poor areas
of Java and productive areas available for settlement and development on the
Other Islands have provided the focus for rural development programs to meet
basic needs and to generate employment, productivity and incomes. For Java,
/1 The estates enterprises (PNPs) are presently being converted by GOI into
limited liability companies (PTPs).



- 5 -
the Government is preparing local rural works projects geared to strengthening
planning and investment activities at the local level. Cultivable land in
Java is almost fully utilized, and in some areas, particularly the higher
watersheds of its silt-laden rivers, agricultural land use already exceeds
ecologically safe limits and is contributing to increasingly severe problems
of erosion, downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and irrigation
canal systems. The Government is preparing a program of watershed development
and integrated development projects designed to address some of these
problems.
1.14      The primary vehicle for new area development in the Other Islands,
as well as for creating employment and settlement nuclei for Javanese
migrants, is likely to be the transmigration program. Unfortunately, this
program has been hampered by unrealistic expectations of its potential for
resolving Java's population problems and to stimulating large-scale regional
development, by overly ambitious targets, and by weak, uncoordinated
implementation. Confronted by management problems, the Government reorganized
the management of the transmigration program in preparation for Repelita III.
This culminated in a Presidential Decree which transfers responsibility for
project implementation to the appropriate line agencies. The revised
institutional arrangements will need to be supported by continued attention to
a variety of technical and policy issues: these include the appropriateness
of land use for food crop production, appropriate target incomes, farm size
and village plans, the extent of Government support to settlers, the provision
of adequate support service and marketing mechanisms and the potential role of
spontaneous migration in the transmigration strategy. The Second Trans-
migration Project (Loan 1707-IND and Credit 919-IND, approved on May 29,
1979), will address these issues.
1.15      The Role of Government. lhile the private sector should be
encouraged to expand its role in agricultural inputs supply, marketing, and
processing, the Government bears the major responsibility for the infra-
structure, resource conservation, and other services, particularly outside
Java (para. 1.13). The capacity of the Indonesian Government to plan and
implement agricultural and rural development programs has improved over the
past decade. However, overly centralized procedures, weak regional planning
and technical and managerial manpower constraints including difficulties in
attracting such personnel to remote rural locations have impeded agricultural
planning, programming and implementation. Further, the Government's concern
for area development has also increased the need to strengthen provincial and
local planning capacities. Future programs responsive to the Government's
stated objectives will necessarily be more complex than those which the
Government has followed up to now. They will require closely coordinated
programs of agricultural research and extension, input supply, credit, land
development, transportation, pricing policies and marketing arrangements. It
is, therefore, important that the Government continue to strengthen the key
rural development institutions, particularly through the education,
recruitment, training, and retention of qualified technical manpower.



- 6 -
1.16      Bank Group Lending Strategy.  There is general agreement between
the Bank and the Government on the overall objectives and strategies proposed
for the rural sector. While views sometimes differ on the relative emphasis
to be given to different investments and on the technical design of some
projects, such differences are not impeding Bank Group operations generally
and are usually resolvable following further analysis and dialogue. The Bank
Group has devoted considerable staff time to various analyses of the rural
sector (e.g., employment and income distribution, irrigation development,
agriculture support services and food crop production) to improve its
understanding of the needs of the sector and the Government's policies.
1.17      Since the first of 13 irrigation projects was approved in 1968, the
Bank Group has rapidly expanded its agricultural and rural lending to include
support for estate and smallholder tree crops; fertilizer production and
distribution; sugar estates; agricultural research, extension, and training;
transmigration; livestock; fisheries; and resource survey and mapping. In
1978, a Sector Operations Review was issued on the Bank Group's agricultural
program in Indonesia (Report No. 2166, dated August 9, 1978), which concluded
that despite deficiencies in some projects, the Bank's portfolio in Indonesian
agriculture was "of overall good quality and likely to contribute substan-
tially to increased production." To further that aim within the context of
the Government's overall agricultural strategy, Bank Group lending within the
next few years is expected to focus on:
(i) secondary crop production, e.g., through the second phase projects
for agricultural research, extension, seeds and an initial agri-
cultural credit project;
(ii)  a diversified irrigation program designed to intensify rice crop-
ping on Java and to extend water management to the Other Islands;
(iii)  development of smallholder tree crop replanting programs designed
to complement the Nucleus Estate and Smallholders projects
(paras. 111 and 112);
(iv)  area development projects aimed at evolving a viable model of
watershed management to conserve soil and to ensure long-term
productivity in the densely populated areas of Java; developing
strategies for the integrated rural development of critical areas
on Java; and stimulating transmigration to the Other Islands.
These projects will be complemented by sector work. A cassava production and
marketing study planned for later this fiscal year will assist the Government
in developing a secondary food crop strategy. A transmigration program review
will be undertaken later this year which will, inter alia, identify strategies
to reduce cost per family and stimulate spontaneous transmigration.  In
addition, a review of supply and requirements of technical and managerial
manpower for agriculture planned for early 1980 will examine short-term
training measures to alleviate critical manpower shortages.



-7-
B. The Rubber Subsector
Crop Production
1.18      The Indonesian rubber industry, at one time the world's largest
producer of natural rubber, is currently second largest to Malaysia, produc-
ing about 800,000 tons and exporting 770,000 tons in 1977/78 - 20% of total
world exports. The third largest export commodity of Indonesia, natural
rubber, comprises 6% of total agricultural GDP, 7% of export earnings and
16% of nonoil exports in 1977. The industry provides full-time employment
for 2 million people and part-time employment for an additional 6-8 million
people.
1.19      Indonesia rubber production (Table 1) grew slowly from 1960 to
1970. Average production in 1960-64 was 700,000 tons, increasing on average
1.6% p.a. to 810,000 tons in 1970-74. Most of this increase can be attributed
to expansion of the rubber area; average yields remained almost constant.
From 1970-74 to 1975-78 average total production declined slightly (by about
0.6% p.a.) reflecting a decrease in yields. The main reasons for this recent
decline in production appear to be the effects of: (a) a continuous, though
erratic, decline in prices which has discouraged tapping and planting; and
(b) a failure to improve poor agricultural practices, particularly among
smallholders and private national estates.
Table 1.1: INDONESIA AVERAGE ANNUAL RUBBER PRODUCTION, 1960-78
Calendar years
1960-64        1965-69       1970-74        1975-78
Production ('000 ton)
Smallholders                   483            526           570            541
Estates                        220           223             238           250
Total                       703            749            808            791
Area ('000 ha)
Smallholders                 1,506         1,661          1,839          1,875
Estates                      n.a.             523            497           455
Total                      n.a.          2,184          2,336          2,330
Yield (kg/ha)
Smallholders                   342            317           310            290
Estates                      n.a.             426           483             543



-8-
Smallholders
1.20      About 70% of national production comes from smallholders who have
80% of the total rubber area, with average rubber holdings of 1.5 ha. Small-
holder production, of which 70% comes from Sumatra and 19% from Kalimantan,
grew from an average 480,000 tons from 1960-64 to 570,000 tons in 1970-74, an
average increase of 1.5% p.a. In the same period smallholder rubber area
grew on average 2.2% p.a. and rubber yields declined 0.8% p.a. In 1975-78
average production was down to 541,000 tons, a decrease of 1.3% due entirely
to lower yields. This decline in smallholder production can be expected to
accelerate, since it is estimated that 30% of smallholder plantings date from
1940 or earlier and 30% from 1940-50; all of these probably already have
declining yields. In the last five years there has been very little evidence
of replanting by smallholders, most of the area being left to be rejuvenated
by poor quality self-sown seedling rubber. Smallholders do not have sufficient
resources to plant and maintain the high yielding varieties of rubber necessary
for them to receive an attractive return on their investment. In the
absence of Government-assisted settlement and rubber replanting programs, it
is estimated that by 1990 the area of smallholder rubber will have dropped to
1.1 million ha and production to about 270,000 tons.
1.21      Estate Production.  There is a well-established estate rubber
sector of 455,000 ha comprised of the PNPs and PTPs with 200,000 ha (44%),
private national estates with 182,000 ha (40%), and private foreign estates
with 73,000 ha (16%). Total estate production in 1977 was 250,000 tons. The
main center of estate production is Sumatra (65%), followed by Java (30%)
and Kalimantan (5%). Despite a decline in the area under rubber on Government
estates from 225,000 ha in 1970 to about 200,000 ha in 1977, production
increased from an estimated 118,000 tons to 145,000 tons, due to an increase
in yields from 524 kg/ha to 725 kg/ha. Private foreign estate companies,
despite a marginal drop in area (74,000 to 73,000 ha), increased production
in the same period from 40,000 tons to about 55,000 tons. The performance
of the private national estates has in many respects been similar to that for
smallholders. The area of these estates was estimated to be 182,000 ha in
1976, production was 52,000 tons. The decline in estate rubber area is due
to abandonment of overaged trees and conversion of some areas into oil palm.
Increased yields have resulted from improved management and replanting of
estates with clonal varieties. If the present trends for the estate sector
continue, it is expected that by 1990, total estate rubber area will decline
to 315,000 ha, but total production will increase to 340,000 tons.
1.22      Future Prospects.  The forecast of a substantial decrease in the
future production of rubber has stimulated the Government to initiate an expan-
sion program for rubber replanting and new rubber planting. The focus of
this program is smallholder development, first to raise the productivity of
existing holdings, and secondly, to assist poor and landless families to
clear unused jungle and plant new rubber. In 1978, the Government initiated a
large scale Smallholder Rubber Replanting Program to be implemented by a new
National Rubber Replanting Unit in the DGE. The target is to replant 10,000
ha in 1978/79, 30,000 ha in 1979/80 and about 50,000 ha annually thereafter
to complete 300,000 ha by 1984/85 in line with the need to replant about



- 9 -
60,000 ha p.a. so that the 1.8 million ha of smallholder rubber could be
replanted over the trees' 30-year production cycle. However, in view of the
organizational and administrative constraints, a more realistic goal for the
seven-year period would be 150,000-180,000 ha. The proposed IDA-assisted
Rubber Replanting Project would assist the replanting of the first 40,000 ha.
The objectives and detailed plans for the development of the estates sector
are expected to be clarified in the current planning for Repelita III.
It is clear however, that there will be an enlarged nucleus estate small-
holder development program to assist new settlement on tree crop smallholdings.
Such a program is essential not only to reverse the trend in declining export
crop production and foreign exchange earnings but also for immediately
benefiting the rural poor. Given Indonesia's comparative advantage in rubber
production and the prospects of stable prices at any reasonable rate of
expansion of natural rubber production (see para. 6.02), the prospects for a
successful smallholder replanting program are good if implementation capacity
can be developed.
C. The Palm Oil Subsector
1.23     Faced with a rapidly growing domestic demand for fats and oils -
mainly because of population growth and increasing per capita incomes, and the
prospect of a slowly expanding coconut industry, the Government in the last
few years has started to look on oil palm as a major source of vegetable oil.
Modern refining techniques, particularly fractionation, have made palm oil
products acceptable to the Indonesian taste. At present there is insufficient
fractionation capacity of palm oil in Indonesia but current investment plans
indicate that the shortage will be overcome by 1980.
1.24      Oil palm is largely an estate crop in Indonesia, most production
coming from North Sumatra where soil and climatic conditions are ideal. At
present, public sector estates account for 66% of the area and the production
of oil palm projects (palm oil and palm kernels), the remaining third comes
from private estates (Table 1.2). The first smallholder plantings commenced
in 1975/76 but comprise less than 1% of the total area of oil palm in Indonesia.
About 85% of the present production is exported. The combined output of palm
oil and palm kernel oil is projected to reach 1.7 million tons by 1990 which
corresponds to an average annual growth rate of 9% for 1975-1990. According
to Bank projections, however, much of this increased production will be
consumed domestically (para. 5.05).



- 10 -
Table 1.2: INDONESIAN OIL PALM PRODUCTION DATA
1970    1972    1974    1976    1978
Production ('000 tons)
Palm Oil
Government estates                   147      189     243      294     327
Private estates                       70       81     105      145     160
Smallholders                           -        -       -        -        1
Total                              217      270     348      439     488
Palm Kernel
Government estates                    33       42      52       64      65
Private estates                       15       17      21       31       32
Smallholders                           -        -       -        -     0.2
Total                               48       59      73       95    97.2
Area in Production ('000 ha)
Government estates                    62       72      87       95      105
Private estates                       30       32      37       45       45
Smallholders                           -        -       -        -        1
Total                               92      104     124      140     151
Yield (tons ffb/ha)                   12.4    13.2    14.0    15.6    15.4
Institutions Involved in the Rubber Subsector
1.25      Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).  MOA comprises five Directorates
General: Estates, Fisheries, Food Crops, Forestry and Livestock. The
Directorate General of Estates (DGE) regulates all private estates and small-
holdings involving tree crops and industrial crops which include rubber, coco-
nuts, oil palm, tea, coffee, tobacco, etc. DGE comprises three directorates
in Jakarta: Planning, Production and Means of Production (Chart 1). Extension
and project supervision at provincial and district levels are handled by the
Provincial Extension Services (Dinas Perkebunan Daerahs - DPDs). The DPDs
are responsible technically to the DGE but administratively to the provincial
governments. The responsibility for public sector estates rests in MOA with
the Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises Unit which reports to the
Minister. This Unit assists the Minister in policy formulation, coordination
of estate crop activities, estate inspection, estate budget approval and
control and monitoring of the operations of the public sector estates. Both
the MOA Support Staff and DGE have received technical assistance under the
Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I and II Projects, Loans 1499-IND and



- 11 -
1604-'ND, respectively, in order to facilitate improved operation of the
public estate system and to facilitate preDaration and implementation of small-
holder development projects.  Improved operations and project implementation
navxe resulted from this technical assistance. Extension services to tree
crori sma3lholders, howevcr, continue to suffer because neither DGE nor the
DPDe have adequate funds to improve the scope of extension to smallholder
tree crop farmers or the nurnber of tree crop extension personnel. The first
step toward improving routine extension services for rubber smallholders are
proposed for inclusion in the forthcoming Second Agriculture Extension
Project.
1.26      Public Sector Estates.  The Indonesian Estates Industry is domi-
nated by the public sector estates comprising 28 estate groups which are
located mainly in Northern Sumatra ard java with over 500,000 na of planta-
tion crops excluding pine forests.  Organization of the Government-owned
estates system is shown in Chart 2.  CGovernment policy is now to convert
their fully owned estates enterprises, the PNPs,/1 into PTPs which are
limited liability companies operating under the Indonesian Commercial Code.
This action grants the estates greater financial and managerial autonomy by
putting the estates on a ful'ly commercial footing subject to Indonesian
commercial law including all commerci-.l taxation. The conversion to PTP
decentralizes much of the decision-making from the Ministry of Agr-culture to
the individual estates. The majority of these estates have now been converted.
The importance of this vast estate enter)rise to the rural sector is that it
employs over 500,000 resident and seasonal labor, and it is estimated that
the welfare of 3 million people is immediately dependent on the estates
system. The quality of management on the estates has greatly improved since
the 1960s and with such improvements, the estates are now able to facilitate
smallholder development. The Government has requested rehabilitation of PNP I
in the proposed project in order that it can be utilized as a viable nucleus
estate for smallholder development in the future. Similarly, the proposed
expansion of the Danau Salak estate at PTP XVIII would assist the estate
with the required infrastructure, processing facilities, and development
program to strengthen its role as a nucleus estate.
1.27      Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI).  BRI provides short-term credit to
agricultural cooperatives, farmers, fishermen and other agricultural enter-
prises. BRI participates in the administration of the Mtass-Guidance (BIMAS)
program of seasonal production credit, a national program to raise food crop
production and farm income by supplying credit and cash inputs at subsidized
prices, mainly to rice farmers. This program, administered by the Director
General of Food Crops, is implemented through village units throughout Indonesia
in each of which the BRI establishes a credit office. With the exception of
the Tea Smallholders and Private Estates Project (Credit 400-IND), BRI has
had very little involvement in the provision of long-term credit necessary
for tree crop financing.  Under the IDA-assisted Rural Credit Project (Credit
/1  The PNPs, Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan, were classified in 1968 during
reorganization of the estate groups as PNP I-PNP XXVIlI; PTPs Perseroan
Terbatas Perkebunan, are state-owned estate enterprises with limited
liability.



- 12 -
827-IND) the BRI would expand credit operations to tree crop agriculture.
Until such time as BRI is fully capable of handling tree crop credit operations,
the BRI has agreed to utilize a simplified credit delivery system for adminis-
trating rubber loans through nucleus estate contractors as presently imple-
mented under the first and second Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Projects
(Loans 1499-IND and 1604-IND).
Other Institutions in the Rubber Sector
1.28      Four other ministries are involved in the rubber industry.  The
Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives determines policy on product specification,
quality control and smallholder marketing; the Ministry of Industry licenses
processors; the Ministry of Finance, with the approval of the National
Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), provides and arranges for collection
of funds for development through Bank Indonesia (BI); and the Ministry of
Home Affairs, through its Directorate General of Agraria, is responsible for
the granting of land titles (Hak Milik).
Rubber Research
1.29      Rubber research is conducted primarily by two institutions, both
in North Sumatra: the Research Institute of the Sumatra Planters' Associa-
tion (BPPM) in Medan, for private estates, and the Rubber Research Center at
Tanjong Morawa, for Government estates. Three other units, all in Bogor,
West Java, are also involved in rubber-related research: the Research
Institute for Estate Crops (BPPB) does rubber clone, fertilizer and rubber
technology trials in Java and South Sumatra; the Soils Research Institute
works on land capability; and the Central Agricultural Research Institute
looks after annual crops, including rubber intercrops.
1.30      A Rubber Research Institute is operating with World Bank financing
at Sungei Putih in North Sumatra (Agricultural Research Loan 1179-IND). This
Institute will be responsible for applied research on rubber and intercrops
for estates and, especially, for smallllolders. The Institute will make
recommendations on: (a) clones and clonal seedlings; (b) fertilizer usage by
soil type; (c) the preparation and planting of nursery material; (d) plant
protection, exploitation and processing methods; and (e) cover crops and
intercrops. The new Institute will absorb the rubber section of BPPM and
will take over the basic research being done by the Rubber Research Center,
leaving the latter to concentrate on applied research.
Bank Lending for Rubber
1.31      Bank assistance for smallholder rubber has included Credit
358-IND (North Sumatra Smallholder Development Project) US$5 million, Loan
1499-IND (Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project, NES I) US$65 million and
Loan 1604-IND (NES II) US$65 million. The oil palm and rubber replanting
under Credit 358-IND, now nearing completion, has been successful. Although
project costs have doubled, higher than anticipated selling prices and produc-
tion have more than offset this. NES I, which became effective in January
1978, has started slowly due to inadequate budgeting of local funds. The
NES II loan became effective in September 1978.  Smallholder rubber development



- 13 -
has also recently been started on a modest scale in South Sumatra under the
Transmigration and Rural Development Project (Loan 1318-IND).  Thl.e first Rubber
Replanting Project, subject to Eoard appproval, is intended to support the new
national Smallholder Rubber ReDlaXltinig Program to be implemented by a new
National Rubber Replanting Unit in the DGE.  The rationale for each of these
projects acknowledges that significant increases in national ruber production
can only be achieved by massive planting in smallholder areas and new plantings
in smallholder settlement schemes.
1.32      Rubber rehabilitation on public-sector estates was financed under
Credits 155, 194 and 319-IND. The recent project performance audit for
Credits 155 and 194-IND rated both projects physically and financially
successful. Credit 319-IND (Fourth Agricultural Estates Project) is ahead
of schedule and rubber and oil palm plantings are good.
2.  PURPOSE, PRIORITY AND FORMJLATION OF THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
Basic Objectives
2.01      GOI eccnomic objectives for the rubber subsector and for the re-
gional devlopment which the project will contribute are to: (a) increase
the efficiency cf the subsector by raising yields and lowering unit costs of
production; (b) increase production of rubber leading to increased exports
and foreign exchange earnings; and (c) increase the supply of raw materials
for local processing in the rapidly expanding industrial and urban areas
outside of Java, particularly in Sumatra and Kalimantan, thereby creating
secondary employment. The proposed project is designed as a particularly
e'-fec-ive means of helping to achieve GOI objectives for development of the
rubber subsector since the project will not only settle poor and landless
families or, largely unproductive land while raising rubber output and export
income, but will also minimize the drain on public resources through an
innovative system of cost recovery.
2.02      Socially the project wIll generate productive employment at a
relatively low cost, raise family incomes of the landless or near landless
poor, and stimulate small business in the project areas. The project will
?rovide for basic health services for about 50,000 people including malaria
control, improved water and sanitation and family planning. Primary and
secondary education facilities will be provided for children of 7,000
lamilies. Regional needs will be served with new and upgraded roads to
improve transportation for about 200,000 people living in or near the project
area. The project will establish at the end of the project period a high-
yielding, permanent tree crop and provide a stable and proven agricultural
system respoasive to criteria for protection of the environment, particularly
since slhifting cultivation and indiscriminate forest clearing are serious
problems. The project will assist in institution building with benefits for
the Directorate General of Estates in planning, implementation and evaluation
of ongoing projects.



- 14 -
2.03      GOI requires that public sector estates with their technical and
managerial expertise be utilized as nuclei to promote and guide smallholder
development. The use of public sector estates is an effective way to rea-
lize these stated GOI objectives since in an environment of scarce technical
and managerial skills, the GOI can rely on the PNP/PTPs to meet the demanding
requirements of settlement and rubber development in clearing jungle, provid-
ing employment to poor and needy families to be settled in the area, and
securing sufficient inputs and marketing facilities to ensure that settlers
become successful smallholder producers. The crops which best lend themselves
for development by nucleus estates at present are rubber, coconuts and oil
palm. These crops have satisfactory export potential; their returns to the
farmer are satisfactory; production and processing techniques are well known
in Indonesia; and the crops are well suited to the poorer soils of Sumatra
ancd Kalimantan where there are large tracts of undeveloped agricultural land
available for settlement.
B. Project Formulation
Constraints
2.04      The formidable number of poor farmers, landless people and the
growing number of underemployed and unemployed in the rural labor force and
the shortage of finance for development necessitates that the project be
designed to minimize the cost of settlement per family and yet provide suffi-
cient on-farm investment to assure their successful livelihood. The project
is therefore formulated to utilize fully the opportunities of farm family
self-help and to minimize Government expenditures on agricultural support,
social services and project infrastructure. Conceptually, the proposed
project is the same as the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I and II projects.
Technical, organizational and financial details are, except in a few minor
cases, the same as in these projects.
2.05      The project components have been selected to give as much emphasis
to smallholder development as practicable while providing sufficient assistance
to strengthen the nucleus estates for their critical role in project implemen-
tation. The project site in South Kalimantan was chosen because there
are about 40,000 ha of unused, relatively uninhabited sheet lalang /1 land,
suitable for smallholder rubber development, alongside an existing, but
run-down rubber estate. The area is linked to the provincial capital by an
excellent road, it has excellent access to an adequate seaport and is
selected by Government to be a priority development area for new settlement.
The Rimbo Bujang transmigration settlement area in Jambi province with its
6,000 settlers is included in the project to provide each settler family
with a reliable cash crop which wil'l help diversify farm family income away
from its present total dependence on food cropping. The project will also
assist some 2,000 local families living in forest areas along the edge of
the transmigration area to develop a rubber cash crop and to share in the
development taking place around them.
/1   Imperata cylindrica:  a coarse grass.



- 15 -
2.06      PTPs XVIII and VI have been selected as the nucleus estates for
smallholder development since they have developed considerable skill in land
clearing and tree crop development. To implement the proposed project it is
essential that the nucleus estates have full authority over the resources,
machinery, material inputs, training of labor and control of finance required
to achieve and hand over to the settler, potentially high-yielding areas of
three year old rubber. Project formulation is therefore aimed at making the
nucleus estate responsible not only for clearing of land, rubber planting and
maintenance, but also the construction of roads, provision of building materials
and supervision of settlers' own construction of housing, the procurement and
application of inputs for development during the entire rubber immature
period, the clearing of the food crop area and the provision of planting
material for each new settler family. Rubber will be established in large
blocks of at least 500 ha so as to maximize economies of scale. The nucleus
estates will be required to hire new settlers as laborers and provide
temporary housing until settlers' own houses are constructed. Each estate
will be authorized to recruit casual labor whenever settler labor is insuffi-
cient to meet demand.
2.07      The project is also designed to strengthen the capacity of the
public sector estate PTP XVIII (South Kalimantan) for its role as the nucleus
estate in the present project, and PNP I (Aceh) for its role in a forthcoming
nucleus estate project. To achieve this objective, PTP XVIII and PNP I will
be assisted to improve their economic efficiency by increasing their areas of
newly planted rubber and oil palm in the project areas, and in the case of
PNP I, increasing its rubber and oil palm processing capacity. Since there is
no existing rubber estate near the Rimbo Bujang transmigration area, PTP VI,
using its own financial resources, will establish a nucleus estate of about
5,000 ha of rubber. It will also establish nurseries for the propagation
and distribution of planting material to transmigrants and construct a
cassava processing plant of 1 mt/hr capacity to process surplus smallholder
production in the project area.
2.08      The decision on farm size and the scope of farm development is
based on the need for farm families to generate sufficient farm income to
repay the credit component. Farm plans for the new settlement in South
Kalimantan will result in the establishment of 3 ha of clonal rubber within
a total farm size of 4 ha. This is a reduction of 1 ha from the 5 ha farm
model in NES I and II. Provision is also made in the plan for production of
basic family food supplies. In addition to the establishment of a small
(0.15 ha) intensively cultivated home garden, each family will grow 0.8 ha
of field food crops. In the period of rubber immaturity, one member per
smallholder family will be offered full-time employment as a rubber
smallholder-trainee employed by the nucleus estate.
2.09      The implementation schedule for Rimbo Bujang transmigration area
is designed in such a way that at the time of development under this
project each settler family will have been resident on their 5 ha holding for
about 3 years. They therefore will have a house and sufficient infrastructure
available to them to allow omission of these investments in the present project.
It is expected also that each holding will have about 2 ha of established



- 16 -
crop land. The area of clonal rubber required to generate sufficient income
to meet family debt service obligations is therefore reduced to 2 ha.
Local Marga land people will also receive 2 ha of planted rubber since they
presently have a house and about 1 ha of food crop land. In both cases,
during the period of rubber immaturity, one member per faaily will also be
offered full time employment as a rubber smallholder-trainee employed by the
nucleus estate.
C. The Project Areas
Location and Land Use
2.10      There are three project areas:  Danau Salak in South Kalimantan;
PNP I estates in Aceh Province (Sumatra) and Rimbo Bujang in Jambi Province
(Sumatra).
2.11      PTP XVIII:  Danau Salak - South Kalimantan Province (Map 14020).
The project area commences at kilometer 67 on the main provincial highway
from Banjarmasin and extends north-northeast 42 km to Rantau and Tanjung.
In the southwest the smallholder area lies immediately adjacent to Danau
Salak estate owned by PTP XVIII. To the west it is bordered by the flood
plain of the Barito River and to the east by a ridge of low hills. The
project area is divided almost equally north and south by the town of Binuang.
The southern half lies in Kabupaten Banjar with Martapura the principal town,
and the northern half is in Kabupaten Tapin with Rantau the main town. Most
of the project area is under sheet lalang, comprising about 1,000 ha of old
rubber and 2,000 ha of sporadic village food cropland in the Transad and
Pantai Cabe settlements. The total gross land area available for smallholder
development is 23,700 ha, of which 20,000 ha will be required to settle 4,000
smallholder families.
2.12      PNP I - Aceh Province (Map 14183).  The project area will be the
six estates of PNP I comprising a total concession of 47,131 ha. The total
planted area is 17,564 ha with 3,230 ha rubber, 9,034 ha oil palm, 5,250 ha
pine and 50 ha coffee. Three of the estates (Pulau Tiga, Kebun Lama and
Kebun Baru) are located in the south of the province close to the city of
Langsa. Two estates (Karang Inoue and Julu Rayeu) lie about 100 km north of
Langsa and the sixth estate, in northern Aceh, is some 400 km from Langsa.
The head office for the estate is at Langsa.
2.13      Rimbo Bujang Smallholder Development - Jambi Province (Map 14099).
Situated in the extreme northwest of Jambi Province, some 200 km from the
provincial capital Jambi, the project area is comprised of three parts, namely:
(a)  Rimbo Bujang Transmigration Settlement.  Located on a relatively low
basin or depression between the Bukit Barisan range in the east,
the Tiga Puluh mountains to the east and north, the project area is
neatly bounded by three rivers: the Batang Tebo in the south, the
Batang Hari in the north and the Batang Jujuhan in the west. There
are currently 15 settlement units occupying a gross area of 68,000
ha. By early 1979, some 6,000 families had settled in the scheme.



- 17 -
(b)  Marga Land.  This area is bounded in the north by the Trans-Sumatra
Highway and in the south by the Batang Tebo River. It is broadly
triangular in shape since the highway and river diverge to the west
from the Kabupaten capital, Muara Bungo. The nominal west boundary
is the road linking Paninjun to the highway about 37 km from Muara
Bungo. The gross area is 8,000 ha of which 1,500 ha is used for
rainfed and irrigated rice production, coconuts and mixed upland
crops. The remaining 6,000 ha comprises primary forest, abandoned
senescent rubber and secondary forest. Of this area, about 4,200
ha will be available for permanent settlement of 2,000 local families.
(c)  PTP VI Nucleus Estate.  The allocation for the nucleus estate is
7,500 ha gross. It is contiguous with the Rimbo Bujang transmi-
gration area and to the east with the new Alai Hilir transmigration
area. Primary and secondary forest covers most of the area.
Climate
2.14      The climate is wet tropical.  In Rimbo Bujang and PNP I the dry
season is normally June to August and in South Kalimantan June to October.
Mean monthly rainfall figures for the project areas are provided in the
Project Working Papers. Total annual rainfall in Danau Salak is 2,300 mm;
in Rimbo Bujang 2,900 mm; in the northern area of PNP I 1,800 mm; and in
the southern area of PNP I 1,800 to 3,400 mm. The maximum and minimum
monthly rainfall ranges from 300 to 90 mm in Danau Salak; 340 to 120 mm in
Rimbo Bujang; and about 380-60 mm on PNP I estates. Total rainfall and its
seasonality are suitable for growing rubber and food crops. Oil palm will
be grown in the higher rainfall southern estates of PNP I. The mean tempera-
ture varies from 27 to 30 degrees C in Danau Salak, 26 to 28 degrees C in
Rimbo Bujang and 26-29 degrees C in PNP I. Wind velocities are low in
project areas and present no risk to tree crops.
Soils and Topography
2.15      Soils in most of the project areas are derived from tertiary
sedimentary rock and are broadly classified as red-yellow podzolics and
latosols. In general they are of low to moderate fertility and are physically
suited to rubber and oil palm development. Most project soils are deficient
in nitrogen, extremely deficient in phosphorus and low in potassium. They
are fairly acid and phosphate fixation could prove to be high. Heavy applica-
tions of phosphate will be required in the initial stages of development.
Details of the soil analyses are given in the Staff Working Papers. Topo-
graphy in most of the project areas is flat to undulating, the slopes usually
being less than 15%.
Population and Incomes
2.16      In Rimbo Bujang 32% of the 6,000 settlers have cleared 1 ha of
jungle, 64% have 2 ha cleared and 4% have cleared between 2 and 3 ha. The
variation is mainly the result of the staggered arrival of settlers over the
three years of settlement. Ninety-three percent of settlers who arrived
three years ago have 2 ha of cleared cropland. Average incomes from on-farm
and off-farm sources for the households with 2 ha cleared are Rp 250,000



- 18 -
($400) year/family. In the Marga land total family incomes average Rp 320,000
($512). Farm holdings in the transmigration area are 5 ha and in the Marga
land about 6 ha, the latter varying considerably. There is considerable scope
therefore for additional crop development on each holding. The Danau Salak
project area is unpopulated except for two settlements, one near Binuang and
the other at the northeast corner of the project area. There is no question
of disturbing these settlers' tenure, but if they wish to they will be
incorporated in the project.
Infrastructure
Roads
2.17      Danau Salak.  The smallholder project area straddles the main
provincial highway from Banjarmasin to Rantau. The alignment and asphalt
surface make it ideally suited to serve as the main access road to the
project area. The road network leading from the highway is fragmented
and generally of poor quality. In the north a rough but all-weather access
road links the Pantai Cabe/Soato settlements to the provincial highway at
Tatakan. Access to the port of Banjarmasin is provided by the same highway.
2.18      PNP I.  A good road connects the nucleus estate headquarters to
Langsa 3 km away. The roads to smallholder areas surrounding the estate,
particularly the development area at Aleu Iemerah are in poor condition,
although constant improvements are being made.
2.19      Rimbo Buiang Smallholder Development Area.  The most important road
in the project area is the Trans-Sumatra Highway. When completed, it will
provide excellent access to the ports at Jambi in the southeast and Padang in
the northwest. The main project access road leads off from the highway 14 km
west of Muara Bungo and runs almost due north through the center of the
settlement area. There is a comprehensive network of roads in the existing
settlement area and most are in good condition. In the Marga land four
trails cut north-south through the project area from the Trans-Sumatra
Highway and provide access to the scattered settlements along the banks of
the Batang Tebo River. A fifth road, from the highway to Paninjan village,
forms the western boundary of the Marga land and although of better quality
than the other four roads, it is impassable during the wet season. The area
earmarked for development as the nucleus estate is almost bisected in an
east-west direction by a new all-weather road linking the Rimbo Bujang
and Alai Hilir transmigration areas.
Water Transport and Port Facilities
2.20      Port facilities serving all three project sites are adequate for
project requirements. River transport with barges is also possible to Jambi
and Banjarmasin ports.
Settlement Design Standards
2.21      Danau Salak.  Of the land which will be included in the project,
over 75% is within slope classes 1 and 2 (0-3 degrees and 4-6 degrees respec-
tively). The remaining area has slopes to class 4 (13-18 degrees). Topography



- 19 -
is not a constraint to village development. A preliminary master plan for
settlement of the project area was prepared at appraisal (see Map 14020). The
village locations proposed are based mainly on considerations of the availa-
bility of adequate and reliable sources of water for human consumption. A
maximum of 18 new villages will be required, accommodating a total of 4,000
smallholder families, in villages ranging in size from 138 to 262 families
each. Owing to the particular shape of the project area, no distinction
needs to be made between central and satellite villages. Each village will
be sited on or adjacent to its foodcrop area and usually within 3 km of the
extremity of its rubber area. Only in the case of two villages might it be
necessary for rubber holdings to be approximately 4 km from the village
center. Village development will follow a nucleated pattern, each house
standing on a garden plot of 0.2 ha, these plots being arranged around
one main and up to six subsidiary dukuh centers (see Figure 1).
2.22      Rimbo Bulang.  The proposed project will not involve changes to
ongoing settlement plans in the transmigration area being implemented by the
Directorate General of Transmigration and the Transmigration Sub-Directorate
of the Directorate General of Highways (PTPT). In the Marga land, 2 ha of
jungle will be cleared and block planted with rubber for each of 2,000 local
smallholder families. Since most of these families live in or close to their
foodcrop land along the river, and since the Marga land is usually less than
3 km in depth from the river to the Trans-Sumatra Highway, no resettlement of
the local population is envisioned. Should it be found that a small number
of families have to be relocated, this being most likely for those families
located between 30 and 37 km from Muara Bungo, housing materials will be
available for construction on the rubber plot. No additional foodcrop land
will be allocated to Marga land settlers.
Settler Housing
2.23      Danau Salak.  Two basic designs are proposed to accommodate prefer-
ences of settlers, one suitable for low-lying areas in the west of the
project area (Figure 2) and the other for villages located in the center and
east of the project area (Figure 3). Both houses provide an enclosed living
area of 35 sq m with an open verandah on one side. They are all timber con-
struction. Main roofs will be of locally manufactured hardwood shingles
(sirap) while verandahs will be roofed with palm fronds (rumbia). The first
500 houses will be built by local contractors and will cost about Rp 266,000
(US$426 constant 1978). Thereafter, the settlers will build the houses
themselves in work units under the supervision of an infrastructure management
team recruited by the nucleus estate. Materials to be provided for these
3,500 houses will cost about Rp 205,000 (US$328).
Settlement Facilities
2.24      Danau Salak.  Two sets of standards will be applied to community
buildings in new villages. Village offices, main and secondary recreation
halls, mosques, mushallas and market buildings will be built by the nucleus
estate and will be based on standards already established for such buildings
on the estate itself. Other community buildings such as schools, nursery



- 20 -
homes, polyclinics /1 and health centers (puskesmas) will be based on GOI
standard designs and will be constructed by existing provincial and/or
district agencies. Health and educational facilities will be planned to
reflect target levels set in the Repelita III and will be implemented under
the INPRES (Rural Public Works) Program. Detailed planning for these build-
ings will be carried out by the appropriate provincial and district agencies
on information provided by the nucleus estate.
2.25      Rimbo Bujang.  In the Rimbo Bujang transmigration area a range
of settlement facilities is provided either directly by the Transmigra-
tion Project authorities or by kabupaten and provincial agencies as part of
their regular development programs. At mid-1978 there were 14 primary
schools, one junior high school, one village health center, several mosques,
administrative offices, health posts and other smaller facilities. Since the
Rimbo Bujang transmigration area is classified a kecamatan (there being six
other kecamatans in the Muara Bungo Kabupaten), it has equal access with
the other kecamatans to the kabupaten development budget. An established
program exists to construct one new village health center per kabupaten each
year. Rimbo Bujang will therefore receive at least one new health center in
the five years between 1980 and 1984. Development of additional infrastructure
is more tentative given the uncertainty of the size and nature of the annual
budget allocations from central government. In the interest of uniform
development of the province, however, the project will rely on ongoing local
and central government programs for further expansion of social infrastructure
in the project area. To facilitate rubber planting, 15 small rubber develop-
ment unit offices will be constructed under the project. These offices
will be built to the design standards set by PTP VI.
Road Development
2.26      General.  The hierarchy of roads and tracks required to serve new
villages and rubber holdings will comprise:
(a)  primary village roads in some places linking villages and rubber
areas directly to the nucleus estate and in others forming spurs
from the main access road, in each case, providing all-weather
access to light passenger and goods vehicles;
(b)  secondary village roads leading usually from individual villages
into newly planted rubber areas and providing fair-weather access
to light vehicles and all-weather access to four-wheel drive
vehicles and agricultural tractors; and
(c)  rubber collection tracks through the newly planted rubber areas to
provide access for latex collection and estate maintenance vehicles.
Tapping paths to each plot of smallholder rubber will provide
access by foot or bicycle for tapping purposes.
2.27      Danau Salak.  Proposed alignments for the road network are
indicated on a preliminary master plan of the project area available in the
/1 Synonymous with subhealth centers.



- 21 -
Staff Working Papers. Finalization of this plan will be undertaken when the
results of the planned hydrology survey become available [see para. 3.02A(a)(vi)]
and detailed locations of new villages are known. Design standards for each
of the road types will differ slightly from those adopted in NES II owing to
differences in th_ pattern of road development required, the topography of the
project area and the main soil types found (Figure 4). Each primary village
road will have a 6.0 m wide effective carriageway paved with 19 cm of gravel
on an embankment whose crown height will be 25 cm above prevailing ground
level and will have a camber of about 8%. Secondary village roads will have
a 4.0 m earth carriageway with an embankment crown height of 20 cm. Rubber
collection tracks will have a 3.0 m wide carriageway with an embankment crown
height of 20 cm. The preliminary project master plan does not indicate the
alignments of these tracks since they will be fixed at the discretion of
project management during the course of rubber development work. Management
and supervision of construction of the road network in the project area is
covered in para. 4.07.
2.28      Rimbo Bujang.  Proposed alignments for the road network are indicated
on a preliminary master plan of the project area (Map 14099). No additional
primary or secondary village roads will be required in the Rimbo Bujang trans-
migration area except to link the nucleus estate with Units VI and XV in the
northwest and north respectively. The remainder of the new road network will
be required in the nucleus estate itself and in the Marga land. The design
standards will be similar to those for the Danau Salak component of the project.
Management and supervision of road construction is covered in para. 4.07.
Selection and Recruitment of Smallholders
2.29      Priority will first be given to poor, rural families in the
project area, then to those residents of the province in which the project is
located, and finally to transmigrants from Java. Selection of families will
give priority to male heads of households between 20-40 years with family
incomes below Rp 220,000 (US$350). It is anticipated that more than half of
the new settlers in Danau Salak will be transmigrants from Java. Recruitment
of new settlers will be carried out by the Project Manager of the Nucleus
Estate in cooperation with the Provincial Coordinating Committee (para. 4.05)
under the guidance of DGE. Resettlement and transmigration to the project
site will be the responsibility of the nucleus estate assisted by MOA and
provincial governments.



- 22 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. Project Summary
3.01      The main project components are summarized below:
A. Danau Salak
(a) Smallholder Development
(i) block planting of 12,000 ha of rubber;
(ii) distribution of seeds and fertilizers for food crops for
the first year of settlement, covering 4,000 ha of garden
and field food crop land, and the establishment of a Planting
Material Supply Unit (PMSU) by PTP XVIII nucleus estate for
smallholder purchase of additional planting material in later
years;
(iii) construction of about 18 villages, each with a village
center and construction of houses for 4,000 new settlers;/1
(iv) construction of education, health and community service facili-
ties in each village;
(v) construction of 60 km of all-weather primary village road,
the upgrading of 12.3 km of existing road to primary village
road standard, construction of 55 km of secondary village road
and 300 km of rubber collection track; and
(vi) establishment and staffing of agricultural credit, exten-
sion and cooperative services.
(b) PTP XVIII Estate Expansion
(i) block planting of 4,000 ha of rubber;
(ii) extension of existing crumb rubber factory from 6 mt/day
to 11 mt/day. Construction of a new 20 mt/day crumb factory
for latex and low-grade rubber;
/1 The precise number of new settlers, hence the number of villages required
to accommodate them will depend on how many existing settlers in the
Pantai Cabe/Soato schemes are willing to join the project. Preparatory
work designed to clarify this and facilitate the finalization of a master
plan is specified in Staff Working Paper No. III.



- 23 -
(iii)  construction of 480 new and the rehabilitation of 415
existing single and double houses for estate employee
families for both smallholder and estate development; and
(iv) construction and rehabilitation of buildings for divisional
offices, social services, garages, workshops and the provision
of technical assistance.
B. PNP I Estate Rehabilitation
(a)  new planting of 6,790 ha of block rubber in the two northern estates
Julu Rayeu and Karang Inoue; rehabilitation of a further 2,356 ha
of existing rubber planting in the southern estates Kebun Lama and
Kebun Baru;
(b)  new planting of 2,135 ha of oil palm on the southern group of
estates Kebun Lama, Kebun Baru, Pulau Tiga and rehabilitation of
2,990 ha of existing oil palm plantings in Kebun Baru and Pulau
Tiga estates.
(c)  construction of 2 crumb rubber factories, one at Kebun Lama,
the other at Julu Rayeu, each with a capacity of 20 mt/day.
(d)  expansion of the palm oil factory at Tg Seumantoh by 30 mt ffb/hr;
and
(e)  construction of 2,064 single and double houses for estate employee
families and new construction and rehabilitation of estate buildings,
garages and workshops.
C.  Rimbo Bujang
(a)  Smallholder Development
(i)  block planting of 16,000 ha of rubber (12,000 ha in Rimbo
Bujang transmigration area and 4,000 ha in the Marga land);
(ii) supply of planting material and fertilizers to improve existing
food and cash crops through the establishment of a PMSU;
(iii)  construction of 15 km of new primary village road, upgrading
9.7 km of existing road and track to primary village road
standard, the construction of 13.1 km of new secondary village
road and up to 400 km of rubber collection track;
(iv) construction of 15 rubber development unit offices to facilitate
the smallholder rubber planting program; and
(v)  establishment and staffing of agricultural credit, exten-
sion and cooperative services.



- 24 -
(b) Nucleus Estate - PTP VI
PTP VI at its own expense will establish a nucleus estate of
about 5,000 ha of rubber contiguous with the smallholder area.
It will establish nursery facilities for the propagation and
distribution of planting material to settlers, purchase equipment
and hire sufficient labor to implement the smallholder development
program. A cassava processing plant of 1 mt/hr capacity will
also be built to process surplus smallholder production.
3.02      Detailed Features /1
A. Danau Salak
(a) Smallholder Development (US$34.5 million)
(i) Rubber Block Planting (US$21.4 million). Each smallholder
will receive 3 ha of block planted rubber. A total of
12,000 ha will be planted with rubber in blocks of 500 ha
or more. Land will be cleared by PTP XVIII, which will
supply clonal planting material and fertilizer and employ
smallholders on contract as trainee rubber farmers to plant,
maintain, fertilize and weed rubber for a period of three years
after field planting. During this period PTP XVIII will have
authority to centrally manage the trainee rubber farmers in a
grouped manner in accordance with normal estate management
practices. After the three-year period, settlers will be
responsible for the operation of their individual rubber areas,
but will receive guidance, training and advice through arrange-
ments with the nucleus estate. During years 4 to 6, i.e., up to
rubber maturity, the nucleus estate will act as procurement
agent for on-farm inputs and will provide processing and
marketing services.
(ii) Food Cropping (US$1.0 million). Within six months of entry to
the settlement, each family will receive conditional title to
4 ha, the fourth hectare to be used for subsistence food crop
production. As part of the total subsistence package to be
provided to new settlers, PTP XVIII will clear 1.0 ha per
settler family (US$0.5 million) to facilitate garden and field
crop establishment and will provide an initial cash payment to
settler families of Rp 30,000 (US$48) for food and transportation
needs (US$0.3 million). PTP XVIII will procure and provide
inputs for food crop production and house and garden establish-
ment including seed and fertilizer at US$40 equivalent per
family (US$ 0.2 million).
/1 Project costs listed in the section are quoted in current prices and
include price and physical contingencies.



- 25 -
(iii) Planting Material Supply Unit (PMSU) (US$1.4 million). A PMSU
will be established at Tungkap in the center of the project
area under the control of the nucleus estate. The PMSU will
provide, on a grant basis, inputs for food crop production to
each new settler on his arrival. Thereafter inputs will be
sold to settlers on a cash basis. The PMSU will develop extension
services to assist settlers and establish model farms for
demonstration and applied research. The DGE will be respon-
sible for requesting a sufficient number of PPL for food crops
to be allocated to the project area. An assurance was obtained
at negotiation that the nucleus estate operated PMSU will
continue to supply food crop inputs for project settlers
until such time as the BIMAS program is extended to the
project area [para. 8.01(a)].
(iv) Village Centers (US$0.4 million). Up to 18 new villages
will be built in the smallholder area to accommodate a total
of 4,000 settler families in village sizes ranging from 138
and 262 families per village. No distinction will be drawn
between central and satellite villages since the smaller new
settlements will share facilities of existing villages lining
the main access road. Appropriate allowances are shown in
project accounts for community buildings in these villages, but
the allocation of such buildings to specific villages will be
made in the process of finalizing details for village develop-
ment (see Staff Working Paper No. III).
(v) Housing and Civil Works (US$2.5 million). The first 500 new
settler houses will be built by local contractors against
tenders issued by PTP XVIII. The remaining houses will be
built by the settler families themselves with materials
and construction supervision provided by PTP XVIII. The first
500 houses will each cost about Rp 266,000 (US$426) while the
remainder will cost about Rp 205,000 (US$328) each (excluding
latrines in each case). Upland and lowland houses will be
designed for subsequent expansion by farmers in later years.
Housing for some nucleus estate foremen, managers and laborers,
and estate garages, workshops and project buildings (US$0.3
million) will be constructed according to established PTP
XVIII standards.
(vi) Water Supply (US$0.6 million). Hydrological information
already available indicates that some difficulties may be
encountered in finding adequate reliable sources of shallow or
deep groundwater in certain parts of the smallholder area. In
both the western and eastern flanks of the area, however,
there are more promising prospects for groundwater at depths
between 20 m and 40 m. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the DGE will contract with a firm of
internationally recruited consultants on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, a detailed hydrology survey of the



- 26 -
Danau Salak project area to test the quality and quantity of
groundwater at each of the proposed village locations before
December 31, 1979 [para. 8.01(d)]. Where existing groundwater
cannot be reliably exploited, a water supply system relying on
shallow dug wells surrounding small earthdammed reservoirs
will be provided. Based on current estimates of groundwater
availability at different locations, provision is made for 90
narrow bore tubewells each to be shared by 30-40 families, and
15 dams together with 180 shallow dug wells to serve the
remainder of the new settler population.
(vii) Health (US$0.1 million). The project's low cost health system
will consist of subhealth centers and health centers (Puskesmas)
operated under Government standards for Repelita III and will
be coordinated with the higher level facilities of the adminis-
trative region. The health programs will provide for basic
health services, malaria control, family planning and a pit
latrine for each new settler family.
(viii) Roads (US$2.4 million). About 72 km of all-weather primary
village roads (including 12 km of existing road to be
upgraded) and 55 km of secondary village road will be con-
structed in two stages. A further 300 km of rubber collection
track will be formed as part of rubber development operations
and are costed as such in project accounts. The road component
is considerably less on a pro rata basis of smallholder
development area than in NES II owing both to the existence of
a suitable main access road and to the possibility of a more
cohesive village development pattern. This component also
includes US$0.2 million for routine annual maintenance of
semi-completed sections of the road and completed sections of
the road network during the period of Bank loan disbursement.
(ix) Vehicles (US$0.1 million). Vehicles required during project
implementation will include pickup trucks and mobile agricul-
tural equipment. Other transport vehicles including jeeps,
motorcyles and service cars will be provided by PTP XVIII.
(x) Project Management (US$4.6 million). Project management of
the smallholder components is described in Chapter 4. The
project manager and the nucleus estate will be assisted
by the Ministry of Agriculture Support Staff for the resettle-
ment of Javanese to Danau Salak (US$1.6 million). Overheads
and management costs of the nucleus estate for rubber develop-
ment are included in the costs of project management (US$3.0
million).



- 27 -
(b) Nucleus Estate Development: (US$17.5 million)
(i) Agricultural Development (US$11.4 million). The project will
assist the establishment of 4,000 ha of rubber in the Danau
Salak nucleus estate. Planting material will be budded stumps
and stumps in polybags. A leguminous cover crop will be
established at the time of planting after lalang and noxious
weed eradication.
(ii) Physical Developments (US$5.3 million). The project will
assist the construction of 480 houses (12 staff houses, 78
single units, 390 double units) and the rehabilitation of
415 existing houses (16 staff houses; 399 double units). PTP
XVIII will also build 58 single and double houses associated
with smallholder development. Other civil works will include
construction of divisional offices, garages, workshop and
social utility buildings and the rehabilitation of existing
buildings on the nucleus estate. The existing crumb rubber
factory will be expanded from a capacity of 6 tons/day to
11 tons/day by 1980. Construction of a new crumb rubber fac-
tory for a capacity of 20 tons/day will be completed by 1983.
(iii) Corporate Operation (US$0.8 million). The corporate operations
of PTP XVIII are well managed and the company has demonstrated
the technical capacity to implement the proposed expansion of
4,000 ha of new rubber based on previous development of its
Java estates. PTP XVIII is financially sound with assets
valued at over Rp 8.8 billion (US$14.1 million), with virtually
no long-term debt, and a net annual income after taxes in
1978 of over Rp 1.6 billion (US$3.8 million). Expansion and
rehabilitation of the Danau Salak estates will require that
PTP XVIII resettle existing personnel from its Java estates to
Kalimantan (US$0.2 million) and recruit additional labor in
Danau Salak. Provision is also made to assist PTP XVIII
with technical assistance in the employment of an Infrastruc-
ture Program Manager for the development of roads and villages
and a rubber processing and civil works engineer each for a
period of three years (US$0.6 million). An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that both internationally recruited
technical assistants would be appointed by December 31, 1979,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank [para. 8.01(b)]
B. Rehabilitation of PNP I - Aceh (US$50.5 million)
(a) Agricultural Development (US$29.4 million)
(i) Establish new and replanted rubber on 6,790 ha and rehabilitate
a further 2,356 ha of immature rubber on the estates: Julu
Rayeu, Karang Inoue, Pulau Tiga, Kebun Lama, and Kebun Baru;
(ii) New oil palm will be planted on 2,135 ha and a further
2,990 ha of oil palm will be rehabilitated on the PNP I
estates: Pulau Tiga, Kebun Baru, and Kebun Lama, and Karang
Inoue.



- 28 -
(b) Physical Developments (US$19.1 million). Estate infrastructure
including roads, bridges and housing is badly in need of replacement
or renovation. The project will provide for the construction of
2,064 houses (163 staff and head office houses; 381 single units;
1,520 double units). Plans for rationalization of rubber processing
facilities include the construction of two rubber factories; one at
Kebun Lama, the other at Julu Rayeu each with a capacity of 20 mt
FFB/day. The capacity of the recently constructed oil palm mill at
Tanjung Seumantoh will be increased from 30 tons FFB/hr to 60 tons
FFB/hr.
(c) Corporate Operations (US$2.0 million). The corporate operations of
PNP I have not been well managed in previous years. The company
has suffered from low productivity and continued operating losses
as a result of non-productive rubber and oil palm areas planted prior
to 1950. Replanting on a sufficient scale to alter PNP I's deterior-
ating financial condition did not begin until 1974 and owing to
insufficient capital to fully finance a replanting program new
plantings have suffered from the lack of sufficient fertilizers
and agricultural inputs. PNP I presently is accruing losses of
over Rp 400 million (US$0.7 million) p.a. In order to finance
working capital requirements in the past and with increased annual
borrowings for its rehabilitation scheme since 1974, PNP I has
accrued insupportable long-term liabilities which will exceed
Rp 12 billion by mid-1979. Most of these liabilities are debts to
other PNP/PTPs. PNP I's level of financial solvency requires
improvement prior to Bank lending, particularly action taken to
convert existing liabilities to equity and thereby reduce repayment
obligations and free more of PNP I's own funds for financing its
rehabilitation program. Conversion of existing liabilities to
equity will also reduce new loan funds required from Bank Indonesia.
As a condition met prior to negotiations, the Minister of Finance
agreed that a total of Rp 11.0 billion (US$17.6 million) in existing
liabilities will be converted to equity by the GOI, including
Rp 1.0 billion which it is understood has already been converted,
and Rp 2.9 billion of funds that are to be received by PNP I in
1979 for completion of its new oil palm mill. Management guidance
for reorganization of all estate operations will be provided with
the employment by PNP I of three technical specialists in production
management, finance, and estate engineering and processing for a
period of three years (US$0.9 million). An assurance was obtained
at negotiations that these three internationally recruited consultants
will be employed by PNP I no later than December 31, 1979, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank [para. 8.01(c)]. The
development program for PNP I also requires recruitment of about
2,400 laborers to be settled in the Aceh area. Resettlement of
existing Javanese estate laborers (US$1.1 million) will be carried
out with assistance from the Ministry of Agriculture Support Staff.



- 29 -
C. Rimbo Buiang Smallholder Development (US$48.0 million)
(a)  Rubber Block Planting (US$40.9 million).  Each of the 6,000 existing
transmigrant settlers and 2,000 Marga land smallholders will
receive 2 ha of block planted rubber. Agricultural standards for
rubber development will be the same as that detailed for new
settlement at Danau Salak [(para. 3.02A(a)(i)].
(b) Planting Material Supply Unit (US$0.6 million). PTP VI will
establish a commercial nursery to provide good quality high yielding
planting material of both tree crops and field crops to smallholders
on a cash basis (para. 4.09).
(c) Roads (US$0.7 million). A total of 24.7 km of all-weather primary
village roads (including 9.7 km of existing road to be upgraded)
and 13.1 km of secondary village roads will be constructed
(Map 14099). A further 400 km of rubber collection track will
be formed as part of rubber development operations and are
costed as such in project accounts. Road construction in the
smallholder area will be carried out by PTP VI using their own
construction equipment. The road construction budget also includes
an allowance of US$0.1 million for routine annual maintenance of
semicompleted and completed sections of the road network during the
period of Bank loan disbursement.
(d) Vehicles (US$0.2 million). Vehicles provided under the project
will include pick-up trucks and mobile agricultural equipment and
some jeeps and motorcycles directly involved in smallholder develop-
ment. The majority of transport vehicles will be provided by PTP
VI.
(e) Housing (US$1.1 million). A total of 260 single and double units
required by the nucleus estate for smallholder development are
included in smallholder project costs. All existing transmigrants
and Marga land smallholders presently have adequate housing.
(f) Village Infrastructure (US$0.1 million). Construction of 15 rubber
development offices.
(g) Project Management (US$4.4 million). Project management includes
both overheads for rubber development and a management fee (US$4.4
million) to be paid to the nucleus estate, PTP VI.
D. Program Support to the Directorate General of Estates (US$2.0 million)
About 100 man-months of consultant time will be provided to the DGE for
60 man-months of inspection services (US$0.6 million) and 40 man-months
to assist in village planning, pest and disease control, food crop
marketing, surveying, road engineering and project identification and
preparation for future NES projects (US$0.4 million). Assistance to the
DGE will also be provided for the construction of housing and nursery
development and the procurement of essential machinery for future NES
projects (US$1.0 million).



- 30 -
Project Phasing
3.03      Project implementation schedules for smallholder settlement and
nucleus estate development are shown in Charts 3 and 4. The physical compo-
nents of project phasing are shown in Annex 1, Table 1. Each agency involved
in the implementation of the project will prepare annual work programs
including cost estimates for budget approval which will detail project work
for the year ahead, including the recruitment and training of required
personnel. Assurances were obtained from the Government at negotiations
that each agency will prepare a program by October 31 each year and submit
such programs to the Bank for review and comment [para. 8.01(f)]. To
facilitate project start-up in 1979/80, prefinance is provided by PTP XVIII
(US$ 0.9 million) to develop nurseries, commence essential land clearing and
open letters of credit for the purchase of essential machinery. PTP VI will
provide prefinance (US$0.4 million) to open letters of credit for the
purchase of machinery and commence the establishment of a budwood nursery.
PNP I has received funds from the Ministry of Agriculture for prefinance
(US$0.7 million) to purchase inputs, initiate land clearing and construct
temporary laborer housing. Total prefinance of Rp 1,273 million (US$2.0
million) is required for the project (Table 3.1).
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT PREFINANCE
Project component                     Category                        Estimated cost
(Rp million)
Estate Development
PNP I                       Nurseries, land clearing and initial
laborers housing                              427
PTP XVIII                   Nurseries, land clearing and letters
of credit for machinery                       571
Subtotal                 998
Smallholder Development
Danau Salak (PTP XVIII)    Letters of credit-machinery                      34
Rimbo Bujang (PTP VI)       Letters of credit-machinery                    241
Subtotal                 275
Total                  1,273
GOI has requested retroactive financing estimated at about Rp 750 million
(US$1.2 million) based on the disbursement percentages for the above items.
GOI has agreed to present a schedule of project expenditures from November 1,
1978 in support of the request for retroactive financing prior to loan signing.
The Bank will review the procurement procedures followed by GOI for all items
requiring retroactive finance to ensure that they will be acceptable for
reimbursement. Financing of these expenditures under the project is recom-
mended.



- 31 -
3.04      Project phasing has allowed for nursery start-up and the construc-
tion of required roads, buildings and civil works to precede rubber planting.
Consequently, smallholder rubber development has been delayed to the 1980/81
planting season while nucleus estate development will begin in 1979/80. In
order to more fully develop rubber for project beneficiaries, a six-year
project and disbursement period is required.
B. Project Costs and Financing Arrangements
Project Costs
3.05      The project will be fully implemented over a ten-year period.
The Bank loan will assist with the financing over a six-year period.
Table 3.3 summarizes the costs of the project over the first six years of
implementation. Project costs during these six years are estimated to be
US$152.5 million. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$83 million
(54% of total cost). Total cost at full implementation of the project over
the ten-year period is estimated to be US$240 million. Government will make
available the funds required from year 7 to project completion (US$87.5 million).
Details of the project costs are presented in Annex 1, Tables 2 to 6 and in
the Staff Working Papers.
3.06      Base cost estimates in early 1979 prices were derived from detailed
cost analyses of several public sector estates including the proposed nucleus
estates PTP VI, XVIII and PNP I and from data gathered at appraisal. The
investment program and all operating costs for project components are incre-
mental. A physical contingency of 10% is allowed on all investment items and
on the number of man-days of management consultants and is considered sufficient
given the detail of design standards and input requirements as measured in
other tree crop projects. The provisions for expected price increases have
been computed and are given in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: ANNUAL INFLATION INDICES
Annual inflation rate (%)
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984/85
Civil works                  30      20     15      15     10       7
Equipment and services        7       7      7       7      7       7
The annual inflation rates for local civil works and imported equipment and
services were weighted as per their percentage in total project costs to
derive the inflation rates applied to local and foreign costs of 15% in the
second half of 1979, 13% for 1980, 10% for 1981 and 7% thereafter. The
estimated schedule of project expenditures is shown in Annex 1, Table 7.
Because of the tax exempt status of the implementing agencies, the project
costs do not include provision for local, provincial or national taxes.



- 32 -
Table 3.3: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(Rp million)                  (US$ million)        % Foreign    % of
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total   exchange  base cost
I. Smallholder Development
Danau Salak new settlement                6,463    6,404   12,867       10.34    10.25    20.59        50         21
Rimbo Bujang smallholders                 9,321    9,206   18,527       14.91    14.73    29.64        50         31
Subtotal                           15,784   15,610   31,394       25.25    24.98    50.23         50         52
II. Public Sector Estate Development
PNP I rehabilitation                      7,839   13,241   21,080       12.54    21.19    33.73        63         35
PTP XVIII expansion                       3,045    4,232    7,277        4.87      6.77    11.64       58         12
Subtotal                           10,884   17,473   28,357       17.41    27.96    45.37         62         47
III. Technical Assistance
Program support for the Directorate
General of Estates                        125      625       750       0.20      1.00     1.20       83          1
Base cost estimates                26,793   33,708   60,501        42.86    53.94    96.80        56        100
IV. Contingencies
Physical                                  2,679    3,371    6,050        4.29      5.39      9.68      56          -
Expected price increases                13,965   14,796   28,761        22.35    23.67    46.02        51          -
Subtotal                           16,644   18,167   34.811       26.64    29.06    55.70         52          -
Total expected cost of project   43,437   51,875   95,312          69.50    83.00   152.50        54        100



- 33 -
Project Financing Arrangements /1
3.07      The proposed Bank loan of US$99 million will finance 65% of total
project costs for the first six years of project implementation. The Bank
Group loan will include US$16 million for finance of about 23% of the total
local costs. GOI will finance about US$53.5 million of the proposed project
(35% of total costs) and will bear the foreign exchange risk in the proposed
project. Sources for all project finance are detailed in Annex 1, Table 8
and are summarized in Table 3.4 below.
3.08      Smallholder Development.  Project financing of smallholder components
(US$82.5 million) has been simplified into two separate streams to avoid mul-
tiple sources of funds and cumbersome procedures for allocation and release.
Noncredit items for smallholders as carried out by the provincial government
agencies (construction of village infrastructure, schools, and provision of
health services) as well as rubber development management fees payable to the
nucleus estates will be financed solely by the GOI in annual budget sources
and INPRES programs (US$4.3 million). The flow of funds for these noncredit
items of expenditure is shown in Chart 5. All work to be carried out by the
nucleus estates of PTP VI and PTP XVIII including the credit items of rubber
development and settler housing and the noncredit items of resettlement and
construction of PMSU will be financed by the Bank Group (US$56 million) and
the Ministry of Finance (US$22.2 million). The flow of funds for smallholder
development as carried out by the nucleus estates is shown in Chart 6.
3.09      Bank and GOI finance for the credit and noncredit items to small-
holders as implemented by the nucleus estates will be passed by Bank Indonesia,
through BRI, acting as the handling bank, to PTP XVIII and PTP VI. Government
will make funds available to BRI quarterly and in advance of the expenditures
to be made by the nucleus estates on behalf of smallholders. These funds
will cover the full cost of rubber development and civil works for which the
Bank Group will reimburse based on disbursement percentages (para. 3.19) and
as certified in quarterly reports provided by the nucleus estates to the DGE.
GOI will bear the risk on all funds passed to PTP XVIII and PTP VI for
smallholder development. The nucleus estates will develop each area of block
planted rubber through Year 3, at which time development expenditures made by
the PTPs will be translated into standardized credit amounts for individual
settlers in credit agreements with the BRI. The completion of a satisfactory
Financing Agreement between Bank Indonesia and BRI and satisfactory Subfinan-
cing Agreements between BRI and PTP XVIII and BRI and PTP VI will be a
condition for disbursement for the smallholder project components [para.
8.02(a)]. Loans to the smallholders will be for 15 years in the case of
Danau Salak new settlers and 16 years for Rimbo Bujang smallholders, the
loans to include a three-year grace period, repayment starting in the seventh
year after planting. Interest will be at 10.5% p.a. with capitalization of
interest during the grace period.
3.10      Estate Components.  Expansion of PNP I (US$50.5 million and for PTP
XVIII (US$17.5 million) would be financed from self-generated funds of both
estates (US$12 million) and by funds on-lent to PNP I (US$42.5 million) and
PTP XVIII (US$13.5 million) from Bank Indonesia under separate subsidiary loan
agreemeLnts. Both loans will be made for 12 years including 6 years of grace and
repayable in 12 equal semi-annual annuities starting January 1, 1986.
/1 Project costs listed in this section are quoted in current prices and
include price and physical contineenciea.



- 34 -
Table 3.4: SOURCES OF PROJECT FINANCE
(US$ million)
Sources of Funds
Government                                       Total
Ministry    DGE and      Bank        PNP/PTP                  estimated
Project Component           of Finance   INPRES    Indonesia   own funds   IBRD    (%)         cost
New settlement -
Danau Salak                  9.3          2.7          -             -      22.5    65      34.5
Smallholder development -
Rimbo Bujang                12.9          1.6          -             -      33.5    70      48.0
PNP I rehabilitation             -           -         11.0           8.0     31.5    62      50.5
PTP XVIII expansion -
Danau Salak                   -            -          3.5           4.0     10.0    57      17.5
Program support - DGE           -           0.5          -             -       1.5    75       2.0
Total                    22.2          4.8       14.5          12.0      99.0    65    152.5



- 35 -
Interest will be 13.5% p.a. and payable from the date of signing the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreements. The signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between Bank
Indonesia and PNP I and PTP XVIII will be a condition of disbursement of the
Bank loan for each of these estate development components [para. 8.02(d)].
3.11      Interest Rates for On-lending.  Government policy is to on-lend to
smallholders at 10.5% (para. 3.09), and to on-lend to public sector enterprises
at 13.5% (para. 3.10). These rates are fixed for all such loans in Indonesia
and cannot be considered sufficiently positive since average annual inflation
in the next three-year period may be as high as 20%. Past average annual
inflation over a three-year period has been about 11%. The interest rate for
on-lending to smallholders is concessionary but is justified since smallholder
beneficiaries in the proposed project are below the critical consumption
level and at this rate, the Government facilitates its development objectives
for the rural target population. Additionally, the GOI assists through
interest subsidy the expansion of key export oriented public sector enterprises.
3.12      The Bank loan of US$99 million will be lent to Government for 20
years, including 6 years of grace at the prevailing interest rate on the date
of circulation of the President's Report to the Executive Directors.
C. Budgeting
3.13      Categories of investment for the smallholder components which will
require GOI budget funds include all noncredit items (e.g., village infra-
structure, transportation and resettlement of families, management fees and
health services, etc.).   Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
budget funds from APBD, and INPRES will be made sufficient in size to cover
noncredit expenditures during project implementation, and should these
sources be insufficient, the Borrower will make timely arrangements for funds
from other GOI sources to meet additional requirements [para. 8.01(g)]. The
Project M4anager assisted by the Provincial Coordinating Committee for each
project subcomponent will submit annual budgets for all noncredit expenditures
six months prior to the start of the fiscal year. The DGE will be responsible
for making its own budget allocation for transportation and resettlement of
families, technical assistance, and management fees to PTP XVIII and PTP VI
for smallholder development. The DGE will also make annual DIP requests to
the central government for construction of health facilities and the provision
of health services [para. 3.02A(a) (vii)]. Since a portion of the finance
for noncredit items will come from INPRES sources, the Chairman of Bappeda in
each of the two project areas will assist the Project Manager to secure
financial requirements with the provincial government (para. 4.04). This
responsibility will include coordination of finance from the INPRES Sekolah
for school facilities, the Puskesmas INPRES for village health, and gotong-
royong for village infrastructure. The DGE will review all annual budget
appropriations to coordinate noncredit development activities with the rubber
development as carried out by the nucleus estates. Bank supervision missions
will review with Government the annual budget allocation and work program of
GOI agencies participating in the implementation of the project.



- 36 -
D. Procurement
3.14      Details of project procurement by category of investment for small-
holders and estate development are contained in Annex 2 and are summarized
below./l
3.15      All agricultural machinery and vehicles (US$19.4 million) for rubber
and oil palm development, food crop centers and equipment for road construction
and all processing plant machinery and equipment (US$12.2 million) will be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of the
imported goods or the customs duty, whichever is lower, will be extended to
qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Procurement of
office equipment, workshop tools and building equipment (US$1.3 million) and
procurement for individual contracts of less than US$50,000 will be locally
procured through prudent shopping involving the solicitation of at least three
quotations. The total procured in this manner will be limited to the equiva-
lent of US$350,000 for each nucleus estate, PTP VI and PTP XVIII and the
estate development of PNP I and PTP XVIII. The total procured in this manner
in the project for all components will thus be US$1.4 million. A list of all
agricultural machinery and other equipment is provided in Annex 1, Table 11.
International competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines will be
used for fertilizers and agrochemicals (US$19.6 million) including the
purchase of urea. Small lots of agrochemicals costing less than US$100,000
annually will be procured following prudent shopping procedures with at least
three quotations.
3.16      All civil works contracts for housing, project buildings and
related infrastructure (US$15.3 million) will be awarded after local competi-
tive bidding (LCB) among prequalified contractors in accordance with GOI
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. This will include the first 500
settler houses at Danau Salak each costing about Rp 266,000 (US$426).
Subsequent settler housing, about 3,500 units, each costing Rp 205,000
(US$328) will be built by smallholders working in nucleus estate supervised
work units with materials procured by FTP XVIII under LCB. The standards for
settler housing are indicated in para. 2.23. Consultants located in the DGE
under Loan 1499-IND will provide recommendations on bid evaluation in cases
of local procurement for civil works.
3.17      The detailed physical description of the work to be carried out to
block plant 28,000 ha of smallholder rubber with maintenance up to three
years (US$52.0 million excluding agrochemicals and machinery and equipment)
will be governed by a Smallholder Rubber Development contract between
the DGE and each nucleus estate. Total block planting and maintenance of
4,000 ha of rubber by PTP XVIII (US$7.5 million) for estate development and
block planting, rehabilitation and maintenance of 14,268 ha of rubber and
oil palm for PNP I estate development (US$16.4 million) will be specified
under the terms of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and PNP I
and PTP XVIII. Rubber and oil palm development involves the execution of a
specialized, integrated service of labor and machine services which cannot
/1 Procurement estimates do not include the noncredit items of village
infrastructure and health services.



- 37 -
be procured through a competitive bidding process. Supplies paid in local
currency for the execution of these contracts will be procured in accordance
with current GOI procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. PTP XVIII
and  1'it VI have demo~i-rated theiL abliLy to implement such a contract in a
cost effective manner. Unit cost information for rubber and oil palm develop-
ment 's well 2stablished and will be used to monitor financial requirements
and guarantee quality control. Smallholder rubber development costs will
include field overheads to be payable to the nucleus estates at the rate of
10% of the direct costs of rubber establishment excluding machinery and
equipment. Nucleus estates will also be paid a management fee of 5% of the
direct costs of rubber development from the DGE budget source based on
satisfactory completion of annual work as reported by a firm appointed for
inspection services, and with the approval by the DGE. Other works which
will not involve a competitive bidding process will include the initial land
clearing by PTP XVIII of a one ha food crop area for each family at Danau
Salak (US$0.4 million) and the construction and upgrading of rubber collection
tracks. These activities are not likely to attract foreign firms and since
these works will be phased over an extended period of time, local competitive
bidding is not desirable. Similar to block planting, details of land
clearing for food crops, resettlement of smallholders, and village and farm
road construction will be specified under the terms of the Smallholder Rubber
Development contract. PTP XVIII and PTP VI engineers will carry out site
surveys, plan alignments and other engineering requirements and will be
assisted by the technical specialist to be appointed for Infrastructure
Program Management [para. 3.02A (b)(iii)].  Recruitment and resettlement of
labor to PNP I and to PTP XVIII's Danau Salak estate, will be carried out by
the estates themselves with supervision from the MOA consultant specialists
appointed under Loan 1499-IND who will assist in arrangements and agree on
costs of resettlement with each of the estates.
3.18      Consultant specialists to be employed for PNP I (US$0.9 million)
[para. 3.02B(c)] and for PTP XVIII (US$0.6 million) [para. 3.02A(b)(iii)] as
well as all consultants for short-term contracts to the DGE and a firm appointed
by the DGE for field inspection services (US$1.0 million) will be engaged in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on terms and conditions approved
by the Bank. Internationally recruited consultants are costed at US$72,000
per man-year (including international travel, housing allowances and local
transportation) on the basis of past experience in Indonesia./l
E. Disbursements
3.19      An estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 1, Table 9.
Disbursement for smallholder development will be as follows:            -
/1 Includes US$54,000 salary or US$4,500/month, US$12,000 housing, US$3,000
international travel and US$3,000 domestic travel, and overheads.



- 38 -
(a)  civil works consisting of materials for housing, estate workshops
and garages at the rate of 70%;
(b)  100% of the cif cost of agrochemicals or 50% of urea procured
locally on the basis of contracts awarded after international
competitive bidding;
(c)  100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported agricultural
machinery, vehicles and equipment, 95% of the ex-factory cost of
equipment manufactured locally and 65% for imported farm equipment
purchased locally. Disbursement for the cost of a few vehicles
procured locally for project start-up on the basis of prudent
shopping will be at the rate of 40%;
(d)  rubber development expenditures other than agrochemicals or vehicles
and equipment procured under (b) or (c) by the nucleus estate, road
construction and upgrading of primary village roads and new construc-
tion of secondary village roads, and resettlement costs for Danau
Salak new settlers, at the rate of 65% as certified in quarterly
reports provided by the nucleus estate to DGE.
3.20      Disbursement for the estate components will be as follows:
(a)  100% of the cif cost of agrochemicals and 50% of urea procured
locally on the basis of contracts awarded after international
competitive bidding;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures of agricultural and processing plant
machinery, vehicles and equipment, 95% of ex-factory cost of equip-
ment manufactured locally, and 65% of imported farm equipment
procured locally. Disbursements for the cost of a few vehicles
procured locally for project start-up on the basis of prudent
shopping will be at the rate of 40%;
(c)  70% of all civil works costs including estate housing, buildings,
garages, workshops, divisional offices and bridges;
(d)  rubber and oil palm development expenditures other than agrochemi-
cals or vehicles and equipment procured under (a) and (b) above at
the rate of 20% against certified quarterly reports by PNP I and PTP
XVIII; and
(e)  60% of the resettlement costs for estate laborers as certified in
quarterly reports provided by PNP I and PTP XVIII to the DGE.
3.21      Disbursement for consultants and technical assistance to the DGE and
for consultants employed by PNP I and PTP XVIII will be as follows:



- 39 -
(a) 100% of foreign exchange cost of all consultant specialists, inspec-
tion and technical services and 100% of local consultant fees and
100% of project start-up expenditures (housing, nurseries and
machinery) in future NES projects.
Any savings from the project will be made available for financing additional
works. Documents to support claims for rubber development expenditures
including overheads and resettlement of estate labor and new settlers, and for
road construction not submitted for reimbursement will be retained in Indonesia
and made available for inspection and review by Bank supervision missions. It
is expected that disbursements will be completed within six years from loan
effectiveness. The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Annex 1,
Table 10.
F. Quality and Cost Controls
3.22      Rubber development for new settlement and all civil works in the
project will require quality and cost control on a regular basis. Rubber
development and other works carried out by PTP XVIII and PTP VI on a credit
basis will be checked for quality and cost control by the DGE staff assisted
by technical advisors appointed under Loan 1499-IND and set by their agreed
standards. Certification of satisfactory completion of each year's development
objectives for rubber development and related annual expenditures will be
made by a firm appointed by the DGE for inspection services as a condition to
making payments for an annual management fee to the nucleus estate. Based on
approval by the DGE of a satisfactory inspection report a management fee will
be payable at the rate of 5% of the direct expenditures of rubber development
excluding machinery and equipment and will be payable from the DGE budget
source. Civil works and village development on a noncredit basis will be
monitored for quality and cost control by the Project Manager and the Provincial
Coordinating Committee and reviewed by the DGE. Monitoring and evaluation of
the upgrading and construction of primary and secondary village roads will be
carried out by the Infrastructure Management Consultant to PTP XVIII and
other consultants under short-term contracts (para. 3.02A(b)(iii)] employed
by DGE. Smallholder rubber plantings by PTP XVIII and PTP VI, and the estate
planting programs of PNP I and PTP XVIII will be subject to quality inspection
by an independent firm appointed for inspection services by the DGE in
cooperation with the MOA (para. 4.02).
G. Accounts and Audit
3.23      Smallholder Components.  During negotiations assurances were
obtained that the nucleus estate in coordination with the BRI would keep
separate accounts of all expenditures channelled to the nucleus estates for
smallholder development [para. 8.01(h)]. The responsible agencies in the
provincial government in cooperation with the on-site project managers will
be required to keep accounts of expenditures made under the INPRES program.
Bookkeeping for APBD funds for the noncredit categories of investment will be
based on existing regulations. The DGE, assisted by its technical advisors
provided under this and former projects, will receive and keep all project



- 40 -
accounts and consolidated statements of credit and noncredit expenditures
made under the project. These accounts will be in a form acceptable to the
Bank and furnished as part of a quarterly project report by the DGE to
the Bank within 30 days of the close of a quarter. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that these accounts, both separate and consolidated,
will be audited by the State Auditor yearly and the audit will be submitted to
the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year [para. 8.01(h)].
The Bank will reserve the right to request an audit from auditors other
than the State Auditors and of either accounts maintained by the nucleus
estate or project accounts of the DGE if the State Auditors prove to be unable
to submit audits in time or in a form similar to that agreed between the DGE
and the Bank. The BRI, following its normal procedures of accounts and
audit, will report to the DGE on expenditures made by the nucleus estate in
the quarterly reporting process.
3.24      Estate Components.  PNP I and PTP XVIII will be required to submit
to the Bank annual audited reports of accounts as carried out by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank within six months of the close of
the fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations
[para. 8.01(i)]. In order to facilitate further monitoring and supervision
of PNP I and PTP XVIII, assurances were obtained at negotiations that each
estate will submit budgets of the work program for expansion of the estate,
each year to the Bank for review and comment before final approval by
their Board of Supervisors [para. 8.01(i)].
H. Cost Recovery
3.25      Credit Delivery System.  Project finance and the flow of funds in
the credit delivery system have been described in para. 3.09. Credit delivery
will be simplified with all credit expenditures in Years 1-3 incurred by the
nucleus estate for which accounts will be maintained by the nucleus estate
and the BRI (para. 3.24). Credit agreements between farmers and the BRI at
the end of Year 3 will include provisional estimates of total credit and
will be amended in Year 6 to include the actual funds to farmers for the
costs of establishing rubber to full maturity. Land titles, on the issuing of
"Hak Milik" as described in para. 4.11 will be pledged as collateral with
the BRI to secure repayment obligations.
3.26      Cost Recovery.  Since the BRI has had little experience in lending
for smallholder tree crop development and has no facilities for credit opera-
tions in the project areas, the GOI has proposed the adoption of a flexible
cost recovery system with repayments by smallholders made "in kind", the same
procedure as in Loans 1499-IND and 1604-IND. Loan accounts fixed in financial
terms will be standardized for all smallholders but will be payable in
kilograms or dry rubber collected by the nucleus estate processing the rubber.
Collection of rubber for debt service will be based on loan amounts calcu-
lated at 10.5% interest on terms of 15 years for new settlers at Danau Salak
and 16 years for smallholders at Rimbo Bujang, both loans with 3 years grace on
interest. On this basis credit amounts estimated at Rp 5.0 million for new
settlers at Danau Salak (3 ha of rubber) and Rp 3.7 million for Rimbo Bujang
smallholders (2 ha of rubber) will be repaid with 25% of annual rubber



- 41 -
production collected over 12 years and 13 years respectively. The system of
rubber collection will be flexible so that deliveries can be adjusted to
reflect possible adverse or favorable rubber price changes or changes in
yields affecting smallholder incomes. Smallholders will be required to
deliver 25% of their production to nucleus estate collection agents, but
will be free to sell their remaining production to any processor. A price
formula will be set for rubber sold for debt service during project implemen-
tation, to be agreed by the Provincial Coordinating Committee and the DGE, in
consultation with the Bank. The price received by smallholders for the rubber
will be 70% of the fob value, allowing the nucleus estate to cover its
processing, marketing, collection and overhead charges (para. 5.03). It is
assumed that recovery of credit in the proposed project will be high since
most settlers will want to sell all their dry rubber production to the
nucleus estates owing to the more favorable price for rubber than traditionally
received at 40% of fob. Each nucleus estate will keep all records of rubber
received per smallholder with daily records of rubber prices. Records and
revenue from the nucleus estate will be sent to BRI weekly for which accounts
will be closed monthly or quarterly by converting the net amount of rubber
collected at the prevailing price minus 30% (estimated factory, tax and
overhead costs).
3.27      Rent and Cost Recovery Indices.  Rent and cost recovery indices for
Danau Salak's new settlers and Rimbo Bujang's smallholders are shown in Annex
1, Table 12. All figures are in 1979 constant prices and in incremental
present values, discounted over the project period to reflect an opportunity
cost of capital in Indonesia of 10%.
3.28      An investment cost in 2 ha of rubber for Rimbo Bujang smallholders
and 3 ha of rubber for Danau Salak's new settlers will provide sufficient
project rent to allow beneficiaries to pay for project costs. Project rent is
45% of net cash income for Rimbo Bujang smallholders and 54% of net cash
income for Danau Salak's new settlers. The cost recovery indices are 74% and
82% for Rimbo Bujang and Danau Salak settlers respectively and are acceptable
given that project beneficiaries are presently below the critical consumption
level. Although there is some scope for more recovery the element of GOI
subsidy for these two groups of smallholders reflects the GOI decision to
maintain such project costs as schools, village infrastructure, resettlement,
and social schemes as noncredit items in public sector outlays for nucleus
estate and smallholder projects. Taxation might be considered by the GOI as a
means to achieving greater recovery. The GOI is presently considering raising
the export tax on rubber from its present level of 5% of the fob price. An
increase to 10% tax on the fob price will raise cost recovery indices to
above 100%. The interest rate for smallholders set at 10.5% by GOI reflects
Government policy to subsidize interest cost to smallholders to achieve its
objectives for the rural target population.



- 42 -
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Borrowing/Executive Agency Functions
4.01      The Borrower for the project will be the Government of Indonesia.
Overall responsibility for execution of the project will rest with the
Director General of Estates. The smallholder components will be implemented
by central government agencies (para. 1.20), the provincial governments of
Jambi and South Kalimantan and the nucleus estates PTP XVIII and PTP VI. The
PNP I and PTP XVIII estates will be directly responsible to the Ministry of
Agriculture in Jakarta for their own expansion program under the proposed
project.
Smallholder Development
4.02      Directorate General of Estates (DGE)(Chart 1).  Overall responsi-
bility for project implementation, financing, monitoring and evaluation will
be vested in the DGE. Land clearing, tree crop establishment, maintenance
and provision of infrastructure will be the responsibility of the nucleus
estates with provision of some of the required infrastructure by provincial
government agencies. The functions of the DGE for the proposed project will
be:
(a) project and village master planning, preparation of annual
work programs;
(b) advice to the Project Managers (para. 4.03) and Provincial Coordinat-
ing Committees (para. 4.05) for recruitment of new settlers, design
and supervision of smallholder participation agreements, crop pro-
cessing and marketing arrangements;
(c) approval of project budgets, coordination and organization of
project financing arrangements;
(d) advice on project procurement;
(e) formulation and execution of the contract between the DGE and the
nucleus estate for rubber development, and at a later date for
extension, processing and marketing services; and
(f) project monitoring and evaluation with regular quality control
inspection services.
To ensure sound management of all project components and to monitor the
progress of project implementation particularly in regard to rubber establish-
ment, housing and processing construction, an assurance was attained at
negotiations that the DGE will employ consultants to provide inspection
services acceptable to the Bank for short-term inspection assignments,
reporting to the DGE [para. 8.01(k)]. An assurance was also obtained that
the Minister of Agriculture will cause the DGE by September 30, 1979 to
strengthen its project staffing through the establishment of a Team for
Assistance for Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Projects to further assist
DGE with project planning and execution [para. 8.01(1)].



- 43 -
4.03      Project Manager.  In carrying out the functions in para. 4.02 the
DGE will coordinate its activities with members of the Provincial Coordinat-
ing Committee (para. 4.06). Each Project Manager appointed by the Managing
Director of the estate in consultation with DGE and the Bank will be
responsible to the Director General of Estates for preparation of action
programs and budgets, supervision and coordination of all project activities
undertaken by the nucleus estate and the Provincial Coordinating Committee.
The duties of the project manager will be:
(a) preparation of an action program, subject to the approval of the
DGE, for implementation of master plans, and annual work programs;
(b) preparation of budgets for all functions other than rubber devel-
opment and functions for which provincial government agencies are
responsible;
(c) supervision and coordination of the implementation of project and
village master plans by the nucleus estate and provincial govern-
ment agencies;
(d) design and supervision of settler participation agreements, land
transfers and allocation of food crop and rubber areas for new
settlers;
(e) recruitment of new settlers, selection, administration, and arrange-
ments for smallholder training; and
(f) monitoring and reporting on project progress to the DGE, the BRI,
the provincial government and the Bank.                          i
4.04      The Provincial Governments.  Since the provision of village infra-
structure, health, education and provision of social services are complementary
and interdependent, organization of these services must be determined at the
provincial level. The Provincial Chairman of the Bappeda will be delegated
the task by the Provincial Governor of coordinating the Government agencies
involved in area development. The provincial government operates in a hier-
archy of regency, district and village organizations with central government
departments represented at the provincial government. Organization of Indone-
sian provincial government system is shown in Chart 7.
4.05      Provincial Coordinating Committee (PCC).  The organization of
smallholder project components is shown in Chart 8. The Chairman of Bappeda
is responsible to the Provincial Governor through a Provincial Coordinating
Committee of which he will be Chairman. The PCC will be stationed in the
provincial capital where the headquarters of the provincial government
agencies involved in implementation of the project are located. In addition
to the Chairman of Bappeda, the Committee will comprise the Bupati, the head
of the Dinas Perkebunan Daerah as Deputy Chairman, the Project Manager, the
Nucleus Estates Sites Manager and representatives of the BRI and provincial
government agencies.



- 44 -
4.06      The functions of the PCCs in implementation of the smallholder
projects will be:
(a) preparation of programs and budgets to assist the Project Manager
for implementation of provincial government functions in accordance
with a master plan;
(b) coordination and monitoring the activities of the provincial
government agencies concerned with provision of village infrastruc-
ture, main access and village roads, health, educational and
community facilities, and the implementation of food cropping
programs;
(c) advice and assistance to the respective project managers in
smallholder recruitment and administration; and
(d) determination from time to time of the rubber price to be paid
by the nucleus estate to participating smallholders in
agreement with the nucleus estate.
4.07      The Nucleus Estate.  The nucleus estates selected for development
of smallholder settlement are PTP XVIII and PTP VI. Full authority will be
given to these estates to operate resources, machinery, material inputs and
finance required to plant rubber and to develop and hand over to new settlers
potentially high-yielding areas of three year old rubber. Each nucleus estate
will appoint a Project Manager (para. 4.03) as well as the Nucleus Estate Site
Manager responsible for rubber development. Under the terms and conditions of
a Smallholder Rubber Development Agreement with the DGE, each nucleus estate
will be responsible for the following services:
(a) For the Period up to Three Years after Planting. PTP XVIII will be
responsible for land clearing, planting of 3 ha of rubber, procure-
ment and the supply of materials for settlers' own house construc-
tion, water supply, construction of primary and secondary village
roads and rubber collection tracks, rubber maintenance, procurement
and application of inputs for rubber development, land clearing for
the food crop area, the establishment of a PMSU, the provision of
food crop seed and fertilizer in the first year of settler entry
and initial cash payments to settlers. In rubber development on
existing smallholdings and Marga land, PTP VI will be responsible
for land clearing, the planting of rubber and rubber maintenance,
construction and maintenance of primary and secondary roads and
rubber collection tracks and the procurement and application of
inputs for rubber development. PTP VI will also establish a PMSU.
The nucleus estates will be responsible for all smallholder training.



- 45 -
(b) For the Period from Three Years after Planting to Production.
Procurement and application of inputs for both new and existing
settlers, the maintenance of primary and secondary village roads
and rubber collection roads, smallholder training in rubber tapping
and arrangement for extension services.
(c) During the Productive Period. Extension services, organization of
latex collection for loan repayment and the provision of comprehensive
processing and marketing services.
A condition of disbursement will be that the nucleus estates will sign a
Smallholder Rubber Development Agreement with the DGE and the contract will
be acceptable to the Bank for provision of the above services [para. 8.02(b)].
Bank Rakyat Indonesia
4.08      A description of BRI and its role in the agricultural sector is
outlined in para. 1.22. BRI will act as the handling bank for the Government
to channel funds for rubber development to the nucleus estate (para. 3.09).
During the period of loan repayment by the nucleus estate rubber processors,
BRI will maintain settler loan accounts on behalf of the Government (para.
3.26). The Government will bear all credit risks. For administration and
handling of settler loans, however, the BRI will split with Bank Indonesia 1%
on the outstanding balance per annum on all smallholder credit funds.
4.09      Planting Material Supply Units.  Although PTP VI and XVIII will
have primary responsibility for smallholder rubber training in the proposed
project, the DGE seeks to assist smallholders with food crop and cash crop
production in the province through the supply of high quality planting
materials and other inputs, and the provision of technical information for
successful crop production. The units will be established and managed by PTP
XVIII and PTP VI and adequately staffed to establish nurseries and provide an
effective extension service. A manager for each facility will be appointed
by each nucleus estate prior to disbursement of funds for investments asso-
ciated with each facility. Each manager and nucleus estate will arrange for
the recruitment of extension personnel, development of the training program,
and improvements to the facility.
Expansion of PNP I and PTP XVIII
4.10      Ministry of Agriculture.  The MOA has the major role of policy
formulation and coordination responsibilities of the estate group activities,
estate inspection, estate budget approval and control and provision of advice
to the Boards of the PNP/PTPs and the Directorate for Government Limited
Liability Companies (Directorate of PTPs) within the Ministry of Finance.
Technical assistance has been provided under Loan 1499-IND to the MOA Support
Staff for Agricultural Enterprises for technical and financial guidance,
monitoring and evaluation of the operations of the PNP/PTPs. To simplify
project administration the DGE will be responsible for appointment of estate
inspection services as well as inspection of smallholder components (para.
4.02).



- 46 -
B. Aspects of Prolect Implementation
4.11      Settler Land Title.  The issue of certificates of Hak Milik will be
made by the Directorate General of Agraria in the Ministry of Home Affairs in
Jakarta. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that new settlers will
receive certificates of "conditional" Hak Milik for a four ha land area
within six months of entry to the settlement project as a prospective settler.
Marga land settlers and existing transmigrants at Rimbo Bujang will receive
"conditional" Hak Milik to two ha of land for rubber to be planted in the
project [para. 8.01(m)]. Each smallholder will work as a laborer in the
rubber area developed by the nucleus estates for three years and if his
performance in this work is judged satisfactory by the Provincial Coordinating
Committee, the settler will receive certificate of "full" Hak Milik without
conditions at the end of Year 3. These titles including those obtained from
existing settlers will, however, be retained by BRI until loan obligations of
each smallholder has been fulfilled. The issue of certificate of "full" Hak
Milik requires a detailed plot survey which is the responsibility of the
provincial and district offices of Agraria.
4.12      Settler Training in Rubber Management.  The nucleus estate will
give priority attention to training of smallholders in rubber management,
initially during the settlers' period of employment as rubber laborers and
later as independent farmers. To ensure a high standard of rubber development,
the nucleus estate will be responsible for procuring and supervising the
application of fertilizers until the end of the immature phase. The nucleus
estate will also operate a tapper training program.
4.13      Health.  Arrangements for the project's low cost health delivery
system will be the responsibility of the Provincial Medical Officer in the
provincial government. Arrangements for primary medical care will be made
prior to the entry of the first group of new settlers. The Provincial Medical
Officer for the settlement area will ensure malaria control by the Kabupaten
health administration including supplies of DDT, chloroquine, house spraying
before settler arrival, and malariometric surveys. Under the existing GOI
programs mother and child health care, including nutrition and family planning
will be provided. Hygiene and sanitation are included in the project
[para. 3.02 A(a)(vii)] in the construction of wells and latrines.
C. The Environment
4.14      The vegetation in the areas for new settlement is either secondary
jungle or coarse lalang with only scattered areas of primary forest. Both the
secondary jungle and lalang areas represent an uneconomic form of land use.
Lalang is a particularly destructive weed to soil nutrients. Reforestation
with productive tree crops will replace large areas of pernicious lalang.
Project design calls for rubber to be introduced on the more steeply sloping
areas where the use of standard soil conservation practices, a leguminous
ground cover and the tree canopy, will prevent erosion and build up soil
fertility. Food cropping will be confined to flat and gently undulating
lands on individual farm holdings rather than the poor economic and ecological



- 47 -
pattern of shifting cultivation presently used in the project areas. Fertility
will be improved through establishment of tree crops, crop rotation, fallowing
and provision of adequate inputs. The new rubber and palm oil factories will
occupy a relatively small area and will not be sited in the vicinity of residen-
tial areas. The appropriate national standards for the disposal of liquid
effluent to ensure the health and safety of factory employees will be met.
5. DEMAND AND MARKETING
A. Rubber
Demand and Marketing Arrangements
5.01      Price Projections.  World rubber consumption has increased by about
6.3% p.a. over the past 25 years (2.4 million tons in 1950 to 12.3 million in
1977). Over the same period, the rapid technological advance in synthetic
rubber (SR) production has lowered the average price of natural rubber (NR)
cif New York for RSS I from US$2.50/kg to US$1.08/kg (in constant 1978) prices.
Despite steady progress in NR technology, in the face of falling prices NR
output has grown by only 3.2% p.a. and its share of the market has fallen from
67% to 30%. Continuing technological advances in NR production together with
the increased cost of SR production following the large oil price increase in
1974/75 have, however, improved the outlook for NR production. The NR price
RSS I cif NY, which had fallen to US$0.81/kg in 1975 is expected to remain at
around $1.00 in December 1978 prices, through 1995. This price corresponds
to an fob Indonesia price of Rp 594/kg. World consumption of rubber is
expected to increase by about 5.3% p.a. through 1990 and NR production by
about 4.0% over the same period, i.e. from 3.7 million tons to 6.1 million
tons. The world market is expected to easily absorb the additional production.
5.02      Smallholder Rubber Price.  The price structure for smallholder
rubber in Sumatra and South Kalimantan is difficult to trace given the wide
variation in the dry content of rubber (drc) received, the number of processors
and collecting agents and the extent to which they manipulate estimates of
drc, and the cost of transportation from area to area. The sequence of
marketing is usually from farm to collection agent, about 45% as unsmoked
sheet and 55% as slab and lump, and then to processor. In the project areas,
smallholders have been receiving 35 to 45% of the fob value of rubber or
about Rp 160/kg based on 50% drc of slab. The variations in margins for
middlemen in the procedure account for at least 5-10% of the fob value of
RSS I. Farmers could receive better prices than those presently obtained
with improvement in conditions of marketing their own rubber.
5.03      Under nucleus estate collection and processing where excessive
processor profits and the additional costs of middlemen are removed, it is
expected that farmers will be paid 70% of the fob value of Rp 780/kg drc in
1990 (1978 constant prices) even when depreciation and the capital cost of
processing is included in addition to the normal factory and collection
costs. GOI indicated for the proposed project that nucleus estate processors



- 48 -
should collect rubber for smallholder repayment obligations and all other
rubber that project farmers choose to sell at a price about 70% fob. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that the borrower will cause the
nucleus estates to pay about 70% of the prevailing fob price for rubber
produced by smallholder project farmers, excluding cases of large variation in
the dry rubber content received, or significant reduction in the fob price, or
significant changes in processing or marketing charges of the nucleus estate
processor [para. 8.01(n)].
5.04      Marketing of Rubber.  Production of rubber by the nucleus estate
will be sold through the existing and well-established marketing organizations
including regulation and sales determination under joint marketing offices
throughout Indonesia. Smallholders are expected to produce latex and lower
grades from scrap and will be free to sell to any dealers/exporters in the
project area. However, the nucleus estates will process and market the
amount of latex or slab required for debt repayment (para. 3.26). Owing to
favorable prices predetermined and paid to smallholders on the amount of
rubber collected for debt repayment, it is expected that most smallholders
will also sell their additional rubber production to the nucleus estate.
The requirements for processing facilities for both smallholder and estate
rubber to be financed in a second phase to the proposed project will be
determined in the project Year 3 when expected yields, production and the
desirability for sheet versus block rubber will be more certain.
B. Palm Oil
Demand and Marketing Arrangements
5.05      Coconuts have traditionally supplied the bulk of the vegetable oils
consumed in Indonesia, but supply has not kept pace with demand. Coconut oil
production in Indonesia (both kelentik oil and commercially extracted coconut
oil) is projected to increase by about 0.7% p.a. from its present level of
580,000 tons, but the demand for edible oils now at 770,000 tons p.a. is
expected to increase by about 5.5% p.a. Indonesia, a net importer of edible
oils, is increasingly moving to replace coconut oil for domestic consumption
with fractionated palm oil (palm olein). Indonesia presently exports approxi-
mately 85% of its palm oil output, but even with a continued 9% p.a. growth in
production of Indonesian oil palm, the share of locally consumed palm oil
products is expected to increase from its present level of 15% of output to
about 40% by 1980.
5.06      Price Outlook.  Although prices for fats and oils fluctuated widely
during the past two decades (1958-78), they displayed no clear trend. Price
fluctuations reflect simultaneous increases or shortfalls in production and
exports of major fats and oils. They are usually related to changes in the
normal weather patterns. The sudden increase of fats and oil prices during
1973-74 was mainly the result of simultaneous production shortfalls in coconut
oil and groundnut oil.



- 49 -
5.07      A decline in real prices of fats and oils is projected during
1979-90.  The major assumptions underlying this projection are:
(a)  An oversupply of fats and oils caused by:
(i) the rapid acreage expansion of oil-bearing tree crops in
recent years; and
(ii) the growing demand for oilseed meals.
(b)  A declining market potential for fats and oils in developed coun-
tries, where per capita consumption approaches the saturation level.
Demand for fats and oils in these countries is likely to come mainly
from the development of new products or end-uses and population
growth.
5.08      Technological improvements in refining and manufacturing and the
resultant increases in interchangeability of fats and oils have had three
distinct effects on prices. First, prices have become more important in the
manufacturer's choice of oils (or fats). Second, price differentials among
fats and oils have declined. Third, the increased possibility of substitution
has encouraged the use of cheaper oils, such as soybean oil and palm oil at
the expense of high-priced oils such as butter and olive oil. This has tended
to depress the general price level of high-priced oils.
5.09      The level of palm oil prices relative to those other fats and oils
depends on the share of palm oil in total fats and oils exports. The effect
of increased supply on palm oil prices is aggravated by the fact that the
market for soft oils expands faster than the market for hard oils (coconut
oil, palm kernel oil, palm oil). Although it is physically possible to
substitute hard oils for soft oils, the costs of dehydrogenation are high, and
the rapidly growing output of hard oils can be marketed only at lower prices
than those of soft oils. It is projected, therefore, that there will be a
price differential of about 20% by 1985 between palm oil and its main compet-
itor, soybean oil. International oil palm prices are projected by the Bank to
remain in constant terms at or above their mid 1979 level until 1982 and
subsequently to decrease and become stable by 1990 at about 80% of their
present level. Prices of palm kernel oil are projected to increase until
1982, decrease later on and to stabilize at a price about 11% higher by 1990.
Soybean oil prices (in 1978 constant US dollars) are projected at US$529 per
ton (cif European ports) in 1990, whereas palm oil prices are projected at
US$430 for that year.
5.10      The declining trend of relative prices for palm oil (and other hard
oils) can be reversed through: (a) a reduction in refining costs (easing the
interchangeability of these oils with the soft oils in known end-uses); and
(b) the development of new end-uses.



- 50 -
C. Food Crops
5.11      The farm plan proposed for new settlers and existing farmers
is primarily based on rubber. Food crop production by rubber smallholders
in the project will largely be limited to such staple crops as upland rice,
groundnuts, cassava, and beans, with some fruit tree crops, coffee and cloves
and vegetables from garden lots. With the limited amount of production from
these crops, farm families are expected to consume most of their food crop
production. Some family surpluses in food crops may develop in later years
of the project. In Rimbo Bujang an oversupply of cassava is already evident
without an immediate market available for existing smallholders. PTP VI has
agreed with GOI to construct and operate a cassava processing plant in the
project area and transport the processed cassava to the Jambi or Padang
markets. Improvements in food crop marketing will be required in the
project areas from time to time and studies to that effect will be undertaken
by the DGE in cooperation with the Directorate General of Food Crops (DGFC)
and the nucleus estates. There is a ready market for cloves and coffee in
both project areas. Marketing studies for cassava will be undertaken in the
proposed Transmigration II project.
6. PRODUCTION ASPECTS, TECHNOLOGICAL FACTORS, AND FARM INCOMES
A. General
6.01      Rubber will be the main crop cultivated in the project areas.
Oil palm will also be planted in Aceh. Food crops (upland rice, cassava,
sweet potato, groundnuts, beans, vegetables and fruit trees) will be grown
to meet the smallholder family food requirement in all project areas.
6.02      Smallholder Rubber Production.  Smallholder rubber establishment,
upkeep and production techniques are underdeveloped in Indonesia. The
appropriate technology and economics of rubber production are well estab-
lished but this knowledge is mainly confined to the public sector estates.
Smallholder rubber has traditionally been grown under a regime with a low
level of farm inputs and smallholder management. Land in smallholder areas
is generally not properly cleared causing a high incidence of root diseases
in rubber trees. Inferior, unselected seedlings are grown, resulting in
widely fluctuating growth and rubber production. Fertilizers are rarely
applied. Weeding and maintenance standards during the immature period are
poor, resulting in very slow growth of the rubber trees and substantial
delays in rubber maturity. Soil conservation is rarely practiced. Small-
holder rubber trees are overtapped and many dry up. Trees are often tapped
four days per week during nine months per annum with no stimulation tech-
niques. Tapping standards such as bark conservation, slope of cut, and
wounding are inadequate and cause heavily callused trees with incomplete bark
renewal.



- 51 -
B. Crop Recommendations
6.03      Rubber.  The clone GTI would be the dominant material used.  In the
Marga land forest areas of Rimbo Bujang land clearing will be done mechani-
cally using crawler tractors tree pusher and chain saws. The nucleus estate
(PTP VI) will review and examine ways in which to exploit any residual
commercial timber before commencing land clearing. Any incomes derived from
timber sales will be used to reduce smallholder investment costs. In Danau
Salak, due to fire problems with lalang eradication, land clearing will be
done mechanically by ploughing and harrowing using wheel tractors. PTP
XVIII in its own expansion program will plant a wider selection of clones
based on the recommendations of the Rubber Research Institutes in Medan and
Bogor and the Rubber Research Centers in North Sumatra and Cental Java. The
approximate composition of the PTP planting program will be:  GTI - 40%;
RRIM 600 - 20%; AVROS 2037 - 10%; PR 255 - 5%; PR 261 - 5%; PR 107 - 5%; PR
300 - 5%; PB 5/51 - 5% and GYT 577- 5%. Planting material will be raised in
the PTP managed nurseries. Bare-root, budded stumps will be used for the
initial planting and supplying will be done by using 2-3 whorl polybag
budded stumps. Planting density will be 500 trees/ha; the spacing will
vary from 8 x 2.5 m to 6 x 3.3 m depending on the growth characteristics of
the clone.
6.04      Shortening of the period of immaturity will be achieved by using
advanced planting materials, establishing a leguminous cover crop after land
clearing, adequate weed control and upkeep by the use of herbicides, and by
adequate fertilizer applications based on soil and leaf analyses. Attention
will be given to root disease control by poisoning any tree stumps left in
the field, and removing and burning infected wood during land clearing.
6.05      Modern tapping systems with the emphasis on low tapping frequency
combined with Ethrel stimulation will be introduced with the objective of
obtaining large increases in productivity per tapping and satisfactory bark
conservation.
6.06      For well managed rubber production in the settlement areas, the PTPs
will closely supervise lalang and mikania control and give attention to
weeding practices, pest and disease control, and the rate of fertilizer appli-
cation. One of the most important prerequisites for sound rubber management
is the proper organization of training for tapping and stimulation techniques
including the supervision of exploitation, such as monthly control of bark
consumption and tapping quality. The estates have demonstrated their ability
to supervise rubber establishment and exploitation.
6.07      Oil Palm.  PNP I will develop oil palm planting in the Southern
Estates around Langsa. Planting material will be high yielding germinated
Dura x Pisifera (D x P) produced by the Marihat Research Station in North
Sumatra (MRS). Planting density will be 143 plants per hectare using a
spacing 9 x 9 m triangular system. Pre and main nurseries will be established
in polybag on a flat area near a reliable water supply in a central location
served by an all weather access road. A sprinkler system will be provided for



52 -
the main nursery. Legume cover crops will be established after land clearing
and adequate fertilizers will be applied based on oil and leaf analyses.
Close attention will be given to weeding practices to control lalang, mikania
and other noxious weeds. Assisted pollination will be necessary during the
first five years of production.
6.08      Food Crops.  Input requirements and production levels of rubber
can be estimated with considerable confidence, but since large-scale food
cropping is a new development in the project area, the optimum choice of food
crops and the optimum use of inputs for sustained annual food cropping on
red-yellow podzolic soils are difficult to define precisely. In addition to a
review of the present research being undertaken in Indonesia, close liaison
during the project will be maintained with the Bank's first Transmigration
and Rural Development Project (Loan 1318-IND) and the first and second
Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Projects (Loans 1499 and 1604, respectively)
to monitor the technical feasibility, the input-output relationships and
labor requirements of sustained annual food cropping on the red-yellow
podzolic soils.
6.09      In the project areas adequate attention will be given to food
cropping activities. The first year package of food crop inputs for each
new settler family in Danau Salak will be supplied by the nucleus estate.
At both Rimbo Bujang and Danau Salak planting material and food crop inputs
will be supplied on a cash basis by the nucleus estate managed PMSUs
in subsequent years. No difficulty is perceived in smallholders purchasing
planting material and other inputs since incomes from estate employment will
be sufficient to meet these requirements.
C. Yields and Production
6.10      Rubber.  Smallholder rubber yields on existing holdings are rarely
above 400 kg/ha p.a. With nucleus estate management, improved practices,
and good settler response, peak yields for new settler rubber farmers
should reach 1,620 kg/ha p.a. and an average yield of 1,180 kg/ha over 25
years. Expected rubber yields for smallholders are shown in Annex 3, Tables
1 and 2. The estates themselves should produce rubber with peak yields of
2,900 kg/ha or average rubber yields over a 25-year tapping period of 1,818
kg/ha.
6.11      Oil Palm.  Under PNP I management it is expected that harvesting
will start 30 months after planting to achieve peak yields at full maturity
of about 18.5 tons ffb/ha with an oil extraction rate of 22%. High quality
oil will be produced through correct timing of harvest, careful handling
and rapid transportation of fresh fruit bunches to the mill.
6.12      Food Crops.  Garden crops consisting of fruit trees, vegetables,
and small amounts of cash crops for each new settler family (0.15 ha) will be
continuously and intensively cropped. On the subsistence food crop area (0.8
ha), with much less intensive cropping, yields are expected to reach 1.2
tons/ha by year 10 for padi, 0.8 tons/ha for beans and groundnuts, and 9
tons/ha for wet cassava. Inorganic fertilizers and compost will be used to



- 53 -
obtain the projected yields. Farm plans (detailed in Annex 3) show that new
settlers in the proposed project will be able to supply most of the food crop
subsistence needs for their own families. A small marketable surplus may be
generated.
6.13      Prices.  The smallholder rubber price has been discussed in para.
5.02. All prices for inputs and outputs in farm income analysis have been
expressed in early 1979 constant terms, and where applicable, have been
adjusted for the recent devaluation from Rp 415 to Rp 625 to US$1.00. Other
prices used to estimate farm incomes are described as follows:
(a) Rice: Rice is bought and sold by BULOG, the GOI agency for rice
purchasing, at prices below the world market price. The GOI has
substantially raised domestic padi prices to encourage rice produc-
tion. At the same time there has been a fall in world prices for
rice which has brought farmgate prices closer to world levels. The
floor price for padi is now set at Rp 75/kg while an imputed economic
price would be about Rp 82/kg. The price used in financial analysis
however is based on the padi price in the project area of Rp 80/kg.
The average price for rice in economic analysis was Rp 110 to 1990
and about Rp 133 thereafter.
(b) Cassava, Groundnuts and Garden Crops: The current farmgate prices
in the project area for wet root cassava, Rp 8/kg, and unshelled
beans/groundnuts, Rp 300/kg, have been used in projections and are
expected to remain constant over the life of the project. Other
prices assumed in the analysis are Rp 15/kg for sweet potato,
Rp 500/kg for coffee and Rp 2,000/kg for cloves.
(c) Fertilizers: The BIMAS prices of Rp 70/kg for both urea and
TSP were assumed to remain constant throughout the project life.
The economic analysis of farm models has used prices for fertilizer
required in food and rubber production based on IBRD commodity
forecasts and converted to farmgate prices. The prices for urea
and TSP were adjusted to Rp 132/kg and Rp 116/kg respectively to
1990 and Rp 168/kg and Rp 150/kg thereafter.
D. Farm Incomes
6.14      Farm Incomes.  Farm incomes for new settlers at Danau Salak and
smallholders at Rimbo Bujang are summarized in Tables 6.1 and 6.2. Family
incomes are shown in current terms and in constant 1979 prices to reflect the
projected payments for debt service and the relative price changes between
rubber and the costs of production.



- 54 -
Table 6.1: FARM INCOME - DANAU SALAK NEW SETTLEMENT
Year
3       10        15        20      25
----------- (Current US$)------------
Gross value of production of:
Food and livestock production (1 ha) 727    1,383         2,648   3,715   5,215
Rubber (3 ha)                            -    4,262       7,947  11,306  12,826
Total costs of production /a             421    1,493       2,186   3,075   4,164
Net on-farm income                        306    4,152      8,409  11,946  13,877
Total off-farm income                    474         -          -        -       -
Total income                             780    4,152       8,409  11,946  13,877
Debt repayments                             -    1,065      1,987        -       -
Allowance for risk                        117      623      1,261   1,792   2,082
Net income                               663    2,465       5,161  10,154  11,796
Net income (constant 1979 US$)           414       959      1,434   2,011   1,664
Incremental net income                    100    1,560      3,894   8,376   9,299
Incremental net income
(constant 1979 US$)                     62       607      1,082   1,659   1,312
/a Includes IPEDA taxes.
6.15      New Settlement Danau Salak.  The farm plan for new settlement has
been specifically designed to provide continuity of income to settlers with
estate wages paid until the rubber reaches maturity and thereafter from their
own farm production. Incomes during the development period will not be
seriously depressed in the event of food crop failures since off-farm employ-
ment will constitute 70% of net family income. At rubber maturity, and after
debt repayment amounting to about 25% of total income, net family incomes
will be greater than US$1,000 (Year 10) and the cash surplus after allowing
$352 for family subsistence, will be in excess of US$600. In per capita
terms, incomes for Danau Salak smallholders will grow from about US$83 in
the initial years of the project to about US$285 at full development (Year
15). The positive cash flow and its magnitude from commencement of the
project will be sufficiently attractive to encourage active settler parti-
cipation.
6.16      Rimbo Bujang Smallholders.  Net family incomes for smallholders
(after debt service) will grow from about US$320 at project start-up to
over US$1,000 by year 15. This represents growth in per capita incomes from
about US$64 to about US$205 at full development (year 15). During the period
of rubber immaturity, farm families will have an assumed income from food
crop production supplemented with off-farm nucleus estate employment. There
will be a positive cash flow after debt service in all years of the project.
The incremental cash income will be attractive to smallholder participation.



- 55 -
Table 6.2:  FARM INCOME - RIMBO BUJANG SMALLHOLDERS
Year
3      10       15      20      25
---------- (Current US$) ---------
Gross value of production of:
Food and livestock production
(1 ha)                             567   1,903   2,665   3,739   5,249
Rubber (2 ha)                         -   2,583   5,153   7,820   7,185
Total costs of production /a          437   1,345   1,976   2,802   3,743
N-et on-farm income                   130   3,141   5,842   8,757   8,691
Total off-farm income                 474       -        -        -       -
Total income                          604   3,141   5,842   8,757   8,691
Debt repayments                         -      645   1,288        -       -
Allowance for risk                     90     471      876   1,314   1,304
Net income  (current)                 514   2,024   3,678   7,443   7,387
Net income (constant 1979 US$)        321      787   1,022   1,474   1,042
Incremental net income (current)        2   1,119   2,410   5,666   4,891
Incremental net income
(constant 1979 US$)                   1     435     669   1,122      689
/a Includes IPEDA taxes.
7. COSTS, BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits and Justification
7.01      Employment and Production.  The nucleus estate strategy for new
settlement and smallholder development will increase rubber and food crop
production on a total of 50,000 ha of which 38,000 ha will represent new land
development on unutilized and heretofore uneconomic secondary forest and
lalang. The project will directly benefit 12,000 smallholder families or
about 60,000 people in the rural target population. About 4,000 of these
families will be new transmigrants from Java. In creating two permanent jobs
for each smallholder family, employment will be generated for 24,000 people.
Family labor requirements and labor availability is shown in Annex 3, Tables 5
and 7. As a result of rehabilitation and expansion plans of PNP I and PTP
XVIII, an additional 6,000 permanent estate jobs will be created of which
3,000 will be transmigrants and resettled estate laborers from Java. Assuming
a conservative estimate of 20% of the permanent jobs created for additional
regional employment in the project areas as a result of spread and multiplier
effects, an additional 6,000 rubber related, secondary service and tradesmen
jobs will result from the project. Total employment generated by the project
will therefore amount to 36,000 jobs.



- 56 -
7.02      A total of 64,000 mt of rubber will be produced at full development
of which about 40,000 mt will come from new settlements and smallholdings.
Incremental production of oil palm from PNP I will be about 14,000 mt.
Food crop production from project smallholders is expected to be about
12,000 mt. The total value of all project incremental production will be
about US$76.5 million p.a. (fob constant 1979) at full development in
1995.
7.03      Projected Incomes.  Projected incomes of Danau Salak new settlers
and Rimbo Bujang smallholders have been discussed in paras. 6.15 and 6.16.
Other benefits which have not been quantified include improved health and
sanitation, the nutritional status of smallholders, improved transportation,
and the multiplier effects on the regional economy of local capital formation
and increased levels of consumption expenditure.
7.04      The rehabilitation of PNP I covering 14,271 ha of rubber and oil
palm development will reverse the company's present level of financial
insolvency [para. 3.02 B(c)] to a level of net income per annum after taxes of
about Rp 10.9 billion (US$17.4 million current). Incremental net income per
annum resulting from the project will be about Rp 9.5 billion (US$15.2
million current) at full development. Existing liabilities of Rp 11.0 billion
(US$17.6 million) will be converted to equity by the GOI [para. 3.02 B(c)]
and PNP I through its diversification program will be financially secure to
continue its own further expansion and carry out functions of a nucleus estate
to smallholders in the Aceh area. The GOI will accrue benefits from PNP I
from corporation and other taxes over the entire life of the project amounting
to Rp 267 billion (US$427 million) and from dividends estimated to total Rp
97.5 billion (US$156 million).
7.05      Although PTP XVIII is financially sound [para. 3.02 A(b)(iii)]
the financial position of the corporation will be substantially improved with
the project. Expansion and rehabilitation of the Danau Salak estate, which
has previously experienced a net loss of about Rp 78 for each kg of dry rubber
produced, will develop its profitability at Danau Salak to a level comparable
with rubber on the Java estates of PTP XVIII where net profits per kg are
about Rp 90. Net incremental income for PTP XVIII resulting from the project
will be about Rp 5.5 billion p.a. (US$8.8 million current) at full
development. Total PTP XVIII net profits at full development will be
Rp 25.4 billion (US$40.6 million current) by 1995. Incremental benefits
accruing to the GOI in the form of taxes from PTP XVIII will be about
Rp 153.5 billion (US$245.6 million) over the life of the project. Detailed
financial analyses of both PNP I and PTP XVIII including analysis of cost
price relationships for various crops are contained in the Staff Working
Papers.
B. Costs
7.06      GOI investment costs per family have been computed as shown in
Annex 4, Table 1. The total smallholder costs of development for Danau Salak
new settlers will be US$6,216 per family (constant 1979) and for Rimbo



- 57 -
Bujang smallholders, US$4,312. Credit costs of development for rubber estab-
lishment, overheads, machinery and equipment, settler housing and the sub-
sistence package are about 85% of total costs for Danau Salak smallholders
and about 93% of total costs for Rimbo Bujang smallholders.
7.07      With two permanent jobs created on each smallholding, the cost
of individual job creation by GOI for this project will be about US$3,108
(constant 1979 US$) at Danau Salak and about US$2,156 at Rimbo Bujang. These
costs include village development and health services which might be legiti-
mately charged to regional development. This cost compares favorably with job
creation in average small-scale industry in Indonesia estimated at about
US$6,500 in medium to large-scale industry at about US$17,000. Permanent job
creation and absorption of surplus labor at PNP I in the initial years of the
project will include about 4,300 permanent laborers including the 2,400
laborers to be transmigrated from Java. The average cost of job creation
will be about US$7,800 (constant 1979). PTP XVIII will employ about 1,700
workers at full development including 607 which will be resettled on Danau
Salak from Java. The cost of permanent job creation at PTP XVIII's Danau
Salak estate will be about US$6,850 (constant 1979).
C. Financial Results
7.08      Results of financial cost benefit analysis are summarized in Table
7.1. Financial rate of return analysis was not carried out for smallholder
components since farm families do not invest their own funds in the project.
The financial rate of return for rehabilitation of PNP I is estimated at 17%
(after taxes). The rate of return for individual crops at PNP I, after taxes
but excluding corporate allocations such as bonus payments is estimated to be
18% for rubber and 20% for oil palm. The rate of return for PTP XVIII develop-
ment at Danau Salak is estimated at 19%. The rates of return for the estates
are excellent owing to the large capital outlays for rehabilitation of planta-
tion and infrastructure.
7.09      Sensitivity Analysis.  Effects on the financial rates of return
due to changing prices, yields, export duties, investment costs and delayed
benefits are also presented in Table 7.1. The estate development programs
are fairly sensitive to changes in the majority of these tested variables,
particularly in reduction of expected prices or yields. A 20% drop in the
rubber price/yield will lower the rate of return for the Danau Salak estate
from 19% to 11% and for the PNP I rehabilitation from 17% to 10%. Should the
Government raise the export tax on rubber from its present level of 5% of fob
to 20% of fob comparable with the new export tax on oil palm, all rates of
return would remain satisfactory.
D. Economic Results
7.10      The economic rate of return for the project was calculated in
constant 1979 prices, net of taxes, duties and subsidies, taking into account
a standard conversion factor and shadow wage rates. The economic prices for



- 58 -
Table 7.1: RESULTS OF FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
(X)
Rubber export
Financial      Crop price/yield changes   duty increased
rate of return   -20   -10        +10   +20      to 20% fob
FaRtate Development
I.  PNP I Rehabilitation - Langsa                        17           10    14        19    22           12
II.  PTP XVIII Expansion - Danau Salak Estate             19           11    15        21    23           13
Investment Costs Price/Yields
Investment cost       -25             +25       Benefits delayed
-25         +25   -10  +10        -10   +10          one year
Estate Development
I.  PNP I Rehabilitation - Langsa                   21           14    16   27        10    17            17
II.  PTP XVIII Expansion - Danau Salak
Estate                                       22           16    19   25         13    18            18



- 59 -
fertilizers and rice used in the analysis are described in para. 6.13. The
fob prices for rubber and oil palm were used in the calculation of project
benefits. Other assumptions used in the analysis were:
(a) Local costs were adjusted by the standard conversion factor for
Indonesia of 0.85 to bring all local costs to border prices since
import taxes and quantitative restrictions understate the economic
value of foreign exchange of Rp 625=US$1.00;
(b) Taxes such as the corporation tax (45% of net income) and tree crop
export duties (5% of fob) were eliminated from the estate components.
Export duties were also eliminated from the price received for
rubber by smallholders. IPEDA taxes were eliminated in calculating
the net value of smallholder production;
(c) Farm Labor. The financial wage to be paid to smallholders by the
nucleus estates and the available wage in the project areas when
work is available is about Rp 650/day. This wage overstates the
marginal productivity of labor in these areas since most family
operated rubber smallholdings have low productivity and because
there are a considerable number of landless families in these areas.
For these reasons, labor utilization is only about 50%. The marginal
economic value of the farmer's labor (the shadow wage rate) has
therefore been set at Rp 325/day.  Skilled permanent labor is costed
at the full prevailing wage rates, averaging Rp 1,100/day for estate- =
skilled labor and Rp 1,500/day for foreman and equipment operators;
(d)  Investment costs are net of taxes and transfer payments.  In
determining their economic cost, local costs were adjusted using the
standard conversion factor of 0.85. Investment costs have been
adjusted to reflect the economic value of the unskilled labor
component in tree crop development. Costs include an allowance of
10% for physical contingencies but exclude price contingencies;
(e) Roads, village and social infrastructure were fully costed in the
economic rate of return. In addition, all technical assistance costs
have been included in the estimated economic rate of return for the
project.
7.11      Economic Rate of Return.  Using the above assumptions and discounting
costs and benefits over 31 years, the estimated economic rate of return is
29%.  The economic evaluation of all project components is summarized in Table
7.2 below.
7.12      Sensitivity Analysis.  The project's economic viability is expected
to be fairly resilient to changes in costs and benefits associated with
project investments. Sensitivity of project components were also tested to
variables in price/yield changes. Investment cost increases of 25% will
reduce the economic rate of return to 24% and will have little effect on the
overall viability of the project. Rates of return for all project components



- 60 -
Table 7.2: RESULTS OF ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS
(%)
Investment Costs
Investment   Income frbm production
Economic          cost           -25          +25       Benefits delayed
rate of return    -25  +25    -10   +10   -10    +10            one year
Estate Development
I.  PNP I Rehabilitation                31             44   24      25    38    17       33           27
II. PTP XVIII Expansion Danau
Salak Estate                     28              33   24      31    35    23       26           25
Smallholders Development
III.  Danau Salak New Settlement          19             22   17       20    24    16      19            17
IV.  Rimbo Bujang Smallholders           14             17   12       14    19    10      14           12
Total Project                       29



- 61 -
are not significantly affected when benefits are delayed by one year to
account for delayed farmer participation. With the exception of the estimated
rate of return for Rimbo Bujang smallholders, adjusted for investment cost
increases of 25% and an unlikely decline in rubber prices by 10% over the life
of the project (ROR 10%), all rates of return are satisfactory.
E. Project Risks
7.13      The first Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Development Project
(Loan 1499-IND) has been sufficiently implemented since late 1977 to identify
some risks for project implementation. Implementation of the second project
(Loan 1604-IND), signed on July 12, 1978 is not sufficiently advanced to
identify particular project risks. In the former project no particular
technical or economic risks are evident but financial and managerial problems
have slowed project implementation of the smallholder components. Owing to
difficulties in budget preparation by the DGE and development of financial
procedures between the project managers, the nucleus estates, the DGE, and the
Ministry of Finance, coupled with inadequate allocation of budget funds in the
previous Government fiscal year, allocations of finance for smallholder develop-
ment was delayed for about six months. With insufficient funds, the nucleus
estates have not reached the planting program targets set for smallholder
development. Difficulties with budgeting and allocation of finance have been
remedied and all financial reporting and budgeting is now carried out through
the DGE. The GOI brought to negotiations evidence of allocation of required
credit and noncredit funds for start-up for the proposed project.
7.14      Delays in project finance have delayed housing construction for
smallholders in Loan 1499-IND and hence the recruitment of settlers to
adequately provide a labor supply for project developments. Moreover, the
responsibilities of project management and those of the nucleus estate site
manager have not always been effectively coordinated, since each manager has
been responsible to separate project entities. To minimize the risk in too
much diffusion of management responsibility between the provincial government
and the nucleus estate, both the project manager and the nucleus estate site
manager in this project will be appointed by, and made responsible to, the
nucleus estate. It is anticipated that this change in management will
better meet the objectives of integrating such components as rubber develop-
ment with village infrastructure, road construction, recruitment of settlers
and the development of social services.
8. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS REACHED
8.01      The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(a)  the nucleus estates operated Planting Material Supply Units will
continue to supply food crop inputs for project settlers until such
time as the BIMAS program is extended to the project area (para.
3.02 A(a)(ii));



- 62 -
(b) two internationally recruited technical specialists including an
infrastructure program manager and a rubber processing engineer
will be appointed by PTP XVIII before December 31, 1979, acceptable
to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank [para.
3.02 A(b)(iii)];
(c) three internationally recruited technical specialists including
an estate processing engineer, a production management specialist
and a financial manager will be appointed by PNP I before
December 31, 1979, acceptable to the Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.02 B(c));
(d) the DGE will contract with a firm of internationally recruited
consultants acceptable to the Bank and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank to carry out a detailed hydrology
survey of the Danau Salak project area to test the quality and
quantity of groundwater at each of the proposed village locations,
prior to December 31, 1979, and to be completed within 12 months
(para. 3.02 A (a) (vi);
(e) a schedule of project expenditures from November 1, 1978 will be
provided by GOI in support of the request for retroactive financing
prior to loan signing (para. 3.03);
(f) annual work programs for project implementation will be sent
by DGE to the Bank for review and comment before October 31
each year (para. 3.03);
(g) Government budget funds from APBD and INPRES sources will be
sufficient in size to cover noncredit expenditures during the
project but should the services be insufficient, the Borrower will
make timely arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to meet
additional requirements (para. 3.13);
(h) accounts for smallholder development both separate and consolidated,
will be audited by the State Auditors yearly and the audit will be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each
fiscal year (para. 3.23);
(i) PNP I and PTP XVIII will submit to the Bank annual audited
reports made by independent auditors within six months of the close
of the fiscal year (para. 3.24);
(j) each estate will send budgets of the work program for expansion
of the estate, each year to the Bank for review and comment
before final approval by their Board of Supervisors (para. 3.24);
(k) the DGE will employ consultants providing inspection services
acceptable to the Bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank for short-term inspection assignments and reporting
to the DGE, to monitor the progress of the project with respect to
field conditions, housing, infrastructure, and finance for all
project components (para. 4.02);



- 63 -
(1)  the Borrower through the Minister of Agriculture will cause the DGE,
not later than September 30, 1979, to strengthen the present
project staffing in DGE responsible for project implementation to
be organized as the Team for Assistance for Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders Projects to further assist the DGE in the implementation
of projects, in particular, the planning, execution, monitoring and
execution of such projects (para. 4.02);
(m)  copy of the certificate of "conditional" Hak Milik for 4 ha of land
will be received by each new settler family at Danau Salak and the
similar title will be received by Marga land settlers for a 2 ha
land area, both within six months of entry to the project (para.
4.11);
(n)  GOI will cause the nucleus estates PTP VI and PTP  XVIII as
rubber processors to pay about 70% of the fob price for dry rubber
produced by smallholder project farmers, except in cases of:
(i) significant reduction in quality of rubber received,
or a significant reduction in the fob price from that
prevailing at the date of the Loan Agreement;
(ii) significant increase in collection, processing and marketing
charges of the nucleus estate processor from those prevailing
at the date of the Loan Agreement (para. 5.03);
8.02      The following are conditions for disbursement for the respective
components of the project:
Smallholder Development
(a)  signing of a Financing Agreement between the Borrower and
BRI and Subfinancing Agreements between BRI and PTP XVIII
and BRI and PTP VI in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 3.09);
(b)  signing of Smallholder Rubber Development Agreements between
the DGE and PTP XVIII and the DGE and PTP VI to specify
work to be carried out for smallholder development in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.07);
(c)  a manager for each PMSU would be appointed by each nucleus estate
prior to disbursement of funds for investments associated with each
unit (para. 4.09).
PTP XVIII and PNP I Estate Development
(d)  signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower
and PNP I and the Borrower and PTP XVIII in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.10).
8.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project will be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$99 million, with repayment over 20 years
including 6 years of grace. The Borrower will be the Government of Indonesia.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
Project Phasing
Activity                           Unit        1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       Total
I. Danau Salak Settlement
Rubber planted               ha            -      1,250      2,500      2,750       2,750      2,750       12,000
Total settler families       No.           -         417        833        917        917        916        4,000
Village development           No.          -           2          4          4          4          4           18
II. Danau Salak Nucleus Estate
Rubber planted               ha           800        800        800        800        800        -          4,000
III. PNP I
Rubber planted               ha           500        825     1,765      1,800       1,900        -          6,790
Oil palm planted              ha          500        864        771        -          -          -          2,135
Rubber rehabilitation        ha        2,356         -          -          -          -          -          2,356
Oil palm rehabilitation    ha          2,987         -          -          -          -          -          2,987
IV. Rimbo Bujang (existing transmigrants)
Rubber planted                ha          -       2,000      2,750       2,500      2,750      2,000       12,000
V. Rimbo Bujang (Marga Land)
Rubber planted               ha           -          500        750        750      1,000      1,000        4,000



- 65-
ANEX I
NUCLEUS UTATES MID SIMLQOLD=  III PIJ5CT
Pr-lnot Co-t .        S.. 5n;c1.nt
DU  SAL"
1980                    298                    2982                    1963            L                             1983 I5                   .-1 tovL
L. 0..m.... Co..t
b6.b.r D.vlo.prnt
4agna                         168.8           .      453.9           .      653.8            .     760.8                  841.1            .      547.1            -   3,425.5            -   3,425.5
(Iran                             .           _        2.2         2 2        8.6         8.6       18.4         18.4       29.7        29.7       41.9        .1.9      100.8        200.9      202.6
Oth0.  fnn6222n.1./oh.t12a        .        44.8          -       106.  -                153.4           _      201.5           .       21.0           .       20Z.5                  959.4      9i9.4
O-ht arrl...                   73.6        73.6      149.1       L49.1      168.5       168.5      174.4        176.4      280.6       260.6       24.9        24.9      771.1        771.1  1252.2
016.        to  d        p                6D.0         6.3       129.        18.5                   25.                     26.9       218.4       26.8           ; I        3       875.4       745.37
Sobio1ta                024.4       278.1      622.5       386.4      049.4       493.4      979.3        284.5   1.078.3        679.7      640.8        384.4   4,40L.7      2 706.2   7. 20.2
HOhnIl.ry and Loulm.n2n /-
Asrlool6-r-l nochlr.r7           27.4       325.9       12.6       217.5        4.5         74.1        2.3        35.2        1.9        30.3        2.6         39.3       51.3       722.3      773.6
Tn..po..   and v.h;.l.                          . _      9.6        21.5        0.0         2.8           _                    2 1.2       2.7          _           -       11.6         26.0       37.6
S.bto.,l                 27.4       325.9       22.2       239.0         5.3        75.9        2.3        35.2        3.1        33.0        2.6         39.3       62.9       740.3      822.2
road 12a0.on-E.nt (a
CivLI .014.                      28.7        71.1       45.9        84.5       65.2        120.0      48.7         89.9       44.0        80.7          _                  242.5       446.2      688.7
hachtn.ry                        27.5       184.5       10.9        84.5          -            -                                 -           .          .                   28.4        269.0      297._
56.2       255.6       56.0       169.0       65.5       120.0       48.7        89.9       44.0         90.7        _           _         70 9       729.2       976.2
Ooato.z *nd 22.20 . 0r4.
Aa2tlnr haov.2n                  33.3        77.6       31.2       179.5       56.4       131.6       56.4       131.6       56.3        131.4                             2 _  253.6  591.7      84i.3
Othtr ho.aLn5                     2.7         6.3       21.2        46.7        4.7        11.1        0.8          1.9        6.9        15.9          _           _       36.3        81.9       118.2
S.b6-.1                  36.0        83.9       72.4       166.2        61.1       142.7       57.2       133.5       63.2       247.3        _           _        289.9       673.6      962.5
Sub.2.t.nc. Pack... (a
Cans pay7_nc.                     6.2         6.2       22.5        12.5       13.8         13.8       13.8         5.8       2.          13.8 L                    .       6081        60.1       120.2
S.ed  od fnrttlla..
2f  -t.  *.r   3               6.1          7.3        6.2        14.7        6.8        16.2        6.8        16.1        6.8         26.1          _           _       29.7        70.3      200.0
2nlLi.2 I-rd  l ...in8            6.9         6.9       13.8        13.8       15.1        15.1       15.1        15.1       15.1         15.1                      -       66.0        66.0      232.0
S.bt.-.l                 16.2        20.4       32.5        41.0        35.7       45.0       35.7         45.0       30.7        45.0          _                  155.8       296.4       352.2
Food Crop Canc.r(8.nkatln. /a
FPdt.    r.......... I 9nt"      21.7        26.2       23.3        52.1       25.7        57.5       25.7        57.5        25.7        57.5                             1 _  212.1  250.7      362.8
8a420n.ry(eqoipn.or               9.9        71.8        1.0        13.4          -           _-                                                                                        8 5 _  20.9  85.2  96.1
Gi2i2  vqka                      23.6        55.5        2.1         5.1          -           _           -           _          -           -          _                   25.7        60.6        86.3
S.bcot.L                 45.2       153.4       26.4        70.6       25.7        57.5        25.7        57.5       25.7        57.5        _                    148.7        396.5     545.2
Vill... Infraa.r.t- ...             5.5        12.8       10.0        23.3       10.5        24.6       11.4         26.7        7.6        17.6          _           _       45.2        105.3     250.0
d.26th Co.ponnnt L.                 9.6         6.4       12.4        15.9       25.5        34.2       53.9         74.7       24.7        20.6          .                  126.4        141.7      268.1
Tot-l Inv1 nn6          428.5    1.036.5       844.2    1.211.4   1,078.7          393.2   1.214.2    1.047.0   L.282.3    1.071.4          643.4       423.7   5 5OI        5 .83-2 1.2   18&.5
b.  Op .a..n8 C 2!6
59-ithold.  2-.ttl.n...          26.1        38.2       52.3        76.1       57.4        83.7       57.4        83.7        57.4        83.6          -           -      250.6       365.2      615.8
R.bb"r d.o-.--  .o.r...d.  21.0              21.0       49.9        49.9       67.2        "7.2       78.2        58.2       87.9         87.9       5l.3        51.3      355.4       355.4      710.8
8.0a.gnt fIn  /b                 21.2           -       49.9           -       67.2            -      78.2            -        7                     5.3            -      355.4                   355.4
T.t-2 oo r.tin9 .. t6  68.2          59.2      152 1       226.0      192.6        250.8     213.8        261.9      233.2       172.5      102.6        51.3      961.4        720.6    1,682.0
C. Total 8... C0..t                   506.6    1.095.6       996.3   12237.4   1.270.3          2 L44.0   1.428.0     1,208.9   1.515.5    1.242.9         746.0      475.0   6.462.7    6.403.8  12.SD6.5
D. Con...In...nt
Ph".421                          50.7       109.6       99.6       123.7      127.0       124.4      142.8       220.9      151.6        124.3       74.6        47.5      646.3       640.4    1 256.7
Prti                            117.0       253.0      383.6       476.4      656.7       591.4      895.3       757.9   1.127.6    1.089.3         648.3       412.8  35828.5       3.580.8   7,429.3
6,46,6.2                167.7       362.6      403.2       600.2       783.7       705.8   1,038.1        878.8   1,279.0      1,213.6      722.9       460.3   4.474.8    4.221.2   8,696.0
r. Prosnot Cot.t . Nnn Snlt2.n.nt
IIn. uCa S t                   674.3    L.458.2    .479.5        I 837.5   2.054.0    2.S49.8  2L4".           2.087.7   2.794.7    2456.3   1468.8             935.3  10.937.5   10.625.0    1562.5
-  .dJ7a.d for dnoa2M.620n.
7S  Ovnnb.d-  2 10. of robb-r do.-o.Pn-t .o..  n6th 50% 2880;  fnn.o   fan 3 52 16bb6. d ...n1.-t 100I   IqcU;
oo.Vha.da a-. cr.d1t  ... .t6 hil. -n-g-nt 2. non-... dit.



- 66 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDOHESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SHIALLIOLDE8S III PROECT
PTP XVIII
Nucl... EaaCte - DWna. Sal5lk
!isoLSot os LS
(Up  cilion)
1979             1980            1981            1982            1983             1984            1985         ---- Total co.ts  ---
Ihswelo3ment costs     Local Forelgn  Local Focelgn   Local Forign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign    Total
lobber dOVlop_nc
- direct coat       213.7  325.4   295.5   145.0  337.2  173.2  365.6  202.9  395.4  232.2  210.6  137.2  128.8  117.6  1,946.8  13133.5   3.080.3
- estate charges     33.9       -     47.2        -   59.3       -    70.2       -    78.0        -    78.0       -    65.3      -    431.9        -     431.9
Subtotal         247.6  125.4   342.7    145.0  396.5   173.2  435.8  202.9  473.4   232.2  288.6  137.2  194.1  117.6  2.378.7  1,133.5   3,512.2
Agricultural machinery    -       -     50.3   382.0   0.2       3.6     2.0   32.8    0.6        9.9     2.5   39.0      3.4  49.5    59.0    517.3    576.3
trasport 6 production
eq.uip"&             3.2   46.8         -        -      -       -     0.7     9.2       -        -     3.2    37.7     3.0  46.1      10.1    139.8    149.9
Vehicle.               20.1    30.6      9.6     38.2    9.0   36.6      4.6   30.5       3.7     8.4     4.4   10.1      9.7   27.1     61.1   181.5    242.6
lubber proeeaiag        3.3   44.0    358.0   977.8        -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -      -       -    16t.3  1.021.8   1.183.1
Moselag and buildings     -       -    205.6   480.8  36.4   87.6   33.3    27.1   10.4   24.4            1.1     2.5     0.8    1.9   265.8    624.3      890.1
brckahop                  -       -      7.8     38.2      -    13.1        -     9.8       -    2S.6     7.8   28.0        -      -     15.6    114.7      130.3
Ottic. equip uem          -       -      2.7    167.3    2.9    0.9      0.5    33.8      3.0     0.9     1.0     2.9       -      -     10.1   205.8    235.9
Labor reettlteInt    24.3   35.1         6.7      9.8    7.1    11.1     3.4    4.8      4.1      6.0     0.6     0.6     0.4    0.6     46.6    68.0       114.6
technical smastesc        -       -     12.4    75.0  12.4    75.0   12.4   75.0           -        -       -       -       -      -     37.2   225.0    262.2
Total 8ase
Costs          298.5  301.9   795.8  2,314.6  464.5  401.1  470.9  40S.9  495.2  307.4  309.2  258.0  211.4  242.8  3,045.5  4,231.7   7,277.2
CoatisNeclas
Price                29.9   30.2    79.6   231.5  46.5   40.1    47.1   40.6   49.5   30.7   30.9   25.8    21.1  24.3   304.6    423.2    727.8
Ihycical             23.0   23.2    183.8   534.7  178.9  154.4  243.5  209.9   310.5   192.7  231.3  193.0  166.4  287.2  1.337.4  1,595.1   2,932.5
Total Contin-
gences          52.9   53.4    263.4   766.2  225.4   194.5  290.6  250.5  360.0  223.4   262.2   2i8.8   187.5  313.5  1,642.0  2,018.3  3,660.3
Total Costs   353.4  355.3  1,059.2  3,080.8  689.9  595.6  761.5  656.4  855.2  530.8  571.4  476.8  398.9  554.3  4,687.5  6,250.0  10,937.5
/a Costs are poet-devaluation.



- 67 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III FtOJECT
PHI I
Total Project Costs /a
( p *illion)
1979                1980                1981                1982                1983                1984                 Total cost
Cost item                       Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign         1ocal  Foreign    local  Foreiga       local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign  Total
Plastation development            S82      791        729      649        950      608        928      529      1,011      713        819       584      5.019   3.874   8,893
Tr  sport equipment                34      129         94      159         68      135          15     135          22     248          39      209        272   1.015   1,287
Agricultural equipment             48      269         13      219         23      324          -       46           -      44          47      282        131   1,184   1,315
Factory equipmnt
Raw                               -        -        609   1,863          40       60         40       60         17       26        105      592        811   2,601   3,412
apliacwaent                       -        -          -        -          -        -          -        -         96      217         96      217         192     434      626
Infrastructure                     16       38         28       65         38       87         22       51         23       54          12      28         139      323      462
Mousing                           112      261        408      951        389      908         53      124          11      26           4       11        977   2,281    3,258
atate buildings                    29       66         46      104         25       61          9       21           5       15          1        2        115      269      384
Need otfice                         -        -         is       41          11      25          -        -           -       -           -        -         29       66       95
llicellancous equipment            11      146         20      277           1      17           I       9           I       11          -        -         34      460     494
Trasport tranmigrants               6       35         31      189         32      195          -        -          -        -           -        -         69      419     488
Technical assistance                -        -         17      105         17      105          17     105           -       -           -        -         51      315      366
Total IBae Cost               838   1,735       2,013   4,622       1 594   2,525       1,085   1,080       1,186   1,354       1,123   1.925       7.839  13,241  21,080
Contingencies
Physical                         84      174        201      462        159      253        109      108        118      136        113      193        784   1,326   2,110
Price                            65      134        465   1,068         614      973        561      558        743      849        804   1.539       3,252   5,121   8,373
Total Contingencles           149      308        666   1,530         773   1.226         610      666        861      985        917   1,732       4,036   6,447  10,483
Total Cost                    987   2.043      2.679   6.152       2,367   3,751       1.755   1,746        2,047   2,339       2.040   3.657    1875 j     19 ,688j   a1563
USl  19.0    31.5    50.5
LA Adjustments for devaluation aer Included ink base costa on this table.



- 68 -                                                                        ANNEX 1
Table 5
IMIU S=S        AJA t MD  SWIM    III  U2C?
roct Coots -   ietino and Na SottimoWto La.
(MP milion)
ISSO                                  HU 1194 19SZ        19Si3           _ 19                    1985                  Total Coat
Local  Foreign      Local  Forign      Local   Foreisn     Locl  Foreign       Local  ForeIig      Local  Foreign       Local   F-r1Si    Total
A. Tr-etrc-t Coot.
Rff'e, Droelorreant
Wa;oo                             487.6        -      893.9        -   1,036.5         -   1,294.2         -   1,229.9         -      701.9            5,644.0         -   5,644.0
irco                                  -        -        6.5      6.5       17.6    17.6        30.7    30.7        46.      6.1       60.3    60.3       161.2    161.2      3 7 4
E,t:.r foetiloror, ahbaicae          -     53.3          -    115.8          -    177.1          -    257.2 7             317.6          -   316.5          -   1,237.5   1 237.5
tan. i.e orrvic-                  275.1   275.1       388.4   388.4       367.1   367.1       428.8   428.8       353.4   353.4        29.9    29.9  1,842.7   1 842.7  3.655.4
Adjnotuout for dero-lution           -   166.1           -   255.1           -    275.4          -    347.1          -    339.6          -   175.3          -   1,558.6   1,Si4.6
Subtotal                     762.7   494.5  1.2S .        765.82      1 .421.2 637.2   1753.7 1.063.8   1.629.4  1.056.7         792.1           7.647.9  4.8O.0  12 447.9
Y.ac7. Lute' and Etulerrtn
Agriooltora1  eobinery ab           171.1  2,317.0       57.7   778.3         1.6    21.8         2.3    31.9         1.7    23.6           -              234.4  3,172.6   3,407.0
Treosport vohiclee /                 12.7    14.2         9.8    11.4        12.5    15.1         5.0      6.2        5.0      6.6        2.4      3.2      47.4      56.7    104.1
Subtotal         I            S3   27331.2        67.5 7l9.7         14.1 3 . 73 lA.1 6                . L  l          Ad         L.       I        AU      3.229.3  3.511.1
Rood De-velooc-t   La                   9.1     16.9        8.6    15.7        34.1    63.0        19.7    36.4        16.8    31.0           -        -      8.3    163.0    251.3
FOOd Cry, Cert-rl.tirktine A
Forti.icr,/cro do/pl nto             11.5    10.1        16.9    14.0        14.4    12.3    ,l.8         14.0       11.5    10.1           -        -      649.4     60.5    129.9
Agricultural oqole nt                 3.7    31.0         0.3      4.8          -        -          _        _          _        _          -        _       4.0      35.8      39.9
Civil uork                           21.1    63.9         1.5      3.5          -             -              -          -        - _        _        _      22.6      67.4      90.0
Subtotal                      36.3   105.0        17.9    22.3        14.4    12.3       16.0    14.0         11.5    10.1                           96.0     163.7     259.7
Other Civil Wrks
iouaing and buildLg. ab              13.8    32.0        45.3   105.6        29.2    68.2        11.6    27.0        12.6    29.6        10.0    23.4    122.5    285.8    4Ci.3
Voll.os Irfr.otocotore Ld               1.7      3.8        2.4      3.7        2.4      5.7        2.4      3.7        3.2      7.6          -        -      13.0      28.5      40.5
Tot4l onvetots             1.007.3  2.9ti3.4    1.430.4  170 5     a5 1.ii5.4  1,023.3   I.S10.1  118l    1R.6.I2  1165.2         i      Mfl60.6  s.248.5   8670.3  16.918.1
I     -atir, Cooto
Rlbber devrlrpnent ovadde Ll         48 5    48.5        83.0    83.0         4       84.9      121 1    121.1      11999    119.9      48.7    68.7    5361         536.1   1,0372.2
Wlaugocet cooo L                     48.5        -       83.0        -       946.9       -      121.:1       -      119.         -       68.7             5336. 1        -     536.1
Subtotal                      97.     4S.5       166.0    83.       Ills! S     w 9      i49 .i   121.1     239.8   119.9        U7.4     68.7   1.073.2      536.1   1,40S.3
C. T.otl Zr.. Loto                      1.104.3  3.031.9    1.596.4  1.787.5   I.W5.2 1118.2    .0852.9  1.306.1   1.920.0   205.1          94L.    677.3  9.370.7   9.206.4  18.5:7.1
. Coetioorrctre:  Phyolcal                110.4   303.2       159.6   178.8       178.5   111.8      205.3   130.6       192.0   128.5        94.2    67.7       932.0    920.6  1,852.6
Prtce                 255.1   708.3       614.6   668.3      881.6   578.1   1,287.2   818.9   1,436.2   961.2           897.6   201.2   5,372.3  4,249.0   9,670.3
Subtotal                     365.5   1.003.5      7742    o61 L!052.1   fS.    1.492.    949j5 14628f2 I.OS9.7                  991.11    %      6.304.3   5.16S.6  11472.9
i. Protect Code - Rirbo BoSonR
S:allboldrr Serelomoet               l!."9.5 4A035.4  2id!0.6 2l654.9    2.757.3  .lOSI   3        A54    2.52255.6    3.54S.2  2.374 a 1.933.7  1.246.2  15.625.0  14.375.0  30 .07.0
a  Ineludoc derelepeent pregr  fer 6,000 trne.0rnt f_ilieo and 2,000 filiee for -  oettleot Ia the mara land.
b  Ad5wted for drcaluntie.
/  Vill00 road dcvl-n1    t in e-ga land.
L   riftM    r bber d          -veocont unit office. in Rimbo B0J 1g built by FrP VI.
L   O-erheodo A lot of rbb-e development cact oith 50 IBR0; aget fo.e 0 St rbber dlop_.t 100l lecl;
vovl,.ada a. . co.dit .oete obli  -na  -t 1. son-nradlt.



ANNEX 1
- 69 -                                                                         Table 6
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOIDERS III PROJECT
Technical Assistance to the Directorate General of Estates
(Rp million)
1980               1981               1982                1983               1984                   Total Costs
Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign                Local   Foreign        Total
Technical Assistance /a
Short-term consultants (100 n/months)          12.5    62.5        12.5    62.5       12.5    62.5        12.5    62.5       12.5    62.5         62.5    312.5         375.0
Pre-project Construction Fund /b                  12.5    62.5       12.5    62.5        12.5    62.5       12.5    62.5       12.5    62.5         62.5    312.5         375.0
Subtotal                                  25.0   125.0       25.0   125.0        25.0   125.0       25.0   125.0        25.0   125.0       125.0    625.0         750.0
Contingencies /c
Physical                                        2.5    12.5         2.5    12.5        2.5    12.5         2.5    12.5        2.5    12.5         12.5      62.5         75.0
Price                                          28.2    28.9        32.0    48.1       35.3    64.6        38.2    46.6       41.2    61.8        174.9    250.0        424.9
Subtotal                                  30.7    41.4       34.5    60.6        37.8    77.1       40.7    59.1        43.7    74.3       187.4    312.5         499.9
Total Costs (current)                     55.7   166.4       59.5   185.6        62.8   202.1       65.7   184.1       68.7   199.3        312.4    937.5       1,249.9
/a  Costed at US$6,000 per month with $1,000 per month in local costs.
lb To be utilized for construction of housing, nursery development and procurement of essential machinery
in future NES projects.
/c Contingencies are applied here irregularly to balance total project costs and IBRD loan amount.



- 70 -
ANNEX 1
INDONESIA                                                                   Table 7
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Project Expenditures /a
(Rp million)
Total Costs
1979      1980       1981       1982       1983       1984      1985       (ftp m)      (s$ m)
I. Smallholder Development
A. New Settlement - Danau Salak
Credit:  fertilizers, agrochemicals                 -        151        386        572        769     1,001        763       3,642           5.8
other rubber development costs             -        508     1,317      1,865      2,215      2,703     1,255       9,863           15.8
rubber development overheads               -         56       148        217        270        325       202       1,218            1.9
machinery and equipment                    -        837       505        127         65         59         83      1,676            2.7
:vehicles                                     -          -        46          4          -          7          -         57           0.1
civil works                                -        275       365        330        329        389          -      1,688            2.7
roads (excluding machinery)                -        146       194        299        239        231          -      1,109            1.8
Non-credit:  resettlement costs                      -        86        191        227        244        261          -      1,009           1.6
village infrastructure                 -        24         49         57         66        47           -        243           0.4
health, water sanitation               -        21         42         97        222        65           -        447           0.7
management fee                         -        28         74        109        135        163       101         609           1.0
Subtotal                                              -     2.132      3.317      3.904     4.554      5.251      2.404      21.562          34.5
B.  Smallholder Development - Rimbo Bujang
Credit:  fertilizers, agrochemicals                  -       135        322        530       824      1,091      1,172       4,074           6.5
other rubber development costs             -      1,568     2,775      3,169      4,095      3,916      1,535     17,058           27.3
rubber development overheads               -        129       247        307        418        443        271      1,815            2.9
machinery and equipment                    -     3,358      1,249         38         59         47          -      4,751            7.6
vehicles                                   -         34        29         40         17         18          3         141           0.2
civil works                                -        174       232        157         67         78         66         774           1.2
roads (excluding machinery)                -         35        36        157         97         88          -        413           0.7
Non-credit:  village infrastructure                  -         7         12         13         14        20          -          66           0.1
: management cost                        -         65        123        154        209       222        135         908           1.5
Subtotal                                              -     5.505      5.025     4.565      5.800      5.923      3.182      30.000          48.0
II. Public Sector Estate Rehabilitation
A. PNP I Rehabilitation - Langsa
Fertilizers, agrochemicals                        668        485        455        624       662        641          -       3,535           5.6
Other plantation development                      950      1,349      1,860      1,732     2,315      2,016          -      10,222          16.4
Machinery and equipment                            750     1,041        844        333        563     1,066           -      4,597           7.4
Processing equipment                                -      3,290        148        162       615      1,867          -       6,082           9.7
Civil works                                       614      2,211      2,293        453       231        107          -       5,909           9.4
Transport transmigrants                            48        293        337          -          -          -         -         678           1.1
Technical assistance                                 -       162        181        197          -          -         -         540           0.9
Subtotal                                         3.030      8.831      6.118      3.501     4.386      5.697           -     31.563          50.5
B. PTP XVIII Expansion - Danau Salak
Fertilizers, agrochemicals                         36         66        113        169       230        243        221       1,078           1.7
Other rubber development                          413        573        692        833        988       619        548       4,666           7.5
Machinery and equipment                            50        586         47        105         18         77       104         987           1.6
Processing equipment                               55      1,512          -          -          -          -         -       1,567           2.5
Vehicles                                           83         64         68         24         21         27        72         359           0.6
Civil works                                         -        913        184         62        60           7         5       1,231           2.0
Other equipment                                      -       288         25         71         51         73         -         508           0.8
Labor resettlement                                  70        22         27         13         18          2         2         154           0.2
Technical assistance                                 -       116        130        141          -          -         -         387           0.6
Subtotal                                           707      4.140      1.286      1.418     1.386      1.048        952      10.937          17.5
III. Technical Assistance
Program Support - DGE (200 man-days)                     -       222        245        265        250        268                 1,25            2.0
Total Costs                                      3,737    20.830    15.991    13,653    16,376    18,187          6,538      95.312         152.5
(US$ million)                                      6.0       33.3       25.6      21.8       26.2       29.1       10.5       152.5
/a Including all contingencies.



ANNEX 1
Table 8
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES ASSD SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
Sources of Finance - Project Costs /a
Total Cas$t
Rp              US$             % of
1979      1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       (million)       (million)        Total costs
A. SMALLOLDERS COMPONENTS
New Settlement - Danau Salak
Financing Agreenent/PTP XVIII /b:  IBRD             -     1,587      2,247      2,514      2,857      3,280      1,578        14,063           22.5               15
:   GOI          -       438        829      1,036      1,176      1,592        725         5,796            9.3                6
Provincial Goverenaent/DOE/non-credit /c:  GOI   -          107        241        354        521        379        101         1,703            2.7                2
Subtotal                                      -      2.132     3,317      3.904      4.,554     5,251      2,404        21,562            34.5              23
Snoilholder Development - Rinbo Bojang
Financing Agree,sent/PTP VI /b:  IBRD               -     4,385      3,539      2,957      3,782      3,910      2,363        20,936           33.5               22
:   OI              -      1,048     1,351      1,441      1,795      1,771        684         8,090           12.9                8
Provincial Goverssneet/DGE/non-credit /c:  GOI   -           72        135        167        223        242        135           974            1.6                1
Subtotal                                      -      5505       5,025     4,565    5,00         5.923      3.182        30,000           48.0               31
Total Smallholder Developnent                 -      7,637      8,342     8,469    10,354    11,174        5,586        51,562           82.5               54
B. PUBLIC SECTOR ESTATE DEVELOPMENT
FNP I Rehabilitation
IBRD contribution                              2,043      6,152      3,751      1,746     2,339      3,657           -       19,688            31.5              20
GOI contribution (Bank Indonesia)                987      2,679      2,367        842          -          -                   6,875            11.0                7
PNP I ow-  funds                                   -          -          -        913      2,047     2,040           -        5,000             8.0               6
Subtotal                                  3.030      8.831     6,118      3,501      4,386      5.697                   31,563           50.5               33
PTP XVIII Expansion
IBRD contribution                                355      3,081        596        656        531       477        554         6,250            10.0               7
PTP XVIII own funds                                -          -          -        676        855       571        398         2,500             4.0               3
GOI contribution (Bank Indonesia)                352      1,059        690         86          -          -          -         2,187            3.5               2
Subtotal                                    707     4.140      1,286      1,418      1,386      1,048        952        10,937           17.5               12
Total Estate Develop,ent                  3.737    12.971      7,404      4.919      5,772      6,745        952        42,500           68.0               45
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Program  Support - DGE:  IBRD contribution           -        167        186        202        184        199          -           938            1.5               1
t10OI contribution          -        55         59         63         66         69          -           312            0.5
Subtotal                                      -        222        245       265        250        268          -         1,250            2.0                1
D.  TOTAL SOURCES OF FINANCE                            3,737    20.S30    15,991    13,653    16,376    18,187          6,538        95,312          152.5              100
of whicb:  IBRD losn                             2,398    15,372    10,319        8,075      9,693    11,523      4,495         61,875           99.0              65
*GO  credit funds                         -     1,486      2,180      2,477      2,971      3,363      1,409        13,886           22.2               14
GOI non-credit funds:                     -        734       435        584        810        690        236         2,989            4.8                3
of shich DGE DIP:                       -       148        256        326        410        454        236         1,830            2.9               2
Bank Indonesia loan              1,339      3,738      3,057        928          -          -          -        9,062            14.5              10
Estate own funds                      -         -          -      1,589      2,902     2,611         398        7,500            12.0               8
(S shown by calendar year.
/b  For credit expenditures of on-farm development, machinary, housing, roads, subsistencn package and the soc-credit eapenditurns for
the PMSU, resettlement costs, estate housing and vehicles, all a0 carried out by the nucleus estate.
/c  Village infrastructure, social services as provided by Provincial Goverisent and for management fees, payable by DGE.



ANNEX 1
Table 9
- 72 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
US$ Million
Quarter            Quarterly         Cumulative                % of
Year            ending           disbursement      disbursement            total loan
1979          December                1.2                1.2                    1
1980          March                   6.3                7.5                    8
June                   7.0               14.5                   15
September              6.5              21.0                    21
December               7.5               28.5                   29
1981          March                   5.5               34.0                   34
June                   4.0              38.0                    38
September              3.5              41.5                    42
December               3.5               45.0                   45
1982          March                   3.0              48.0                    48
June                   3.5              51.5                    53
September              3.0              54.5                    55
December               3.5               58.0                   59
1983          March                   4.0               62.0                   63
June                   3.5              65.5                    66
September              3.5              69.0                    70
December               4.5               73.5                   74
1984          March                   5.0              78.5                    79
June                   4.5              83.0                    84
September              4.5              87.5                    88
December               4.5              92.0                    93
1985          March                   4.0              96.0                    97
June                   2.0              98.0                    99
September              1.0              99.0                   100
Closing date: December 1986.



ANNEX 1
- 73                              Table 10
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Loan proceeds (US$m)
Part A of the Project
I. Smallholder Development - Danau Salak
New Settlement and Rimbo Bujang Smallholders /a
A.  Civil works                                                        1.9
B.  Agrochemicals                                                     5.0
C.  Machinery and equipment                                           7.7
D. Rubber development, road construction and
resettlement                                                   23.2
Subtotal                                                    37.8
Part B of the Project
II. Estate Development - PNP I and PTP XVIII /b
A.  Civil works                                                       6.6
B. Agrochemicals                                                      4.8
C.  Agricultural, processing plant machinery
and equipment                                                  13.8
D.  Rubber and oil palm development                                   3.7
E.  Resettlement                                                      0.9
F.  Consultant services                                               1.0
Subtotal                                                    30.8
Part C of the Project
III. Program Support - DGE
A. Consultants, inspection services, start-up
vehicles and assistance for Part C of
the Project                                                     1.1
IV.  Unallocated                                                          29.3
Total                                                       99.0
/a From 3.01 A(a) and 3.01 C(a) of the Project Summary.
/b From 3.01 A(b) and 3.01 (b) of the Project Aummary.



74                             ANNEX 1
Table 11
Page 1.
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
List of Agricultural Machinery and Vehicles Equipment
I.  PTP XVIII - Danau Salak Development /a
Unit Cost              Total Cost
Item                                    Quantity        Rp million      Rp million    US$'000
Crawler 200 HP                               3             59.4            178.2         429.4
Tree pusher                                  3              3.9             11.7          28.2
Rake blade                                   3              6.6             19.8          47.7
Subsoiler                                    1              7.7              7.7          18.5
Wheel tractor                               10              7.80            78.0         188.0
Disc plow                                    3              0.8              2.4           5.8
Disc harrow                                  3              0.8              2.4           5.8
Truck (3.5 tons)                            14              4.8             67.2         161.9
Chain saw                                   35              0.360           12.6          30.4
Mounted road grader                          1              2.6              2.6           6.3
Compactor                                    1             12.0             12.0          28.9
Sprayer                                     93              0.036            3.4           8.2
Trailer (3 tons)                             8              2.8             22.4          54.0
Tanker trailer                              18              4.3             77.4         186.5
Portable water pump                          8              0.3              2.4           5.8
Sprinkler system                             1                -             12.0          28.9
Tanker truck (3.5 tons)                      5              6.8             34.0          81.9
Jeeps                                       17              5.30            90.1         217.1
Motorcycle                                  70              0.505           35.3          85.0
Service car                                  3              6.0             18.0          43.4
Total                                                                689.6       1,661.7
/a Purchases by PTP XVIII for their own development.



75 -                               ANNEX 1
Table 11
Page 2
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
List of Agricultural Machinery and Vehicles Equipment
II. Danau Salak New Settlement /a
Unit Cost            Total Cost
Item                                Quantity         Rp million      Rp million  US$ '000
A. Rubber Development
Crawler 200 HP /a                     1             59.4            59.4        143.1
Wheel tractors                       38              7.8           296.4        714.2
Disc plough                          32              0.8            25.6         61.7
Disc harrow                         32               0.8            25.6         61.7
Chain saw                           23               0.360           8.3         20.0
Trucks 3.5 tons                       6              4.8            28.8         69.4
Trailers 3 tons                     12               2.8            33.6         81.0
Mounted road grader                   1              2.6             2.6          6.3
Compactor                             1             12.0            12.0         28.9
Sprayers                           161               0.036           5.9         14.2
Tanker trailer                        7              4.2            29.5         71.1
Portable water pipe (5HP)             6              0.3             1.8          4.3
Jeeps                                 3              5.3            15.9         38.3
Motorcycles                          14              0.505           7.0         16.9
Bus                                   1              6.0             6.0         14.4
Subtotal                                                     558.4      1,345.5
B. Road Construction
Crawler and equipment                 1             73.0            73.0        175.9
Road grader                          2              40.8            81.6        196.6
Wheel tractor                         2              7.8            15.6         37.6
Tractor rollers                       2             14.4            28.8         69.4
Truck (3 tons)                        2              4.0             8.0         19.3
Subtotal                                                     207.0        498.8
C. Food Crop Center
Wheel tractors                        1              7.8             7.8         18.8
Disc plough                           1              0.8             0.8          1.9
Disc harrow                           1              0.8             0.8          1.9
Trucks (5 tons)                       2              5.4            10.8         26.0
Trailers (3 tons)                     2              2.8             5.6         13.5
Sprayers                             10              0.036           0.4          1.0
Portable water (7.5 HP)               4              0.500           2.0          4.8
Water pump (30 m3/hr)                 1              2.8             2.8           6.7



ANNEX 1
- 76 -                                Table 11
Page 3
Unit Cost           Total Cost
Quantity        Rp million      Rp million  US$ '000
Sprinkler system                      1              3.5             3.5          8.4
Generator set (100 KVA)               1              8.7             8.7         21.0
Jeep                                  1              5.3             5.3         12.8
Motorcycles                           1              0.505           0.5         1.2
Water tank                            1              2.0             2.0           4.8
Deep well                             1             10.0            10.0         24.1
Subtotal                                                       61.0        147.0
Total                                                         826.4      1,991.3
/a To be purchased by PTP XVIII.
/b Crawler equipment from nucleus estate.



- 77 -                           ANNEX 1
Table ;1
Page 4
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
List of Agricultural Machinery and Vehicles Equipment
III. PNP I Development
Unit Cost            Total Cost
Item                               Quantity      Rp million      Rp Million      US$'000
Crawler tractor 140 Hp                8             40.8           326.4          786.5
Wheel tractor 75 Hp                   6              7.6            45.6          109.9
Wheel tractor 100 Hp                  6              8.0            54.0          130.1
Wheel tractor with mounted
road grader                        12             10.0           120.0          289.1
Ditch digger                         12             10.26          123.2          296.9
Chain saw                           252              0.250          63.1          152.0
Hand sprayer                      2,680              0.035          93.8          226.0
Trailers                             24              2.8            66.8          161.0
Tipper truck                         71              7.5           532.5        1,283.1
Tanker truck                          8              8.4            67.0          161.4
Flatbed truck                        20              6.23          124.4          300.0
Alluminum tank (1.2 m3)               9              0.4              3.6           8.7
Jeep
Hardtop                            19              4.35           82.7          199.3
Canvas top                         7 + 3           3.3            33.0           79.5
Long base                           5              6.7            33.5           80.7
Service car
Pickup                              7              3.43           24.0           57.8
Ambulance                           3              5.0            15.0           36.1
Minibus                             2              5.0            10.0           24.1
Motocycle                          43              0.505          21.7           52.3
Sprinkler system                                                    22.3           53.7
Collection Center Platform                                           1.5            3.6
TOTAL                                                  1,864.1        4,491.8



- 78 -
ANNFX 1
Table 11
Page 5
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
List of Agricultural Machinery and Vehicles Equipment
IV. Rimbo Bujang Smallholder Development /a
Unit Cost            Total Cost
Item                                   Quantity        Rp million    Rp million   US$ '000
Crawler 300 HP                              8             95.45          763.6        1,840.0
Crawler 200 HP                             17             66.40         1,128.8       2,720.0
Rake blade                                 17              6.6           112.2         270.4
Tree pusher                                 8              3.9            31.2          /5.2
Chain and ball                              8             12.45           99.6         240.0
Chain saws                                 90              0.350          31.5          75.9
Wheel tractor 75 HP                         2              7.8            15.6          37.6
Mounted road grader                         2              8.85           17.7          42.7
Compactor                                   2             12.0            24.0          57.8
Truck (5 tons)                             11              7.0            77.0         185.6
Trailers (3 tons)                           4              2.8            11.2          27.0
Hand sprayer                              158              0.036           5.7          13.7
Trailer tanker                              5              4.3            21.5          51.8
Portable water pump                         5              0.3             1.5           3.6
Jeeps                                      10              5.3            53.0         127.7
Motorcycle                                 46              0.505          23.0          55.4
Service car                                 1              6.0             6.0          14.4
Total                                                             2,423.1      5,838.8
/a To be purchased by PTP VI.



ANNEX 1
- 79 -                                  Table 12
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery
(Constant 1979 Rp '000)/a
Per Farm Family
Rimbo Bujang       Danau Salak
Smallholders      New Settlement
1. Gross intremental value of farm production              7,175            10,325
2.   Less: production (cash) costs                         2,122              2,114
3.   Equals net cash income                                5,053              8,211
4.   Less:  depreciation                                    1,113             1,444
5.   Less:  imputed value of family labor /b               1,019              1,127
6.   Less:  allowance for risk/uncertainty /c                636              1,232
7.   Less:  general taxes                                    -                 -
8.   Equals:  project rent                                 2,285             4,408
9. Rent as % of net cash income                               45                 54
10. Debt recovery /d                                          926              1,300
11. Benefit taxes /e                                          637                939
12. Total direct recovery/taxes                             1,563              2,239
13. Rent recovery index (12 . 8)-%                              68                51
14. Public sector outlays                                   2,109             2,734
15. Cost recov7ry index (12-14)-%                               74                82
16. Farmer income per capita                                   128               179
17. Estimated critical consumption level (CCL) /f              59                 59
18. Estimated national per capita income                       118               118
/a All values in lines 1 to 15 discounted at opportunity cost of capital
for Indonesia of 107%; values represent incremental benefits and costs.
/b Discounted value of Rp 220,000 per family per annum.
/c 15% of net cash income.
/d Discounted values of recovery at 25% of annual rubber production for
13 years for Rimbo Bujang Smallholders and 12 years for Danau Salak
New Settlers.
/e Ipeda tax and rubber taxes as direct benefits of recovery from project.
/f Valued at one-half of national per capita income.
/g National per capita income of Rp 118,000 or equal to l!S$189.



- 80-                               ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
Details of Project Procurement
Smallholder Components
1.        GOI would finance 100% of all noncredit categories of investment for
the smallholder components with the exception of the cost of resettlement of
Javanese families to Danau Salak for which the GOI contribution would be about
40%. The standards for civil works and equipment associated with health,
school, and village development would be set by the present GOI regulations.
In cases where costs or standards required for the project exceed limits of
the present INPRES regulations, INPRES would be supplemented by APBD and APBN
funds (para. 3.13). In cases where the provincial governments are not capable
of fully carrying out the vilage and social development, PTP XVIII and VI
would be provided with additional funds from the Ministry of Finance to carry
out these responsibilities. Procurement guidelines for PTP XVIII and PTP VI
in the credit categories of investment and noncredit costs for resettlement
and rubber development management fees would be as follows:/l
(a) Rubber Development (US$59.8 million). Total block planting of
28,000 ha of rubber in both project areas with maintenance for up to
three years would be implemented under the terms of a Financing
Agreement between Bank Indonesia and the BRI and Subfinancing
Agreements between BRI and PTP VI and PTP XVIII. Detailed physical
description of work to be carried out would be governed by a Small-
holder Rubber Development Contract between the DGE and each nucleus
estate. Rubber development involves the execution of a specialized,
integrated service which cannot be procured through a competitive
bidding process. PTP XVIII and PTP VI have demonstrated their
ability to implement such a contract in a cost-effective manner.
Unit cost information for development is well established and would
be used to monitor financial requirements and guarantee quality
control. Supplies paid in local currency for the execution of the
contract would be procured in accordance with current GOI procedures
which are satisfactory to the Bank. Initial land clearing of
the 1 ha food ,crop area for each family at Danau Salak (US$0.4 mil-
lion) would also be covered in the terms of the Rubber Development
Contract and would not involve a competitive bidding process. Agro-
chemicals (US$12.3 million), including fertilizer for the first
year subsistence crop development at Danau Salak and fertilizers
/1 Procurement estimates do not include the noncredit items of village
infrastructure and health services.



ANNEX 2
- 81 -                           Page 2
utilized by the food crop centers at Danau Salak and Rimbo Bujang
would also be procured by the estates, using international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on procurement.
Agrochemicals costing less that US$100,000 annually would be procured
following prudent shopping procedures with at least three quotations.
Subsistence cash payments for Danau Salak new settlers (US$0.3 mil-
lion) have been costed at Rp 30,000 (US$48) per farm family entering
the project. Cash payments would be made by PTP XVIII to families
approved for new settlement by the Project Manager and Provincial
Coordination Committee. The credit item of rubber development field
overheads at Danau Salak and Rimbo Bujang (US$4.9 million) are
included in rubber development costs and would be payable to PTP's
VI and XVIII at the rate of 10% of the direct expenditures made for
rubber development, excluding machinery and equipment. Non-credit
managmeent fees for PTP VI and PTP XVIII would be payable at the
rate of 5% of the direct expenditures made for rubber development
and would be payable from the DGE DIP source based on satisfactory
completion of the annual work program as reported by inspection
services and approved by the DGE. PTP's VI and XVIII would be
allowed to draw on the loan funds for both rubber development
overheads and management fees only at the end of each year based on
their satisfactory performance for clearing and planting as judged
by the inspection services appointed by the DGE. Accounts, satis-
factory to the Bank, would be maintained by PTP's VI and XVIII, of
all development expenditures for each of the smallholder components;
(b) Agricultural Machinery, Vehicles and Equipment (US$10.6 million).
All agricultural machinery and vehicles for rubber development and
food crop centers, equipment for the construction of primary and
secondary village and rubber collection roads to be built by PTP's
VI and XVIII would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. A prefer-
ence limited to 15% of the cif price of the imported goods or the
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to qualified
local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. All procurement for
contracts of less than US$50,000 would be locally procured through
prudent shopping involving the solicitation of at least three
quotations. The total procured in this manner would be limited to
the equivalent of US$350,000 for each nucleus estatge, PTP VI and
PTP XVIII.
(c) Civil Works (US$3.9 million). The construction of new settler
housing at Danau Salak would be carried out as part of the Financing
Agreement and Subfinancing Agreement for PTP XVIII similar to the
arrangements for rubber development. Materials to be provided for
3,500 settler houses, each costing about Rp 205,000 (US$328 constant
1978) for each family, would be provided based on standards for:
(i) a core house with a minimum area of 35 sq m; (ii) timber frame
construction with hardwood shingle roofs (sirap) and a verandah



ANNEX 2
Page 3
- 82 -
with palm front roofing (rumbia). The first 500 settler houses at
Danau Salak each costing Rp 266,000 (US$426), the 58 houses at the
Danau Salak estate and the 260 houses at the Rimbo Bujang nucleus
estate required for smallholder development, as well as some project
buildings, would be constructed under contract after local competi-
tive bidding among prequalified contractors in accordance with GOI
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Consultants located in
the DGE under Loan 1499-IND would provide recommendations on bid
evaluation in cases of local procurement for civil works.
(d) Road Construction (US$2.4 million). Responsibility for construction
and upgrading of 97 km of primary village roads, 68 km of secondary
village roads and about 700 km of rubber collection track in all the
smallholder areas would rest with the nucleus estates PTP VI and PTP
XVIII under the terms of the Smallholder Rubber Development Contracts,
Financing Agreement and Subfinancing Agreements for the two nucleus
estates. International competitive bidding would not be appropriate
for construction of village or farm type roads and are not likely to
attract foreign firms. Both PTP VI and PTP XVIII have the ability
to carry out the proposed road construction program and given the
importance of phasing these roads over an extended period with
rubber and other village development, local competitive bidding
would not be desirable. Design standards for these roads are
contained in paras. 2.27 and 2.28. PTP VI engineers would carry out
site surveys, plan alignments, and other engineering requirements.
PTP XVIII engineers would be assisted by the technical specialist to
be appointed for Infrastructure Program Mangement [(para. 3.02A(b)
(iii)].
2.        Estate Development Components.  Procurement for PNP I rehabilitation
and PTP XVIII expansion would be:
(a) Rubber and Oil Palm Development (US$31.2 million). Total block
planting and maintenance of 4,000 ha of rubber by PTP XVIII
(US$7.5 million) and block planting, rehabilitation and maintenance
of 14,268 ha of rubber and oil palm by PNP I (US$16.4 million) would
be carried out under the terms of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
between the Borrower and PNP I and PTP VI. Most of the work required
for block planting involves the integration of labor and machine
services which cannot be procured through ICB. Supplies paid in
local currency for the execution of the contract would be procured
in accordance with current GOI procedures which are satisfactory to
the Bank. International competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Guidelines would be used for fertilizers and agrochemicals
(US$7.3 million) including the purchase of urea. Small lots of
chemicals costing less than US$100,000 annually would be procured
following prudent shopping procedures with at least three quotations.



ANNEX 2
- 83 -                             Page 4
(b) Agriculture and Processing Plant Machinery, Vehicles and Equipment
(US$22.6 million). All agricultural machinery, vehicles and equip-
ment for PNP I (US$6.6 million) and for PTP XVIII (US$2.2 million),
and all processing plant machinery and equipment for PNP I (US$9.7 mil-
lion) and PTP XVIII (US$2.5 million) would be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of
imported goods or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
All office equipment for PNP I (US$0.5 million) and PTP XVIII
(US$0.5 million), and all workshop tools and buildings equipment for
PNP I (US$0.3 million) and PTP XVIII (US$0.3 million), and procure-
ment for contracts of less than US$50,000 would be made locally
through prudent shopping involving the solicitation of at least
three quotations. The total procured in this manner would be
limited to the equivalent of US$350,000 for PNP I and PTP XVIII.
(c) Civil Works (US$11.4 million). All civil works contracts for
housing, project buildings and related infrastructure at PNP I
(US$9.4 million), and at PTP XVIII (US$2.0 million) would be awarded
after local competitive bidding among prequalified contractors in
accordance with GOI procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Consultants located in the MOA under Loan 1499-IND would provide
recommendations on bid evaluation in cases of local procurement for
construction of garages, workshops and project offices.
(d) Consultant Specialists and Labor Resettlement (US$2.8 million).
Consultant specialists employed for PNP I (US$0.9 million) (para.
3.04) and for PTP XVIII (US$0.6 million) (para. 3.02 D) would be
engaged in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on terms and
conditions approved by the Bank. Recruitment and resettlement of
labor to PNP I (US$1.1 million) and resettlement of labor to Danau
Salak from PTP XVIII headquarters at Semarang (US$0.2 million) would
be carried out by the estates themselves with supervision from the
MOA. Consultant specialists to the MOA under Loan 1499-IND would
assist in arrangements and agree on costs of resettlement with each
of the estates.
3.        Program Support (US$2.0 million)
(a) Technical Assistance (US$1.0 million). Short-term contract for
consultants and technical services including a firm appointed for
field inspection services which would be provided under the project
are detailed in para. 3.02 D. Consultants would be engaged in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on terms and conditions
approved by the Bank. Internationally recruited consultants have
been costed at US$72,000 per man-year (including international
travel, housing allowances and local transportation) on the basis
of past experience in Indonesia.
(b) Assistance for the construction of housing and nursery development
and procurement of essential machinery for future nucleus estate
and smallholder projects would be provided to the DGE (US$1.0 mil-
lion).



ANNEX 3
Table 1
- 84 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
Smallholders Rubber Yield Projections
DANAU SALAK
Planting  Tapping   Density        Number of       Gm/tree/
year      year      trees/ha   tapping days   tap day   Kg/ha/year   Kg/ha cum
6         1         360           113            11            440
7         2         400           113            15            680        1,120
8         3         410           113            19            880        2,000
9         4         400           113            22          1,000--      3,000
10         5         390           113            25          1,100        4,100
11         6         380           113            27          1,160        5,260
12         7         370           113            32          1,340        6,600
13         8         360           113            34          1,380        7,980
14         9         350           113            36          1,420        9,400
15        10         340           113            38          1,460       10,860
16        11         330           113            40          1,490       12,350
17       12          320           113            45          1,620       13,970
18        13         310           113            45          1,570       15,540
19       14          300           113            45          1,525       17,965
20        15         290           113            45          1,470       18,535
21        16         285           113            45          1,450       19,985
22        17         280           113            42          1,320       21,305
23        18         275           113            42          1,300       22,605
24        19         270           113            40          1,220       23,825
25        20         265           113            40          1,190       25,015
26        21         260           113            37          1,080       26,095
27        22         255           113            35          1,000       27,095
28        23         250           113            33            930       28,025
29        24         245           113            30            830       28,855
30        25         240           113            27            730       29,585
Average yield per ha year - 29,585         1,183 kg/ha.
25



ANNEX 3
Table 2
- 85 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
Smallholder Rubber Yield Assumption
RIMBO BUJANG
Planting   Tapping   Density         Number of    Grm/tree/   Kg/ha/    Kg/ha
year       year      trees/ha   tapping days    tap day    year    Cumulative
6          1          360           113            11         440
7          2          400           113            15        .680       1,12Q.
8          3          410           113            19         880       2,000
9          4          400           113            22       1,000       3,000
10          5          390           113            25       1,100       4,100
11          6          380           113            27       1,160       5,260
12          7          370           113            32       1,340       6,600
13          8          360           113            34       1,380       7,980
14          9          350           113            36       1,420       9,400
15        10           340           113            38       1,460      10,860
16        11           330           113            40       1,490      12,350
17        12           320           113            45       1,620      13,970
18        13           310           113            45       1,570      15,540
19        14           300           113            45       1,525      17,965
20         15          290           113            45       1,470      18,535
21         16          285           113            45       1,450      19,985
22         17          280           113            42       1,320      21,305
23         18          275           113            42       1,300      22,605
24         19          270           113            40       1,220      23,825
25        20           265           113            40       1,190      25,015
26        21           260           113            37       1,080      26,095
27         22          255           113            35       1,000      27,095
28        23           250           113            33         930      28,025
29        24           245           113            30         830      28,855
30        25           240           113            27         730      29,585
Note:  Average yield per ha per year - 29,585 - 1,183 kg/ha.
25



ANNEX 3
- 86-                                                                          Table 3
CICUS ITAnTIS MID 0196LU1016s1  III 60JI0C7
M .. S1.WlI. C..p wd Uo.oIok c4t- 4.ll U Fh.e 0.15 h. Crd.a I0L
V1I.d         POo.90
C-o Fop                               t              -IL .     -  0    A         2        3        4         5        6                 a 1       9       10         if       12       13        14      15 
_o.    o._*            (09)
P.10 T...
Jook Cool,                   1   -1- p9100          no                                                  3.3_00C    3.600    4.200    4.500    4. WU    5,700     6.500    6.000    6 900    7,200    1,500
Eoo.o.                     20  1-2 b..h--           350         -   5.0C0   7.500   IO.0UO   10.000   10.000   10.000   10.000   10.000   10.000   10.000    100003   10.000   *0000        :OC0    0.000
I6...                       6  5-1 a hoMl.          100          -       -       -        -     .00      400       .00      .00     600      600       600         .00      .00      .00.000           6. 000
1.p y.                      1  20 pioo.              40         -    000   0,000       .000      0000   0.00    *000    4.000    *,000    4,000    4 000          *.000    4.000    4.0D0         4.000    4.000
P1...ppl..                 1oo  I pi.-.       7       0                000   1.n00    3,000    I.000     I 000    3. 000    I.000    3.000    3.00     3,000      I.000    3.000    3.000    3.000    3.000
Soholo1                                                    -   9,U1  11,        17.000   20.000   24,000   21.000   2         2.100  23?.3  23.000   26.100    29.300   2     29,00   30.20         500
C.- Iez                     i         z-6  0         10so                                          -    3.100   3,200   k9.800   26.600   33.200   39,00 I       1.050   44.200   47.150   49.30D   St.000
Clo..                        6 0.15-4.25 4a d,y  2.500          -        -       -        -      700    1.580   23.00       .600    7.100    0.500   11.000      20.000   251750   20.500   40.000   40.000
CO l.S 1o  0.2-0.6 km                               so          -        -       -        -        -    4,000    6.640    9.300    8. 60   12. 00    10.240    13.680   12,600   10.000   21.000   24.000
9"bhIoO.                                                  _       _       _         _       1003   6.6     22.6U0   25.400   426,260   54,500   1.440       75,3100  12.1SO   93.250  1109 19 iS.OM
LIwn took
Pooltoy                 -       16-36             1.000             16.000  31.000   26.000   36.000   36.000   36.000   36.000   36.000   36.000   S6.000       36.000   36,000   36.000   1h,l.00   36.000
Ia.                            96-100                30         -   2u0.0               3      4,320 4o320         .120    4        320    4 32  320    4 320     4 320    44320    4.320    4.320    4.320
co.o.                           2                10.000           -      -  2 0,00   20 000       20 000   20.000   20.000   20 000   20 0.  0       20 000   20.000  20.000 200 000    20,000   20,000   20,000
6600._ _- 16,100  17,000   52,320    0320 6 0,300 320   60.3                                                        20  6020    0.320    0,320   60,20      60,320   60,320   60 320   50.320   00,320
Tht01 V.1l. .1 lOodotllo                                        -_  24,480  90700   69,220   01,020   93 000  106.100  112,420  130,0110  142.62   150,460    164,50  172, 60  103,470  200.620  205,820
CoL of Fr-d4otl
F..C t1...                                                  1,400   2,600   3.190    5.100    6,000    7,200    1.660    0,010    8.250   86,360    6610          0.390    6,010    0.910    *,6 O      ,150
C0.6  .,.P.                                                 9.340   9.0    ,40   9,140    9,100    9.140    4.300    6.700    *.100    6.100    6,300             6.100    6.100    6,700    6,700    6.,00
11,001C0k                                                       -   9,800  12,800   17,000   21.600   21,600   21,600   21.600   21.600   21,600   21.600        21.600   21,600   21.600   21.600   24,600
T1.0. IC...f t -d-lOP                                        11.180  22,420  26,530   31.J4    27.340   28.560   31.900   36.31    36.550   36.640    %,j0         37,00   3.17,0         31.230    5    7450
6.t Volo  of P.doeoloa                                      (11.180)  2.060  63,710   33,480   43,600   5           2460    72 120   76.110  913.53   1052   112  120 17,"   115,490  146,200  163,460  10,37



- 87- -
*  OKNIA                                                         ANNEX 3
Table 4
NUCIWS  SATIS ANM  8NLLVOLS III  JICT
Na, Settler Crop Frodotln Frose 0.8 ha Field Ccop Area
(Constant 1979 Np)
Crop                               O /_     I        2        3        4        5        6        7       a        9       10       I1       12       13         14       15+
Area Planted (be)
Padi                            0.3      0.5       0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5
C nc.6                          0.4      0.3         -      0.2      0 1       -      0.3        -      0.2        -      0.3        -      0.2        -       0.3        -
MaIze (yello.)                  0.1      0.3       0.3        -      0.2      0.1      0,)      0.3       -      0.1      0.3      0.3               0.1       0.3      0.3
Vegetables                               0.1       0.2      0.1      0.1      0.1      0. 1    0.1      Sti      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0         0 1      0 1
Peeo..t                           -      0.4       0.5      0.3      0:4       -      0.4      0.5      0.3        -      0.4      0.5      0.3                0.4      0.5
Svoot potato                      -        -       0.1        -              a01               0.1        -      0.1        -      0.1               0           -      0.1
Soybean                           -        -         -      0.5        -     0.3        -        -        -      0.3        -        -        -      0 1
PaUnov                                          -             -      0.3      0.5       -        -      0.5      0.5        -       -       0.5      0.5
Tfeld Pe rlanted Area
P.d8 (,g)                         -      300       5000     0        500     550      550      550      550      550      575      575      575      575       575      575
Ca.sa- (kg et)                    -    3.200     2.400        -    1,600     880        -    2.640        -    1,848        -   2,772         -    1,848         -   2,772
Mai.e (kg)                        -      120       360      360        -      264     132      396      396        -      140      416      416        -       140      41.
Ve.gtablee (kg)                   -      200       400      200      220      220     220      220      220      230      230      230      230      230       230      230
Peanuts (kg uvebelled)                   280       350      210      30b       -      308      385      242        -      323      385      242        -       323      385
Swaet potato (kg get)             -        -       700        -        -     770        -      770        -      810        -      810        _     810          -       I10
Soybean (kg ry)                   -        -         -      400       -      260        -        -        -      280        -        -       -       244         -        -
Value of Prodctioe 
Podl                              _   24,000    40,000   40,000   40.000   44,000   44,000   44,000   44,000   44,000   46,000   46.000   46,000   46,000    46.000   46,000
Ceocava                           -   34,800    18,000        -   12.000    6,600       -   19,800        -   13,860        -   20,790        -   13,860         -  20,790
Maize                             -   7I200   21,600   21,600          -   15,940    7,920   23.760  23.760        -   8.*00  24.960   24.960          -     8.600  21,96'1
Vogetables                        -   30,000   60,000   30,000   33,000   33.000   33,000   33.000  33.000   34.500   34.500  34.500  34,500   34,500    34.500  34,500
PeaootC                           -   84.000   105,000   63,000   92,400       -  92,400  115,500   72,600         -   96,900  115.500   72,600       -    96,900  115,5()
SWeet potato                      -        -    10,500        -        -  11,550        -   11,550        -   12,150        -   12.150        -   12,150         -   12,150
Soybean                           _        -         -  60.000        -  39,000         -        -        -   42,000        -       -        -  42,000           -        -
Total Val.. of Frodvetlo         _   169.200   255,100  214,600  177,400  149,990  177,320  247L610 173,360  146,510  185,800  253,900  178,060  148,510   185,800  253,900
Cost of Produttlon
Padi                         16.110   26,850   26.850   26,850   26,850  26,850   26,850   26,850   26,850   26,850   26,850   26,850   26.850   26,850     26,850   26,850
oossaa                      W20,620   15.450        -   10,300    S,15O        -   15,450        -  10,300        -   15,450        -   10,300        -    15,450        -
MaICe                         3.920   11,760    11,760        -   7,840    320 0   11,740   11.760        -    3,920   11,760   11.760        -   3,920    11,760   11,760
Vegetables                        -    8,520    17,040    8,520    8,520   8,520    8,520    8,520    8.520    8,520    8,520    8,520    8,520    8,520     8,520   8,520
Penote                            -  21.800    27.250   16.350   21.800        -   21,800   27.250   16.350        -  21,800   27.250   16.350        -    21.800  27.250
Sweet potato                      -        -    4.590         -        -   4.590        -   4,590         -    4,590        -   45590         -   4*590          -   4,590
Soybean                           -        -         -   17,300       -  10,380         -        -        -   10,380        -       -        -   10,380          -        -
Total Coot of Frodctleda     40.630  84,380   87.490   79.220  70.160   54,260   84,380   78.970  62,020   54,260   84,380   78.970  6Z.020   54,260        84,380   78,970
Nat Valo- of Frodowti      (40.630)  84,20   167.610  135.380 .107.240   95,730   92.940  16.640  111,340   92,250  101,420  174,930  116,040   94,250    101,420  174,930
/a  apree.ts plotte  perlod of 6 eeetba.
Prlce  (4/ha): P.i. 80t coswa_, 6.5 ees. 80;              tabl, a.reag 150; peanut:, 3001 Swaat potato. 15S
or,. 150



ANNEX 3
Table 5
- 88 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
Farm Family Labor Availability and Labor Requirement for Proposed Development
DANAU SALAK
Year:    0      1     2      3     4      5     6      7     8      9
Farm Labor Availability /a
Average Age
Husband           32              1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
Wife              26              0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6
Child             10              0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.5  -0.6   0.6   0.7   0.8
Child              6                -      -     -      -   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.5
Child              4                -      -     -      -     -      -   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4
Total Family Labor Units       1.8   1.9   2.0   2.0   2.3   2.4   2.8   2.9   3.2   3.3
Total Man-days per
Family /b                    540   570   600   600   690   720   840   870   960   990
annual Labor Requirement
(Man-days) /c
Rice                               42    71    71    71    71    71    71    71    71    71
Cassava                            50    37      -    25    12       -    37      -    25      -
Maize                              13    40    40       -    27    13    40    40       -    13
Vegetables                          -    16    30    16    16    16    16    16    16    16
Peanuts                             -    60    75    45    60        -    60    75    45       -
Sweet potato                        -      -     9      -     -      9     -      9     -      9
Soybean                             -      -     -    65      -    39      -      -     -    39
Rubber                            285   285   285   285   285   285   220   220   220   220
Fruit trees                        10    10    10    10    10    10    10    10    10    10
Livestock                           2      8    80    80   115   115   115   115   115   115
Total Labor Requirement        402   527   600   597   596   558   569   556   502   493
Family surplus labor                138    43      0      3    94   162   271   314   458   497
/a  Man is 1 labor unit; woman 0.6 labor units, children variable according to age.
/b  Assuming 300 man-days/year for 1 labor unit.
/c  Crop growing season does not coincide with calendar year.



- 89 -                                                              ANNEX 3
Table 6
INDONESIA                                                            Page  1
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJET
Existins Settler Food Crop Area and Yield Projections Witk lProject
51I180 SUJANG
Product                        0a        1          2         3         4                                                              to 91     it         12
Crops (ba)
Padi                       0.9        1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0
Mixed crops, lb            1.2        1.2       1.2        1.4       1.5       1.5        3.5       1.5       3.1        3.5       1.5        1.5       1.5
Fruit trees R0.25                     0.25      0.25      0.25       0.25      0.25      0.25       0.25      0.25      0.25       0.25      0.2S       0.25
Coffee                     0.05       0.05      0.05      0.05       0.05      0.05      0.05       0.05      0.05       0.05      0.05      0.05       0.05
Clove                      0.1        0.3       0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1        0.3       0.1       0.1        0.3
Coconuts                   0.1        0.1       0.1       0.3        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1        O.1       0.3       0.1        0.1
Rubber                       -        2.0       2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0       2.0        2.0
Fellow                     0.55       0.15      0.55      0.35       0.25      0.25      0.25       0.25      0.25      0.25       0.25      0.25       0.25
Reserve land               2.75       0.75      0.75      0.15       0.75      0.75      0.75       0.75      0.75       0.75      0.75      0.75       0.75
Livestock
Fowl                         2          4         5          5         7         9         3t        13        31         Is        15        35         15
Ducks                        -          -         -          3         2         2          2         2          3         3         3          3         3
Gant*                                                                                                 2          2         2         2          2         2
Cow/buffalo                   -         -         -                    -         -          -         -          I3                  I          I         I
Yields
Crop (ha/yr)
Pedi:  dry Cut)            1.0        1.2       1.5       2.0        2.0       2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0
Cassava.  dry (at)         3.0        3.0       3.5       4.0        4.0       4.0       4.0        4.0       4.0       4.0        4.0       4.0        4.0
matte (ut)                 0.6        0.8       0.8       0.8        0.8       0.8       0.8        0.8       0.8       0.1        0.5       0.8       0.8
sweet potato:  wet Cut) 5.0           6.0       7.0       8.0        8.0       8.0       8.0        a.0       8.0       8.0        8.0       8.0       8.0
Coffee:  dry (at)            -          -         -          -         -         -       0.1        0.2       0.3       0.45       0.6       0.6       0.6
Clove:  dry (at)             -          -         -          -         -         -       0.031      0.03      0.073     0.35       0.3       0.3       0.3
coconuts:  copra Cut)        -          -         -          -         -       0.3       1.0        1.5       2.0       2.5        2.5       2.5        2.5
Rubber (kg/ha/yr)            -          -         -          -         -         *.         -       440       880       880      1.000     1*100     1,160
Livestock Production
per Year
Poultry                      -          1        10         8         I)        1S        22         2s        35         35        35        35         35
Eggse                       45        335       180       180        270       335       405        495       585       585        585       581       585
Goats                        -          -         -          -         -         -          -         -                    I333
/a Year 0 free July 1. 1979 - Deceaber 30. 3979.
lb  Duuble cropping of padi area:  Cassava               28Z mixed crop area
Maize (white)  4.31 mixed crop area,
Sweet potato   151 mixed crop area
Vegetables       341 mixed crop area:   402 area aro.Wadeut  yieldieg shelled 0.8 at/ba; 201 beans yielding
0.8 ut/ha; 41 chilli yielding 0.6 at/ha; 41 spinach yielding
0.2 ut/be; 41 eggplant yielding 0.7 at/ba; otber 281 yietding
0.2 ut/ke.
/c Range of annual production free fruit trees 0.25 ha; bananas 60-80 bunchies; OOPeyO 30 pieces; pineapples 80-120 pieces;
citrus 250-300 piecesi; ianbutan 150-500 bundles; jackfrult 75-150 piaces.



-90-                                                            ANNEX 3
Table 6
Page 2
INO1NESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SHALLUOLDERS III PR1JECT
Existing Settler Food Crop Area and Yield Projections Withi Project
gIMBO BUJANG
Y     e     a      r
Product                    13 Lo    14        15        16       17        18       19       20        21       22        23       24        25-30
Crops (ha)
Padt                     1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0       I.0
Mized crops /b           3.5       I.5      1.5       3.5      1.5       1.5      1.5       1.5      1.5       1.5      1.5       1.5      1.5
Fruit trees __           0.25     0.25      0.25     0.25      0.25     0.25      0.25     0.25      0.25     0.25      0.25     U.25      0.25
Coffee                   0.05     0.05      0.05     0.05      0.05     0.05      0.05     0.05      0.05     0.05      0.05     0.05      0.0)
Clove                    0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1
Coconuts                 0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.O
Rubber                   2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.u
Fallow                   0.25     0.25      0.25     0.25      0.25     0.25      0.25     0.25      0.25     0.25      0.25     0.25      0.25
Reserve land             0.75     0.75      0.75     0.75      0.75     0.75      0.75     0.75      0.75     0.75      0.75     0.75      0.75
Ltvestock
Fowl                      Is       15        15       15        Is       15        15       is I5              IS        IS       IS        IS
Ducks                      3        3         3        3         3        3         3        3         3        3         3        3         3
Coats                      2         2        2         2        2        2         2        2         2        2         2         2        2
Cow/buffalo                I         I        I         I        I        I         I        I         I         I        I         I        I
Yields
Crop (ha/yr)
Padi :  dry (at)         2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0
CAssava:  dry (at)       4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0
maize (Mt)               0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8
Sweet potato:  wet (at) 8.0       8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0
Coffee:  dry (ut)        0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6
Clove: dry (mc)          0.4      0.5       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6       *1.6
Coconuts: copra (Ct)   2.5        2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5
Rtubber (kg/ha/yr)     1,340    1,380    1,420    1,460    1,490    3,620    1,570    1,525    3,470    1.450    1,320    1.300    3,000
Livestock Production
per Year
Poultry                   35       35        35       35        35       35        35       35        35       35        35       35        35
Eggs                     585      585       585      585       585      585       585      585       585      585       585      585       58'5
Cuats                      I         I        I         I        I        I         I       -          I I  I  I  I



ANNEX 3
Table 7
- 91 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDEBS III PROJECT
Farm Family Labor Availability and Labor Requirement for Proposed Development
RIMBO BUJANG
Year:  0      1      2      3     4      5      6     7        8        9
Farm Labor Availability /a
Average Age
Husband            32            1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0      1.0
Wife               26            0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6           0.6      0.6
Child              12            0.4   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.6   0.7   0.7           0.8      0.8
Child               9            0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.6           0.6      0.7
Child               6              -      -      -   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4         0.5      0.5
Total Family Labor Units   2.1   2..2   2.4   2.6   2.8   3.0   3.2   3.3             3.5      3.6
Total Man-days per
Family /b                  630   660   720   840   840   900   960   990   1,050   1,080
Annual Labor Requirement
(Man-days) /c
Rice (187 md/ha)                 166   187   187   187   187   187   187   187           187      187
Mixed crops (120 md/ha)          144   144   144   168   180   180   180   180           180      180
Fruit trees (66 md/ha)            10    10    10    10    10    10    10    10            10       10
Coffee (130; 148 md/ha)            5      6      6     6      6      6      7     7        7        7
Cloves (91; 179 md/ha)             9      9      9     9      9      9    18    18        18       18
Coconuts (87; 150 md/ha)           9      9      9     9      9    15    15    15         15       15
Rubber                           285   285   285   285   285   285   131   131           131      131
Livestock                           2     8    10    10    14    18    60   100          200      200
Total Labor Requirement    630   658   660   684   700   710   608   648              748      748
Family surplus labor                  0     2    60   156   140   190   352   342          302      332
/a  Man I labor unit; woman 0.6 labor units, children variable according to age.
7T Assuming 300 man-days/year for 1 labor unit.
/c Crop growing season does not coincide with calendar year.



-92-                                                                                ANNEX 3
Tabl1e 8
IlllXENt3L   .                                                  E~~~~~age   1
rtICUS ESTATIC MM s_AI I .HS.511 Ir I P9Jt  T
Oh.m tt11r  .- I-tn.n_nt
DAMWI SAltA
r ..,                                    o /a       1         2        3         4         5         6         7         8         9         10
CrG. V lof, I.o Pluctl,n
W.d.n  1.1                                _      33.3    135.3    110.9    138.5        170.2    213.2    236.0    291.4    342 2         386.8
F-.d "ro'  roc                            -     230.1    380.1    343.4    303.4    274.5    347.5    520.0    388.4    351 6             477.5
x.u.br                                    -        _         _         -         -         -      176.8    941.4   1,277.9  1,515.0    1,76S.8
Post d-.Io-ttoo &dJ-twat                  -         -         -         -         -        -      291.9    475.8    646.6    766.0        tt95.0
S.bt.t.I                           - _     263.4    515.4    454.3    441.9    444.7   1,429.4  2.172.2   2.604.2   2,974.8    3.52S.
C".t. ..1 Prxlu-tin
ICrd. .It                              19.1      43.6      56.4      72.8      91.2     100.8    100.9    108.9       117.0    125.5       135.6
Food crop ore-                         69.6     164.2    186.5    181.2    171.6    142.1    236.5    237.2    198.6    186.3             310.2
tubbbrk                                   -         -         -        -          -        -     266.8    286.0    304.9       326.6      349.8
Sobtotol                          88.7    207.8    242.9    253.0    262.8    242.9    604.2    632.1    620.5    638.4              795.6
Net Vml.e of Productlo.                 (88.7)     55.6    272.5    201.3    179.1    201.8    825.2  I.4.1   1.983.7   2.336.4   2.732.5
Oth.r income
S.b.lt.n-  -ash poy-nt                36.0         -
Off-lore soplIoyc.nt                  111.1    222.0    276.1    296.5    316.9    339.1    363.2
S.btot.1                         147.1    252.0    276.1    296.5    316.9    339.1    363.2               -
Tot.1 Ineoes                      58.4    307.6    548.6    497.8    496.0    540.9   1.188.4   1.540.1   1.983.7   2.336.4   2.732.5
L...; IPEDA t1 x                            -       2.8      13.6      10.1       8.9      10.0     41.3       77.0     99.2      116.8      136.6
lnc.  after tax                         58.4    304.8    535.0    487.7    487.1    530.8   1.147.1   1,463.1   1,886.5   2,219.6   2,595.9
Leos: All-..o.  for .1.k                    -      45.7      80.3      73.1      73.1      79.6    172.1    219.5    282.6    332.9         389.4
Not toe.  before debt seriec             58.4    259.1    454.7    414.6    414.0    451.2    975.8   1,243.6   t0t1.9   1.886.7   2,206.5
Debt Servic                                 -       -                   -        -                 217.2    354.1    48.1    570.3          665.9
Not tocm.                                58.4    259.1    454.7    414.6    414.0    451.2    757.8    U89.5   1,120.8   1,316.4   1,540.6
(US1 c.cralt)                          93.0    414        727      663       662       722     1.212     1.423     1.793     2,106      2.4U5
(US$  ooatant 1979)                    93.0    304       488       414       387  .   395        610       678       8O0       877        959
7eereental Not Cash Incme.              (73.6)    (40.1)    126.9      62.6     37.8      48.6    326.6    427.5    628.0        7U8.4      975.2
(US$ corrent)                         (82.0)    (64)     203       100        60        78       522       684     1,005     1,261      1.560
(U0 Constant 1979)                    (82.0)    (47)      136       63        35        43       266       326       449       525        f07
11       12        13        14        15        16        17        18        19        20          I
.ross V.l. of Pr-duction
CG,d.n lot                            453.8   . 507.7   .470.0    676.7    740.9        794.4    847.9    907.6    971.4   1,039.3    1,113.4
Food crop are.                        698.2    523.6    467.8    626.1    914.0    980.1  1,046.1  1,119.7   1,198.4   1,282.2    1,373.6
Rubber                              2,004.5   2,468.3  2,720.0   2,f99.0   3,29811   3,817.4  4,199.0   4,347.3  4,533.8  4,692.2   4,9161.0
Post deselotlos adjstont            1,014.3   1,248.9   1,376.3   1,517.5   1,668.8   1,930.6  2,124.6   2,199.7   2,294.1   2,374.2    2,502.7
S.btotal                       4.170.8  4.748.5   3.134.1   5.819.3  6.620.8   7,523.5  8.217.6  8.574.3  8.997.7   9-387.9    9.931.7
Cost of Productlon
C.rd.n,lot                            145.9     156.4    168.0    180.2    193.1    207.1    220.9    236.5    253.1           270.8      29:1.!
F- d crop are                         314.6    260.7    244.5    406.7    406.7    436.0    465.5    498.2           533.2    570.6       611.2
Robber                                374.3    400.1    428.7    458.6    489.9        525.3    560.8    600.2    642.4    687.3          736.3
3ubtotal                         834.8    817.2    841.2   1;045.5  1.089.7   1.168.4   1.247.2   1.334.9   1.428.7  1,528.7    1.637.6
N.t Val.. of Productton               3,336.0   3,931.3  4,292.9  4,773.8  5,532.1  6,355.1  6,970.4   7,239.4   7,569.0  7,859.2    8,29h.1
Oth- Ic..em
SoIl, Istooc. cst, po^mnt-                          -                  -         .-                            -         .         .-
SLf.tam .   .ployhe nt                    -         -         -         -        -         --        -         -         -         -          -
Subtotl                             -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         .         -
Total Incoee                   3.336.0   3.931L3   4,292.9  4.773.8   5,532.1  6,355.1   6.970.4   7.239.4   7,569,0   N,1859.2    8,298.1
L.s.: IPEDA tax                         166.8     196.6    214.6    238.7    276.6    317.7    348.5    361.9    378.4    392.9             414.9
Income after tao                      3,169.2   3,734.7   4,078.3  4,535.1   5,255.5  6,037.4  6,621.9   6,877.5   7,190.6   7,466.3    7,881.2
L..' ; AIl   .- fr risk                 475.4    560.2    611.7    680.3    788.2    905.6    993.3   1,031.6   1.011H.6   1,I12'.0    1,18!.5
Not Income before debt or&mei         2,693.8  3,174.5   3,466.6  3.854.8  4,467.3   5,131.8  5,628.6  5,845.9   6.112.0  6.346.3    6,700.7
Debt -eroice                            754.7    929.3  1,024.1  1,129.1   1,241.7  1,437.0  1,580.9         .
Net Inc..e                            1,939.1  2,245.2   2,442.5   2,725.7  3,225.6  3,694.8  4,047.7  5,845.9  6,112.0  6,346.3    6.700.7
(USS corrent)                       3,103    3,592      3.908    4,361     5,161     5,912     6,476     9,353     9,779    10,14     ln.721
(US$ Constanc 1979)                 1,128     1,222     1,241    1.294      1,434    1,532     1.572     2,121     2.072     2,011      1,982
Incrmentrl Net Cash, tcco.            1.334.1   1,598.4  1,749.5   1,984.3  2,433.6  2.W,5.6  3,141.3   4,N75.7  5.073.6  5,215.3   5,511. 5
(111$ c-rrn..) 3                    2,135     2,557     2,71'9   3,175     3,M94    4,5 1     Sn,026    7,801     8,118    8,376       8,917
Olsr;; r... e  1979)                  776      8701      8h9        42      1,0112    1,1 51   1,220     1,769     1,720     1,659      1,629
/c  Refers to six Msths.



93~ -ANNEX 3
Table 8
Page 2
22        23         24         25         26        27         28         29
Gross Value of Production
Garden lot                             1,191.6   1,273.9   1,362.4   1,459.1   1,560.0   1,671.1   1,786.3   1,911.9
Food crop area                         1,470.1   1,561.6   1,680.8   1,800.2   1,924.6   2,061.7   2,203.9   2,358.7
Rubber                                 4,815.4   5,081.7   5,098.4   5,322.9   5,174.2   5,124.0   5,091.8   4,870.4
Post devaluation adjustment            2,436.6   2,571.3   2,579.7   2,693.4   2,618.1   2,592.7   2,576.4   2,464.4
Subtotal                          9,913.7  10,498.5  10.721.4  11,275.6  11,276.9  11,449.5  11,658.4  11,605.5
Costs of Production
Garden lot                               310.4      331.9      355.1     380.2      406.5      435.4      465.5     498.1
Food crop area                           654.1      699.3      747.9     800.9      856.3      917.3      980.6   1,049.5
Rubber                                   788.1      842.5      901.0     965.0   1,031.7   1,105.3   1,181.4   1,264.5
Subtotal                          1,752.6   1,873.7   2,004.0   2,146.1   2,294.5   2,458.0   2,627.5   2.812.1
Net Value of Production                  8,161.1   8,624.8   8,717.4   9,129.5   8,982.4   8,991.5   9,030.9   8,793.3
Other Income
Subsistence cash payment                     -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -
Off-farm employment
Subtotal                                           - _  _     _         _                                       -
Total Income                      8,151.1   8,624.8   8,717.4   9,129.5   8,982.4   8,991.5   9,030.9   8,793.3
Less:  IPEDA tax                           408.1      431.2      435.9     456.3      449.1      449.6      451.5     439.7
Income after tax                         7,753.0   8,193.6   8,281.5   8,673.2   8,533.3   8,541.9   8,579.4   8,353.6
Less:  Allowance for risk                1,162.9   1,229.0   1,242.2   1,301.0   1,280.0   1,281.2   1,286.9   1,253.0
Net income before debt service           6,590.1   6,964.6   7,039.3   7,372.2   7,253.3   7,260.7   7,292.5   7,100.6
Debt Service                                -         -          -          -         -          -          -          -
Net income                               6,590.1   6,964.6   7,039.3   7,372.2   7,253.3   7,260.7   7,292.5   7,100.6
(US$ current)                         10,544    11,143    11,263    11,796    11,605    11,617    11,668    11,361
(US$ constant 1979)                    1,821      1,800     1,701      1,664      1,531      1,431     1,344      1,223
Incremental Net Cash Income              5,316.3   5,602.8   5,582.9   5,812.4   5,585.7   5,474.3   5,382.9   5,056.8
(US$ current)                          8,506      8,964     8,933      9,299      8,937      8,759     8,613      8,091
(US$ constant 1979)                    1,469      1,448     1,349      1,312      1,179      1,079       992        871



-94                                                                                  ANNEX 3
111DONS&A                                                          ~~~~~Table   9
MCMSAM  O   aMLWM  II FWOOJ                                                                           Page  1
26-                                  oLo       I           2            3              4           3                        7  I                                       1o              22             12
v.81                               -          4.        123.4         161.6         236.0        2.3           701        2.6            309.           131.7          354.7         379.3          405.7
01-d.. p.op                        36.3      63.         69.9          90.9         20.           1.5         256o4.                      4.             361130                      17.             0.
lo..hl t . ..                      23.2      37.3       " 042          67.2          983          05.2        212.7       120.6          262.           14016.19.232
CoIl..                                       -            -..                                                   4.9        20.:           24.a           27.            38.6          41.3           44.1
c2oo..                             -         -            -                                                     5.9        2433.4                        730           142           167.0         214.4
O2ooo.o..1  .       .            -               .             .         ~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~                ~     ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~11.0  39.2  3.0.6 1.0  12.  37.         1.0
A.M6.. 163.1.td for9 .o. oI.Lm)  .-                                                    .-610.9                                           ....2        1 I,330.1      "1,4.4        1,900.4        2,143.3
S.btOL.1                    41.7    203.4         253.9         327                        486.3        334.0    l.242.4         jJ1j          2.216.9        2.644.7        3,007.7        3.320.4.
WollY-                                      9.          14.9          22.8          22.22       34.8         43.1         3867.                         4090.0                      94.3          102.9
1660                       2,~~~~~~~~~~~~10  6.4  9.4         p2.           16.2         30.1         27.6        34.            43.           492             2.7           56.4           40.3
Cool.            .           -               -             .            .            -          ~      ~     ~~~~     ~    ~~~~      ~     ~~~~ ~       ~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 16.0  10.0  20.3  20.6  22.1
0.61t.1                       .0       2.          24. 3         22.9          A_4          $4.          20.9        "3.2          241.          fl124.73.3                                   103.3
,...., 0.,... .0 PoodolIlo.  ~~62.7    222.3     280.2         334.6         4            jj.1         &lz       i.J7Lk         L.M1.i        IflLI          2.0.          3.161.0        3.305.?
9.41                               30.3      63.1        69.1          74.2          79.3         06.          90.9        63.9           70.3           73.4          60.7          66.4            9.
flood  10.21,6                               63.9        70.0          07.?         107.2        1230.        236.3       143.9          233.          164.4          2I6.0          I"0.           20.
Vo.2 ,0.                             .         .          4.2           1.4            .            .            .           . .2            2lo0.                      32.6          12.4           13.3"
olf.2.                                        4.          3.            3.3.                       4.3          9.4         10.1          I0.            1132.                   33                  14.1
C2oo..     2.4       3.4         6.0           6.4            6.0          6.1         0.4          9.2            9.9          10.6           11.3          22.1           22.9~~~~~~~~~I 0  616 -
Coooo.2.5                                      .7         6.3           6.             .2         2.           11.0:       12.4           13.4           26.4            34331.
08o -.o   leofod 000p0 (43n3    35.5   42.3        69.1           0.0          916          168          11.          0.             13.          123.4          13.5114                       3.1
0.66.o  -  -          -              -              -                         -         333.0          297.6         322.0          229.7         233.1          232.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I2229  197  25125
08o1.o .1 -b.66.  (3013       -         -          -  )                                                               70.3           39.3          66.7           63.9          70.3           71.:4
0.bt0.1.                    127.9    207.0        229.6         264.0         304.7        j"           377.2       664.6           40. 1             1j        723.0          776.0          029.4
0.0.1107                  ~~~~      ~~~~       ~~~0.1  2.6  2.2  2.9         4.6          6.1.                      .             0.1          200             1.6           12.4           13.2
Cool.    .         .          -              -                         0.2         ~~~~        ~~~~           ~~~~          ~~~~~~~~                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.62  02  0.  .203  0303
0.111.  .   -         -               .             .            .           -            .             0.4           0.3            0.3           0.6            6.6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04,O.  0  0  1.
0.61o10I  ~~~~~~~~,j-            Li6        2.2           2.9           4_6                       2-As7.      9.7            20.7         J,j,_5          22.4          au.            j4J,
201.2 Cool of loo8.ollo,0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~    222.0         240.9         309.3                     383.0        67.            630.6         711.2          737.4         70.3           843.5
f. ...  9008011.              (33.9)     21.9        48.2          85.7          173.2       1M.3         244.9        643.0        1.236.8       2,439.9        2,046.3       2,392.7        2.467.7
Other loom
011-.20..pIpo.                    131,1     232.0       276.1         296.3         316.9        139.1        363.2         -               -             -              -
Too.  2o..                        3.2    263.9         324.3         362.2         "C. I        525.4        h..I.       au.          12Oj.          1,436.9        L.0OI         2,302.7        7.642,7
its"2704I.  (313)                   -       0.4          2.4           4.3           0.7          9.3         22.2        32.3           62.0          02.0          203.2         329.4           133.1
10  -1.15 5.2    323.0                                322.9         377.9         401.4        316.1        393.0       629.9        1.273.0        1.374.1       1,963.0       2.272.1         7.329.I
4...   1-a..t. f8 1..2                      40.9        48.3          36i.7         72.2         77.4         09.         94.5          276.2         236.1          294.4         340.1           379.4
0.1 0. loom  hofoedb 8.61  .16    47.0    276.9         273.6         321.2         409.2        A38.7        306.3       333.4          900.        1,238.0        1,666.6       1,932.0         2,149.7
flbO00.1.                                                   -             .                                                 132.7          247.0         233.6          403.6         477.1           330.3
0.0 1000..                 ~~~~~~~~~~47.0    274.9  273.6      321.2         409.2        A38.7        306.5       382.7          731.0       1.103.4        1,243.0       1.454.9         1,613.4
10.1  "oo..1)                      73      443         437            514.          639          203          603        4612          1,392         1.403          2.024         2,320          21Sol
(US$  -00-t0 1079)                63        326         293           321           Ms3          383          413         291            237           669            707           844             670
2,oro .l 60  .44 loom           51,0      4.9       (24.4)          1.2          330          36.1         75.3       (.33           236.2         475.4          699.4         040.9           960.6
103)eo t.1                    136         0         (39)            2            53           30s         121        (1273           4.13          742          1,129          1. 360         1. 547
(03  01.00  1979)                 113        4          (26)            1            32           32           62        160)            104           317            421           494             320
I.   00... t 10010  000144 of 0e  -tho.



AN~NEX 3
Table 9
95 - ~~~~~~~~Page 2
20        24         IS        54         52         0         It        20         25         22        ZS         24        25         24         2 7       20         29
7542                    ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~454.7  465.5  494.6  532.7  540.4    0.6.       651.4     444.9      744.6     799.       454.2     913.6      073.4   5,4.0.   5.520.4    .,II7.    2.1202,
05.4-d s.                         202.       216.4     231.1      247,6      264.5     23I.    505.0        524.2      347.3      372.7     597.4      455.0     455.2      -66.4     521.       I5.      ~
...                ~~~~~220.4  244.      541.0      2 79.9    290.27     39.7:     342.22     544.      592.2      419.0      "1: 440.0"4:0.        I040       9.       540.       429.5     4763.5
02....                   209.0      202.2     2~~~~~54. 0  5.       272       24.         9.2      330        324.4     54.4       3751.4    397.2      425.4      454.0     432.2      520.0      574
557.5     5*.,       50.2      595.0      20.0      220.5    5'30.0O    252.5       27.5       M.$          .5      331.0     S5.         7.        2.         3.         4.
0.24..                 ~~~~~~~~~~2.452.0   2,924.1   3.220.4   2,755.5   3.077,5   4,505.7   4,430.2   4,307.3   5,054.5   5.3)0.0   5,130.5   5,454.4   4.4*0.8   4,320.0   5,544.0    5.49C.    239.
-1-,5*                      3 950.0   4 275.2   4.5.    5.298.4.  5,524.5   6,6.    4S7.87,    G.M)j    2.196.7    LULl.   7.454.?    mom                  7.524.4.  7,059.7   L,39I    0.92..2    9.fr
1222222                   55~~~~~~~~~10.3  550.0  52.2   55.        542       154.4      245,2     574.0      I39.        02. 7    254.7      535.7     54A.       24I5.5      " 28.    303.       II25.2
~~~~20* ~~~~~~~~44.4                 Go.1I     75.0       P9.:       04.5      90.4       04.0     103:.5     550.9     11:.7      52.9       535.7     24.         5.        4.     7.9           290.4
34.2.                     ~~~~~~~~~~~23.  25.3  27.0      79,0       30. 9     33.5       55.4      57.        40.4      4.43       444          .7      53.2       54.9      40.        45.5      49.7
5.42,2.5             j!~~~     ~~~~L9A  252.4  724.0  243.2     259.4      277.9     Z97.4     j11_   3-      9      36.6       39        417.2      _44.7     4 7_76     552.4      544.3     515.3
252.2*  f2 7250442159         4   4,485.6   4M,0.3   5,541.4   5,203.9   6,544.3   4,020.2   7,724.0   7,537.6   7,0.             I.044,7   0.517,4   7.7,7. 5    05317.3   5,U01.2   !.513.0  1ALAEI.9
Li.22 .21 22 01. 25                                                                                      I      2
2.5...2.,4            55.5       54.2      27.5~~~~~~~~~~I  20.5  359.6    25.2        25       242        2.0       2.         29.:5.3               4.       5:4.4      5.          27       4.
*43,.55,2 2,2 a.aS.aslosi  055.5i:    260,0     2017.      30.       52.        50.        505       40.       455        44.6       45.7      520.0      3545.     40.        447.      492.       742.
22... .2p4.25.          IL4       976.2   1,042.9   J4,5Lg    1,593.4   1.277,5   1,367j    5,42.0   I-361j    1,677.1   i1d7.    50517.4    I L_    2 195.27   2,352.0   2,524.4   2.491,0
0.2 7.2*5f ?23-5511          2. MIO 5.5094    3.0245.4   4,423.5   4.Q.    5.244,    5.502.    5.261,2    5,970.5   4.515.0   4,0.25,    6Liin            5.?57.4     5,21.64   ,4.    6,9.    7.495.9
2,2.5 5.....         5~~~~~,197.0   j.0.    3,643.4   4.425,5   L2.5.1   5.244,0   35.02,9   5,205.2   5,a79.    4.312.0    4 255.7   G.O.    5.574             25.4   5,549.2   6."!!!    7.490.9
(SV 264 .  251                59.       575,4      592.5     5251.2     229,5      243.3     275.5     50.5I      290.9      555.4     352.4      550,0     705.0      J04.5     572.       5499       57...
f-,50*  -5             5,037.2   5,334.0   3,5.)L  4.202,3   4.361,0   S.003,5   5.227,8   5.473.1   5 472,0   5.997,2   5,959.1  6j7J.    5 45.7   5.015,5    47225.7   4.440,7                 2540
C.,429252  5  2254           455.2    9NO.5        547.7     430.5      454,1      750.5     704.2     825,0      050.0      099.4     090.9      940.5     024.0      672.5     935.2      997.1 I   ,4,
P.,20   Ss42... h     4- ..4  ss."I   2,502.0   L,0a"    5,205.4   5.572,0   5.706 .9   4,25530   4,4435    4,450 1   4,321.2   5.097,6  5"0912    5,529.5   4,654.9   4,943.2    5.230.5    5,651.4   6.055 4
245252.2.                             44.31     752.5      009.2     954.9      609.4   2,525,3   1,571.4       .         . 
Is I..                             2,5.5    2102.4   2,2"0.    5,5.           ,5.        ,7.       ,7.,55.5   4,....5,.7. I                 5,644.5    5,29.    4,454.9   4,945.2   5,249.5   5,451.4   6.055 4
(055 .....,2 5      5.025     5,544      5.~~~~~~~670  4.213  4.300      5,005     5,35       7.445     7,714      0,155     6,077      0.527        7.?     7,909      ,4.42     9,5        9,0
(.55 95.5   9792                    975       996      5.025     5,091      5.905      I.5m      5,209      1.474     1.456      5,409     5.509      5,53      2,042      5,045      1,042     2.045      1,042
2,422255 652 05.4 55,      5,~~~1220.5   5,505.0   5,50.5   5,705.9     2,355.2   2,554.9   5,55.4   2,545.5   5,435.0   5,15.    5.16,4   2,072.5   5:,0.5   5,275.5   5.502.1 2   5,42.5   4:.05 4
(255 .I 'J                          2 5,57    5,40      2.654      5.90      5,45       5,574     5,664      5.80      4,250      5.3        4,0       4.5         ,54      5.9        5,97       445
(.S$ 1..52   979)                   025       444        49        759        750        737       757      5,522     2,075      5,094       92         954       409        495       69         495        491



- 96 -                                                                 ANNEX 3
Table 10
JlMiSIA                                                                       Page  1
kuCLEuS ESTATES ANID SNALUIOLDERS 111 PROJECT
Incoeo 86.04,51 for Elaisint 6 ttlers: Without 4'ro ect
cCurrent Rp0 CO
Post-De-slustion                                                              RIHIO UJJANG
Year&       0       1       2       3      4       5      6       7       a        9        40        it        42        13        44        I5
CGo. Value of Production
Crop.
Pedl                              -    112.6  138.9  165.6  194.8  227.3  243.4  260.8  271.2    298.1    319.2    341.6    365.1    391.2    418.6    447.1
Mised crops                     47.5   107.6  123.8  133.0  145.4  156.5  167.6  179.6  191.5    209.5    224.4    240.1    256.7    275.0    294.2    314.3
Fruit trees                     27.0    61.2   67.1   72.0   96.3  105.2  112.7  120.8  128.6    174.0    186.3    199.4    213.2    228.4    244.3    264.0
Coffee                            -        -       -      -       -    22.9   24.5   18.8  112.0    210.0    257.0    378.1    441.0    551.3    631.9    1244.4
Cloves                            -        -       -      -       -       -     9.8   21.0   56.0    l08.0    179.9    247.5    323.4    376.0    404.4    432.0
Coconut                           -        -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      12.0      25.7      55.0      73.5      94.5    151.1    180.0
Rubber                            -        -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -        -         -       86.4      91.1    193.1    204.9    21b.1
Subtotal                       74.5   261.6  329.8  370.6  438.5  511.9  558.0  661.0  766.5  1,011.6  .1,92.5  1.548.1  1.764.0  2.111.5  2.350.0  2,571.1
LIvestock
Poultry                           -       9.5   14.9   12.8   22.2   34.8   43.1   58.8   78.4          64.0      90.0      96.3    102.9    110.3       118.0    126.0
Kass                             1.0      6.4    9.4   10.1   16.2   20.1   27.8   36.3   45.9          49.2      56.7      56.4      60.3     64.6      69.1      73.8
Goats                             -        -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -        -       49.3      20.6      22.1      23.6      25.3     27.U
Subtotel                        1.0    15.9   24.3   22.9   38.4   54.9   70.9   95.1  124.3    133.2    466.0    173.3   145.3    198.5    212.4    226.8
Total Vlus ot Productioo    75.5   297.5  354.4  393.5  476.9  566.8  628.9  756.1  890.8  1.144.6  1,358.5  1.721.4  1,949.3  2,310.0  2,562.4  2,7979
Cost of Production
Crops
PEsL                            28.8    32.6   35.8   33.4   41.0   43.9   41.0   50.4   53.6           57.6      61.7      66.0      10.6      75.6     80.9      86.4
NAiad crops                      2.6      6.1    6.1    7.2    7.9    6.4    9.0    9.7   10.3           11.0     11.8      42.7      13.5      14.5      15.5      16.6
Fruit trees                      0.1      0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4           0.5       0.5       0.6       0.6       0.6      0.7       0.1
Coffee                          10.7       -    13.3   14.2   15.2    0.4    0.4    0.8    1.3            1.9      2.1       2.2       2.4       2.5       2.1       2.9
Cloves                            -       5.3      -     6.2    6.7    0.1    0.6    1.7    2.5          2.6       2.8       3.0       3.2       3.5       3.7      4.0
Coconut                           -        -      5.8     -       -      7.1     -      8.2     -        0.5       O.S       0.6       1.2       1.3       2.0      2.2
Rubber                            -        -       -      -       -       -    14.7      -    16.8        -         -       40.5      11.2      12.0      12.8     43.1
L4vestock                        0.4      0.8    1.2    1.3    1.9    2.6    3.3    4.2    5.2            5.5      5.9       6.3       6.8       7.2       1.8      8.3
Adljtent for devsluatioa    16.2    17.1   23.9   25.7   27.7   24.1   28.7   28.6   34.3               30.2      32.4      38.7      41.6     44.5      47.9      51.2
Totsl Cost of Productloa       58.8    62.2   81.0   93.3  400.1   67.6  104.3  104.0  124.6    409.8    117.7    140.6    454.4    464.7    174.0    186.0
Net Valu of Production         16.7   235.3  261.1  300.2  376.2  479.2  524.6  652.1  166.2  1,035.0  1,240.8  1,580.8  1,796.2  2,148.3  2,368.4  2,t!i.9
Other Inco_e
0ff-fare employ .et               42.1    95.5  104.6  112.3  120.0  128.5         -       -       -         -        -         -         -         -         -
Total IDcoUe                   58.8   330.8  371.7  412.5  496.2  607.7  524.6  652I  166.2  1.()35.0  1,240.8  I.,8:8  1,796.2  j2,14.3  2,388.4 2ibIl:9
Loso:  IPtDA tax (5)                0.8    11.8   13.3   45.0   18.8   24.0   26.2   32.6   38.3           51.7      62.0      79.0      89.9    107.4    119.4    130.6
Inc-_ After Tax                58.0  319.0  356.4  397.5  477.4  56.1.  498.4  619.5  121.9    983.3  1_17b.8  I,5UI.h  1.708.3  2,04U.9  2,26_9u  2,48hl.J
Le..:  Alolance  for risk (151)    8.7    47.8   53.8   59.6   71.6   87.6   74.8   92.9  109.2    147.5    116.8    225.3    256.2    3U6.1    3444.4    172.2
Subsistence labor           144.0   272.0  298.0  320.0  376.2  402.6  431.2  462.0  492.6    528.0    565.4    605.0    646.8    693.0    741.4    792.0
"at Cash Inca. Befoie
Ocbh  Service               (94.7)   (0.8)   6.6   17.9   29.6   93.5   (7.6)  64.6  25.9           307.8    436.6    614.5    ROS.A   I )41.8 16181.2  1 4,2 :



-97 -                                                          ANNEX 3
Table 10
Page 2
Y arl       11       17       as       I9       20        21       22       23      24         2S       26      27         28      29
Gross Value of Production
Crops
PM8l                           419.4    511.7    541.1   546.2    621.2    671.9    1S.1   7tO.11   822.2   880.6    941.4  1.00b.5  k,076.1  1.153.8
Hlied crops                    317.0   359.7    38S.0    412.0   440.9    472.3    50S.S    540.4    517.9    619.0   *61.1    706.9    137.8    811.0
Fruit trees                    279.9   2SS.7    319.7    342.2    366.1    392.2    419.8    448.5    480.0    514.0    549.6    SU4.7    629.3    *13.S
Coffee                         772.0   824.0    U2.0    944.0  1,010.0  1,082.0  1,191.0  1,234.0  1,124.0  1.418.0  1.516.0  1,624.0  1,736.0  1,838.0
Cloes                          463.2    494.4    529.2    568.4      6.0    849.2   694.8   142.8    194.4   850.9    909.6    974.4  1,041.6  1.114.d
Coconut                        231.6    247.2   264.6   283.2    303.0    324.6    347.4    371.4    397.2    425.4    454.6   467.2   520.8    557.4
Rubber                         229.4    242.9    257.2    273.2   290.1    309.5    331.S   399.3    379.5   408.5    435.2    465.5    497.6    532.9
Subtotal                    2,792.5  2,97S.6  3,135.4  3,407.2  3.643.3  3,901.7  4,176.1  4,465.3  4,171.2  5,114.3  S,4U8.3  5,051.2  6,261.2  6,701.4
Livestock
Poultry                        133.1    144.2    154.4    189.2    176.8    189.4   202.7    218.7    231.7   246.2   289.3   284.2    303.8    125.2
Eggs                            79.1     84.9    90.4       98.8    303.5    110.9    118.7    128.9    139.1    145.3    199.4    388.9    177.9   190.4
Costs                           29.0     30.9      33.1     35.4     37.9     40.8     43.4      48.4     49.7     53.2      58.9    80.9      65.3     69.7
Subtotal                      243.2    259.8    277.9   297.4    318.2    340.9   384.0   390.0   417.1   446.1    477.8    911.8    948.8    5U.3
Total Value of Production   3,035.7  3,230.2  3,463.3  3,704.6  3,961.5  4,242.6  4,540.9  4,8S5.3  S,192.3  S,561.0  5,945.9  .3688.8  *,80l.0  7,286.7
Cost ot Production
Crops
FPet                            92.8     98.9    103.8    113.3    121.2    129.8    139.0    148.8   158.9    173.2    181.9    194.9   208.3    223.0
Hixed crops                     17.8    19.0       20.3     21.7     23.2     24.9    28.8       28.9     30.9     32.8     34.9    317.4      39.9     42.7
Fruit trees                      0.8      0.8      0.9       0.9      1.0      1.1      1.2       1.2      3.3      1.4      1.S       1.8      1.7      1.9
Coffee                           3.1      3.3       3.5      3.8      4.0      4.3      4.8       9.0      5.3      5.7      8.1       8.9      8.9      7.4
Cloves                           4.2      4.S      4.9       S.2      9.8      8.0      8.4      8.8       7.3      1.8      5.3       8.9      9.5     10.2
Coconut                          2.3      2.5      2.8       2.5      3.0      3.2      3.5       3.7      4.0      4.3      4.5       4.9      5.2      5.6
Rubber                          14.7     15.7      16.4     17.9     19.2     20.6    22.0      23.5      29.2     26.9     28.8      30.9     33.0     35.3
Livestock                        8.9      9.5      10.1     10.9     11.6     12.4     13.3      14.2     15.2     16.3     17.4      18.7     20.0     21.4
Adjustoent for devaluation      54.8     54.6     82.6      67.1     71.7     16.9    82.3      02.0      94.1    100.7   107.7    115.4    123.3    132.1
Total Cost of Produttlee      399.2    212.8   227.5   243.6    260.5    279.2   298.9    339.9    341.6    36S.9    391.1   439.2    447.8    419.6
Het Valu of Production      2.636.5  3,025.4  3,235.8  3,461.0  3,701.0  3,93.4  4,242.0  4,535.8  4,90.5  5,395.1  5,554.8  9,949.6  6,360.2  6.8071.
Other Icom
Off-farm employment                 -        -        -         -        -        -        _        _         _        _        _        _         _        _
Total Incom                 2,36.5  3.02S.4  3.235.S  3,UI.0  3,101   3.9U.4  4,242.0  4,535.8  4,860.5  5.195.   5,554.8  5,949.8  6.380.2  6.80l.!
L .an:  IptA tra  (S1)             141.8    ISI.2    161.8    173.0    185.0    198.1    212.1    228.8    242.5    259.7    271.7    297.5    318.0    34u.3
Income After Tax            2,694.7  2,814.2  3,0174.0  1281.0  3,516.0  3,715.3  4,029.9  4,309.0  4,60.0  4,935.4  S,277.1  5,652.1  6.042.2  64b6.8
Less; Allowance for risk (151)    404.2   431.1    461.1    491.2    521.4    S64.7    604.4    648.3    691.2    740.3         91.6   847.8    908.3   910.U1
Subsistence labor           849.2   906.4    970.2  1.038.4  1,111.0  1,390.2  1,213.S  1,361.8  1,459.4  3,999.8  3.,87.6  1.784.4  1,909.6  2.043.,
Net Cani, Inroe Sefore
D.bt Sr.ice               1,441.3  3,936.7  1.642.7  1,156.4  1,877.6  2,010.4  2.9151.1  2,3uO.9  2,Utl:4  2,U3S.3  2,817.9  3,017.9  3,226.3  3,451.0



ANNEX 4
98                                                  Table 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
Comparison of Develovment Costs per Family
(Constant 1979 USq)
Rimbo Bujang Smallholder                           Danau Salak
Development /a                            New Settlement /b
Category                              Credit   Non-credit   Total costs          Credit   Non-credit   Total costs
Rubber Development
Direct costs                       3,017            -          3,017           3,654           -          3,684
Machinery                             680           -            680             307           -             307
Cverheads (10%)                      301            -            301             368           -            368
Subtotal                      3.998                      3.998           4.359            -          4.359
Subsistence Package
Initial land clearing (1 ha)            -           -              -              53           -             53
Cash payment                            -           -              -              48           -             48
Seed/fertilizers                        -                          -              40           -             40
Food crop center/marketing              -          52             52               -         218            218
Subtotal                          -          52             52              141         218            359
Roads
Machinery                                --(marga land only)---                  120           -             J?n
Civil works                                                                      275           -            275
Subtotal                                                                    395           -            395
Settler Housing                                       -              -             425           -            425
Village Infrastructure                     ---(marga land only)---                    -         60              60
Health Services                                       -              -               -         107             107
Others
Buildings/civil works                   -          86             86               -          48             48
Equipment/vehicles                      -          20             20               -          13             13
Resettlement cost                                   -              -               -         248            248
Subtotal                          -         106            106                -         309            309
Project Mana8ement
Management fee                          -         150            150               -         186             186
Dinas Perkebunan Dearah                 -           6              6               ^          16             16
Subtotal                          -         156            156                -         202            202
Total Base Costs per Family           3,998         314          4.312           5,320         896          6.216
Contingencies /c
Physical                              400          31            431             532          90            622
Price /d                           1,587          154          1,741           Z,117         358          2,475
Subtotal                      1.987         185          2.172           2.649          448          3,097
Total Costa per Family                5.985         499          6,484           7,969       1,344          9,313
La  Two ha of rubber establishment for existing tranamigrants and local population; 8,000
family beneficiaries.
/b Three ha of rubber for 4,000 families.
T Contingencies on families for new settlement in 1980-81.
/d  Assumed on revised inflation for civil works of 25% in 1979, 22% in 1980, 10% in 1981
and 7% thereafter; equipment at 7% from 1979 onwards.



ANNE 4
Table 2
INDaItSIA
NUCLEUS ISTATXS AND SMiLL30LDUIS III PIOJICT
Icon-'ic Rete of Rturn   Totsi Projct
(constant ItP *111io55 - 1979)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Vsl.U of Production
PTP XVIII developo..t - D.neu S.15k              209      283     294      311      309     374      608     961   1,605   2,404   3,704   4,266   6,251   7,052   7,616   8,166
PNP I d-v-lopnt - L.ng.a                       5,661   7,835  10,077  14,012  15,047  15,258  15,014  15,993  17,073  18f,458  19,970  21,348  22,152  22,718  72,510  21,970
Sallholdno derelop,not - Usnso S-l-k,              -        -     222      697      892     929      985   3,245   4,746   5,570   6,099   6,795   7,468   8,253   8,480   8,882
S_tnIlholder devalopmeot - Ri.bo b.u-g             -       56     511      935   1,560   2,472   2,560   2,744   5,816   7,793   9,344  10,680  11,377  11,832  13,175  13,553
Total benefits                            5.870   8.174  11.104  15,955  17.808  19 033  19.167  22,943  29,240  34.225  39.117  43,089  47,248  49,855  51,781  52,571
Cost of Production
PTP XVIII dev lop--nt - D.n.u S1*1k              378   2,625      624      510     543      420      443     983      559      618   1,223   1,213   1,104   1,422   1,240   1,290
PNP I develop. ent - Len.S                     6,761  12,293  11,371  12,653  13,784  14,639  13,083  13,264  14,353  14,177  35;027  13,549  13,708  13,126  12,769  12,602
Salholder d-oelopment - Dan.u Sl.!k               -     670      930   1,277   1,345   1, 741   1,609   1,849   1,815   1,733   1,705   1,973   1,936   1,840   1,810   1,977
Stllholdec d .elop.pent - Ri.bo Buj.ng             -   1,535   1,629   1,776   2,516   3,320   3,617   3,409   4,681   4,697   5,281   5,921   6,376   6,625   6,904   7,096
Technical assi.tnce                                -      251     251      196      196     196        _       _-       -                -        -        -       -        -        -
Total  -t.                                7 139  17 374  14.805  16,412  18,384  20.316  18.752  19 505  21,405  21,225  23,236  22,656  23,124  23,013 .2,723  22,965
Net project benfits 
Netproj;ct c..h fl                    (1.269) (9.200) (3,701)   (457)   (576) (1,283)    415   3.438   7.832  13.000  15,881  20,433  24,124  26,842  29,058  29,606
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009
V.lue of Production
PTP XVIII de-e1op.ent - D.... Slolk            8,618   9,413  10,097  10,599  10,974  11,155  10,790  10,345  10,018   9,723   9,353   8,926   8,501   8,178   7,810
PNP I devolop.ent - L-nSg-                    22,399  22,942  23,743  24,909  25,909  26,018  23,582  21,347  19,550  18,436  17,204  15,623  14,281  13,545  14,437
Sbalholder de-lopoent - D.nau S-l.k          9,469   9,709  10,525  10,338  10,172   9,945   9,835   9,113   8,999   8,553   8,384   7,769   7,324   6,934   6,372
S.eliholder d-velop.n.t - Ribho Nuj.nS        13,928  14,321  14,632  15,720  15,464  15,249  14,945  14,801  13,841  13,681  11,313  11,313  11,313  11,313  11,313
Total be-efits                          54,414  56,385  58.997  61,566  62,519  62,367  59.152  55.605  52,408  50,393  46,254  43.631  41,419  39,968  39,932
Cost of Production
PTP XVIII develop-ent - D..so Sla!k            1,445   1,688   1,370   1,431   1,888   1,960   1,449   1,552   1,352   1,368   1,462   1,637   1,245   1,153   1,557
PNP I de-elopeent - L.ngsa                    12,455  11,754  12,071  11,800  11,824  10,897   8,769   7,439   3,437   3,666   3,176   3,122   2,543   2,214   2,090
Sn-liholdor development - D....u S.llk         1,936   1,936   1,936   1,936   1,936   1,936   1,936   1,936   1,936   1,936   1,936   1,936   1,936   1,936   1,936
Snaliholder develop..ent - Rimbo Bbjang        6,683   7,281   7,281   7,281   7,281   7,288.  7,281   7,281   7,281   7,281   7,281   7,281   7,281   7,281   7,281
Technical  esisltance                              -        -       _        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -
Total .o.ts                             22.519  22659  22,658  i2,j48  22,929  22,074  19,435  18.208  14.006  14,251  13,855  13,976  13,005  12,584  12.864
Net project benefits -
fcconoic ..sh flow                    31,895  33,726  36,339  39.118  39,590  40.293  39,717  37,397  38,402  36,142  32,399  29,655  28 414  27 384  27,068
Economic R-te of Return,  29.



- 100 -                                  ANNEX 5
INDONESIA                               Page 1
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
Data Available in the Staff Working Papers
7OLUME A - DANAU SALAK - PTP XVIII NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
Nucleus Estate Danau Salak Development                 Tables
A.O   Project Description (text)
A.1   Physical Data
1.  Rubber Planting Program, Area Statement, Rainfall             1.1 - 1.7
Record and Soils Analysis
2.  Rubber Field Establishment and Upkeep                         2.1 - 2.19
3.  Rubber Yield, Production and Exploitation Cost                3.1 - 3.7
4.  Personnel and Labor Requirement                               4.1 - 4.9
5. Housing, Agricultural, Transport and Processing                5.1 - 5.9
Equipment Requirement
A.2   Total Project Cost and Financial Analysis
1.  Project Cost                                                  1.1 - 1.20
2.  Financial Analysis - Danau Salak with Project                 2.1 - 2.18
3.  Financial Analysis - Danau Salak without Project              3.1 - 3.13
4.  Financial Analysis - PTP XVIII - Java Estates                 4.1 - 4.8
5.  Financial Analysis - Java Estates and Danau Salak             5.1 - 5.2
without Project
6.  Financial Analysis - Java Estates and Danau Salak             6.1 - 6.3
with Project
A.3   Cost - Benefit Analysis                                           1.1 - 1.2
Danau Salak Smallholder Development
A.4   Basic Physical Data
1.  Rubber Planting Program, Area Statement                       1.1 - 1.3
2.  Rubber Field Establishment and Upkeep                         2.1 - 2.9
3.  Rubber Yield and Production                                   3.1 - 3.2
4.  Village Infrastructure, Housing and Roads                     4.1 - 4.6
5.  Transport and Agricultural Equipment Requirement              5.1 - 5.2
6.  Food Crop Center at Tungkap                                   6.1 - 6.6
7.  Farm Model                                                    7.1 - 7.8
A.5   Project Cost and Financial Analysis
1.  Project Cost                                                  1.1 - 1.19
A.6   Cost - Benefit Analysis                                           1.1 - 1.2



- 101 -
ANNEX 5.
VOLUME B - NUCLEUS ESTATE DEVELOPMENT - PNP I               Page 2
B.0   Project Description (text)                                           Tables
B.1   Rubber Development
1.  Area Statement                                                 1.1 - 1.9
2.  Rainfall Record and Soil Analysis                              2.1 - 2.6
3.  Nursery and Field Establishment                                3.1 - 3.22
4.  Yield and Production                                           4.1 - 4.5
5.  Tapping and Processing                                         .5.1 - 5.8
6.  Personnel and Housing Requirement                              6.1 - 6.7
7.  Agricultural Equipment and Vehicles Requirement                7.1 - 7.12
8.  Rubber Project Cost                                            8.1 - 8.20
9.  Sales, Profit and Loss, Inventory Variations                   9.1 - 9.10
B.2   Oil Palm Development
1.  Area Statement (ha)                                            1.1 - 1.11
2.  Rainfall Record                                                2.1 - 2.4
3.  Nursery and Field Establishment                                3.1 - 3.10
4.  Yield and Production                                           4.1 - 4.7
5. Harvesting, Upkeep and Processing Cost                          5.1 - 5.6
6.  Personnel and Housing Requirement                              6.1 - 6.7
7.  Agricultural and Transport Equipment Requirement               7.1 - 7.11
8.  Oil Palm Project Cost                                          8.1 - 8.17
9.  Sales, Profit and Loss, Inventory Variation                    9.1 - 9.15
B.3   Total Project Cost and Financial Analysis                           1.1 - 1.13
B.4   Cost - Benefit Analysis                                             1.1 - 1.6
VOLUME C - RIMBO BUJANG SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT - PTP VI
C.0   Project Description (text)
C.1   Basic Physical Data
1.  Rubber, Planting Program, Area Statement, Rainfall             1.1 - 1.5
2.  Rubber Field Establishment and Upkeep                          2.1 - 2.18
3.  Rubber Yield and Production                                    3.1 - 3.6
4.  Personnel and Labor Requirements                               4.1 - 4.14
5.  Housing, Vehicles and Agricultural Equipment Requirement   5.1 - 5.4
6.  Food Crop Center                                               6.1 - 6.5
7.  Roads                                                          7.1 - 7.3
C.2   Physical and Financial Data
1.  Farm Model without Project                                     1.1 - 1.4
2.  Farm Model with Project                                        2.1 - 2.6
C.3   Project Cost and Financial Analysis                                 1.1 - 1.15
C.4   Cost - Benefit Analysis                                             1.1 - 1.2



- 102 -
INDONESIA                                                       CHART 1
NUCLEUS ESTATESAND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF ESTATES
| INISTER
OF
AGRICULTURE
IPRO>JECT MANAGEMENT 
BOARO                                           DIRECTOR GENERAL
OF ESTATES           - - - - - - - - _                             ADVISORY BOARD
.COMM ODITY APPROACHI
SECRETARIAT            DIRECTORATE            DIRECTORATE           DIRECTORATE ORA
OF PLANNING           OF PRODUCTION          OF MEANS OF OPERATION
BAFPENAS             RESEARCI  AND. M.N. OF N FIANCE. AGA
D EPENS |  EVELOPMENT  | | RIA. IRI. ETC.  |
________________________ U,,.cIJ.ncl.O,
- - - - -  -I- - ---
PROVINCIAL          PROVINCIAL
COORDINATING        COORDI ATI
COMMITTEE           COMMITTEE
World Bank - 19975



- 103 -
INDONESIA                                                                    CHART 2
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF A GOVERNMENT OWNED ESTATE GROUP (PTP)
CHAIRMAN OF
SHAREHOLDERS
MEETING
BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS
FIRST
DIRECTOR
_    OINT
r                                                              |                | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARK ETI NG
PRDUTODUTONOMECA
World Bank -17280



- 104 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS IlIl PROJECT                                                                                CHART 3
Project Implementation Schedule
Smaliholder Components Main Activities - Danau Salak
1979                       1990                       1981                        1982                       1983                        1984
Activities                     1   2      3      4      1      2      3     4       1      2     3      4      1      2     3      4       1     2      3      4      1      2     3      4
Directorate General of Estates
Initiate Hydrology Survey
Approve Project Budgets                                                  _             _                          _1_
Arrange SLA to Nucleus Estate
Contract with Nucleus Estate
Appoint Pro-jct Manager                                           _
Appoint Resident Consulants
Submit Annual Work Progrant
Inspect Settlement                                                                                                           _ -  -  -  -
Coordinate Project Financial Requirements                                                                         _
Arrange for Initial Budwood                              1111
Pr-oincial Gover-me-t
Alienation of Latd (Stage 1, South}_
Alienation of Land (Stage II Northl
Establish Project Orgatia.tion
Prepare Project Budget
Commence Implementatio-
Arrange Recruitment Procedures
Recruit Settlers              -
xtend  mas Pro ram_g_
Nocl... Estate (FTP XViI I
Inuestigatiuts at Pantai Cabe/Soato
Recruit Infrastructure M-nagement Team
Finance Master Plan and Stake Out Roads
Land Clearing Program            o  s                      _                                                                                                                  n _
Intiate Nursery Development and Procurement
Rubber Planting Program
Road Constr-ction Program                                                _egal_
Village Development Program                                                _    _                                                                               m _
BRI
Establish Project sank Account
Set Up Village Units
Establish Settler Accounts
Submit Financial Statements to DGBE
Govern ment__                                                                                                     ____
Sign Financing and Sub-Finagcing Agreements
World Bank - 19764



- 105 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT                                                                                 CHART 4
Project Implementation Schedule
Smaliholder Components Main Activities - Rimbo Bujang
1979                        1980                        1981                        1982                       1983                        1984
ACTIVITIES-                                                         --
1     2      3      4       1     2      3      4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3     4       1      2      3      4      1      2      3     4
Direcr,ar.e General ft Est-e
Approve Proi-c1 Budgets
Arrange SLA to Nucleus Estate
Contract with Nucleus Estate
Appoin- Project Manager
Appoint Resident Consltants 
Submit Annual Work Program
Inspect Settlement and Planrrg Program
Coordinate Project Financial Requirements
Arrangr for Initial Budwood
Proateetan Gvernenseet
Preparatory Censue of Marga Lngd
Al,enation ot Marga Land
Establish Protect Organ-zation
Prepare Prolect Budget
Commence tmplementation_
Finaliat Reallocation of Merge Land
Etend Bm-s Program
Nucleus Estate IPTP VI)
Physical inuvesigations of Main Protrut Are-
Initiatr Nursery D-uelopment and Procurement
Trave-rs and Commence Allocation of Marge Land
Finalize Master Plan
Su.mbt Annual Work Program/Accounts
Land Clearing Program
Rubbrr Planting Progra
Road Construction Progam_
Vdiiagr Development Program
BRI
Esta-bith Prompt Bark Account
Set up V1Sage Units
Etlabihsh Settler Accounts
Submit Fin-cia Stat,emet to DGE
Geoternente_e_t
Sign Financing and Sub-Finarcing Agreements
World Bank   1 9955



- 106 -
CHART 5
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
SMALLHOLDER COMPONENTS
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE FLOW OF FUNDS - NON CREDIT ITEMS
GOVERNMENT
OF
INDONESIA
DEPARTMENTS OF THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
Governor
Bupatis         PROVINCIAL
Mayors          GOVERNMENT
Camat           SYSTEM
Lurahs
(SNTTO,                    ,-                      1 ,-, I
PUSKESMAS                        SEKOLAH                    KABUPATEN               GOTONG ROYONG1I
INPRES                           INPRES                    INPRES                  (VILLAGE
(SANITATION, WATER, HEALTH)      (SCHOOLS)                 (ROADS)                 INFRASTRUCTURE)
1 Community self-help projects.
World Bank - 17285



- 107 -                              CHART 6
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
SMALLHOLDER COMPONENTS
ORGANIZATION CHART Oie FLOW OF FUNDS
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT BY THE NUCLEUS ESTATES /a
GOVERNMENT
OF
INDONESIA
MINISTRY
FINANCE   |
BANK INDONESIAl                  l
- -r- - - -                    IBRD
REKENING ^ IBRDEl
I NV ESTASIi  FUNDS
BRI
NUCLEUS ESTATES
PTP VI           PTPXVIII
Rimbo Buiang                      Danau Salak
Smaliholder Development           Smaliholder Development
World Bank - 17281
/a  Includes some non-credit expenditures for resettlement, construction
of planting material supply units, transport vehicles and some estate
buildings. These expenditures would be deducted from smallholder
credit accounts by the BRI.



- 108 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT                                                            CHART 7
ORGANIZATION CHART OF PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT
TO DEPARTMENT                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~TO CENTRAL
_  _  _  ___  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 OF OE AFFAIRS                                                                                            GO_-_NNTD ENTRA
G-ER-S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~OVRMN
I  DlRecTOR OF  [   |   C L  l                               ~~~~~~~~~REGIONAL DEPARTMENTS OF
CENTRAL G-ERRNMENTLY
RE T    IA MENTl   l                                                                                      PROVINCI AL
P..ELl PRO-_  = DEPARTMENTS                    E    ~l        E ~ l                                      GOVERNMENTS
_~~~ ~ ~                                                        -------__      _____        ____     -----------------
PLNANNPIRELTUNROVINCIA AESARTMTNTT
ES BN TATA
|  LOCAL GOVERNMENT |   |  LAW   l   l  l   l                 l   l          l               l         ,                   ] K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A8UPATEN AND
SUB- DIRECTORATE         AN           O                AND ORDER                OEVELOPMENT                      FINANCE          [      ECONOMICS
_GJENERAL     4        _ MAINTENANCE                                                  BASSET             _      ENERAL                    SOCIAL
ADMINISTRATION       -    FESEARC.                 -      8 DGET ~~~~~~~~~~DCOOMVASPECTS
.RE-KDO.N            _     -VILLAGE                                                                                                                             RELIGION.
R   ADMINISTRATION                DEFENSE                   PLANNING                     ACCOUNTING                 LC                          ATURL
_ GELERA-                                    _      CONTROL                 -    TREASURER                                           WELFARE
_(ECLODING SECTIONS AND SUB-SECTIONS     _
PIANNING          LRA_DS
OPEIC ER  t~~                                                                                              sDESA (VILLAGE UNITSI
!/ SeVp'VIlaIIS SCUS hAwIng   dUnSIbiIIW.



- 109 -                                              CHART 8
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF SETTLEMENT PROJECTS
MINISTER
OF                                                      GOVERNOR
AGRICULTURE
DIRECTOR                                            CHAIRMAN OF
DIRECTOR                               ~~~~~~~~~BAPPEDA
GENERAL                                              B
OF                                            - -  PROVINCIAL
ESTATE                                      -       COORDINATION
-            COMMITTEE
//                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I/
HEAD OF
PROJECT                                              REGENCY
MANAGER                                             (Inpres project
manager)
APBN AND     INPRES
CREDIT       AND APBD
PORTION      PORTION
NES III PROJECT
direct/function line
---_   _ _coordination line
World Bank - 17283



- 110 -
INDONESIA                                                                            FIGURE 1
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
PROPOSED VILLAGE LAYOUT FOR THE DANAU SALAK AREA
I I
j1--- --- PRIMARY VILLAGE ROAD
3161
HOUSE AND GARDEN
SECONDARY VILLAGE ROADS AND
HOUSING ACCESS TRAC KS
31ft
|~~~~~~HLS ANDGADEN/                                                                                                                   
PLOT : 21m . 10Om                                                                             _
100m         IODm         lOOm                         300m                            ZU. (VAR lAIL
DC   DUKUH CENTRE (With recreation ae, common gazing round and shed tubili
VC  VILLAGE CENTRE (With large recreation area, community buildinv end central tulewaNi
NOTES  The village layout shown vwould accomodate 254 famiii around oe main and 6 aabddwry dukuh centes
This _um_e a wmtr upply sysem relying on one tub_ll in each dukuh centre so that no hour ned
be furthwr thn approximately 170m from a source of pote water. It shouid be noted, howver, that
the layout shown reprsnts a schemntc modal only. In prwctbe, coniderable adaptation of the bixc model
would be new wry in ordwr to plan individual vnIa    around optimal tubiwall locatioru and to mtch the
prevailing topography in each cae  Viaie planning would have to be caIe  out spatey for wtar supply
yan   raling on hallow waIls end erthdammed reaarvoir



- III -
INDONESIA                                FIGURE 2
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLilOLDERS III PROJECT
Basic House Design for Kalimantan Settlers-Danau Salak



- 112 -                                       FIGURE 3
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
Basic House Design for Javanese Settlers/Upland Areas-Danau Salak
A--I-----
1-            -                     -!
PLAN__
for vetitlIaidon
iot                                                  Side
Scale Icmn  Im



- 113 -                                       FIGURE 4
{fi ~ ROW DANAU SALAK 12m"
<  />--                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~RIMSD BUJAG  160m   / 
1.5m                       6.Om                         1.5m
0 02f t                                                     tm,; 
1Ocrm GRVLO
|   LATERgTE      SLOPE 1:1
PRIMARY VILLAGE ROAD
DANAU SALAK aOM
ROW RIMBO BUJANG 12AOm
1.25m                     4.Om                1.25m
0 2s5.,
SLOPE 1:1
SECONDARY VILLAGE ROAD
ROW  6.Om
4           ~~~~~SLOPE 1 :1
RUBBER COLLECTION TRACK
______________________
INDONESIA                  INDICATIVE MOAD CROSS SECTN                          NOVEMER 1978
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND
SMALLH4OLDERS III PROJECT         DANAU SAMA  AND RPMO SUJA                          IBRD  WASHINGTON






IBRD 14020R
I r   HAI44uS LANS     0f F        Bb   \4V                                                                                             JULY 1979
t     <~~~~S.                                                                                      R,                 A t t> ><&<   ':    , \
ALAYSI    Sooth  LAYS
-s Sc       IC                   7   >5               'oio --     iir  tfs   Arr
Ocacn <, 6~~~tArns$                                _.AY  i3... /;--..ts\t4YvXDflPt
-~~~ -'- '-,~Z~et
SUMAT ~~~       KALIMANTAN                     2h '
I NDCNESIA                                              . -                                  I
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS El PROJECT                                                  -         ,                  >Ponol
DANAU SALAK PROJECT AREA                                               a/   @ \
PRELIMINARY MASTER PLAN                                                                                         N           N
13/,~~~~~ "\\
0                             i/-                  r 
Poject \    /Boundory
/   o     't   X   - - - , 1                     ;$                }      V~~~~~~~~~~Ep  lalge Settlement With Wlalge Nuimbe, and Families
f I > /  '  / ~rr_  -                                                                            Bounddorn  Assigned to New  Village
r   i>  vV  /    !       /  51 t-           Z                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Land U,,su,table For Development
Ti          -                                         \ No~~~~~~~r' En eExising  uclAsrEsate
/   t  /)tX    tr  S     _   -  Existing  Khosu peenRoads
__________________________N_Prm__                                             ary Vdiage Roads
4s.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e Seod.yVlag od
INDONESIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~MIE
/   AJr                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bound.,iies sh-w on this map do not-sply, on the patt of the Nodrd Srnk and ,t,
T.io   -b _gnama/                                                                               ept-enc ofsu-h b-urdaese






X                                         ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th.s -op has bee prepard by the  y
World bank' ostff -esrSi-ely for a ~ Q~p C r PII         
the report to wb,ch il  attahed.   
The de--nsnat-oUs used and the  i N L  ESTysEn
boundar,e- sho-  on th,s -ep  gl~sAIG  A    AI 
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d  .t -p, u   i. 0, th p.t f M.B UA  O O N
WorWd Ba.k ad,to UfIhX.t-s .any  , 2  4   6R
|dg-\t n the Sepal st at usI                         I As 17 NO i
P\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<
Morgo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Londl Setlmei  \+s Sf  v 
UNIT X I                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES
L) N IT:                       ~~~~~AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJECT
RIMBO BUJANG COMPONENT
----- Boundory of Lond Assigned lo New Vliloge  ffi                                      MUARA TEBO _~~~~~~~~~~LO ETRS ___________________
0  2   4  Er  8
........   ...... Primcory  V   llage  Roods           Upgroding         / >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UIT    0 
-i    Foresl Reserves-_
===~   R,sors-_
-   Ssowr oh  ad Areas                                                                                                      s 






IBRD 14183R
JULY 1979
IN DONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS III PROJ ECT
zo e~ e                 tPNP I ESTATE CONCESSIONS ACEH PROVINCE
N  O  R  T  H  i     
0       5      10      15      20      25
KILOME-TERS
A        C    E   H                                                         Peudaw X   \   o    t _      MILES 6            si           lbf          1
%t.  H    ~~JULU'                                /
t X    ,| ::  8),/ESTA E) tATE                                  \
ADIN~~~~~~~~~~~~s
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ar Estrae<a!R
E A  S  TV -, A  C \ E                             8AR KEfgt5W
Estate Concession Area                                  F          Headquarte                     .        Tulag  cut
Estate Rocads                                                                                   LAMA
,    Rodwcays                                      (                                                  ESTATE  XJ          \I
Zzz,- Rivers                                                                                       K         a
- - - - ---  ,Sub - District Boundaries                                                 c5                                      pong
-    .  -    D,str,ct Boundaries
-  -  -       riternotiaral Boundories  /             *\                              -
hs eap hsa been pbep -ed b, the World d- s -sl ffescusaer heo ISO 0                                           (K Lara Estate)
of the reader so Sthe,epo,Istoh,Ofl II sIWtcfed  he dett,,tlo,,s arysed amtS he                UA Io71
OOtttdottefSlhowottOt ths Otpdo 01 ttmpt. on thepfn of the Wo,idhaltkf  ts0   I   \I./   
h- i, lerotfgnlo.aieiego,sta'ss fa at ICttIotof    '                                           TIGAet Oti SOIOt
LrNpl4tlLks'ir 5zzyTh 8E_ tf >,LiPPItrPS 1 \8. ~~~i~ i p \ L A N G  K A T
, 'S ., * <? | ) D ~~~~~~~I   S   T   R    I  C   T
/AthS  Ku ,f  iMrinu N    E    -  I\
| 5   to   n         C=DWS.        LA       )



