CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1751 IND
Loan Agreement
(Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FO RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 13, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1751 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and     INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in thi, Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "APBD" means ANGGARAN PENDAPATAN DAN BELANJA DAERAH,
the Provincial/Kabupaten Revenues and Expenditures budget;
(b) "Basic Agrarian Law" means Law No. 5/1960 of the Bor-
rower (UNDANG-UNDANG POKOK AGRARIA), as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(c) "BI" means Bank Indonesia, established by and operating
under Law No. 13/1968 of the Borrower;
(d) "BIMAS Program" means the Borrower's program (BIMBINGAN
MASAL), administered through the BIMAS Secretariat, for raising
food crop production and farm income by supplying credit and
agricult,'ral inputs to farmers, established pursuant to Presi-
dential Decree No. 95/1969 of the Borrower;
(e) "BRI" means the BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA, established by
and operating under Law No. 21/1968 of the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(f) "Credi.t Expenditures" means expenditures for Part A
of the Project which are intended to be recovered from Partici-
pating Settlers as provided in the Smallholder Financing Arrange-
ments, including, inter alia, expenditures for rubber and subsis-
tence crop development (including initial land clearing of food
crop areas), and related machinery, vehicles and PTP overhead
costs based on 10% of the direct costs of rubber establishment
(excluding machinery and equipment), settler housing, primary and
secondary village roads and cash payments to new settlers;
(g) "Danau Salak Settlement Area" means an area of about
23,700 ha about 67 km east of Banjarmasin in the Borrower's
Province of South Kalimantan and includes the Kabupaten of Banjar
and Tapin;
(h) "DGE" means the Directorate General of Estates of
the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(i) "DPD" means DINAS PERKEBUNAN DAERAH, the Provincial
Estates Crop Services;
(j) "Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower or BI, acting on behalf of the Borrower,
and BRI, pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(k) "Governing Regulation" means any of (i) Presidential
Decrees Nos. 44 and 45 of 1974; or (ii) the Decrees/Regulations/
Instructions referred to in subsections (d), (p), (s), (t) and (u)
of this Section 1.02;
(1) "Hak Milik" means the right of ownership in respect
of land, as provided under the Basic Agrarian Law;
(m) "INPRES" means INSTRUKSI PRESIDEN, the Borrower's
program for funding Provincial and Kabupaten high priority
community projects;
(n) "Non-Credit Expenditures" means expenditures for Part
A of the Project which are to be financed from (i) the annual
budget sources of the Borrower and the Provincial Governments of
Jambi and South Kalimantan (INPRES and APBD) and (ii) the proceeds
of the Loan in the case of resettlement and construction of and
provision for Planting Materials Supply Units, and some minor
estate housing and buildings and vehicles, which are not intended


﻿-3-
to be recovered from Participating Settlers. Non-credit expendi-
tures will include, inter alia, expenditures for village infra-
structure (excluding roads), water supply, health component,
resettlement of families to Danau Salak, office equipment and
management fees of 5% of the direct costs of rubber development,
excluding machinery and equipment;
(o) "Participating Settler" means a settler and his family
settled either in the Danau Salak Settlement Area or in the Rimbo
Bujang Settlement Area under Part A of the Project, or previously
settled in the Rimbo Bujang Settlement Area, as the context may
require;
(p) "PNP" means a PERUSAHAAN NEGARA PERKEBUNAN, a state-
owned enterprise of the Borrower established and so designated
under Government Regulation No. 14/1968;
(q) "PNP I" means PERUSAHAAN NEGARA PERKEBUNAN I, and
any successor thereto;
(r)  "Provincial Coordinating Committees" means the commit-
tees established at the Provincial level in South Kalimantan and
in Jambi to coordinate the planning and the implementation of
Part A.1 and A.2, respectively, of the Project, as more fully
set forth in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(s) "PTP" means a PERSEROAN TERBATAS PERKEBUNAN which is
a public sector agricultural estate of the Borrower established
pursuant to Law No. 9/1969 of the Borrower;
(t) "PTP VI" means PERSEROAN TERBATAS PERKEBUNAN VI estab-
lished and so designated under Government Regulation No. 28/1971,
pursuant to Law No. 9/1969 of the Borrower, and any successor or
successors thereto;
(u) "PTP XVIII" means PERSEROAN TERBATAS PERKEBUNAN XVIII
established and so designated under Government Regulation No.
23/1972, pursuant to Law No. 9/1969 of the Borrower, and any
successor or successors thereto;
(v) "Rimbo Bujang Settlement AreE" means an area in the
Borrower's Province of Jambi approximately 200 km from the
Provincial capital and includes a gross area of about 68,000 ha
allocated for 6,000 transmigrant families, 4,000 ha of Marga land
for new settlers and 7,500 ha for the nucleus estate;


﻿-4-
(w) "Rupiah" and "Rp" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(x) "Smallholder Financing Arrangements" means the respec-
tive agreements to be entered into between the Borrower or BI on
behalf of the Borrower and BRI, BRI and PTP XVIII, and BRI and PTP
VI, for the purposes of Part A of the Project, pursuant to Section
3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(y) "Smallholder Rubber Development Agreements" means
the respective agreements to be entered into between DGE and PTP
XVIII and between DGE and PTP VI, for the purposes of Part A of
the Project, pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(z) "Sub-Financing Agreements" means the respective agree-
ments to be entered into between BRI and PTP XVIII and BRI
and PTP VI pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
and
(aa) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the respective
subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower
or BI on behalf of the Borrower and PTP XVIII and PNP I respec-
tively, for the purposes of Part B of the Project, pursuant to
Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
ninety-nine million dollars ($99,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time,
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
agricultural, engineering, environmental and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
mutually agree, the Project shall be carried out in accordance
with the organization and management arrangements set forth
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed
consultants and specialists whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, as follows:
(a) to assist DGE in carrying out a hydrology survey of
the Danau Salak Settlement Area;


﻿-6-
(b) by December 31, 1979, to assist PTP XVIII for three
years (i) an infrastructure program manager to aid in the devel-
opment of roads and villages and (ii) a rubber processing engi-
neer;
(c) by December 31, 1979, to assist PNP I in estate oper-
ations for three years (i) an estate processing manager, (ii) a
production management specialist, and (iii) a financial manager;
and
(d) to assist DGE in monitoring progress of the Project
with respect to field conditions, housing and infrastructure.
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, for purposes of Parts
A and B of the Project, cause agreements to be entered into,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, as follows:
(a) For rubber development: (i) a Smallholder Rubber
Development Agreement between DGE and PTP XVIII (for the purposes
of Part A.1 of the Project); and (ii) a Smallholder Rubber Devel-
opment Agreement between DGE and PTP VI (for the purposes of Part
A.2 of the Project); said Smallholder Rubber Development Agree-
ments to include, inter alia, the provisions set forth in Schedule
6 to this Agreement.
(b) For the financing of Credit Expenditures and certain
Non-Credit Expenditures (paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 7 hereto)
for Part A of the Project and the recovery of such Credit Expendi-
tures from Participating Settlers:
(i) a Financing Agreement between the Borrower or BI,
acting on behalf of the Borrower, and BRI; and
(ii) Sub-Financing   Agreements, respectively, between
BRI and PTP XVIII (for the purposes of Part A.1
of the Project) and BRI and PTP VI (for the
purposes of Part A.2 of the Project);
said agreements referred to under this paragraph (b) to include,
inter alia, the provisions set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 3.04. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 (a) hereof, the Borrower shall cause
the parties to the agreements referred to in Section 3.03 above
to punctually perform their respective obligations thereunder.


﻿-7-
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds
of the Loan allocated for Part B of the Project to PTP XVIII (for
Part B.1) and PNP I (for Part B.2), respectively, together with
such additional funds as shall be required by PTP XVIII and PNP T
to carry out the said Part B.1 and B.2, respectively, of the
Project, under a subsidiary loan agreement (herein called the PTP
XVIII Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the PNP I Subsidiary Loan
Agreement respectively) in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, which agreements shall include, inter alia, the terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity. shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the pvoceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at


﻿-8-
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.09. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall until such time as the BIMAS
Program is extended to serve adequately Participating Settlers,
cause PTP XVIII and FTP VI to continue to supply food crop inputs
for said Participating Settlers.
Section 3.10. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause PTP XVIII and PTP
VI to purchase from Participating Settlers all rubber offered
for sale (including quantities required to be delivered to
amortize Participating Settler debt obligations) at a price
equivalent to about 70% of the prevailing f.o.b. dry rubber price,
subject, however to adjustment from time to time, by joint deci-
sion of the respective Provincial Coordinating Committees and DGE,
for: (a) significant reduction in the quality of rubber offered,
or in such f.o.b. price from those prevailing at the date of this
Agreement; or (b) significant increase in the rubber collection,
processing or marketing costs of PTP XVIII or PTP VI, from those
prevailing at the date of this Agreement.


﻿-9-
Section 3.11. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure, subject to the provi-
sion of paragraph (b) of this Section 3.11, that each Partici-
pating Settler receives:
(i)   within six months after settlement of the Partici-
pating Settler (A) in the Danau Salak Settlement
Area, a certificate evidencing conditional Hak
Milik to 4 ha of lane, and (B) in Marga land in the
Rimbo Bujang Settlement Area a certificate evidenc-
ing conditional Hak Milik to 2 ha of land;
(ii) within three years after settlement full Hak Milik
to such land, subject, however, to retention by BRI
of the Hak Milik certificate as security for
Participating Settler debt; and
(iii) with respect to existing settlers who obtain, or
have obtained, Hak Milik to their land, the Hak
Milik certificate shall be retained by, or pledged
to, BRI as security for their debt.
(b) The Borrower, through the Provincial Coordinating
Committees, shall periodically review the performance of Partici-
pating Settlers, and shall take appropriate action in the case of
any settler found to have been deficient in his work in the rubber
area being developed by PTP XVIII or PTP VI or in the husbandry of
his land. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
the Borrower shall not, except as otherwise mutually agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank, issue any certificate evidenc-
ing full Hak Milik in respect of land to any settler who has so
been found deficient.   -
Section 3.12. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause DGE (in respect of
Part A of the Project), and the Ministry of Agriculture Supporting
Staff (in respect of Part B of the Project), to prepare and
furnish to the Bank for review and comment, by October 31, 1979
and thereafter by October 31 of each year, a proposed annual
budget and work program showing in detail the program of work for
the Project to be undertaken by each such agency during the
following year.
Section 3.13. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall require the Project Managers


﻿- 10 -
assisted by the Provincial Coordinating Committees: (i) to prepare
and send to DGE for the Borrower's approval at least 6 months
prior to the start of each fiscal year, annual budgets for Non-
Credit Expenditures under Part A of the Project; and (ii) to
maintain appropriate cost accounts acceptable to the Borrower and
the Bank in respect of such expenditures.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, when-
ever it shall appear that the funds available from INPRES or APBD
are insufficient to meet the budgeted requirements for Non-Credit
Expenditures, make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to
provide the necessary additional funds to meet such requirements.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to
be carried out, a detailed hydrology survey to test the suit-
ability of the proposed locations for villages in the Danau Salak
Settlement Area. Such survey shall begin no later than Decem-
ber 31, 1979, and shall be completed within six months after it
has begun.
Section 3.15. The Borrower through its Minister of Agricul-
ture will cause the DGE, not later than September 30, 1979, to
strengthen the present project staffing in DGE responsible for
project implementation to be organized as the Team for Assistance
for Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Projects to further assist
the DGE in the implementation of projects, in particular, the
planning, execution, monitoring and evaluation of such projects.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, Jso facto and at no


﻿- 11-
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision
thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for
the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,
including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by any
institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange
stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, including without limitation
to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures
Iscribed in Category (2) (e) of the table in paragraph 1 of
SL.nedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals a-e requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to examine such records.


﻿- 12 -
(c) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 4.02 (a), the Borrower shall cause PTP XVIII, PTP VI
and PNP I each to maintain separate accounts in respect of expen-
ditures for Parts A.1 and B.1, A.2, and B.2 of the Project,
respectively.
(d) The accounts of all agencies of the Borrower participat-
ing in the implementation of the Project or any part thereof,
relating to the Project, which are to be kept pursuant to the
provisions of subsections (a), (b) and (c) of this Section 4.02,
shall be audited each fiscal year in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of ench such year, the
Bank shall be furnished with certified copies of such accounts for
such year as so audited and the report of such audit by such
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause PTP XVIII, PTP VI
and PNP I to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
their respective operations and financial conditions.
(b) In addition to the audits envisaged under Section
4.02 (d) of this Agreement the Borrower shall cause PTP XVIII and
PNP I each to: (i) have their respective accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
their respective financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the reports of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested
including, without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion
by said auditors in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement as to whether
the proceeds of the Loan wi.thdrawn from the Loan Account on
the basis of certificates of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the respective accounts and
financial statements and the audits thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 13 -
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause PTP XVIII, PTP VI and
PNP I to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause PTP XVIII and PNP I
each at all times to manage their affairs, maintain their finan-
cial position, plan their future expansion and carry on their
operations, all in accordance with sound agricultural, business,
engineering, environmental and financial practices and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management and
supervisors, if any, assisted by qualified staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 4.06. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause PTP XVIII and PNP I,
until the Closing Date, to send to the Bank, respectively, for
its review and comments, by October 31 of each year, and with
respect to PTP XVIII prior to final approval by its Board of
Supervisors, respectively, the proposed budgets for the following
year and financial forecasts for the budget year and the four
following years all of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause PTP XVIII and PNP
I:
(a) to take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and
renew all such rights and interests in land and all such other
rights, powers, privileges and franchises as are necessary or
useful in the conduct of their respective business; and
(b) at all times to operate and maintain their respective
installations, rubber and oil palm plantings, including, inter
alia, the areas developed or replanted under the Project, equip-
ment and other property, and promptly as required to make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound agricultural, business, and engineering practices.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall cause the roads and bridge
structures included in the Project to be maintained in accordance
with sound engineering and financial practices and shall make
available, or cause to be made available, sufficient funds and
facilities for the purpose.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PTP XVIII or PTP VI or PNP I or for the suspension of all
or part of their respective operations;
(b) PTP XVIII or PTP VI or PNP I shall have been unable
to pay its debts as they mature or any action or proceeding shall
have been taken by PTP XVIII or PTP VI or PNP I or by others
whereby any of the property of PTP XVIII or PTP VI or PNP I
shall or may be distributed among its creditors;
(c) The Governing Regulation or any provision thereof
shall have been repealed, amended, suspended, varied or waived, so
as to affect adversely: (i) the carrying out of the Project; (ii)
the performance by the Borrower of any other of its obligations
under this Agreement; or (iii) the performance by any party to any
of the agreements referred to in Section 3.03 or in Section 3.05
of this Agreement, of its respective obligations under such
agreement; and
(d) Any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.03
or Section 3.05 of this Agreement shall have been terminated or
abrogated without the concurrence of the Bank, or any party to any
such agreement shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
thereunder so as to affect adversely the objectives of the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date November 13, 1979, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for International
Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                  DITJMON KT 46415
JAKARTA                           DEPKEU JKT 44319
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      TelEx:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ D. Ashari
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. S. Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Expenditures for
Settlement at Danau
Salak and Rimbo Bujang
(Part A of the Project)
(a) Civil works               1,900,000      70%
(b) Agricultural ma-          7,700,000
chinery, vehicles
and equipment
(i) directly                            100% of foreign
imported                           expenditures
(ii) locally manu-                       95% of local
factured (ex-                      expenditures
cept vehicles                      (ex-factory)
included under
sub-Category
(iv))
(iii) imported farm                       65% of local
equipment pro-                     expenditures
cured locally
(iv) locally as-                         40%
sembled ve-
hicles


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(c) Agrochemicals             5,000,000
(i) Urea                                50%
(ii) Other                               100% of foreign
expenditures
(d) Expenditures for:        23,200,000      65%
(i) rubber develop-
ment including
overheads, ini-
tial land clear-
ing for food crop
area and cash
payments in sub-
sistence pack-
age (excluding
agricultural
machinery, vehi-
cles and equip-
ment and agrochem-
icals included un-
der sub-Categories
(b) and (c) above)
(ii) Resettlement and
primary and
secondary village
road construction
and upgrading of
primary village
roads
(2) Development of FTP XVIII
and PNP I (Part B.1 and
B.2 of the Project)
(a) Civil works               6,600,000      70%


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(b) Agricultural and         13,800,000
processing plant
machinery, ve-
hicles and equip-
ment
(i) directly                            100% of foreign
imported                           expenditures
(ii) locally manu-                       95% of local
factured (ex-                      expenditures
cept vehicles                      (ex-factory)
included under
sub-Category
(iv))
(iii) imported farm                       65% of local
equipment pro-                     expenditures
cured locally
(iv) locally                             40%
assembled
vehicles
(c) Agrochemicals            4,800,000
(i) Urea                                50%
(ii) Other                               100% of foreign
expenditures
(d) Expenditures for         3,700,000       20%
rubber and oil palm
development (other
than agricultural
and processing plant
machinery, vehicles
and equipment and
agrochemicals in-
cluded under sub-
Categories (b) and
(c) above)


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(e) Resettlement              900,000       60%
(f) Consultants'             1,000,000      100%
services
(3) Consultants' and             1,100,000       100%
inspection services;
training and start-up
vehicles and assis-
tance for Part C of
the Project
(4) Unallocated                 29,300,000
TOTAL        99,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower. and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in comp-
liance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.


﻿- 21 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that,
subject to the conditions specified in sub-paragraphs (b) to (e)
below, withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $1,200,000 may be made on account of expenditures
for (i) machinery for PTP XVIII and for PTP VI (Category (1)
(b)); (ii) establishment of nurseries, land clearing and machinery
for PTP XVIII (Categories (2) (b) and (2) (d)); and (iii) estab-
lishment of nurseries, land clearing and housing for PNP I (Cate-
gories (2) (b) and (2) (d)), made before that date but after
November 1, 1978;
(b) under Category (1) (Part A.1 of the Project), unless and
until evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished
to the Bank:
(i) that DGE and PTP XVIII have entered into the
agreement referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (i) of
the Loan Agreement in accordance with the provi-
sions thereof; and
(ii) that BI, BRI and PTP XVIII have entered into
the agreements referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of
the Loan Agreement in accordance with the provi-
sions thereof;
(c) under Category (1) (Part A.2 of the Project) unless and
until evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished
to the Bank:
(i) that DGE and PTP VI have entered into the agreement
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) of the Loan
Agreement in accordance with the provisions there-
of; and
(ii) that BI, BRI and PTP VI have entered into the
agreements referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of
the Loan Agreement in accordance with the provi-
sions thereof;
(d) under Category (2) (Part Bl of the Project) unless and
until evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished


﻿- 22 -
to the Bank that BI and PTP XVIII have entered into the PTP XVIII
Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of the
Loan Agreement in accordance with the provisions thereof; and
(e) under Category (2) (Part B.2 of the Project), unless and
until evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished
to the Bank that BI and PNP I have entered into the PNP I Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this
Agreement in accordance with the provisions thereof.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount :f the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for sucti item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to assist
smallholder tree crop development in its territories through
smallholder settlement of new areas and support for previously
settled smallholders, by means of (i) the development and alloca-
tion of land and the delivery of a package of services and inputs
to smallholders through the Borrower's public sector estates
(herein sometimes referred to as "nucleus estates"), the DGE, the
BRI, the DPD, and other agencies and authorities of the Borrower
at the national and provincial levels, and (ii) the strengthening
of the Borrower's public sector estates so as to enable them to
participate as nucleus estates for smallholder development in the
future, and of other governmental agencies and authorities having
responsibility in relation to the smallholder and public estate
sectors.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Smallholder Settlement with Development of New Land
through Nucleus Estates
1.   New Settlement at Danau Salak, South Kalimantan,
with PTP XVIII as the nucleus estate, including:
(a) construction in the Danau Salak Settlement Area
of about eighteen new villages, with a total
of about 4,000 settler houses and the settlement
of about 4,000 Participating Settlers, each
village shall have without limitation, access
to the following new or existing facilities,
village offices, primary school, mosque, market
buildings, community center, sub-health center
and nursery house, all such facilities to serve
the said Participating Settlers, and equipping and
staffing of school facilities and health facilities
in all villages;
(b) establishment of a Planting Materials Supply Unit
at Tungkap to provide at cost planting material to
Participating Settlers on a cash basis and to
develop extension services and model demonstration
farms;


﻿- 24 -
(c) construction and upgrading of about 72 km of
all-weather primary village roads, about 55 km
of secondary village roads, about 300 km of
rubber collection tracks and sundry small bridge
structures to serve the said Participating
Settlers;
(d) block planting of about 12,000 ha of rubber and
the maintenance thereof by PTP XVIII for at least
the first three years and by Participating Settlers
thereafter;
(e) supply and distribution of seeds and fertilizer to
Participating Settlers commencing in the first year
of settlement to support food crop production on an
area of about one ha; and
(f) provision of adequate water supply and sanitation
facilities in each village.
2.   New Settlement at Rimbo Bujang, Jambi, with PTP VI
as the nucleus estate, including:
(a) construction in the Rimbo Bujang Settlement Area
of about 2,000 houses, as required, for 2,000
new settler families from areas in and adjacent to
the Marga land, and construction of about 15
rubber development offices all such facilities to
serve the said Participating Settlers;
(b) establishment of a Planting Materials Supply Unit
to provide, at cost, planting material to Partici-
pating Settlers on a cash basis and extension
services to Participating Settlers;
(c) construction of about 25 km of all-weather primary
village roads, about 13 km of secondary village
roads and about 400 km of rubber collection t-.cks
to serve the said Participating Settlers; and
(d) block planting of 16,000 ha of rubber and the
maintenance thereof by PTP VI for at least the
first three years and by Participating Settlers
thereafter.


﻿- 25 -
Part B:   Estate Development
1.   Strengthening of PTP XVIII, South Kalimantan:
(a) block planting of 4,000 ha of rubber and the
maintenance thereof by PTP XVIII;
(b) construction of about 480 houses and rehabilitation
of about 415 existing houses and construction of
offices, garages, workshops and social utility
buildings and the rehabilitation of existing estate
buildings;
(c) expansion of the capacity of the existing crumb
rubber factory from six mt/day to eleven mt/day;
and
(d) construction and placing into service of a new
crumb rubber factory with a capacity of twenty
mt/day.
2.   Rehabilitation of PNP I, Aceh:
(a) block planting of 6,790 ha of new rubber and
rehabilitation of about an additional 2,355 ha of
existing rubber;
(b) planting of new oil palm on 2,135 ha and rehabi-
litation of about 2,990 ha of existing oil palm
estates;
(c) construction of 2,064 houses for estate employees
and construction and rehabilitation of estate
buildings, garages and workshops;
(d) expansion of the capacity of the oil palm mill at
Tanjung Seumantoh from thirty mt FFB/hr to sixty mt
FFB/hr; and
(e) construction of two new crumb rubber factories,
one at Kebun Lama and one at Julu Rayeu, each
with a capacity of twenty mt/day.
3.   Establishment of a nucleus estate by PTP VI at Rimbo
Bujang of about 5,000 ha of rubber.


﻿- 26 -
Part C:   Program Support
1.   The continuation of the program of technical assistance
to DGE including about sixty man-months of inspection
services and about 40 man-months to assist present and
future smallholder project studies.
2.   Assistance for construction of housing and nursery
development and procurement of essential machinery for
future nucleus estate and smallholder projects as would
be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.
4R


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1986
through   February 1, 1999                   3,535,000
On August 1, 1999                                 3,555,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 28 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.20%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.35%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.35%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                             6.30%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen years
before maturity                             7.10%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                             7.90%


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
I.   General Provisions
A.   Smallholders Component (Part A of the Project)
1.   Except as provided in paragraphs 2 through 6 and C
below, agrochemicals, Planting Materials Supply
Units, agricultural machinery and vehicles for
rubber and oil palm development, and equipment for
road construction, shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of agricultural machin-
ery, materials for planting materials supply units,
and road construction equipment estimated to cost
less than $50,000 equivalent may be awarded on the
basis of prudent shopping after solicitation of at
least three price quotations, provided, however,
that the aggregate total amount so procured shall
not exceed $350,000 equivalent each for Parts A.1
and A.2 of the Project.
3.   Up to $100,000 equivalent in value of fertilizers
and agrochemicals may be procured by PTP XVIII
annually and PTP VI annually for purposes of Part A
of the Project, on the basis of prudent shopping
after solicitation of at least three price quota-
tions.
4.   Supplies and equipment required for the implementa-
tion of the agreements between DGE and PTP XVIII
for Part A.1 of the Project and between DGE and PTP
VI for Part A.2 of the Project referred to in
Section 3.03 (a) (i) and (ii), respectively, of
this Agreement, other than agricultural machinery,
vehicles and road construction equipment and


﻿- 30 -
agrochemicals covered by the provisions of para-
graphs 1 and 2 above, shall be procured in accor-
dance with the Borrower's normal procurement
procedures applicable to Government-owned estates.
5.    Civil works for Part A.1 and A.2 of the Project
which are to be financed as Credit Expenditures,
including the construction of housing, estate
workshops and garages and farm roads (but exclud-
ing the Planting Materials Supply Units), shall be
carried out by PTP XVIII and PTP VI, respectively,
directly or under contract awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding to prequalified
contractors in accordance with the Borrower's
normal procurement procedures.
6.   Civil works for construction and upgrading of
primary and secondary village roads shall be
carried out by estates directly or under contracts
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
to prequalified contractors in accordance with the
Borrower's normal procurement procedures.
B.   Estates Development (Part B of the Project)
1.   Except as provided in paragraphs 2, 3 and C below,
agricultural machinery, vehicles and equipment, and
agrochemicals, shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the Guidelines, on the basis of international
competive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for the procurement of office equipment,
agricultural and processing plant machinery,
and equipment which are estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent, may be awarded on the basis of
prudent shopping after solicitation of at least
three price quotations, provided, however, that the
aggregate total amount so procured shall not exceed
$350,000 equivalent each for Parts B.1 and B.2 of
the Project.
3.   Up to $100,000 equivalent in value of agrochemicals
may be procured by PTP XVIII annually and PNP I


﻿- 31 -
annually for the purposes of Part B of the Project
on the basis of prudent shopping after solicitation
of at least three price quotations.
4.   Civil works for Part B.1 and B.2 of the Project
shall be carried out by PTP XVIII and PNP I,
respectively, except that construction of housing
shall be carried out under contract awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding to prequalified
contractors in accordance with the Borrower's
normal procurement procedures.
C.   Contracts for up to ten vehicles necessary for start-up
use by consultants may be procured under the respective
consultants' contracts on the basis of at least three
price quotations.
D.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the -Guidelines, the Borrower shall
prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible,
and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the
date of availability to the public of the first tender
or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the
case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity
to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
E.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be
required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of
entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price
for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties
and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the deliv-
ery of goods to the place of their use or installation
shall be included.


﻿- 32 -
II. Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Parts I.A.1 and I.B.1 of this Schedule, goods manu-
factured in Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Indonesia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
Group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each Group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 33 -
Group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the Group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
III. Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification and for such eligibility shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the
applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the
Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifi-
cations in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and.
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for machinery, vehicles,
equipment, furniture, agrochemicals, fertilizer and other mate-
rials estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more and with
respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for


﻿- 34 -
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 35 -
SCHEDULE 5
Organization and Management
1.   Smallholder Settlement
(a) Director General of Estates
Overall direction and coordination of the implementa-
tion of the Project will be the responsibility of the
Director General of Estates, assisted by the group of
staff referred to in Section 3.15 of the Loan Agreement.
The DGE will be responsible, inter alia, for:
(i) project and village master planning and preparation
of annual work programs;
(ii) guidance to the Provincial Coordinating Committees
(see paragraph (b) below) and the Project Managers
(see paragraph (c) below) on settler recruitment
and selection procedures, design and supervision of
settler participation agreements, crop processing
and marketing arrangements;
(iii) obtaining the Borrower's approval of project
budgets and coordinating project financing arrange-
ments;
(iv) administration of project procurement; and
(v) preparation and execution of contracts between the
DGE and the nucleus estates for rubber development
and at a later date for extension, processing, and
marketing services.
(b) Provincial Coordinating Committees
There shall be established and maintained a Provincial
Coordinating Committee (PCC) for Parts A.1 and A.2 of
the Project, respectively. Each PCC shall have as its
chairman and chief executive the Chairman of BAPPEDA,
First Assistant of the Sekretaris Welayah Daerah as in
the case of Jambi Province as deputy chief executive the
head of the DPD, and the following additional members:


﻿- 36 -
the Project Manager (see paragraph (c) below) the site
manager of PTP VI and XVIII, respectively; and the
respective Bupatis. Others may be invited to participate
in their work from time to time. The Provincial Coordi-
nating Committees will be responsible for coordinating
the implementation of those functions under Part A of
the Project which are within the jurisdiction and
responsibility of the respective Provincial Governments,
including, inter alia, construction of village infra-
structure, roads and facilities for health and educa-
tion, food cropping programs and the grant of land
rights to Participating Settlers. For these purposes the
PCC will, inter alia:
(i) prepare programs and budgets for implementation of
Provincial Government functions under Part A of the
Project in accordance with a master plan;
(ii) coordinate and monitor the activities of the
Provincial Government agencies concerned with
provision of village infrastructure, village roads,
health, educational and community facilities, and
the implementation of food cropping programs;
(iii) advise and assist the Project Manager in settler
recruitment, resettlement and administration;
and
(iv) determine from time to time the rubber price to be
paid by PTP VI and PTP XVIII to Participating
Settlers, in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.10 of the Loan Agreement.
(c) Project Manager
There shall be appointed persons with appropriate
qualifications and experience to serve as Project
Managers for Part A.1 and A.2 of the Project. The
Project Managers will report directly to the Director
General of Estates; will be proposed by the Nucleus
Estates PTP VI and PTP XVIII, and appointed by the
Minister of Agriculture and will be responsible for the
implementation of those functions under Part A of the
Project which are within the jurisdiction and respon-
sibility of DGE, including, inter alia, the supervision


﻿- 37 -
of block rubber planting, settler administration, and
overall project coordination. For these purposes, the
Project Managers will be responsible, inter alia,
for:
(i) preparation of an action program, subject to the
approval of the DGE, for implementation of master
plans, and annual work programs;
(ii) preparation of budgets for all functions under Part
A of the Project;
(iii) supervision and coordination of the implementation
of the project, and village master plans by the
nucleus estate and Provincial Government agencies;
(iv) design and supervision of smallholder participation
agreements, land transfers, and allocation of
house, food crop and rubber areas;
(v) smallholder recruitment, resettlement and selection
(including registration), and arrangements for
smallholder training; and
(vi) monitoring and reporting on project progress to the
DGE, the BRI, the Provincial Government and the
Bank.
(d) Bupati
The Bupati will be responsible, under the direction of
the PCC, inter alia, for:
(i) implementation of those functions under Part A of
the Project which are within the jurisdiction of
the Kabupaten Government, in particular those to be
funded through INPRES and Kabupaten APBD;
(ii) coordination of the BIMAS Program in the respective
Settlement Areas;
(iii) preparation of INPRES and Kabupaten APBD budgets
for Part A of the Project in accordance with a
master plan; and


﻿- 38 -
(iv) coordinating his work program with the work program
of the Project Manager.
(e) PTP VI and PTP XVIII Nucleus Estates
The Nucleus Estates PTP VI and PTP XVIII will develop
rubber areas for Participating Settlers and be respon-
sible, inter alia, for:
(i) For the whole period of the Project:   Establishing
the Planting Materials Supply Unit which will
provide planting materials, fertilizer and agro-
chemicals and appropriate extension services to
Participating Settlers;
(ii) For a period of up to three years after planting:
Clearing land for planting rubber, construction of
settler houses and water supplies, rubber planting
and maintenance, construction of primary and
secondary village roads and rubber collection
tracks, and procurement and application of inputs
for rubber development and settler training;
(iii) For a period from three years after planting
to production: Procurement and supervisi-n of
application of inputs, maintenance of rubber
collection tracks, settler training, particularly
in rubber tapping, and extension activities;
and
(iv) During the production period: Provision of organi-
zation of latex collection and of cost recovery,
and the provision of comprehensive processing and
marketing services, and extension activities.
(f) BRI
BRI will be responsible, inter alia, for:
(i) as handling bank on behalf of the Borrower, chan-
neling funds for rubber development to the nucleus
estates and smallholders;
(ii) maintenance of smallholder loan accounts; and


﻿- 39 -
(iii) provision of short-term credit to smallholders for
food cropping through the BIMAS program.
2.   Estate Development - PTP XVIII and PNP I
The executive management (Direksi) of PTP XVIII and PNP I
will be responsible for implementation of Part B.1 and B.2 of the
Project, subject to the overall responsibility for management and
coordination of the Director General of Estates and the Minister
of Agriculture.
3.   Program Support
The Director General of Estates will be responsible for
utilizing the program of technical assistance to the DGE and funds
for construction of housing, nursery development, and purchase of
essential machinery for future NES projects.
4.   Monitoring and Evaluation
The Director General of Estates will be responsible for.
establishing and implementing a monitoring and evaluation system
for the Project.
5.   Participating Ministries/Agencies
Ministry/Agency
Primarily Responsible
Project Component                 for Implementation
Part A - Smallholder Settlement
and Rubber Development
Parts A.1 and A.2                - DGE
- Chairman of BAPPEDA
(and First Assistant-
Sekwilda for Jambi)
- Bupati
- PTP VI and PTP XVIII
- Provincial and
Kabupaten Agencies
for Health and for
Education


﻿- 40 -
Ministry/Agency
Primarily Responsible
Project Component                 for Implementation
- Provincial and
Kabupaten Agencies
for Food Crops
(Dinas Pertanian
Rakyat)
- Provincial and
Kabupaten Agencies
for Public Works
(Dinas Pekerjaan
Umum)
Part B.1 - Estate Development         - Minister of Agri-
culture, Directorate
General of Estates,
PTP XVIII
Part B.2 - Estate Development         - Minister of Agri-
culture, Directorate
General of Estates,
PNP I
Part C.1                              - DGE


﻿- 41 -
SCHEDULE 6
Provisions to be included in the
Smallholder Rubber Development Agreements
The Smallholder Rubber Development Agreements to be entered
into between DGE and PTP XVIII and DGE and PTP VI, respectively,
shall require the respective nucleus estates to undertake,
inter alia, as follows:
(1) to operate rubber nurseries, clear future rubber land,
construct settler houses, install water supplies, plant and
maintain rubber, and construct primary and secondary village roads
and rubber collection tracks, all in accordance with specifica-
tions designated by DGE;
(2) to procure and apply rubber area inputs in accordance
with the relevant procurement procedures specified in Schedule 4
to the Loan Agreement, on the basis of tender specifications
prepared by DGE;
(3) to train Participating Settlers in rubber planting and
maintenance in accordance with syllabi prepared in consultation
with DGE;
(4) to clear 3 ha of rubber land and 1 ha for a house,
garden and food crop area for each Participating Settler in the
Danau Salak Settlement Area and 2 ha of rubber land for each
Participating Settler in the Rimbo Bujang Settlement Area;
(5) to provide food crop inputs to Participating Settlers
in accordance with criteria specified by DGE;
(6) to establish a Planting Materials Supply Unit;
(7) to maintain rubber collection tracks to appropriate
standards;
(8) to provide training in rubber tapping, extension,
processing and marketing services, as required by the DGE and the
respective Provincial Governments;
(9) to employ Participating Settlers during the first three
years after rubber planting, and additional casual labor where
required, in accordance with normal estate practices and proce-
dures;


﻿- 42 -
(10) to employ adequate staff, as agreed between DGE and
the nucleus estate;
(11) to maintain proper accounts of all expenditures for
Part A.1 and A.2 of the Project, respectively;
(12) to prepare annual budgets;
(13) to facilitate inspection of all works under Part A.1 and
A.2 of the Project, respectively, by the DGE and the Bank; and
(14) to collect rubber from Participating Settlers       in
payment of Participating Settler debt obligations to BRI in
accordance with the Smallholder Financing Arrangements specified
in Schedule 7 to the Loan Agreement, and to purchase all addi-
tional rubber offered for sale by Participating Settlers, at the
prices specified from time to time by the Provincial Coordinating
Committees,


﻿-43 -
SCHEDULE 7
Provisions to be included in
Smallholder Financing Arrangements
1.   The Smallholder Financing Arrangements shall consist of:
(a) a Financing Agreement between the Borrower or BT, acting
for and on behalf of the Borrower, and BRI, to provide for the
channeling of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Credit Expen-
ditures for Part A of the Project and Non-Credit Expenditures,
and the Borrower's contribution to the financing of such Credit
and Non-Credit Expenditures, to BRI; and
(b) Sub-Financing Agreements, respectively, between BRI and
PTP XVIII and between BRI and PTP VI to provide for the further
channeling of the funds referred to under paragraph 1 (a) to PTP
XVIII and PTP VI, respectively.
2.   The Financing Agreement referred to in paragraph 1 (a)
shall require BI, inter alia, to make available to BRI the pro-
ceeds of the Loan withdrawn for Credit Expenditures and some
Non-Credit Expenditures (presently estimated at about $56,000,000
equivalent), and all such additional funds as are allocated by the
Borrower (presently estimated at about Rupiah 13,900,000,000
through FY 1986, as   detailed in paragraph 3 below) to cover the
total requirements for Credit Expenditures and relevant Non-Credit
Expenditures. For these purposes, Credit Expenditures shall be
defined as those expenditures for Part A of the Project which are
intended to be recovered from Participating Settlers through
rubber collections, and shall include the costs of:
(i) land clearing;
(ii) fertilizers and chemicals (including pesticides);
(iii) wages and salaries of Participating Settlers
and casual labor;
(iv) machinery and equipment for rubber development;
(v) settler housing;
(vi) a subsistence package including first year seed
and fertilizer and cash payments not exceeding


﻿-44-
30,000 Rupiah per Participating Settler family (not
including Planting Materials Supply Unit);
(vii) primary and secondary village roads and rubber
collection tracks; and
(viii) estate overhead costs as approved by DGE of about
10% of the direct costs of rubber establishment
(excluding related machinery and equipment).
3.   The Borrower's contribution to meet the total requirements
for Credit Expenditures shall be provided from sources in the
Ministry of Finance on the basis of approved annual budgets. The
Borrower's annual contributions to meet these requirements are
presently estimated as follows:
FY 1980/81                    Rupiahs  1.5 billion
FY 1981/82                    Rupiahs  2.2 billion
FY 1982/83                    Rupiahs  2.5 billion
FY 1983/84                    Rupiahs 3.0 billion
FY 1984/85                    Rupiahs 3.3 billion
FY 1985/86                    Rupiahs 1.4 billion
TOTAL               Rupiahs 13.9 billion
4.   BI shall, under the Financing Agreement with BRI, make
available to BRI, and BRI shall, under the Sub-Financing Agree-
ments with PTP XVIII and PTP VI, make available to PTP XVIII and
PIP VI the amounts required to meet Credit Expenditures for Part
A.1 and A.2 of the Project, respectively, (including both the
amounts to be provided by the Borrower and those to be provided
from the proceeds of the Loan). Such amounts shall be determined
on the basis of annual budgets approved at least 3 months before
the start of each fiscal year, and shall be advanced to PTP XVIII
and PTP VI quarterly, sufficiently in advance so as to enable PTP
XVIII and PTP VI to carry out their respective functions under
Part A.1 and A.2 of the Project without delays resulting from
unavailability of funds. To enable BRI to release in time the
required funds to PTP XVIII and PTP VI, the Financing Agreement
shall provide for arrangements under which such funds will be made
available to BRI in advance of BRI's need to release such funds to
PTP XVIII and PTP VI. PTP XVIII and PTP VI shall be authorized,
within the approved annual budgets, and subject to the approval of
DGE, to anticipate their quarterly requirements should project
implementation proceed more rapidly than planned, provided ade-
quate notice thereof is given to BRI and BI. Without limitation


﻿-45 -
upon the foregoing, advances to PTP XVIII and PTP VI to meet their
quarterly requirements shall include the requirements to be met
from the Borrower's contribution and those to be financed from the
proceeds of the Loan.
5.   The requirements for Credit Expenditures and Non-Credit
Expenditures are presently estimated to be financed as follows:
Part A.1 (PTP XVIII)
From the proceeds of the Loan: the equivalent of
$22,500,000.
From the Borrower: Rupiahs 5,796,000,000.
Part A.2 (PTP VI)
From the proceeds of the Loan: the equivalent of
$33, 500,000.
From the Borrower: Rupiahs 8,090,000,000.
6.   The funds to be made available by BI to BRI and by BRI to PTP
XVIII and PTP VI, respectively, as set forth above, shall be risk
free to BRI and PTP XVIII and PTP VI; that is, such funds shall be
repayable: (i) by PTP XVIII and PTP VI to BRI, only from the
proceeds of rubber received from Participating Settlers, in
accordance with the provisions set forth in paragraph 9 below,
and (ii) by BRI to BI, only from repayments received by BRI from
PTP XVIII and PTP VI pursuant to (i) above.
7.   BI and BRI shall be paid a handling fee in the aggregate
at the rate of one percent (1%) per annum on the amounts disbursed
to PTP XVIII and PTP VI for Credit Expenditures and outstanding,
or at such other rate as the Borrower, BI and BRI may agree, said
fee to be divided between BI and BRI as the parties may agree from
time to time. Said handling fee shall not be included as a part of
Credit Expenditures to be recovered from Participating Settlers,
and shall be payable semiannually by the Borrower directly to BI
and BRI.
8.   PTP XVIII and PTP VI shall be required to establish and
maintain appropriate accounts to record all expenditures from the
proceeds of the Financing Agreement. After the third year of
settlement, BRI shall establish and maintain individual small-
holder accounts for Participating Settlers, to which shall be


﻿- 46 -
charged each Participating Settler's share of Credit Expenditures,
in accordance with criteria and procedures to be agreed among the
Borrower, BRI and the Bank.
9.   BRI with the assistance of PTP XVIII and PTP VI shall require
Participating Settlers to enter into Credit Agreements under
which each Participating Settler will agree, inter alia, to repay
his share of Credit Expenditures charged to his individual small-
holders' account, in kind, on the following basis:
(a) the Participating Settler's debt obligation shall bear
no interest during the first three years and shall bear interest
thereafter at the rate of 10.5% per annum on the amounts outstand-
ing, said interest to be capitalized and added to principal during
the following three years, and payable thereafter starting in the
seventh year until the principal amount is fully repaid;
(b) principal shall be amortized over 15 years in the case
of Participating Settlers under Part A.1 of the Project (PTP
XVIII) and 16 years in the case of Participating Settlers under
Part A.2 of the Project (PTP VI), in each case including a grace
period of 3 years.
(c) Participating Settlers shall be required to deliver
periodically (on a weekly basis) to the respective nucleus estates
in payment of debt obligations, fixed quantities of rubber
expressed in kilograms established from time to time by decision
of the Provincial Coordinating Committees, on the basis of esti-
mated average annual yields of smallholders from 3 ha of rubber in
the Danau Salak Settlement Area and from 2 ha of rubber in the
Rimbo Bujang Settlement Area, not to exceed 25% of such yields per
annum;
(d) Participating Settlers shall be credited for the rubber
so delivered in payment of debt obligations (and any additional
rubber offered for sale to the nucleus estate) at the prices
determined from time to time by the respective Provincial Coordi-
nating Committees in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.10 of the Loan Agreement; and
(e) grace and repayment periods shall be measured from the
year in which block-planted rubber allocated to a Participating
Settler was planted.


﻿- 47 -
SCHEDULE 8
Provisions to be included in
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
1.   Principal Amount: (a) PTP XVIII Subsidiary Loan Agreement:
The equivalent in Rupiahs of the amount withdrawn from the
Loan Account on account of expenditures for Part B.1 of the
Project, estimated at about $10,000,000 equivalent and of
such amounts as shall be required by PTP XVIII and lent to it
by the Borrower for the purposes of the said Part of the
Project, estimated at about $3,500,000 equivalent.
(b) PNP I Subsidiary Loan Agreement: The equivalent in
Rupiahs of the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account on
account of expenditures for Part B.2 of the Project estimated
at about $31,500,000 equivalent and of such amounts as shall
be required by PNP I and lent to it by the Borrower for the
purposes of said Part of .the Project, estimated at about
$11,000,000 equivalent.
2.   Interest: Interest will be payable from January 1, 1980, at
the rate of 13.5% per annum on the amounts withdrawn and
outstanding. Both loans will be repayable in 12 equal semi-
annual payments, with the first payment to be made January 1,
1986.
3.   Amortization: Twelve approximately equal semiannual install-
ments including both principal and interest with the first
installment due January 1, 1986.
4.   Other: Performance covenants of PTP XVIII under the PTP XVIII
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and of PNP I under the PNP I
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, respectively, satisfactory to the
Bank.


