a  - /Q/  3/S '7-X+-A. .
Doment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 9390-AL
Report No.  9390-AL   Type: (SAR)
KRAFFT, NI/ X32626 / H-4127/ EM2AG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PILOT FORESTRY AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MAY 18, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(March IM92)
Currency Unit - Algerian Dinar
US$1.00 - DA 22.50
DA 1.00 - US$ 0.044
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ANF         National Forestry Agency
ANN         National Agency for Nature Conservation
APC         Popular Communal Assembly
BNEDER      National Office for Rural Development Studies
BNEF        National Office for Forest Studies
CNP         National Planning Council
EDIMCO      Enterprise for the Distribution of Construction Materials
EMIFOR      Local-Level Forest Enterprise
ENAB        National Enterprise for Wood Supply
ENATB       National Enterprise for Wood Processing and Furniture
ENMGP       National Enterprise for Joinery and Prefabrication
EPA         Autonomous Administrative Agency
EPE         Economic Public Enterprise
EPIC        Industrial and Commercial Public Agency
GEF         Global Environment Fund
INRF        National Institute for Forestry *esearch
METAP       Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program
OAMV        Office for the rPvelopment of the Mountainous Zones
ONTF        National Office  or Forest Works
ORDF        Regional Forest Development Corporation
PMT         Project Management Team
PTT         Post and Telecommunications
SNTA        National Tobacco and Match Company
SNTF        National Railway Company
UNDP        United Nations Development Program



FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL-REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PILOT FORESTRY AND WATERSHED MAUNAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Loan and Project Summary   . .  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  i
I.    INTRODUJCTION   .1...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .
II.    FORESTRY   AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT IN ALGERIA  . . . . . . . . . .                           1
A.  Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B.    Contribution to the Economy   ...  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  4
C.    Forestry Institutions   ...  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  5
D.  Government Plans and Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
E.  Forest and Environment Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
F.    Forest Operations   ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
G.    Watershed Operations  ...  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    14
H.    Nature Conservation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
III.      BANK INVOLVEMENT IN AGRICULTURE IN ALGERIA   . . . . . . . . . . .    18
IV.  THE PROJECT AREA.   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
V.  THE PROJECT.                    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
A.    Objectives,  Rationale,  and Main Features  . . . . . . . . . .    21
B. Detailed Description .23
C.    Project Costs   .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        32
D. Financing .33
E.    Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     . . . . . . . . . .    34
F.    Disbursements   ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    .    35
c.    Accounts and Audits   ...  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    37
VI.      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   ....  .                .  .  .     .....  .    .  .  .  .  .  .     .    37
A.    Organization and Management   ...  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    37
B.    Implementation  ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    38
C.    Participation of Local Populations  ...  .                   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    38
D.  Training and Consultancy Services . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
E.    Monitoring and Evaluation   ...  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    40
F.    Status of Project Preparation   ...  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    41
This report Is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that vlsited Algeria in Nev ber-De _ber 1999
comprised of Messrs. N. Krafft (Mission Leader), J. Luis (Land Us. Speciallet), and M. I. Schizmr (Economiat)
- Bank; and ossrs. D. Lauras (Forest Agronomist) and J. Mrian (Forest R-earchb Specialist) - Consultants.
The toehical aspects of the project ware essentialy appraied in May 1990 by a mission coqWised of Masrt.
B. Krafft (Mission Leader). J. Lewis (Land Use Specalist), C.  olloway (aturae Consaervation) and l. I.
SchirAer (Economist) - Dank; and Mecsrs. D. Leurans (Forest Agronoaist) and D. Lapaze (Wood Industries
Specialist) - Consultants. A mission In March 1092 of H. Stier (Task Manager) and Cb. Lauara (Economist,
PAD/CP) made the final adjustments to the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance    I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Pae
Table of Contents (cont'd).
VII.    BENEFITS A    JUSTIFICATION  ....  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 41
A.  General  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   41
B.  Yields and Production  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   42
C.  Markets and Prices ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   43
D.  Benefits   .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   43
E.  Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Analysis . . . . . . . . .  45
F. Project Risks .46
G. Environmental Impact Statement.                                47
VIII.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  48
LIST OF ANN2XES
ANNEX 1  - SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
Table 1:    Project Cost Summary
Table 2:    Project Components by Year
Table 3:    Summary Accounts by Year
Table 4:    Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan
ANNEX 2  - ASSURANCES RELATED TO THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PILOT WATERSHED
MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
ANNEX 3  - PROPOSED BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
ANNEX 4  - SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
ANNEX 5  - FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PRICES OF SELECTED OUTPUTS AND INPUTS
CHART    - Organization Chart
MAP      - Project Sites - IBRD 22755R



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ANSERI
PILOT FORESTRY AND WATERSHED HANAGENENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrover:               Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Amount:                  US$25 million equivalent
Terms:                   17 years, including five years' grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
Executing Aeencies:    National Forestry Agency (ANF) and National institute
for Forestry Research (INRF)
Project DescriDtion:    The objective of the pilot project is to develop a long-
term action program to better protect and manage
Algeria's natural resources, specifically its forests,
watersheds, and nature conservation areas. The project
would st .engthen the institutions working in these areas
and, through appropriate testing, would develop the
policy and technical basis for replication of suitable
project components as part of a national resource
management  program.    The  five-year  project  would
comprise: (a) studies to: (i) identify how much of
Algeria's wood needs could be met domestically,
(ii) simplify and improve forestry planning and test
ways to integrate forest activities with those of
livestock owners, and (iii) provide a master plan for
major watersheds; (b) pilot reforestation on 4,300 ha
and pilot exploitation operations to introduce new, low-
cost techniques; (c) watershed management operations to
introduce new, low-cost approaches to increase farmers'.
incomes and to reduce erosion on some 10,000 ha of
fragile and eroded land; (d) nature conservation with
emphasis on the strengthening of the applied research
capacity in this area and on tra.ining and the supply of
equipment; and (e) support activities including related
applied forest research, institution strengthening,
vehicle and equipment purchases, buildings, training and
technical assistance.



eii -
Benefits and Risks:     The main benefit of the project would be the long-term
improved and more efficient use of Algeria's natural
resources. The project would develop a viable forest
sector so that, in addition to environmental benefits,
it would increase wood production, thereby saving
foreign exchange.   In the watersheds, employment and
incomes of the poorest sections of the population would
be increased, while erosion and sedimentation of dams
would be reduced, thereby helping to alleviate Algeria's
acute water shortage. Finally, the project would help
ensure the preservation of the country's diverse flora
and fauna. The main risks relate to the undertaking of
a project that depends partly for its success on the
presence of a decentralized and more market-based
system, when Algeria's economic system is itself
undergoing such profound reform.   Fortunately,  the
Government has shown strong commitment to its overall
program of reform. It is likely, therefore, that the
economic environment in which the project would be
implemented  would  be  conducive  to  success.    The
secondary risks are project related, such as the quality
of monitoring and evaluation, studies, and technical
assistance and training. The project has been designed
to address these issues.



- iii -
Estimated Proiect Costs:A'
Local          Foreign            Total
------- (US$ mill ion)--------------
A. Studies and Management Plans            0.7             2.2                2.9
B. Pilot Forest Operations                 7.6             7.9               15.5
Reforestation                        (6.0)           (5.9)             (11.9)
Exploitation                         (0.3)           (0.6)              (0.9)
Applied Research                     (1.3)           (1.4)              (2.7)
C. Pilot Watershed Development             5.0             3.5                8.5
D. Nature Conservation                     0.1             0.3                0.4
E. Support Activities                      1.6             2.0                3,6
Base Cost                            15.0            15.9               30.9
Physical Contingencies                1.4             1.6                3.0
Price Contingencies                   2.0           _15                  3.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  18.4
Financing Plan:                          Local           Forei             Total
- --------------(US$ million)---------------
Government                             11.6              -               11.6
Bank                                    6.0            19.0              25.0
Farmers                                 0.8              -                0.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     18.4                              37.4
Estimated Disbursements (USS million)
FY93   FY94   FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99
Annual                   1       2      3       5        5         5        4
Cumulative               1      3       6      11       16       21        25
Economic Rate of Return:        12X
MaR No.:                IBRD  22755R
a/ Includes US$6.8 million of duties and taxes.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PILOT FORESTRY AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01        Algeria  is  faced with  serious  problems  of  erosion  and  land
degradation that, in the long run, will undermine its productive potential and
will exacerbate the problem of water scarcity. Rapid population growth over the
past few decades, accompanied by encroachment and forest fires, has led to a
steady decline in the area under forests, a subsequent increase in shrubs
(maquis), and an expansion of agriculture in marginal areas, both in the
mountains and the arid areas. Action must be taken to prevent a further decline
in the area and quality of Algeria's forests -- which could make a much more
significant contribution to the economy, saving scarce foreign exchange used for
import of wood products. In the watersheds, the combination of cultivation and
overgrazing has resulted in a loss of vegetative cover and consequent intense
erosion. Not surprisingly, productivity in the upper catchment has started to
decline, sedimentation is already significantly shortening the life of dams, and
scarce water is wasted as runoff instead of being used to recharge the aquifer.
1.02        In the late 1980s, Government and the Bank started discussions on
ways to address problems in the sector. The proposed project, which follows from
these discussions, was identified by a joint Bank-FAO/CP mission and was prepared
by FAO/CP in a report dated March 1990. The project was pre-appraised by the
Bank in May 1990. Appraisal took place in November-December 1990, but a major
reorganization in the sector caused delays; a Bank mission in February-March 1992
made the final adjustments to the pilot project.
II. FORESTRY AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT IN ALGERIA
A. Resources
2.01        After Sudan, Algeria is the largest country in Africa and in the
Arab-Moslem world.  It covers some 2.4 million kmg, divided into three zones
roughly parallel to the Mediterranean coast. Each zone is separated by mountain
ranges: (a) a northern coastal strip, with relatively good rainfall, divided by
the Tellian Mountains from:  (b) a relatively mountainous, pre-desert steppe
(these two zones cover 15Z of the country and incorporate nearly all the forest
areas); and (c) south of the Sahara Atlas Mountains, the Sahara Desert covering
slightly over 2 million kin, with an extremely harsh hyper-arid climate.



-2-
2.02        Forests:  According to official estimates, gazetted forests cover
some 3.7 mil?ion ha, 1.5X of the land area -- about the same as the amount of
land cultivated in any year. Of the land under such forests, about half is
considered to be relatively high-quality forest, while the remainder is low-grade
forest or maquis. If the arid Sahara is excluded, forests cover about 15X of the
northern part of the country. An additional 15-20 million ha are suitable for
grazing, esparto scrub, and shrubs.
2.03        Table 2.1 shows the forest resource based on a 1984 inventory; this
excludes parks and reserves (para. 2.06).   Given the incidence of fire and
encroachment, the area under forests is probably less than indicated in official
statistics.   The table shows the volume of wood that could tivioretically
(biologically) be exploited each year on a renewable basis. rtuch of the timber
is, however, in small and scattered stands and could not be exploited
commercially. The amount that could be logged commercially is not known.
Table 2.1: FOREST RESOURCES - AREA, VOLUME, AND POTENTIAL FOR EXPLOITATION
Biological   Average    Actual
Ha    Standing   Potential for Harvest   as X of
('000)   Volume    Exploitation             Biological
(million m3)  ('OOOm3/yr)  ('OOOm3)  Potential
Productive Forest
Aleppo Pine              880       30           850         145          17
Cork, Zeen Oak,
and Cedar              300      22            250          22           8
Fast Growing
Eucalyptus and
Pine                    75       3            170          48.A8
Subtotal          1,255      55          1,270         215         18
Protective Forest
Holm Oak, Juniper,       220
and Thuya
Miscellaneous Forest
Miscellaneous            320
Maquis                 1.875
Total             3,670
2.04        Rainfall generally increases from south to north and from west to
east. The best growing conditions for trees are found in the northeast of tha
country, where rainfall is the highest (at up to 1,200 mm). It is here that the
cork, zeen oak, and cedar forests are found. As elsewhere in Algeria, much of
this forest is degraded, and in some areas regeneration is severely hampered by
the pressure from livestock. The fast-growing eucalyptus and pine forests are



-3.
also found in the northeast of the country. The most important wood resource in
the country is the Aleppo pine which constitute about half the "productive"
forest area. Most of the stands are scattered throughout the central mountains,
where rainfall averages 600-900 mm. In general, they are intermixed with holm
oak, thuya, and juniper. In the semi-arid areas there are a variety of species
suitable only for protective and environmental purposes. Some forest lands are
so degraded that they are little more than scrub (known as maquis).
2.05        The three wilayate (provinces) of Skikda, Annaba, and El Tarf in the
northeast of AlgetUa, bordering Tunisia and the Mediterranean coast, contain 97%
of the productive pines, 91% of the cork oak, and 45% of the eucalyptus.
2.06        Reserves. Parks. and Wetlands:   In addition to national forests,
Algeria has put aside large areas for conservation purposes. There are four
nature reserves, with a total area of 36,800 ha; seven national parks, covering
37,000 ha; four game reserves, with 50,000 ha; and two parks in the Sahara,
covering 560,000 km't1.  The fact that Algeria has set aside nearly a quarter
of its land area for parks and reserves demonstrates the importance that the
country attaches to the preservation of its natural resources.
2.07        Wetlands in Algeria are a varied group of fresh, brackish or saline,
seasonal or permanent lakes and marshes. Many have been lost through drainage
for agriculture, but slightly more than 1 million ha may still be considered of
international interest. They occur largely, but by no means entirely, within the
250 km strip from the coast to the Saharan Atlas Mountains. They are of great
ecological value because of their varied fauna and flora and, more particularly,
because they provide a vital habitat for large numbers of migratory and
overwintering wildfowl. The most important wetland in the country, which is
included in the protected areas system, is the El Kala National Park (a wetland
complex of 76,436 ha of saline and freshwater lakes and marshes). Also included
as a protected area is the La Macta Nature Reserve, with 20,000 ha of sea-level
marsh.
2.08        Watersheds: As noted above, because of population pressure, more and
more marginal land is being brought into cultivation each year. At the same
time, livestock owners are grazing their animals on land that, only a few decades
ago, was either under forest or had gcod vegetative cover. As a result, some
12 million ha are threatened with erosion, much of which is in the ecologically
fragile steppe area.   It is estimated that the equivalent of 40,000 ha of
Algeria's scarce agricultural land is lost each year because of erosion and
desertification. Part of this erosion is reducing the storage capacity of dams
through sedimentation.
2.09        Given that Algeria is facing a very serious water shortage and has
extremely limited storage capacity for water, it is important that this storage
capacity be preserved. It is also important that as much water as possible be
stored as groundwater. The lack of vegetative cover, however, means that
For the distinction between parks and reserves, see paras. 2.62-2.63.



- 4 -
rainfall runoff rates are generally high and that water is wasted instead of
recharging the aquifer. Unless rigorous actions are started soon to improve
natural resource management in the watershed areas, Algeria's productive
potential will be seriously undermined. This will be reflected partly through
declines in agricultural productivity and partly through water shortages; both
would have major economic and social consequences.
B. Contribution to the Economy
2.10        The most important economic contribution of forests to eate has
probably been ecological. Certainly, the quantifiable benefits have not been
commensurate with the level of Government expenditures in the sector. Although
the annual harvest of wood products more than tripled, from about 45,000 m3 in
1978 to some 200,000 m3 over the past two years, this exploitation represents
only a small p..  3rtion of the wood used; the balance is imported.   Imports
reached a peak of 1,350,000 m3 in 1983 but are currently running at around
1 million m3 because of a shortage of foreign exchange. Algeria imports some
US$200-300 million worth of wood products a year, roughly 2.5X of merchandise
imports. Total demand for wood products is estimated at around 1.5 million m3,
and local production currently meets only 10% of demard.
2.11        As shown in table 2.1, only about 181 of the wood that could be
exploited on a sustainable basis is harvested. If it is assumed that 50X of the
Aleppo pine, cork and zeen oaks, and cedar and 100X of the fast-growing species
can be exploited commercially, then Algeria could today produce over 700,000 m3
of wood annually on a sustainable basis -- nearly half its annual needs. This
would result in an annual foreign exchange savings of over US$100 million.
Moreover, if Algeria were able to plant the 400,000 ha that have been identified
as suitable for replanting to fast-growing species (species with a growth rate
of not less than 5 m3/ha/yr), over 2 million m3 of wood could be cut annually,
which is considerably above present demand.
2.12        Much of the forest gives the impression of having been abandoned.
Apart from the construction of fire breaks, forest roads, and water points --
largely conservation measures (although the water points also serve for
livestock, which, if not properly managed, can reduce natural regeneration) --
there is little evidence that the forests are being actively managed.  Most
forests are slowly deteriorating, and there is relatively little replanting,
controlled regeneration, thinning, or exploitation.   As a result, livestock
owners see the forests as a free resource to be exploited at will; indeed,
forests contribute a significant proportion of national forage production (para.
2.47). One of the objectives of the project is to show livestock owners that
forests can and should be better managed on a sustainable and economic basis to
increase production (including forage production) and employment in the area.



-5
C.  Forestry Institutlons
General
2.13        The Ministry of Agriculture has overall responsibility for the
development of the forestry sector, including watershed management. Recently the
Government, in an effort to revitalize the sector, undertook a major
reorganization of the institutions involved in the development and management of
the country's forests and watersheds. The responsibility for the forestry sector
was transferred from the Ministry of Hydraulics to the Ministry of Agriculture,
and the different certral directorates responsible for various aspects of the
forestry sector, and their local counterparts, were united under the National
Forestry Agency (ANF).
The National Forestry Agency (ANF)
2.14        The National Forestry Agency was created under an executive decree
dated April 21, 1990, as modified and amended by the executive decree of
February 23, 1991/. The ANF is an Autonomous Adtinistrative Agency (EPA), with
a separate legal identity and financial autonomy, under the supervision of the
Ministry of Agriculture.
2.15        The ANF is headed by a Director General, assisted by a Deputy
Director General, and is charged with the administration and management of the
forestry sector and the execution of Government forest policies. The ANF has a
Supervisory Board that is charged with studying and making proposals to the
Ministry of Agriculture of any questions in relation to ANF's organization and
activities. The ANF board is chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, and members
are representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Defense, Equipmsnt, and
Interior, the High Commission for Research, the National Planning Commission, and
the High Commission for the Development of the Steppe.   In thls way inter.
sectoral coordination is ensured. ANF Board members are appointed for three
years.   The Board may also invite any person whose participation is judged
helpful for the issues under discussion.
2.16        The ANF, at its headquarters in Algiers, is divided into five central
directorates responsible for: (a) administration; (b) planning and promotion of
productive activities; (c) forest management and development; (d) forest
protection; and (e) soil conservation.   The ANF is represented in the field
through six regional inspections, one for each of the major ecological regions
of Alger!a (West, Western Steppe, Center, Eastern Steppe, East, Northeast). Each
regional inspection is generally subdivided into three Forest Conservancies,
totaling 16 (see the Organization Chart in the annexes). The Conservancies, in
turn, are subdivided into a number of circumscriptions.
1/    Decrees No. 90-114 and 91-59, respectively.



- 6 -
Regional Forest Development Corporations (ORDFs)
2.17        The new forest organization includes six Regional Forest Development
Corporations (ORDFs)l', which overlap with the territories of the regional
inspections of ANF. The ORDFs are autonomous Industrial and Commercial Public
Agencies (EPICs) under the Ministry of Agriculture and are each headed by a
Director General.   The ORDFs' Supervisory Board is chaired by the Director
General of the ANF and has as members representatives of the Wali (local
government official) and of the Ministry of Equipment in the areas where they
operate. The ORDFs have been established to carry out forest studies and forest
operations at the local level in coordination with the ANF.  In practice ANF
commissions the ORDFs for such activities. The organization is still evolving,
and it is expected that the more commercial activities of the ORDF would be
gradually privatized by the creation of subsidiary companies run as Autonomous
Public Corporations (EPEs).
2.18        The new organization is not fully in place, and the division of
certain tasks between ANF and the ORDFs has yet to be clarified. Three risks can
be identified with the new structure: (a) some redundancy of tasks, personnel,
and equipment between ANF and the ORDFs if their respective mandates at the local
level are not more clearly defined; (b) limited incentives for the development
of a private sector as long as the ORDFs remain the main bidders for works; and
(c) possible difficulties for multi-sectoral coordination and the participation
of the local population in forestry and watershed management, since there is
little formal coordination at the wilaya level.   However,  the structure is
sufficiently well-defined to implement the pilot project, which will itself
provide an opportunity to test the organizational arrangements. These can be
further refined over time.
Other Existing Specialized rorestry Institutions
2.19        The Forest Department commissions the National Office for Forest
Studies (BNEF) and the National Office for Rural DeveloRment Studies (BNEDER) to
undertake on its behalf studies to prepare detailed plans for the improvement of
watersheds or the management of forests.   Both agencies are Economic Public
Enterprises (EPEs). Personnel in these well-staffed enterprises need further
training to improve the quality of management plans.
2.20        The National Institute for Forest Research (INRF) was created in 1981
as an Autoromous Administrative Agency (EPA), under the auspices of the Ministry
of Agriculture. It is organized into five technical departments (forest ecology,
silviculture, reforestation and soil conservatior., forest protection, and
information) as well as a department of administration. Its professional staff
has increased from about 10 researchers in 1981 to 80 now.  In addition, it
employs about 50 research assistants, 40 administrative support staff, and
185 laborers. INRF has a main complex of offices and laboratories on the
I/    Decree no. 90-116, dated April 21, 1990 and Decrees no. 80-312 to 80-318,
dated October 13, 1990.



outskirts of Algiers and 14 other field stations spread throughout Algeria.
Research is organized into a number of programs covering forests, mountainous
areas, the steppe, and the Sahara. Researchers are working on over 50 projects
at present, which means that efforts are somewhat dispersed and that,
consequently, the results of research take many years to realize. This problem
is compounded by a shortage of recurrent budget, the bulk of which is spent on
salaries. Moreover, some of the research issues that should be addressed are
not.   For example,  there is insufficient research on the silviculture of
indigenous wood species; development of techniques for regeneration of forests,
including the need to tackle social and pastoral aspects; means to compensate
livestock owners when forests have to be closed to grazing; production of forage
trees; wood technology; the role of forest roads as major causes of erosion;
mountain agriculture; finding answers to practical issues raised by foresters in
the field; and improving means to diffuse the research results that do exist.
In short, research needs to be better focused, prioritized, and linked to the
social and pastoral aspects that have been largely neglected until now.
D. Government Plans and Policies
2.21        Algeria is faced with rapid deforestation, decreasing productivity
of forest rangelands, growing erosion damage, and increasing sedimentation of
dams.   Despite these pressing problems, the share of the public investment
program allocated to the sector has remained roughly constant, at around 2X of
the total (DA 1 billion out of a total of DA 50 billion in 1990). Part of the
reason that Government has been unwilling to increase the share allocated to
forestry has been the poor return to past investments (para. 2.10). Government's
report on the execution of the last Plan notes that, despite the results achieved
in the sector, the objectives anticipated were not realized. The report cites
a lack of funds (DA 4.7 billion planned, against DA 7 billion requested by the
Ministry of Agriculture), weak implementation capacity, weak organizational
arrangements, inadequate definition of priorities, and inadequate effort. Given
Government's tight budgetary situation, it is unlikely that the allocation of
funds to the sector can be increased significantly.   What is important is
institutional arrangements to ensure that funds allocated to the sector are not
diverted elsewhere and that better use is made of existing resources. A recent
reorganization of the sector is intended to meet the first objective; the
proposed project is intended to meet the second.
2.22        Government's  objectives  for  the  long-term  development  of  the
sector1' include the following:
-     the protection and improvement of watersheds, the improvement of
mountainous areas, and the continued fight against desertification
in the South (the aim is to help reduce erosion and siltation of
dams and to increase rural incomes, thereby slowing down migration
to urban areas);
As stated in "Perspectives a moyen terme de developpement economique et
social", Conseil National de Planification, December 1989.



- 8 -
-     the improved management of existing forest resources, including the
extension of forests where possible (this entails increased
protection and a more rational utilization of the wood and forage
resources); and
-     the introduction of new technologies and the strengthening of
research to modernize the sector, reduce costs, and increase the
participation of farmers and livestock owners in the management of
forests and watersheds.
2.23        Government has also stated its intention to increase the number of
parks and reserves over the period 1990-99, adding ten new nature reserves
(including four wetlands), seven new national parks, and seven new game reserves.
The total area of these new conservation areas would exceed 400,000 ha.
2.24        Apart from the specific plans for parks and reserves, several of the
long-term objectives noted above lack concrete proposals for implementation. For
example, at present, domestic wood industries do not appear to be interested in
purchasing local wood (para. 2.44). Utilization of forests therefore has to be
linked to a better understanding of why forest industries are reluctant to use
local wood despite the wood scarcity. Finally, Government plans to give more
attention than it has in the past to forest areas as a potential source of faed
for livestock. The proposed pilot project aims to address this and other issues
and to develop concrete proposals for tackling them.
2.25        Government intends to continue its policy of providing low-cost
natural gas to consumers for cooking so that, unlike in many countries, the
demand to cut wood for fuel remains relatively low.
E. Forest and Environment Legiulation
2.26        The basic law governing tL. Algerian forests is the General Forest
Law (Law 84-12) of June 23, 1984, together with related implementing decrees and
orders. The law states that all existing forests and other woody vegetation, as
well as forestable areas, be they state or collective lands, belong to the
national forest estate and are governed by the General Forest Law.  Private
forests are also to be managed according to this law. Forests are classified in
three broad categories by purpose: productive forests, protective forests, and
special-interest forests (parks, reserves, and forests of military or scientific
interest).
2.27        The law establishes a legal framework for:  (a) the protection of
forests against agricultural encroachment, overgrazing, fires, pest and diseases,
and construction; (b) the management of forests (management plans);
(c) reforestation; (d) soil conservation and erosion control (public-interest
areas for protection, rehabilitation, and development of degraded areas); and
(e) forest police. However, comprehensive implementing decrees are yet to be
issued. Although the legal framework still needs to be further developed, the
main issue is lack of enforcement rather than the absence of legal provisions.



-9 -
2.28        Environment and nature conservation is governed by a General Law on
the Protection of the Environment (Law 83-03) of February 5, 1983.   Most
implementing decrees are under active preparation or have been issued --
including a decree issued in February 1990, requiring assessments for all works
or development schemes with potential negative environmental effects. Algeria
has also ratified several major international conventions on flora and fauna
protection, as well as on air and sea pollution.   In short, Algeria has a
generally adequate legislative framework for the conservation of nature.
However, proper enforcement still remains an issue.
F. Forest ORerations
Management Plans and their Implementation
2.29        The 1984 General Forest Law states that forests are to be maintained
according to management plans approved by the Minister of Agriculture and drawn
up after consultation with local populations. The plans should detail how to
manage, use, and protect the forest. Management plans are now prepared by the
National Office for Forest Studies (BNEF). To date, detailed management plans
are available for about 910,000 ha, or 50% of the total forest area excluding the
maquis. Priority was given to the forests of Aleppo pine and cork and zeen oak.
BNEF has prepared management plans for an average of 56,000 ha a year. It now
intends to double this rate,  to about 100,000 ha a year.   Even at this
accelerated pace, however, it would take more thapi 10 years to cover the total
forest area in Algeria (excluding the maquis).
2.30        Management plans have been excessively detailed and complex and have
not provided practical blueprints for action. They need to be simplified to
become more readily operational and accessible to local-level forest staff and
to implementation agencies. Because of their complexity, and also for financial
and technical reasons, management plans have been poorly implemented. Management
plans include three broad types of operations: infrastructure (construction of
forest roads, culverts, etc.), logging (thinnings and fellings), and plantation
or regeneration. In general, infrastructural objectives have been met, but not
those of other operations. In particular, there has been almost no thinning of
forests, an essential management technique to ensure the proper development of
forests. Exploitation, and hence replanting has also been limited. Because of
heavy grazing, virtually no regeneration of cedar and oak is taking place. As
a result, many of the cedar and oak forests are overmature and are starting to
decay. Forest research needs to put more emphasis on the development and
dissemination of appropriate regeneration techniques.
2.31        Two bilateral projects, financed by German and French assistance, aim
to improve the management of forests in Algeria. The former, which is about to
start, is an integrated rural development project on 45,000 ha of agricultural
and forest land in the wilaya of Skikda. The main components include, inter
alia, preparation and implementation of a forest management plan, experimental
logging-and processing of cork and zeen oak, water resources development, and
intensification of forage production.   The latter project,  which started
recently, covers 34,000 ha in the Guelma wilaya.  The main objective of the
project is the conservation of the Barbary deer, a unique species.  It also
includes the updating of the management plan, silvopastoral development, and



- 10 -
training. The proposed Bank project complements these two bilateral operations
by focusing on areas and operations they do not cover. However, close contact
will be necessary among these operations to ensure that lessons learned in one
are incorporated in the others.
Plantations
2.32.       There are about 100 nurseries in Algeria producing seedlings for the
forest service or for distribution to farmers in mountainous regions.   The
nurseries have sufficient capacity to meet demand in the foreseeable future.
However, techniques used for the production of seedlings need to be updated.
Present methods, which use a polythene bag filled with an overly dense substrate,
result in the roots becoming entangled as they wrap around inside the bag. The
main taproot becomes deformed or breaks when the seedling is removed.   The
seedling is thus bigger and less hardy than it should be, requiring both a larger
hole for planting and more careful maintenance (including more irrigation); this
technique also results in reduced growth and output.  Unit costs of planting and
maintenance could be reduced by introducing modern nursery techniques.  This
would also reduce seedling mortality and increase the productivity of
plantations.
2.33        Records indicate that, in the early 1980s, the equivalent of some
50,000 ha of forest were planted a year; this has slowed to 30,000 ha a year more
recently. The average success rate of these plantations is low, at 65X, giving
an actual replanting of less than 20,000 ha a year -- almost exactly balancing
losses by fire (an average of 19,000 ha a year).   The low success rate of
plantations substantially raises their costs,  for several reasons.   Many
plantings are in semi-arid areas, but harsh climatological conditions could be
overcome by the application of improved techniques. Frequently, decisions to
plant are undertaken in the absence of soil surveys, so that inappropriate
species are planted. More research needs to be undertaken to match soils and
climatic conditions with the best-adapted species.
2.34        Land clearing and preparation is currently done by a bulldozer fitted
with a blade. This overly disturbs the soil and removes the bulk of the organic
matter contained in the topsoil. As noted above, poor seedling preparation means
that taproots are often damaged or are planted horizontally.   In short,
techniques need to be modified and unit costs reduced. In 1988/89, EMIFORsl/
had a contract for replanting in the wilaya of Skikda at a negotiated price of
DA 18,000 (US$1,440) per ha, or about one and half times the cost in neighboring
countries.   This cost is a function of the exchange rate and of the high
financial prices for many inputs, but it also reflects high input use.  For
example, each worker typically plants some 50-60 seedlings a day, compared with
70-80 in neighboring countries and 100-200 in northern Mediterranean countries.
The new techniques to be introduced under the pilot project will require a
smaller planting hole, thereby saving time and increasing productivity.
v/    Local-level Forest Enterprises, state enterprises carrying out forest
operations in the Wilaya before reorganization.



- 11 -
2.35        Finally, local populations are often not adequately involved and
consequently view the plantation as reducing the forage available to their
animals. Consequently, they may deliberately attempt to destroy the plantations
by fire, or they may not be willing to keep their animals out during the
important establishment period.
Programming of Fellings and Marketing of Forest Stands
2.36        Until recently, forest stands could in theory be felled only if a
definite market had been found. Annual fellings were programmed and executed
iteratively as follows. First, a tentative program was established by the forest
service on the basis of recommendations in the management plans and estimates of
the needs of processing industries. Second, the National Office for Forest Works
(ONTF)1Y, or another logging operator selected by the forest service>, was
responsible for finding a potential buyer and negotiating a contract with him.
Third, the forest service would finalize the felling program for those stands on
which there was a negotiated contract.   Finally,  after signature of the
contracts, the local forest services would proceed with marking individual trees
to be felled, before actual felling by ONTF. ONTF, or the selected contractor,
did not have to pay for the standing timber, which was provided free. They were
paid for logging the wood and, at the same time, were able to sell the wood to
processing industries. In short, becaise of high unit costs, the only way that
ONTF could make a "profit" on the sale of wood was by teceiving free timber and
being paid the cost of logging the wood.
2.37        Many problems arose because of the poor implementation of this
process.  In general, it proved extremely difficult for ONTF to find buyers:
exploitation and transport costs were high, the equipment utilized by the
processing industries was often inadequate for local wood, and, because of the
overvalued exchange rate, imports were cheaper.   In some instances, where a
contract had been negotiated, buyers would subsequently refuse to collect and buy
the wood. Furthermore, some stands were logged even though this operation was
not called for in the management plan and no effort had been made to find an
outlet.
2.38        In future, the situation should improve because an implementing
decree to the 1984 General Forest Law has been issued (Decree no 89-170, dated
September 5, 1989), according to which forest stands are sold at stump by
auction, or, under exceptional circumstances, by direct contracting.
Exploitation
2.39        Because only small quantities of wood have been extracted from
forests over the last two decades, none of the logging operators has much
expertise in forest exploitation. They usually are poorly organized and operate
with inappropriate equipment.   In addition,  in the absence of competitive
I/    Before reorganization, now replaced by ORDFs.
During recent years, ONTF logged about 90X of the total volume of wood
felled, the private sector about 9.5X, and the EMIFORs about 0.51.



- 12
bidding, there was no incentive for keeping costs down. As a result, logging
costs average about US$55/m3 for timber and US$25/m3 for panelwood, which is
about five times more expensive than in neighboring countries in similar
situations (converted at the official exchange rate)Z/.
2.40        Domestic  wood supply  consists  of about  70X Aleppo  pine,  20X
eucalyptus,  and 10  other species (essentially zeen oak,  cedar, and Pinus
pinaster).  On average, domestic production is used for the following end-uses:
about  50%  for panelwood,  25%  for timber,  20X  for  fuelwood,  and  5%  for
miscellaneous uses.
pomestic Consumption and Wood Processing Industries
2.41        The current consumption of wood products in Algeria amounts to about
1.1 million m3 a year. More than 90% is imported. Imports consist primarily of
sawn wood (75% of total volume), with some lo, and plywood and veneer (20% and
5% of total volume,  respectively).    Wood  is consumed by a very active
construction  industry  and by wood processing  industries.    Public  sector
enterprises largely dominate the processing and distribution of wood and wood
products in Algeria.
2.42        Wood processing industries consist of large public enterprises, which
absorb about 55% of total supply, and private cottage i'ndustries, which, together
with the construction industry, absorb about 451 of total supply.   The two
largest public enterprises processing wood are the National Enterprise for Wood
Processing and Furniture (ENATB), which makes panels and furniture exclusively
of wood, either domestic or imported, and the National Enterprise for Joinery and
Prefabrication (ENMGP), which makes Joinery and prefabricated houses from
imported wood and metal. ENATB has 20 processing units, most of them grouped
into four integrated complexes and spread throughout the country. It employs
7,000 people and accounts for 20% of total Algerian wood consumption (171 of
total imports, essentially logs, and 831 of total domestic supplies).  ENMGP
comprises 23 processing units, employs 6,000 people, and accounts for 351 of
total Algerian wood consumption and 381 of total imports (mostly sawn wood).
Three other public enterprises -- the Post and Telecommunication (PTT), the
National Railway Company (SNTF), and the National Tobacco and Match Company
(SNTA) - - also consume small quantities of wood for telephone poles, sleepers and
matches, respectively. The cottage industries are extremely small-scale, usually
with part-time operations producing such items as custom furniture and wooden
crates.
2.43        Algerian wood processing industries prefer imported wood in part
because the qualities of local wood are poorly known for lack of research.
Algerian Aleppo pine has the potential to become a good substitute for imported
wood. This problem should be helped by a Belgium-financed technical assistance
project. The proposed Bank pilot project complements this effort (para. 5.17),
supporting INRF in the creation of a wood technology laboratory for research in
wood utilization.
I/    Converted at the shadow exchange rate, Algerian logging costs are on
average three times higher than logging costs in neighboring countries.



- 13 -
Markets and Marketing Channels
2.44        ImRort Channels. Until 1989, a state agency, the National Enterprise
for Wood Supply (ENAB) had a virtual monopoly on wood imports for resale (ENATB,
SNTA, and SNTF could import wood directly for their own consumption).  Wood
imported by ENAB was sold to the Enterprises for the Distribution of Construction
Materials (EDIMCOs), which handled retail sales at the wilaya level.   Wood
processing industries other t1;ar. ENTAB, SNTA, and SNTF could purchase wood
directly from ENAB or from the EDIMCOs. Since 1989, any wood processing industry
can import wood directly, provided that it obtains an import license from the
Office for External Trade and has foreign exchange. As a result, ENMGP, which
requires large supplies, imports directly. Medium- and small-scale operators
have started to associate in order to import collectively. However, ENAB and the
EDIMCOs remain the major suppliers of importsd wood for small-scale industries
and private individuals.
2.45        As noted, Algeria continues to experience chronic wood shortages,
particularly for construction purposes. Internal prices remain substantially
higher than import prices, both on the official and the parallel market. Most
prices for wood and wood products are still administered, including sale prices
from ENAB, the EDIMCOs, and ENATB. Because of the shortages, the EDIMCOs give
priority to hospitals, schools, and other public sector entities before supplying
small- and medium-scale industries. As a result, an active parallel market has
developed in addition to the official ENAB-EDIMCO distribution channels. Prices
on the parallel market can be two to three times the administered prices. In
1990, import prices of sawn wood averaged DA 1,200/m3; EDIMCO retail prices were
DA 5,000/m3; and prices on the parallel market often reached DA 10,000/m3.
2.46        Domestic Supplv.  The domestic supply of wood is marginal.  In recent
years domestic supply has averaged 130,000 m3/yr, excluding the exceptional 1987
year when domestic supply increased to about 210,000 m3.   In 1990,  Pinus
haleRensis saw-logs sold for DA 640/m3, and eucalyptus panelwood for DA 403/m3,
which translates into DA 740/m3 and DA 465/m3 respectively at mill gate after
allowing for transport. Sawn wood from such local timber would cost about twice
these prices, still significantly below the price of imported sawn wood, which
illustrates the need to (a) better understand why the local market is reluctant
to use local wood and (b) improve local wood technologies (para. 2.43).
Pastoralism and Forest Range Management
2.47        Livestock, which has grown faster than any other sub-sector in
agriculture over the past decade, contributes 40X of the gross value of
agricultural production. The rapid growth of the livestock sector is a result
of the liberalization of milk and meat prices in the early 1980s, when demand was
increasing because of population and income growth. However, because forage crop
cultivation is extremely limited in Algeria, this rapid growth relied mostly on
overgrazing of open-access ranges such as the esparto grass and steppe areas, and
forests. In 1985 it was estimated that open-access ranges accounted for about
50% of total forage supply, fallow land for 25X, and forage crops, agricultural
by-products,  and concentrated feed for another 251.   It is estimated that



- 14 -
livestock pressure on forest ranges increased fourfold between the 1950s and the
1980s and now exceeds carrying capacity in some locations.
2.48        Overgrazing plays a key role in the degradation of forests and of the
natural environment of watersheds. In the latter, where livestock often accounts
for a large part of agricultural incomes, overgrazing leads to the regression of
the natural vegetative cover provided by forests and maquis, thereby contributing
to soil erosion.   Unless the benefits of forest management are adequately
discussed with them, local populations sometimes oppose forest operations, such
as fencing for regeneration or plantation purposes, because this reduces their
access to grazing (overgrazing prevetts natural regeneration of cedar and oak
stands). Because of the political sensitivity of curtailing grazing rights at
the local level, the forest service has found it difficult to regulate forest
ranges.   In any event, given the vast areas to be controlled,  "regulation"
through enforcement is unlikely to be effective in the long run. Algeria has to
start gaining experience with improving range and forest management by seeking
the active cooperation of livestock owners and delegating control and
exploitation to user groups.  The proposed pilot project would contribute to
improving this situation through the creation of compensatory forage resources
in the plantation component of the project (para. 5.15), through the drawing up
of an experimental management plan for multipurpose use of forests and maquis
(para. 5.05), and by research on the means to better integrate livestock in
production systems in mountain agriculture (para. 5.28).
G. Watershed Operations
Nature and ScoRe of the Problam
2.49        Some 12 million ha are threatened by erosion, and it is thought that
approximately 40,000 ha of previously cultivated land are lost each year to
erosion and degradation. This has se.ious implications for the sustainability
of agricultural production in the nation's mountainous areas, for the social and
economic life of the communities that live in the watersheds, and for the
productive life of the dams that are so crucial to future water supplies for
irrigation, domestic use, and industry. Algeria has some 48 major dams already
constructed or under construction. An ambitious program of watershed management
and improvement has been under way in 33 watersheds, but the program has not had
the expected results. Erosion is continuing unabated. Costs of improvements are
too high to replicate on a large scale, and local populations have not
participated to the necessary extent.  Priority is focused, first, on the 21
major dams that are currently in full use, then on the dams built but not yet
full, and finally on the 12 new dams that are either under construction or at the
design stage. The total catchment area of these dams is about 5.5 million ha.
Sedimentation rates in these catchments vary considerably. In some, it is less
than 1 m3/ha/year, while in others it is above 40 m3/ha/year.
2.50        Within the 5.5 million ha of priority catchment areas, there are
approximately 320,000 families who depend, to varying extent, on agriculture for
their living. Although productivity in the mountains is not as high as in other,
more favored parts of the country, the extent of the mountainous areas means that
any decline in the agricultural resource base will have significant social and



- 15 -
economic impact, especially in terms of migration to the towns, increased urban
unemployment, and an escalation in demand for essential resources and services
in cities.
The Process of Erosion
2.51        The process of erosion is both complex and varied.   There are,
however, two components that are particularly important and that need to be
tackled in any effective soil and water conservation program. The first is run-
off, and the second is erosion of the banks of ravines and riverbeds.
2.52        The process of erosion starts when rainfall is not able to infiltrate
into the soil. There can be many causes, but the most important are that the
soil is saturated or that its surface has become impermeable, usually capped, so
that the water cannot enter the soil. Both circumstances occur frequently in
Algeria's mountainous areas.
2.53        Soils become saturated -- they reach field capacity -- usually toward
the end of the winter rains, particularly during a good rainfall season.
Moreover, many soils in the mountainous areas are susceptible to capping, which
results mainly from a deterioration in the structure of soils left bare through
overgrazing or cultivation. If organic matter is not replaced in fragile soils
that are cultivated frequently, the soils start to crumble. This reduces their
capacity to store water and increases their tendency to cap. Once this happens,
heavy rains give rise to a great deal of runoff. Although a source of runoff,
the soils do not generally contribute directly to sedimentation. Erosion rates
from the catchment slopes are usually less than 5 tons/ha/year and the large
amounts of water that move down the catchment are therefore relatively free of
sediment. In the long term, however, it is inevitable that the topsoil will be
washed downstream.
2.54        The situation changes significantly once the runoff water accumulates
in ravines and riverbeds. The denuded hillsides offer little resistance to the
flow of water, which quickly concentrates in gullies as fast-moving streams.
This process is exacerbated by inappropriate design of forest roads and drains,
which tend to concentrate the flow of water, thereby quickly forming new ravines
and gullies. Once in the riverbeds, the water erodes the riverbanks, collecting
enormous quantities of sediment. The erosion rate in badly gullied areas ranges
from 100 to 200 tons/ha/year, while further downstream in the riverbeds it can
range from 1,000 to 10,000 tons/ha/year. In short, the bulk of the sedimentation
of dams comes not from farmers' fields in the upper catchment areas, but from
ravines and riverbeds downstream.   The solution consequently lies in slowing
water runoff in the upper catchments, stopping the process that causes the
structure of the soils to deteriorate, and stabilizing, to the extent possible,
soils in the ravines and riverbeds.
Present Approach to Erosion and Watershed Management
2.55        The problem of erosion is a problem of land use management and has,
therefore, to be tackled on a multi-dimensional front. Soil conservation work
has generally ignored the social, political, and economic factors that have
contributed to the present state and that have led to the failure of previous



- 16 -
attempts to redress the situation. The populations in the mountainous areas have
not been involved either in the analysis of the cause of the problem or in the
design of possible solutions. Soil erosion and land degradation in Algeria are
frequently regarded as purely physical problems. Consequently, purely physical
solutions have usually been applied. For the most part these have not worked.
2.56        When the local population has been involved, it has usually been as
laborers paid to implement "Government" conservation works either on communal
land or on farmers' fields. For example, the forest service has planted many
trees and constructed large numbers of bench terraces on farmers' fields using
paid labor - - the works have been provided free to the farmer. This approach has
neither given farmers a sense of responsible ownership of the results of their
work nor encouraged others to replicate the work elsewhere in the catchment. The
farmers see the works as purely a Government activity done to benefit those
downstream.   Thus  the "top-down",  heavily subsidized watershed management
programs have acted as a disincentive to the management and maintenance of
existing programs and to the voluntary expansion of the work to other areas.
There has been little done to encourage the responsible management of external
initiatives by the local population; in many instances, conservation operations
have been actively resented by the population because they have appeared to
challenge local land rights. Furthermore, budget constraints have limited the
impact of the work to those areas where direct Government intervention could be
financed.
2.57        Not only has the approach tended to ignore the concerns of farmers
in the upper catchments, but frequently the techniques used have been
inappropriate.   Conservation methods developed for other countries have been
introduced with little adaptation to local conditions.   For example, contour
earth bunds, initially designed for use in North America, can, under certain
circumstances in Algeria, contribute to increased rather than reduced erosion.
Some 350,000 ha have been treated with this technique in Algeria, though it is
now no longer widely used. Similarly, trees planted on farmers' fields have
frequently not been of productive species (fruit, nuts, or forage), nor have they
fulfilled their other objective of providing adequate vegetative cover to control
erosion. Moreover, most techniques -- for example, gabion and stone-built weirs
for control of gullying -- have been extremely costly and have been almost
entirely financed by the Government, either directly or indirectly through
subsidies to the farmers.
2.58        With some notable exceptions, little effort has been made to evaluate
the impact and effectiveness of conservation systems or to develop new and
cheaper techniques.   As a result,  the approaches and techniques that were
introduced over 40 years ago, and which have either little impact or high costs,
are still frequently being applied. INRF is aware of these shortcomings and has
initiated a number of research programs to overcome them (for example, a joint
INRF/ORSTOMI4 agreement to undertake applied research in selected areas of the
country).    This,  and experience  and progress  of the German-aid-financed
Integrated Watershed Management Project in Oued Mina, just to the west of the
Bank pilot project watersheds, will be of considerable interest because it is
Office for Scientific and Technical Research Overseas, France.



- 17
planned to implement a series of low-cost, participatory management techniques
on exceptionally eroded areas.
Need for an Alternative Approach
2.59        The generally narrow sectoral approach that has been used for
watershed management to date has ignored the important linkages between the
various elements of the production systems.   There has been little contact
between those working on forestry and soil conservation and those responsible for
crop, livestock, and water development. As a result, solutions that involved
alterations to the farming system or to the overall pattern of land use have
infrequently been attempted.
2.60        The high costs,  poor results,  and eventual  rejection by the
population of past watershed management programs clearly indicate the need for
a new and more acceptable approach and the applicatiorn of more effective and less
costly techniques. Any additional investment that uses the existing strategies
and techniques will incur continuing high costs and have very limited impact.
2.61        The scale and gravity of the situation in Algeria's watersheds
requires a response, or set of responses, that is cheap and effective yet
sufficiently attractive and simple to be implemented, for the most part, by the
population themselves.   Government cannot afford to pay directly for all
catchment management work, and it is therefore essential that methods are found
that will involve the population to a much greater extent in the design,
implementation, maintenance, financing, and operation of watershed management
schemes. GOA is aware of this problem, and increased emphasis is now being given
to decentralizing the development process and to developing multi-sectoral,
participatory approaches to watershed management. The pilot watershed management
component of the proposed project will help test the practicability of
implementing this new policy.
H. Nature Conservation
Parks and Reserves
2.62        The four nature reserves that were established under the 1983
environmental legislation are, in 1991, still strictly "nature reserves" by
international definition.   They have no human inhabitants,  and entry is
prohibited except for scientific study, which is in progress in all four areas.
Two are fenced (Mergueb and Beni Salah), and one is on a mountaintop with only
one entry road (Babors). As noted, there are seven national Barks that are
managed by the Ministry of Agriculture and two enormous parks in the Sahara under
the Ministry of Information and Culture. The Ministry of Information and Culture
has now been disbanded, and the two parks are autonomous. They are expected to
be transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture in the near future under the
recently established National Agency for Nature Conservation (ANN). The main
object of these parks is to conserve the natural environment, but all Algerian
parks have comparatively high, permanent human and livestock populations and
accord with the international definition of "protected landscape'. They all have



- 18 -
management plans to guide their administrative, if not their scientific,
management.
2.63        The four game reserves are completely fenced and totally protected
while research on the species in the reserve is in progress, but they will
eventually be opened to hunting. Two (Djebel Sahara and Moutas el Had) have
management plans.  They accord with the international definition of "managed
nature reserve".
2.64        Although Algeria is relatively well-advanced in nature conservation,
there are a number of constraints that need to be overcome. Algeria has
11 mammal species, seven bird species, and one reptile species that are
threatened with extinction throughout their world range. Also, a considerable
number of plant species and sub-species are under threat.   The most serious
threat to the flora and fauna comes from overgrazing; poaching has generally been
overcome. In addition to measures to increase the .rea under parks and reserves,
emphasis now needs to be placed on: implementation of existing legislation;
gaining a better understanding of the scientific aspects of protected areas (the
present management plans focus on administrative rather than scientific needs);
and finding the means to take into account the competing demands of local
populations (for example, of neighboring livestock owners) so that they cooperate
in the protection of these areas.   The project originally provided for the
implementation of a management plan for the largest park under the Ministry of
Agriculture, El Kala, from which lessons can be learned for replication
elsewhere. The El Kala is now, however, being prepared as a separate project for
Global Environment Fund (GEF) financing.
III. BANK INVOLVEMENT IN AGRICULTURE IN ALGERIA
3.01        Bank Group lending for agriculture in Algeria started in 1975, and
ten projects have since been approved, for a total of US$488 million.
Performance under the first three projects (all of which are now closed) was
mixed, reflecting institutional constraints in the sector (the projects were the
Technical Assistance/Rural Development Project, Loan 1159-AL; the Meat Industry
Project, Loan 1739-AL; and the Bas Cheliff Irrigation Project, Loan 1802-AL).
3.02        From 1980 until mid-1986,  the Bank had limited involvement in
Algerian agriculture, with the exception of the two ongoing projects.   More
recently, the Bank and Government have begun to develop a policy dialogue and a
lending program to address some of the major issues facing the sector.  The
Bank's current involvement in the sector aims primarily to support the recently
privatized state farms and to lay the base for longer-term growth. This would
be achieved by: (a) improving tne availability of basic inputs; (b) assisting
in the development of basic services and their adaptation to the new environment,
particularly for irrigation, extension, and credit; and (c) fostering the
establishment of a sound price and incentive system. Longer-term objectives will
be met through an expansion of the area under irrigation, building up research
services, and addressing issues of land use management, in particular erosion and
degradation.



- 19 -
3.03        Three  irrigation  projects  (the  Cheliff  Irrigation  Project,
Loan 2809-AL; the Irrigation Engineering Project, Loan 2978-AL; and the Mitidja
Irrigation Project, Loan 3076-AL) are designed to rehabilitate and extend
existing large-scale irrigation schemes in the northern part of the country,
improve irrigation planning, support the development of an investment program for
small-scale irrigation, and prepare a ten-year irrigation program for small- and
medium-scale irrigation. The irrigation projects are progressing satisfactorily,
albeit witk some delays because of shortages of certain construction materials.
3.04        Regarding support services, an Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 3009-AL) is designed to strengthen the agricultural credit bank so that it
is in a position to lend to the newly created groups of private farmers. A pilot
Research and Extension Project (Loan 3216-AL), approved in June 1990, aims to
develop and extend appropriate technical advice for these farmers.   Work in
association with UNDP is aimed at expanding fertilizer supplies as part of a
larger program of studies on input distribution.   An emergency project, the
Desert Locust Control Project (Loan 3017-AL), was approved in January 1989 in the
context of the expected 1988 locust invasion.   Since the plague did not
materialize, $36 million of the $58 million loan amount has been canceled.  The
Sahara Region Development Project, approved in September 1991, will support the
development of an environmentally sound and sustainable development program for
the northern Sahara.   In the future, attention will be given to the further
liberalization of the sector, and an agricultural sector adjustment loan is being
planned. Additional projects in irrigation and a follow-up agricultural credit
project are under preparation.
Lessons Learned
3.05        Lessons in Algeria. The main lessons learned from the implementation
of Bank projects in Algeria are to: (a) avoid overly complex project design,
(b) ensure the full commitment of Government at each stage of project
preparation,   (c)  ensure  technical  assistance  early  on  during  project
implementation (para. 6.09), and (d) take special measures to ensure satisfactory
project accounting and auditing (para. 5.51).
3.06        Lessons in ForestrY.  The Bank has had no previous forestry projects
in Algeria but lessons learned from 12 years of experience with forestry and
watershed management projects in neighboring Morocco and Tunisia include that
(a) management of the forest resource requires an integrated approach, taking
into account the various demands on it, e.g. domestic stock grazing (para. 6.05);
(b) traditional forest management plans are too costly to prepare and are
therefore not available for most of the forest, and are too complex to be
properly executed -- what is needed is simple, practical management plans
(para. 5.05); and (c) technical success in treating relatively small water
catchment areas is not enough to guarantee its replicability and to ensure a real
impact on the very large tracts requiring intervention in Algeria -- for this
purpose methods used need to be cheap, requiring a minimum of budget funds and
relying to a maximum extent on self-financing and the participation of local
populations (paras. 5.20-5.27).



- 20 -
IV. THE PROJECT AREA
General
4.01        The proposed project is national in scope in that it aims to define
a national strategy for Algeria's forests and watersheds and for strengthening
institutions at the national and field levels. Although the pilot operations to
be financed under the project are necessarily confined to specific areas, lessons
learned -- particularly the processes learned -- would be replicable to other
parts of the country.
The Pilot Forest Areas
4.02        The areas proposed for the pilot reforestation and exploitation
components and the two management plans are in the northeast of the country, not
far from the major port of Annaba. As noted, the three wilayate of Skikda,
Annaba, and El Tarf are considered to be the most favorable for industrial
plantations.
4.03        The reforestation component would be in the wilaya of Skikda,
bordering the Mediterranean. Rainfall, which is spread over 10 months, varies
between 800 and 1000 mm. High humidity in the two dry months partly compensates
for the lack of rainfall. The climate is temperate, with an average minimum
temperature of 8C. Soils are acid, rich in minerals, and heavy (with a high
clay content). Overall, conditions are excellent for forestry; they are suitable
also fox agriculture but would need to be worked with heavy machinery. Much of
the vegetation is scrub or maquis.  The forest service has identified about
100,000 ba for reforestation in the wilaya. Some 6,000 ha were replanted in the
period  l~'68-77.    Industrial  replanting  (using  better  land  preparation,
fertilizer, and improved maintenance) started in 1987, and about 1,000 ha of
Pinus vtaster have been planted to date. There is no evidence of damage by
livestczk in such replanted areas.   Project plantation areas are Government
gazetted forests and do not contain homesteads, and there would be no involuntary
resettle,-3nt. Because of the favorable conditions, growth rates should average
5-10 m3/hr -Ir.
4.04        -.he exploitation component would be in the wilaya of El Tarf, also
bordering t*t., Mediterranean. El Tarf has climatic conditions similar to those
in Skikda.   The wilaya was chosen because of the large mature eucalyptus
plantations.
Pilot Watersheds
4.05        The two sub-catchments selected for the pilot watershed management
operations are the Oued Bouguedfine (wilaya of Chlef) and the Oued Bayad (wilaya
of Tissemsilt), which are part of the larger Oued Sly catchment of the Chlef
Valley some 200 km southwest of Algiers.
4.06        The Oued Bouguedfine sub-ceLtchment area (6,700 ha) is typical of the
lower parts of the Sly catchment.   Situated between 300 and 900 m above sea
level, the sub-catchment receives an average annual rainfall of between 430 mm
and 570 mm.   The rainfall is higher in the upper parts of the catchment.



- 21 -
Approximately 75% of the rainfall is between October and May.   The general
climate is typical of a cold, temperature, semi-arid climate. Ninety percent of
the area has slopes greater than 12.5%, and 84% of the sub-catchment is
considered to have serious to very serious erosion problems.   The total
populntion is about 3,400 people.
4.07        The Oued Bayad sub-catchment, with a population of about 1,700,
covers 3,700 ha. Altitude varies from 600 to 1,200 m, and the average annual
rainfall increases from 450 mm at the lower elevations to 580 mm in the higher
areas. Late summer rainfall is a little more significant than in the Bouguedfine
catchment, though over 70% of the rain falls between October and May. Frosts
occur above the 700 m contour, and snow occurs above 900 m. The area has a sub-
humid climate. Almost 60X of the area has a very serious erosion problem, and
96% of the area has slopes greater than 12.5%.
V. THE PROJECT
A. ObjectLies. Rationale, and Main Features
Objectives
5.01        Algeria is faced with serious problems of soil erosion and land
degradation that, if they continue, will undermine its productive potential and
exacerbate the problem of water scarcity. The objective of the proposed project
would be to develop a long-term action program to better protect and manage
Algeria's natural resources, specifically its forests, watersheds, and nature
conservation areas. The project would thus be a pilot operation to prepare and
test components for replication in a national program for natural resource
management on a sustainable basis. The immediate objectives of the project would
be to:
assist Government in defining a strategy for the sector;
quantify forest resources,  assess why only a small portion of
potential resources is utilized for commercial purposes, and
identify constraints preventing forests from contributing more
significantly to the economy than they do at present (in import
substitution, in erosion control, and as a source of fodder for
livestock);
develop and test low-cost techniques, including institutional and
social aspects, to better manage forest resources and increase
productivity, in both commercial wood production and forage
production for livestock;
develop and test low-cost techniques, including institutional and
social arrangements, to increase the productivity of mountain
agriculture and reduce erosion in the watersheds, with particular
emphasis on reducing sedimentation of dams;
strengthen Algeria's capacity to manage its nature conservation
program;



- 22 -
strengthen forest, watershed,  and nature conservation planning,
policies, and institutions through a program of training and
technical assistance.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
5.02        Government has invested substantially in its forests and watersheds.
Continued erosion, siltation of dams, and degradation of the forests demonstrates
that efforts to date have not been effective. Moreover, unit costs are such that
present techniques, with their heavy reliance on subsidies, are not sustainable
and cannot be replicated on a scale that will make a noticeable impact, even in
the long term. The approach needs to be changed so that local populations are
more fully involved (for example, to reduce overgrazing in forest lands). The
Bank has unique experience in other Maghreb countries in the planning and
execution of actions designed to foster efficient and sustainable use of a
country's natural resources while, at the same time, conserving its fragile and
threatened ecosystem. The Bank is also uniquely placed to: (a) help Algeria
strengthen its forestry institutions so that they may sustain and replicate
successful actions initiated under the project; (b) encourage a more competitive
system that should help bring down implementation costs; and (c) link reforms in
the sector to those in other parts of the economy (for example, in water, in
energy, and on the macro-economic front).
Main Comnonents
5.03        To achieve its overall objectives,, the project, which would be
implemented over a period of five years, would include the following components:
(a)   develoDment of a strategy for the forestry and watershed sectors:
(i) a study of the forestry sector, including an estimation of the
existing commercially exploitable resource, and an analysis of the
reasons for low demand for local wood when the aggregate demand for
wood is so high; (ii) the preparation of simplified management plans
on 60,000 ha of fast-growing forest and 15,000 ha of mixed forest
and maquis; and (iii) the preparation of a master plan for the
country's major watersheds;
(b)   Rilot forestry development:  (i) pilot reforestation on 4,300 ha,
including the upgrading of an existing forest nursery; (ii) pilot
exploitation operations; and (iii) related applied research,
institutional strengthening, training and technical assistance;
(c)   pilot  watershed  management:    in  two  different  areas,  pilot
operations for protection and production, specifically to increase
farmer incomes and reduce erosion (this would comprise an analysis
of the problem, the development and adoption of appropriate low-cost
techniques, extension, on-farm investments, social infrastructure,
the construction of structures where appropriate to control runoff
and control erosion in ravines, related applied research,
institutional strengthening, training and technical assistance);



- 23 -
(d)   nature conservation:   (i) support for an INRF research unit on
protected areas and (ii) provision of in-service training,
bursaries and equipment;
(e)   support activities:  (i) the strengthening of ANF with equipment,
training, and technical assistance for project management and
monitoring and evaluation purposes; (ii) strengthening of INRF to
improve planning of research activities and diffusion of research
results; and (iii) provision of equipment, essentially vehicles and
spare parts, for ANF.
B. Detailed DescriDtion
DeveloRment Strategy for the Sector
5.04        Study of the forestry sector.  The project would finance a study on
the forestry sector aimed at a better understanding of the sector and of the
reasons why domestic wood is so little used while aggregate demand for wood is
so high.  The study would (a) estimate the existing commercially exploitable
resource on the basis of the existing National Forest Inventory and available
management plans; (b) analyze the production processing marketing chain for wood
and wood products from logging to final consumption, including market structure,
price formation on the official and parallel markets, industrial performance, and
consumption patterns; (c) review the institutional and regulatory framework; and
(d) issue recommendations to develop the sector efficiently and increase the use
of local forest resources. The study would be carried out by consultants over
an eight-month period.
5.05        Forest management Dlans.  The existing management plans are overly
complex and detailed. Moreover, they consist mostly of descriptive ecological
information and fail to define clearly the objectives to be pursued (timber or
forage production, soil conservation, biodiversity conservation, recreation,
etc.).    They  also  lack  clear  instructions  on appropriate  silvicultural
treatments. The project would finance the preparation of simplified and more
operational management plans on a pilot basis for two forests, representative of
conditions in the northeast of Algeria:   60,000 ha of fast-growing species
(eucalyptus and pines), essentially for wood production, and 15,000 ha of mixed
natural forest (cork and zeen oak), maquis, and riverine forests for multipurpose
use (wood, cork, and forage production as well as protection). The former is
located in the wilayate of Skikda, Annaba, El Tarf, and the latter is located in
the hilly areas of Fl Tarf wilaya.  If this sub-component proves successful,
future management pians throughout the country would be prepared according to the
same format.
5.06        The management plans would be prepared by a local consulting firm in
association with a firm of international consultants. The local staff of the
forest service would also be involved in facilitating implementation of the
plans.   The management plans would be prepared over a three-year period.
Training and technical assistance would be provided to both the local consulting
firms and the staff of the forest service.



- 24 -
5.07        Master Rlan for watersheds.  The project would finance a study that
would lead to the development of a National Watershed Management Master Plan.
The plan would cover the 71 catchments that would have large-scale dams by the
year 2010.  The objective of the plan would be to:  (a) provide a coherent
national policy framework for future action iu the watersheds;  (b) define
appropriate institutional and organization arrangements; (c) provide planners and
decisionmakers with the appropriate tools for the design of future Government
interventions; (d) identify ways to improve the local economy and quality of life
for the rural populations in mountainous areas; and (e) contribute to improved
natural resource management and environmental conservation.
5.08        The study would be undertaken by international consultants and would
be in two parts. The first phase would last eight months; the second would last
four months. A gap between the first and second phases would afford time for
review and comment on the initial recommendations. During the first phase, the
study group would:  (a) evaluate previous watershed management experience in
Algeria; (b) prepare an inventory and synthesis of available data on the target
watersheds in Algeria; (c) prepare an inventory of hydrological data;
(d) establish a topology for the classification of watersheds; (e) develop the
methodology for an economic analysis of the impact of sedimentation at regional
and national levels; (f) review legal and statutory issues; (g) review
institutional and organizational issues; (h) review implementation costs; and
(i) prepare preliminary recommendations outlining a range of possible policy,
strategy, and technical options.
5.09        Following review of the first phase, the consultants would refine and
further develop the options selected and would identify the human, physical, and
financial requirements for implementation.   These recommendations would be
synthesized in a final report.
5.10        To ensure timely completion of the above studies, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that Government will sign contracts for the recruitment
of consultants by March 31, 1993, for (a) the simplified forest management plans
and (b) the national watershed master plan, and by March 31, 1994, for (c) the
forest sector study. Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that (a) the
national watershed master plan, (b) the forest sector study, and (c) the
simplified forest management plans would be completed by September 30, 1996.
Pilot Forestr= Operations
5.11        Nursery.  The pilot reforestation component requires the production
of some 2 million seedlings a year. Current techniques for the production of
seedlings would be abandoned because of the deformation of the root system that
results (para. 2.32). Polythene bags would be replaced by reusable containers,
with sharp angles on the sides, to prevent the roots from wrapping around inside
the container. The container would be open at the end and would be kept off the
ground so that the taproot does not grow into the soil. Seedlings would be grown
for four to five months, a shorter time than at present, so that they would
require smaller holes at planting and less water, thereby reducing costs.
Containers would be filled with a highly porous substrate initially made from an
imported mixture of peat and bark. Subsequently, under the project, research
would develop a suitable substitute made from locally available materials.



- 25 -
5.12        To introduce this system, an existing nursery at Guerbes would be
upgraded. The project would, therefore, provide nursery equipment (including a
tractor with forklift, mixer, sprayer, irrigation equipment, pipes and pump,
storage boxes, reusable containers for seedlings, and suitable imported growing
material).   It would also provide for the construction of the necessary
irrigation system and shade protection for the seedlings, storage for the growing
material, backup water storage of 100 m3, and simple living quarters for a guard.
5.13        Pilot plantations.    The project would establish 4,300 ha of
plantations in the wilaya of Skikda using the improved seedlings from the Guerbes
nursery. The objective would be to increase yields and survival rates and to
reduce unit costs by the introduction of improved techniques. Most of the area
(over 80%) would be planted to Pinus Rinaster using a provenance that is
indigenous to the area. Pinus coulteri, Pinus pinea, and Pinus radiata would be
planted on an experimental basis. Trials would also be carried out on 100 ha
using cork oak to assess the potential for reestablishment of cork oak forests
where they are too degraded for natural regeneration.
5.14        The project would provide for the purchase of nine bulldozers fitted
with special land-clearing rakes that are designed to remove stumps and roots
without overly disturbing the topsoil, which contains the organic matter. They
would also be equipped with rippers that are capable of breaking up roots and
subsoil. Vehicles for staff to supervise works and mo'bile living quarters for
workers would be provided.   Funds would also be included for planting and
establishment of the seedlings, construction of three check dams to store water
in case of fire, construction of 43 km of new forest tracks and roads, and the
rehabilitation of 38 km of existing tracks.
5.15        An integral part of the plantations would be the establishment of
170 ha-equivalent of fire breaks.   Unlike in the past, these would be dual
purpose: to hinder the spread of fire and to be a source of food for livestock.
To this end, they would be planted with a mixture of fodder trees, fodder bushes,
and grasses. Livestock would be excluded for initial years while the plantations
are in the establishment stage. Government would, however, work with livestock
owners to form groups to utilize this resource. The objective would be that
livestock owners would assume total responsibility for the management of this
resource and would keep their cattle out of the plantations. This would relieve
Government of the need to maintain guards, which, in any event, is a relatively
ineffective way of protecting the planted areas.   As with the watershed
management component, the objective would be to develop contracts between
Government and livestock owners (paras. 5.22-5.27). To supplement the amount of
forage, and provided that the plantations in the fire breaks succeed, an
additional 200 ha of forest land (presently maquis) would also be planted to
fodder trees and crops. This would enable the new techniques and new social
arrangements to be tested further.
5.16        Pilot exploitation.  To test the possibility of reducing logging
costs, the project would finance exploitation, on an experimental basia, of about
1,000 ha of eucalyptus of various ages and under various conditions in the El
Tarf wilaya. The stands, which are coppiced, would yield an average 70 m3/ha of
wood that would be suitable for panelwood. By using more appropriate equipment
and by increasing labor productivity, costs could be reduced by half, from an



- 26 -
estimated 200 DA/m3 at present to about 90 DA/m3 at the end of the project.
Technical assistance and training would be provided both to the loggers and to
staff of ANF in charge of supervising exploitation. The project would provide
a flatbed truck,  a tractor,  and small equipment.   It would also finance
incremental recurrent costs to implement this component.
5.17        Related aDilied research  (Rlantations  and exploitation}.    The
plantation and exploitation components of the project would be supported by a
program of adaptive research that would be carried out by INRF. This program
would strengthen existing research and would focus on the development of
practical solutions to problems that need to be resolved if Algeria is to develop
a dynamic forestry sector. In addition to research on watersheds (para. 5.28)
and nature conservation (para. 5.32), the project would:
-     develop a reference catalog classifying ecological areas of the
country according to the growth potential for various tree species
(this would be essential for the preparation of forest management
plans and for identifying areas that would be suitable for
reforestation);
-     improve Rlantation establishment technigues, including research on
nursery techniques, the choice of suitable species and provenances
for reforestation, soil preparation techniques, fertilization, and
protection against pests and diseases;
-     develog technigues for the management and regeneration of cork and
zeen oak forests, focusing particularly on silvopastoral aspects
(for example, the research program would explore ways to regenerate
existing forests in cooperation with livestock owners by the
establishment of user associations and through increased forage
production);
=     imirove silvicultural technioues by determining rules for thinnings
and by establishing production schedules and tables to estimate
standing volumes;
-     initiate  applied  wood  technology  research  ,to  measure  the
technological properties of the local wood and to develop
appropriate processing techniques that could be extended to small-
scale enterprises,  such as furniture making (this program would
complement a program of basic research to be funded by Belgian
bilateral assistance and includes the creation of a wood technology
laboratory in the Bainem research station).
5.18        To carry out the research program, the project would strengthen the
forestry research stations at Guerbes, Jijel, and Tizi Ouzou and would complement
the establishment of the wood technology center at Bainem. The project would
provide for the construction or upgrading of laboratories, offices, a small saw-
mill, storage facilities, and staff housing.   It would also provide for the
establishment of an experimental nursery.   Associated vehicles,  laboratory
equipment, saws, plaining machines, and other equipment for the wood technology
station would also be purchased.   Finally,  the project would provide for



- 27 ^
incremental staff salaries, operating costs, travel allowances, training and
technical assistance.
5.19        Related institution strengthening (plantations and exploitation).
To ensure adequate supervision of forest works, the project would provide ANF
departments responsible for work in the wilayate of Skikda and El Tarf with
vehicles; office and forest equipment (such as dendrometers); incremental
operating costs (for example, for vehicles and travel allowances); and training,
study tours, and technical assistance.
Watershed Management
5.20        To date, watershed management operations have met with limited
success because the techniques used were not appropriate and because social,
political,  and economic  factors were generally  ignored.    Government has
recognized the need for an alternative approach and is encouraging the
development of multi-sectoral and participatory approaches to watershed
management (paras. 2.59-2.61). However, practical methods of translating this
new policy into action have yet to be developed, and there is no single blueprint
or technology that will improve watershed management throughout Algeria. A pilot
operation is therefore required before a full-scale investment program can be
justified. The project will include pilot operations in two watersheds that will
focus on the development of the process or approach needed to improve natural
resource management, to stimulate the local economy, and to enrich the quality
of life of those living in the mountainous areas. The process so developed could
then be replicated on a larger scale in the future.   The pilot watersheds
selected are the Bouguedfine and Bayad sub-catchments of the Oued Sly watershed
(See map IBRD 22755R). In addition to the pilot activities, the project includes
applied research and institution strengthening.
5.21        Pilot activities in watersheds.  Since pilot activities would be
focused on developing a process, rather than on executing well-defined
operations, no detailed physical targets can be established at the appraisal
stage. The process to be followed under the project is briefly described below.
5.22        The process aims to improve the effectiveness, efficiency, relevance,
and sustainability of land and natural resource management and rural development
in the watershed areas of Algeria.  It includes seven essential steps to be
followed in each pilot watershed:
(a)   the fulfillment of essential preconditions:   the project would
encourage the use of decentralized and participative planning.
Government staff would be trained and made aware of the need to work
with local populations. For project-related activities, the PoPular
Communal Assemblies (APCs), elected assemblies with deliberative
functions at the municipal level, have been identified as key
representatives of the local populations. In addition, the wilaya
administration will play a major role in multi-sectoral coordination
and in encouraging the participative approach;



- 28 -
(b)   a Rreliminarv narticinatory survey of local resources and Driority
needs: this survey will help assess the goals and priorities of the
local populations, the constraints they face, and the major
environmental and economic problems in the area. Issues discussed
would be multi-sectoral and would include, but not be limited to:
the availability of clean drinking water; access to roads, schools,
health centers, and rural electrification; problems of erosion; lack
of markets; and ways to improve incomes through increased production
of livestock, cereals, fruit and vegetables. The local population
would thus be much more fully involved in identifying priorities and
in planning the development of their areas than in the past;
(c)   identification of local versus national goals and of the skills and
resources  available  to  achieve  both:    the  results  of  the
participatory surveys and the national and wilaya development plans
will be used to achieve this goal;
(d)   Dreparation of medium-term plans for local development and resource
management:  these would incorporate local and national priorities,
with possible trade-offs in case of potential conflicts. The plans
would be multi-sectoral and would include activities to be carried
out by the Government (schools, rural electrification, roads, etc.)
as well as by the local communities. The plans would be drawn up by
project staff in conjunction with community (APC) leaders and
representatives  of  all  ministries  involved.        Intersectoral
coordination would be assured by the Wali and his Secretary General,
although daily responsibility will rest with ANF;
(e)   negotiation of funding agreements for local development and resource
management:   once the plans are drawn up, agreements would be
negotiated between the local population and Government spelling out
the responsibilities of each to finance or provide inputs (in cash
or kind) to implement agreed aspects of the plan. In exchange for
Government's contribution to social and infrastructural development
as part of the "normal" development program, communities would
commit themselves to participate in the implementation and control
of natural resource management.   Initially the plan could be a
simple informal agreement, but it should subsequently be expanded
and formalized in a contract;
(f)   imRlementation of the olans and agreements:  detailed annual work
programs would be prepared on the basis of evaluation of the
previous year's work and the needs identified in the local plan.
Work programs would clearly specify the work to be undertaken each
year, location, cost, expected benefits, and the relative
contributions of Government and the local population;
(g)   monitoring, evaluation, and adjustment:  these functions will ensure
that lessons can be quickly incorporated.
5.23        Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, prior to undertaking
any field operation in the pilot watershed areas, Government would (a) in



- 29 -
consultation with the local populations prepare and submit for Bank approval a
plan of the activities and (b) enter into satisfactory arrangements in respect
of the local populations for (i) the appropriate implementation of the plans,
(ii) the future maintenance of the investments, and (iii) their contribution to
investment costs.
5.24        The thrust of the local plans to be prepared under the project would
be to develop production systems that increase farmers' incomes and, at the same
time, rely on a high percentage of vegetative cover to increase water
infiltration, thereby raducing runoff. Each pilot operation must develop and
adapt simple, low-cost land management tschniques that can be implemented by
local populations with limited external support. The key technical aspects to
such a system are better use and integration of livestock, trees, and grasses
into the farming system and a corresponding decrease in the area planted to
annual crops. For example, given the poor yields and lack of sustainability of
cereal production, incomes could be increased substantially through raising sheep
on permanent pasture. This would meet the dual objective of increasing farmer's
incomes and slowing the runoff that causes so much erosion and downstream
sedimentation.
5.25        The investment operations to be implemented would include, but would
not te limited to:
(a)   on-farm activities on private and collective land:  (i) fruit tree
planting;  (ii)   fodder  tree planting;  (iii)  establishment of
permanent and semi-permanent pastures; (iv) anti-erosion contour
lines; (v) contour rock lines; (vi) fodder plot development;
(vii) small-stock (sheep and goats) development, such as livestock
health-related activities; (viii) improved fallow land management;
(ix) rangeland improvement; (x) spring capping and development; and
(xi) small-scale water storage. These activities would be partly
funded by Government and partly by farmers (para. 5.22);
(b)   public land and off-farm activities:  (i) gully stabilization and
development (gabions, wire mesh, vegetative methods, etc.) and
(ii) road and track development and maintenance. These activities
would be fully funded by Government;
(c)   social  infrastructure:       provided  as  part  of  Government's
contribution to the agreed plan, this would include (i) water
development, (ii) health services, (iii) education services, etc.
A provision of US$600,000 has been made to cover small incremental
investments.
5.26        The above approach has a number of advantages over past systems.  It
would greatly enhance the relevance of Government intervention vis-a-vis the
priorities of the local population. It would also induce a better ownership of
local development by the local populations. As a result, local populations would
be more likely to take actions of "national" interest that do not directly
benefit them, since such actions would be part of a package deal addressing their
key needs. Conversely, whereas nearly all conservation works used to be paid for



- 30 -
by Government, local populations would be expected to pay for all on-farm works
as part of the agreed plans discussed above.   From time to time, it may be
appropriate for the Government to introduce new technologies through use of
subsidies; these would, however, be time bound. This represents a major change
of approach for Government.
5.27        In this framework, the arrangements the Government should enter into
for the implementation of the pilot watershed component (para. 5.23) should aim
to gradually reduce Government's share of financing for works on-farm and on
collective ].and (fruit tree establishment, soil conservation works, sub-soiling,
permanent pasture and grassland establishment, range improvement, and fodder
trees and bushes establishment). Large-scale gabions, and similar civil works
on public land, would rem&in fully paid by Government. In the long run it may
be possible to recover some of these costs through increased water charges.
5.28        Related applied research.  The pilot watershed management component
would be supported by applied research that would focus on four major themes as
follows:
-     control of gullies and riverbeds to reduce transRort of sediment:
this would include development of simple and cheap technologies for
weir construction; selection of good-quality and hardy fruit and
fodder tree species; development of better combination techniques
(such as mesh gabions and fruit tree planting); and development of
improved techniques for riverbank stabilization;
-     improvement of mountain agriculture production system:  the research
priorities are management of the soil surface (contour ploughing,
scarification, etc); improved techniques for fruit and fodder tree
management; selection of species and development of techniques for
better hedge, windbreak, and copse management; and integration of
small stock into the farming system through permanent pasture
development, fallow improvement, fodder tree and fodder crop
production, and the use of crop residues;
-     improvement of Rhysical structures to manage runoff:  this would
include the use of vegetation methods (perennial contour grasslines,
shrubs and trees) and the construction of small check dams, weirs,
and other types of structures using locally available materials; and
-     introduction of improved design criteria and techniaues for roads
and drains:   poor road and drainage design and construction are
major man-made factors contributing to erosion. This frequently
concentrates water into rapidly flowing streams and, thus, forms the
basis of ravines and gullies that were not there before.   The
project would examine existing design techniques and explore the
possibility of applying more appropriate designs.
5.29        To implement the applied research program, the project would provide
for the strengthening of the new INRF research station at Tenes on the coast,
about 90 km from the pilot watersheds, through the provision of additional staff,
equipment, vehicles, and technical assistance and training. Research staff would



- 31 -
have a small operational center in the pilot watersheds and would be technically
supervised by research staff from the Ouzera (Mdd6a) research station who have
experience with watershed management elsewhere in Algeria.
5.30        Related institution strengthening. The project would provide for the
addition of an agro-pastoralist and a socio-economist in each of the pilot
watersheds who would report to the local conservator of ANF. A small operational
center would be constructed in Oued Abdelkaaer (Bouguedfine catchment) and
Lardjem (Bayad catchment). Each center would consist of prefabricated units for
an office, sleeping quarters, and a store. In addition to staff, topographic
equipment, audiovisual aides, and three vehicles would be provided under the
project for each pilot area. Funds have also been provided for on-farm adaptive
research to be implemented by the staff in each pilot watershed area and
supervised by INRA. A series of training activities are required to support the
watershed management component. These include reorientation courses for field
staff to enable them to implement the new approach adopted by the pilot projects,
training for technicians in countries with similar agro-ecological conditions,
ar-d short-term technical courses for wilaya personnel.  Technical assistance
would also be provided.
Nature Conservation
5.31        There is an urgent need to improve the management of existing parks
and reserves and to ensure that each potential reserve is subjected to a full
field investigation before declaration. In this context, the nature conservation
component of the proposed project would strengthen the Government's capacity in
nature conservation through research, training, and equipment.
5.32        Applied research.  The project would assist INRF in implementing
existing plans to strengthen research on nature conservation through the
establishment of a research unit at an existing INRF research station in El Kala.
The principal responsibilities of this unit would be the formulation of
management plans, compilation of research result summaries for each reserve, and
surveys of all potential protected areas. Provision of two ecologist-researchers
will be the responsibility of INRF; two vehicles and their recurrent costs will
be provided under this component.
5.33        Training.  To strengthen staff training, the project would provide
for:   (a) short-term training abroad in subjects of relevance to nature
conservation in Algeria; (b) in-service, short-term training on topics of
immediate Concern; (c) bursaries, with financing for associated equipment for
institutional training for existing or future senior staff; (d) the establishment
of a technical committee to assist in selection of successful bursary applicants;
and (e) consultants to advise on the post-graduate courses and in-service
training.
Support Activities
5.34        The project includes a number of support activities,  the most
important of which are applied .esearch, training, and technical assistance.
These have been included in the components to which they apply -- forestry
development, watershed management, and nature conservation. The project includes



- 32 -
additional support activities that are not linked to a specific component and
would benefit the sector as a whole.    These activities consist of (a) the
strengthening of the ANF for project management purposes, (b) strengthening of
INRF headqua:ters, and (c) provision of vehicles and equipment for the ANF. The
project would finance the resources necessary for the ANF Project Management Team
(para. 6.02), including vehicles, office equipment, technical assistance and
training, incremental salaries for an economist and an accountant, and
incremental operating costs.   INRF's capacity to plan research activities
rationally and to diffuse research results would be improved by the provision of
technical assistance and training, as well as communication equipment (such as
audio-visual) and equipment to help in extension. The scarcity of vehicles in
working order severely constrains the activities of forest administration. The
project would thus finance a number of four-wheel-drive and light vehicles and
spares for ANF.
C. Project Costs
5.35        Total project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at
DA 995 million (US$37.4 million equivalent). US$19.0 million, or 511 of project
costs, would be in foreign exchange. US$6.8 million, or 18X of project costs,
would be in duties and taxes. The cost estimates are based on December 1990
prices adjusted to 1992 levels. Physical contingencies, averaging 10 of base
cost, have been applied to most cost items. Price contingencies were calculated
assuming the domestic and international inflation rates shown in Table 5.1. A
summary of project costs is given in Table 5.2.
Table 5.1: DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL INFLATION RATES
(X)
1990  1991292 1993 1224  L995 1296  1227
Domestic         17.0  23.0  24.0  15.0   8.0   7.0   7.0   7.0
International     6.0   2.0   3.0  4.0  4.0   4.0  4.0   4.0



- 33
Table .2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local  Fo eign    Total         Local   Foreign    Total         Foreign    Total
DA million ------                     USS million .......  X X
Studies and Management
Plans                      16.0     48.6      64.6          0.7       2.2       2.9             75        9
Pilot Forest Operations
Reforestation           133.0    129.3     262.3          6.0        5.9     11.9             50       38
Exploitation              6.7     12.4      19.1          0.3        0.6      0.9             67        3
Applied Research         28.5     31.1      59.6          1.3        1.4      2.7             52        9
Pilot Watershed
Development             111.2     76.7      187.9         5.0        3.5      8.5             41       28
Nature Conservation         1.7      7.4       9.1          0.1       0.3       0.4            81         1
Support Activities        35.1      44.2      79.3          1.6       2.0       3.6             56       12
.....    .....  .  .....        .....  .  . .....   -----.. ....          .   ....... .. .... .. .... ........
Total Base Costs         332.2    349.7      681.9         15.0       15.9     30.9            51       100
Physical
Contingencies            30.4     34.5      64.9          1.4        1.6      3.0             53       10
Price Contingencies     135.4    113.2     248.6          2.0        1.5      3.5             43       11
,..... .  .....    .....   .    . .....   -----.   . .....         ....   .   .. ..... .... .. .... ........
Total Project Costs      498.0    497.4      995.4         18.4      19.0      37.4            51       121
r=3=3    33=       3=3==        3s=33      === 33   33              31       3=3-
D. Financint
5.36           The proposed Bank loan of US$25 mil]ion equivalent to the Democratic
and Popular Republic of Algeria would finance about 80% of total project costs,
excluding taxes and duties. This percentage financing was determined in view of
the fact that the project is making a unique contribution to environmental
protection, local population participation, and human resource development. The
loan would thus finance 100% of the foreign component of the project and about
33%  of  local  costs.    The  balance  of  the  project  would  be  financed  by  the
Government of Algeria (US$11.6 million) and local farmers (US$0.8 million).
5.37           The proposed Bank loan would be  for 17 years,  with  five years of
grace. Retroactive financing of up to US$1.0 million would be provided to allow
for early project start-up and would cover eligible expenditures after
January 1, 1992. The Bank would deposit up to US$1.5 million into a Special
Account that would be opened by the Borrower on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (details are in paras. 5.49-5.50).



- 34 -
E. Procuroment
5.38          Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.3.
Table 5.3: PROCUREMENT A\
(US$ million)
------ Procurement Method -------------                     Total
Project Elements                 ICB       LIB       LCB        Other h\   NBF c\       Costs
- Civil Works (Buildings)                             2.2        0.5                     2.7
t1.81     (0.41                   (2.21
- Field Operationa                                    12.3       2.6        0.8         15.7
(9.71     1 - 1      t - 1        [9.71
- Heavy Equipment                 4.6       1.0                                          5.6
(3.61    (0.81                                         (4.41
- Vehicles                        4.3                                                    4.3
[2.41                                                  (2.41
- Small-scale Equipment                               1.2                                1.2
(Office Technology,                              (0.91                             (0.93
Scientific Equipment..)
- Technical Assistance and                            3.0                                3.0
Training                                         [3.01                              (3.03
- Studies                                             3.1                                3.1
(2.41                             (2.43
- Incremental Staff Salaries                                                1.8          1.8
and Operating Costs                                                       t  I        I - I
TOTALS                        8.9       1.0        14.5      10.4        2.6         37.4
(6.01    (0.81      t11.53     (6.71      t - 1        (25.01
H\ Figures in brackets are amounts financed by the Bank and include a prorated share of unallocated funds
in Table 5.4.
b\ Other procurement methods include: force account for small civil works and field operations,
direct contracting for small civil works, recruitment of consultants for TA, studies and training based
on preparation of a short-list and submission of proposals, and shopping for small-scale equipment.
c\ Not financed by She Bank loan.
5.39          Assurances were obtained at negotiations that procurement of goods
and services and recruitment of consultants would be carried out according to
procedures  acceptable  to the Bank.   Procurement under the project would be
carried out by ANF according to the following methods.
5.40          International  comRetitive  bidding  (ICB  USS8.9 million).    Heavy
equipment consisting of moveable living quarters for forestry workers
(US$0.8 million) and bulldozers and associated equipment for forest works
(US$3.8 million) and vehicles (US$4.3 million) would be entirely awarded under
ICB.  A margin of preference of 15X of the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
or the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed
for domestic manufacturers.
5.41          Limited international bidding (LIB USSl.0 million).  Heavy equipment
-- estimated to cost no more than US$500,000 per contract and up to an aggregate
amount of US$1.0 million and consisting of tractors, trucks, forest machinery,
and accessories in small amounts - - would be awarded under LIB seeking bids from
a list of potential suppliers broad enough to assure competitive prices.



- 35 -
5.42        Competitive  bidding  advertised  locally  (LCB  USS14.5 million).
Project works, including civil works and forest and watershed operations, would
generally be small, remote, and dispersed both geographically and over time and
are unlikely to be of interest to foreign bidders.   Civil works consist of
(a) buildings for the nursery and the research stations and (b) simple staff
quarters in Chlef and Tissemsilt for researchers and technicians working in the
pilot watersheds.    Forestry and watershed field operations  include  land
preparation, stumping, planting, planting maintenance, and the construction of
small check dams and other erosion works (for example, stone gabions in the two
pilot watersheds).
5.43        Contracts for civil works and forestry and watershed operations,
estimated to cost at least US$100,000 but no more than US$2 million each, and up
to an aggregate amount of US$14.5 million equivalent, would be awarded under LCB,
with the exception of some small specialized works, mainly in the watersheds (see
para 5.44).   To the extent possible, contracts for forest roads would be
separated from contracts for other forest operations and would be let separately;
this is likely to increase participation of the private sector which has
experience in road construction. Procurement under LCB will be carried out in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
5.44        Other Drocurement methods.    Small  contracts  for civil works,
estimated to cost no more than US$100,000 equivalent and up to an aggregate of
US$500,000, would be awarded on the basis of direct contracting. Some small
specialized works in the watersheds (US$2.6 million), such as destoning, would
not be attractive to outside contractors because of the size and specialized
nature of these works and would be carried out by the forest service of the
Government, given the Government's willingness and existing capacity for such
works. Contracts for small-size equipment, (including office equipment, computer
hardware and scientific equipment), valued at less than US$100,000 and up to an
aggregate amount of US$1.1 million equivalent, would be awarded by local or
international shopping after receipt of quotations from at least three eligible
suppliers from at least two countries, respectively.
5.45        Contract review.  All bidding packages for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$500,000 or more and bidding packages for goods costing the
equivalent of US$150,000 or more would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
This would result in coverage of about 80X of the total estimated value of
contracts for both goods and works. The balance of contracts would be subject
to random checking in the field in the course of Bank supervision. The first
bidding document of each project agency below those amounts would also be subject
to prior review.
F. Disbursements
5.46        While the project is planned to be executed over five years, the
proposed Bank loan of US$25 million, is expected to be disbursed over seven years
in accordance with profiles for the agricultural sector in the Middle East and
North Africa Region (MENA). Disbursements (Table 5.4) would be completed by
December 31, 1998. This is considered conservative given Government's wish to



- 36 -
implement the pilot project as quickly as possible and then to proceed with a
larger-scale operation.
Table 5.4: PROJECT DISBURSEMENTS
Category                 Loan Allocation   X of Expenditures
(US$ '000)        to be Financed
1. Works q\                     11,000            80X
2. Machinery, Vehicles
and Equipment               6,500           1001 of foreign
expenditures
100X of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
75X of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally
3. Consultants and Training      5,500           100X
4. Unallocated                   2,000
Total                 25,000
a\    Civil works including forest and watershed management operations under
contract.
5.47        Disbursement would be made on receipt by the Bank of fully documented
applications, except for contracts for civil works, goods, and services below
US$100,000 equivalent, for which disbursements would be made against certified
statements of expenditure (SOE). The SOE would be certified by the appropriate
project agency. Supporting documentation would be retained by the implementing
agency and made available for inspection during Bank supervision missions and by
external auditors.
5.48        Government counterpart funds would be secured through appropriate
budgetary allocations.   Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
project's draft annual budgets and financial plans would be presented to the Bank
for comment no later than November 30 of each year.
5.49        To facilitate the timely implementation of the project, the Borrower
would establish, maintain, and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, a Special Account in U.S. dollars, with an authorized allocation of
US$1.5 million at the Central Bank of Algeria representing the Bank's share of
about four months of average project needs.



- 37 -
5.50        The Bank would replenish the Special Account as requested, upon
receipt of satisfactory evidence that expenditures made from it were eligible for
financing out of the loan. A replenishment request would normally be sent to the
Bank when 50X of the Special Account has been disbursed, that is, about every
three months (not to exceed six months). Recovery of the initial deposit would
begin six months before the closing date or when the total withdrawn amount of
the remaining loan funds that are expected to be disbursed by loan closure has
fa._len to US$3 million. Any ineligible payments made out of the Special Account
would be reimbursed promptly to the account or, if the Bank so requests, refurnded
to the Bank. Any amount outstanding in the Special Account at loan closure not
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures would be refunded
to the Bank. Documentation for replenishment of the Special Account would follow
the same procedure as in para 5.47. In addition, monthly Bank statements and a
reconciliation statement of the Special Account would accompany replenishment
requests. The minimum size of withdrawal requests acceptable to the Bank outside
of the Special Account would be US$150,000.
G. Accounts and Audits
5.51        ANF would be responsible for keeping project accounts. ANF would set
up adequate accounts to coordinate and account for the funds to be used by the
various entities involved in project execution.   These accounts would be
maintained in accordance with sound accounting practices. The project accounts
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, along with the
Special Account and the statement of expenditures sent to the Bank for
disbursements under the Bank loan. By November 30, 1992, Government would submit
to the Bank a timed action plan for meeting its audit requirements under the
project. Audited financial statements would be submitted to the Bank, with the
audit report, within six months after the end of each fiscal year. Assurances
to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
6.01        The Ministry of Agriculture through its National Forestry Agency
(ANF), will have primary responsibility for the overall implementation of the
project. ANF's Director General will be the Project Director. ANF will receive
the budget for the project, through the Ministry of Agriculture, except for
public infrastructure in pilot watersheds, which would pass directly to the APCs.
6.02        Assurances were obtained that ANF's Director General would be
responsible for overall project implementation and that his office would be
provided at all times with adequate human, physical, and financial resources to
carry out this task.  Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that a
Project Management Team (PMT) would be constituted as part of ANF's line
management, to be headed by the Project Director and to include a Deputy
Director, an economist, an accountant, and a secretary; and that the economist



- 38 -
and the accountant would be appointed to the PMT by November 30, 1992. The PMT
would be in charge of (a) project management, including maintaining project
accounts, preparing progress reports, and undertaking procurement and (b) project
monitoring and evaluation. PMT staff will benefit from training and technical
assistance in project management, project accounts, procurement, and monitoring
and evaluation.
B. Implementation
6.03        The components for strategy development,  pilot forestry,  pilot
watershed management and nature conservation, to the exception of associated
research activities, would be implemented by ANF, as would the training sub-
component.
6.04        Research activities consisting of applied research for plantation,
exploitation, watershed management, nature conservation, and strengthening of
INRF's headquarters,  including technical assistance and training,  will be
implemented by INRF. The research stations include Bainem (INRF's headquarters)
for the strengthening of INRF in research planning and diffusion of research
results, and for wood technology; Guerbes, Jijel, and Tizi Ouzou for forestry;
Tenes for watershed management; and El Kala for nature conservation. Since Tenes
is a recently established research station, the team of researchers working there
will be technically supervised by more experienced researchers from' the Ouzera
(Medea) station.
C. Particigation of Local Potilations
6.05        The social acceptability of project forestry and watershed operations
to the affected populations is of key importance. For the forestry operations,
to the extent that the closing of forest land deprives local populations of their
livelihood, they may be antagonistic to such interventions.   Several factors
militate against such an outcome. First, there are no homesteads in the areas
to be replanted under the forestry component and thus no involuntary resettlement
of any populations.    Second,  while livestock will be kept out of these
plantations for seven years, the area being replanted, at 4,300 ha, is small and
represents less than 12Z of the forest land in the immediate vicinity. Thus, the
impact on aggregate forage production in the area will be small. Third, the
project includes a component to increase forage productivity and allocates
200 ha on a trial basis for pasture improvement and 170 ha for the establishment
of pastoral fire breaks. Thus, there is unlikely to be any unexpected hardship
to the users. Moreover, an integral part of the project will be the testing of
different approaches to ensure the participation of local populations so that,
in the longer term, larger areas can be set aside for replanting or regeneration.
For this reason, part of the research effort addresses the issue of the
regeneration of cork oak; this can only be resolved with the participation of
local pastoralists. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government
would make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, no later than September 30,
1993, in respect of those who use forest lands to be replanted under the project



- 39 -
for grazing purposes, to ensure that the reforestation activities in the forests
are carried out in a manner consistent with grazing activities.
6.06        The watershed management component of the project  is a pilot
precisely because the participation of the local populations cannot be assured,
and suitable methodologies do not now exist that can be automatically applied in
Algeria. One of the main objectives of this component is to test new approaches
that will eventually lead to the establishment of contractual arrangements
between Government and local populations that will define clear responsibilities
and identify who will do, and pay, for what.   The participation of local
populations is thus the theme to be tested in the pilot watershed management
component of the project,  together with associated research.   The project
provides for the recruitment of an agro-pastoralist and a socio-economist, backed
by research, to work on these issues. For details on arrangements to be made
with the local populations, see paras. 5.22-5.23.
D. Training and Consultancy Services
6.07        The strengthening of human resources and the knowledge base is a key
element of the project, which includes a substantial amount of studies (about
US$3.1 million) and technical assistance and training (about US$3.0 million).
6.08        The project would provide for about: (a) 140 man-months of overseas
training, most of which would be short-term (less than 2 months' duration),
(b) 130 man-months of local training, mostly for short sessions of 5 to 10 days,
and (c) 75 man-months of internationally recruited consultants. Training under
the project would cover technical, research, and management staff. Technical
assistance would include the following specialties: preparation of forest
management plans, silvopastoral development, nursery techniques, plantation
establishment, logging, nature conservation, research programming, communication
techniques, preparation of bidding documents, and project supervision.
6.09         An immediate start on training and technical assistance is required
so that work in all components of the project can get under way. To accelerate
and facilitate the process, the bulk of the management of technical assistance
and training services to be provided under the project would be contracted to
third parties, under three different contracts (one for forestry operations, one
for watershed management operations, and one for forestry and watershed
management ressarch). As a condition of negotiations, Government has prepared
draft letters of invitation for recruitment of consultants to provide technical
assistance and training under the contracts for forestry operations, watershed
management operations, and forestry and watershed management research. It would
be a condition of loan effectiveness that Government has signed these contracts
with the consultants.



- 40 -
E.  Monitorinf and Evaluation
6.10        A major function of the PMT would be project monitoring and
evaluation. This, including the submission of progress reports, would be the
responsibility of the Deputy Director of the PMT, with the assistance of the
project economist and project accountant.
6.11        The purpose of monitoring is to improve project operation, and it
concentrates on contributions, activities, management, and outputs of the
project; evaluation in contrast, reexamines the design of the project and
assesses its impact.   Examples of the kind of items to be monitored are
infiltration and sediment yield rates in the sub-catchments; changes in the
production systems, particularly the adoption of perennial rather than annual
crops and permanent pasture; and the participation of the population in decision
making, controlling the use of natural resources, labor, and financial
contributions to implementation. Proposals and a fuller discussion of monitoring
and evaluation are in Annex 7 of the Implementation Volume.
6.12        Some four months before the start of the project, the Deputy Director
of the PMT would be sent on a month's monitoring and evaluation course. He would
then spend about two months, within or as near as possible to the project area,
to prepare a baseline study on social, economic, and environmental conditions of
operations for the main project components before implementation begins. This
would be followed by the preparation of a work program and the outline of a
progress report for discussion with the first Bank supervision mission. Annual
progress reports would be prepared and submitted to the Bank.   A Project
Completion Report would be prepared within six months of loan closing.
6.13        Supervision.  The project is expected to require an above-average
supervision effort from both the Government and the Bank to ensure success, given
the innovative and complex nature of the project, the dispersed locations of
project activities, and, in particular, the need to involve local populations
before many of the pilot activities in the watersheds can be fully detailed.
Bank supervision of key activities is indicated in Annex 3. This in in addition
to regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement
actions, correspondence, etc. Some 22 staff-weeks should be allocated in the
first full year of the project.   Much of this would be spent in helping
Government with the recruitment of consultants, the organization of the training
program, and monitoring and evaluation. Expertise to be located will include:
a forester, a logging and forest industry specialist, a forester specialized in
forest research, a natural resources and land use planner, and a socio-economist.
In year 2, continued heavy supervision would again be required, totalling some
22 staff-weeks of similar expertise.   In the third year, staff inputs would
remain high, primarily due to a mid-term review. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that Government would carry out such a review jointly with the Bank,
no later than June 30, 1995; and that no later than four weeks before the review,
the Government would prepare a report on the progress achieved by the project.
From the fourth year onward, coefficients closer to the average and some
12 staff-weeks per year can be expected.



- 41 -
F. Status of Prosect Preuaration
6.14        The project consists essentially of studies,  pilot operations,
training and technical assistance.   Government is acutely aware that past
investments in watersheds have not had the desired results and that the cost of
forestry operations have to be reduced. As such, the project has high priority
in Government's public investment program. The areas in which project activities
would take place are well defined, and procurement of goods is of a routine
nature requiring little time for preparation. Project processing was delayed so
that organizational issues could be resolved and staff could be in place before
the project was submitted to the Board. Pilot operations cannot get under way
until suitable arrangements have been made for the recruitment of technical
assistance. This issue has been discussed extensively with Government; terms of
reference for the technical assistance and for all studies included in the
project have been drawn up. Draft letters of invitation for consultancy services
have been prepared (para. 6.09).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. General
7.01        The major benefit from the project would be the improved and more
efficient use of Algeria's natural resources. One of the aims of the watershed
component is to develop the means to increase farm incomes and production,
particularly production from fruit trees and small-stock. Project activities in
the watersheds would lead to an expansion of employment opportunities and an
increase in incomes of the poorest sections of Algeria's population. Erosion
would be reduced, saving productive land for future generations. Of even greater
importance would be the evolution of replicable systems for the sustainable
development of watersheds. The life of dams would be prolonged; water quality
would be improved; and the recharge of the aquifer would be increased. Forest
operations are designed to introduce new and lower-cost techniques to better
utilize the forests so that, among other benefits, output (wood and forage
production) would increase and foreign exchange would be saved. The project
would also help ensure the preservation of the country's diverse flora and fauna.
Most important, the project would lay the technical, institutional, social, and
economic framework for an expanded program of natural resource management in the
future.
7.02        Of the pilot operations, only the plantation and logging components
produce quantifiable benefits. The benefits derived from these components are
detailed below and are incorporated in a single economic analysis (para. 7.13).
The benefits from the pilot watershed management and nature conservation
operations would be extremely difficult to quantify.   Indeed,  one of the
principal objectives of the project is to test the effectiveness of different
techniques and the response of farmers and livestock owners to different types
of intervention.    These and other benefits,  such as increased technical
knowledge, development of appropriate strategies, institution strengthening, and
human resource development are discussed in paras. 7.10 and 7.11.



- 42 -
B. Yields and Production
Plantations Established under the Proiect
7.03        Yields.  The 4,300 ha of pine plantations would be managed on a
50-year rotation with thinnings after 20, 30, and 40 years.  For Pinus pinaster
and Pinus pinea, the total yield of wood over the 50-year rotation would be
315 m3/ha, consisting of about half timber and half industrial wood. The mean
annual increment is estimated at 6.3 m3. The plantation yield per ha would be
25 m3 at the first thinning, 47 m3 at the second thinning, 59 m3 at the third
thinning, and 184 m3 at the final felling. Pinus radiata would be tried on an
experimental basis. This species is potentially more productive than the others,
although this has yet to be proven. Its average yield is estimated at 8.2 m3 a
year, and total productivity at 408 m3/ha. Pinus coulteri and Pinus canariensis
may also be tried in place of one of the other pine species mentioned above.
7.04        Total output from the plantation component of the project  is
estimated in Table 7.1.
Table 7.1: WOOD PRODUCTION FROM PLANTATION COMPONENT
('000 m3)
Pinus          Pinus         Pinus          Total
pinaster        pinea        radiata
Timber                        573            33            45             651
Chipwood                      614            35            43             692
Total                       1,187            68            88           1,343
7.05        During establishment of the plantations, livestock would be excluded
from the forest; this would result in a reduction in forage availability. To
help alleviate this shortfall, fire breaks in the plantation would be replanted
with high-yielding forage grasses, bushes, and trees. Productivity in the fire
breaks would almost triple, from about 250 forage units per hectare (FU/ha) in
the existing scrub to about 700 FU/ha. Nevertheless, because of the relative
areas involved, there would be a decline of 1.1 million FU in total forage
production during the first five years of plantation. Once the replanted areas
are opened up to livestock, the annual shortfall would be about 0.5 million FU.
This is not expected to present undue hardship.
Forest Exploitation
7.06        The aim of the pilot logging component is to introduce improved and
lower-cost logging techniques that can be replicated throughout the country.
This is essential if Algeria is to establish a viable and economic forestry
sector.   To this end, the project would harvest about 1,000 ha of mature



- 43 -
eucalyptus plantations. The commercially exploitable volume ranges from 50 m3/ha
to 120 m3/ha. With an average of 70 m3/ha and a daily logging capacity of about
60 m3/day, about 200 ha would be logged and would produce about 13,200 m3 of
industrial wood each year. Over the life of the project, the logging component
would produce about 66,000 m3 of eucalyptus.
C. Markets and Prices
7.07        Total wood production from the project, over the 50-year project
life, would amount to 1,340,000 m3, consisting of 650,000 m3 of timber and
690,000 m3 of industrial wood. This is roughly equivalent to Algeria's annual
wood consumption.   Because this production would be spread over a number of
years, and because of the increasing demand for wood and wood products, it is
expected that project output would easily sell on the domestic market.   In
addition, by the time project plantations start yielding, the wood technology
research component would have contributed to developing appropriate processing
techniques for domestic supply, thereby increasing the demand for domestic wood
production.
D. Benefits
Production and Foreignu Exchane Savings
7.08        As noted above, the principle benefits of the pilot project are
indirect -- the introduction of new, low-cost approaches and technologies to
natural resource management that would be ecologically and economically
sustainable and replicable on a larger scale in the future. These benefits are
described in more detail below. At the same time, however, the project would
realize directly quantifiable benefits from increased wood production. Over the
50-year project life, incremental pine and eucalyptus production would substitute
for (a) sawlog imports of 609,000 m3, representing about US$40 million of foreign
exchange savings, and (b) 726,000 m3 of chipwood, representing a foreign exchange
savings of about US$50 million.
Emplovment Creation
7.09        Over the five-year implementation period, the project is expected to
generate about 1.1 million man-days of direct employment for the local
populations in the project areas.
Environmental and Other Benefits
7.10        At present, Algeria's natural resources, including its forests and
waLersheds, are used in an inefficient and unsustainable manner. The state of
the resources is not adequately known, and the factors inducing resource
degradation are poorly understood. In attempting to remedy the depletion and
degradation of these resources, the forest service is using costly and ill-
adapted techniques. Forestry operations are so costly that local wood cannot
compete with imported wood and wood products. In the watersheds, operations are
also costly and inefficient. The full burden falls on Government's budget, so



- 44 -
that the existing techniques are not replicable on any significant scale.
Moreover, the approach and the techniques themselves need to be changed to
incorporate socio-economic considerations. Local populations are often opposed
to actions by the forest service; these actions are seen as an attempt to curtail
usufructuary rights in forests and ranges. It must be perceived to be in the
interests of local populations to change farming systems or to keep their
livestock out of the forests.
7.11        The project would lay the basis to improve this situation by:
(a)   improving  the knowledge,  condition,  and use  of the  resources
(inventories,  forestry  sector  study).    In  forestry,  project
activities would help identify reasons why, when there is such a
shortage of wood, the demand for local wood is so low.  It would
also, for the first time, fully inventory commercially exploitable
resources.   This would enable the industrial sector to identify
where there is potential for investment.   In the watersheds, it
would provide a framework for action, identifying priorities for the
future  (master plan for watershed management).   In short,  the
project would provide the base to develop a strategy to better
protect and use Algeria's natural resources;
(b)   simplifying the preparation of management plans for the forests so
that they are more easily understood.   At present  these are
extremely costly to prepare and difficult to use.  As a result,
management plans are not followed, and they quickly become outdated;
(c)   developing less costly  and more  effective  techniques  for the
management of forests and watersheds (pilot operations and research
activities), which would reduce the unit cost of operations and
increase the growth rate of trees, thereby enabling such operations
to be undertaken on a larger scale  in  the  future.    In  the
watersheds, not only would unit costs be reduced, but the process of
identifying, prioritizing, and addressing constraints would be
changed.   In the past, many techniques were introduced to reduce
sedimentation of dams.   In fact,  some of the techniques used
actually made the situation worse and, at the same time, alienated
the local populations. Now that the process of erosion is better
understood, it is clear that, in the upper catchments, the focus
needs to be on reducing the amount and energy of runoff through a
permanent vegetative cover.   Thus, the project aims not to tell
farmers that what they are doing is causing dams downstream to silt
up (something that is of almost no interest to those upstream), but
to find means of increasing farmers' incomes while slowing runoff.
In the long run, the project would help increase rural incomes and
slow the process of urban migration;



- 45 -
(d)   reducing erosion and sedimentation of dams, thereby prolonging their
life and preventing Algeria's acute problem of water shortage from
worsening, at the same time increasing groundwater infiltration
rates and so increasing the amount of groundwater available for
domestic and industria- use and for irrigation;
(e)   testing ways to develve management of natural resources to the local
populations under a contractual arrangement between the State and
local  user  groups.    Thus,  the  responsibility  and burden  of
undertaking many of the activities in watersheds would be shifted
from Government to the beneficiaries.  Taken in conjunction with
(c), this would result in further budgetary savings and a more
sustainable management system;
(f)   in conjunction with (b) and (e) above, testing ways, through the
formation of user groups rather than through enforcement, to
(i) exclude livestock during the establish-ment period of replanted
forests and (ii) to regenerate natural forests. The project would
explore means of increasing forage production from the forests;
(g)   developing human resources through training and technical assistance
to improve the technical expertise of the forest service staff and,
more important, to increase their understanding of the need for
multi-purpose forest management incorporating the needs of the local
populations;
(h)   reducing unit costs and introducing competition in the procurement
of works, goods, and services, providing the basis for a viable and
more competitive sector in which the private sector is an active
participant;
(i)   contributing to the preservation of Algeria's  flora and fauna
(training of staff in the park service);
(j)   establishing an institutional, technical, and strategic base for
future investment in natural resource management in Algeria.
7.12        Altogether, the project would provide the Government with the means
to develop the forest sector and watersheds in a more efficient, sustainable, and
environmentally sound manner.
E.  Economic Analysis and Sensitivitv Analysis
7.13        As noted above, it is only possible to quantify the benefits from the
plantation and exploitation components. The economic analysis, therefore, takes
into account the benefits and costs from these two activities. The benefits from
the logging component are included in this analysis, since it is assumed that
logging costs for thinnings and final felling of the plantation would be reduced
in the same proportion as logging costs in the pilot eucalyptus logging component
(i.e.,  would be reduced by half).   Indeed,  if the project achieves  its



- 46 -
objectives, by the time the plantation needs to be thinned, improved logging
techniques tested under the project would be diffused throughout the country.
7.14        The rate of return for the plantation component is estimated to be
12%, slightly above the opportunity cost of capital (estimated at 1OX). The NPV
is estimated at DA 29 million.
7.15        All values are in constant prices.   For the economic analysis,
international prices have been converted to dLnars at US$1 - DA 201Y. Because
of the high level of unemployment and under-employment in Algeria, currently
estimated at about 23%, the market rate for labor has been adjusted by a factor
of 0.5 to reflect its opportunity cost.  Traded goods and services have been
valued at their c.i.f. import or f.o.b. export parity price as appropriate.  Non-
traded goods and services have been adjusted by specific conversion factors (see
Annex 5).   Prices have been assumed to remain constant in real terms.   For
detailed information, see Annex 8 of the Implementation Volume.
7.16        The economic viability is relatively insensitive to either increases
in costs or reduction of benefits, since the switching values are -36% for total
benefits and +57% for total costs.
F.  Proiect Risks
7.17        Project risks can be classified as ;elated to the environment in
which the project will be implemented and as project-specific risks. The project
will be implemented in a period of profound economic and political change as
Algeria moves from a centralized economy to a more decentralized and market-
oriented economy.   The project aims essentially to increase the technical
relevance and efficiency of forest and watershed management and to improve the
involvement of local populations in this management. The realization of these
objectives requires sustained momentum at the macro and sectoral level, where
Government is aiming to (a) reduce the role of Government in directly productive
sectors and increase professionalism and accountability of Government agencies,
(b) increase the role of the private sector, and (c) decentralize the management
of local resources to local populations.   This momentum exists and, given
Government's ongoing commitment to the overall economic reform program, there
appears to be little risk at this time that there will be a slowing down of this
momentum.
7.18        There are a number of risks related to the new organizational set-up
in the sector, in which Government has replaced the Department of Forests with
the ANF and regional forest development offices (ORDFs). A need was felt for
Government to spell out its long-term vision of the sector, notably: (a) how it
intends to encourage the private sector and avoid duplication between ANF and
ORDF, and (b) the mechanisms to achieve inter-sectoral coordination and to
I/    Shadow exchange rate before devaluation.



- 47 -
improve the participation of local populations. Accordingly, as a condition of
negotiations, Government has submi- ad a letter of intention, satisfactory to the
Bank, clarifying these issues.
7.19        The development impact of the project relies essentially on lessons
to be learned from the pilot operations (for possible replication on a larger
scale in the future) and on the quality of the studies, technical assistance, and
training carried out under the project. The quality of studies and consultants
would be assured by employment of consultants following Bank guidelines. The
timeliness of the recruitment of consultants is ensured by making it a condition
of effectiveness of the loarn (para. 6.09). Regarding lessons learned, there is
a risk of inappropriate monitoring and evaluation (M&E), which would considerably
reduce the benefits. This risk is minimized by the emphasis given to M&E in
project design. In the pilot watershed component in particular, thorough M&E is
an integral part of the process to be tested.   In addition,  intensive M&E
training would be provided to the economist of the Project Management Team, and
the early supervision missions will focus on M&E to ensure that a viable M&E
system is put in place.  The other risks associated with pilot operations are
inherent to their pilot nature: delays, or need for change of design should the
techniques or approaches tested prove non-applicable; but these are part of the
learning experience.
G. Environmental Impact Statement
7.20        Paragraph 7.11 above summarized the main non-quantifiable benefits
of the project. All components of the project would have some impact on the
environment: the effects of most components on the environment would be strongly
beneficial; others would be beneficial on balance.
7.21        Interventions under watershed management are expected to be wholly
beneficial in reducing soil erosion and loss of water.   The most recent
developments are concerned with changing land use, reducing the cost of
techniques, and redistributing responsibility for safeguarding soil to speed
remedial measures. Action under forest management and utilization is largely
neutral -- exploitation is confined to coppicing of exotic plantations
(eucalyptus), which would have minimal negative impact on soil erosion and the
environment. Cutting regulations in regard to stump height woul" --otect coppice
shoots. Management planning would, to a large degree, be concerned with natural
regeneration of indigenous forest, which is environmentally positive.
7.22        Inevitably, nature conservation is entirely concerned with benefiting
the environment -- providing the training of environment staff.
7.23        Reforestation is on balance beneficial to the environment.   Soil
conservation is observed throughout land clearance operations -- use of a rake
in stumping would limit the loss of forest humus, and debris is deposited in
windrows 30 m apart on the contour. Only shrubby maquis/garrigue is cleared
(cork oak in good condition is alwvs left).   A width of at least 1' m of
indigenous woodland of any species is left on either side of watercourses. The



- 48 -
species most commonly planted would be the local provenance (Bougarouni) of Flmnu
Rinaster numidiana, which is endemic to the area -- it colonizes cork oak areas
naturally. Blocks of pine would be divided by fire breaks of pastoral (tree,
shrub or grass) species. Fire and overgrazing are the principle causes of forest
degradation and should, therefore, be largely eliminated in this area.   No
seriously threatened species would be adversely affected by the component; among
vertebrates threatened worldwide, many animals are marine or arid-area species,
and the remainder are probably too versatile to be affected.  Extremely rare
plants do not occur on these sites; of the seven in this region, four are marsh
plants and three (Odontidas spp.) occur only around Annaba.   The plantation
blocks are, of course, diffuse; they occupy only 12% of the total region.
7.24        The  forest research  component  is also beneficial  on balance.
Although much of it is conce-rned with preparing good nursery stock, land
clearance studies, and wood technology sub-components are equally concerned with
studies on the regeneration and rehabilitation of cork oak, silvopastoral
management, silviculture of high-quality broadleaved trees, and integrated pest
management (primarily in regard to forest insects).
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Assurances and Agreements
8.01        During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government to:
(a)   employ consultants by March 31, 1993, to prepare simplified forest
management plans and the master plan for watersheds (para. 5.10);
(b)   employ consultants by March 31, 1994, to undertake the forest sector
study (para. 5.10);
(c)   complete (i) the national watershed master plan, (ii) the simplified
forest management plans, and (iii) the forest sector study by
September 30, 1996 (para. 5.10);
(d)   prepare and submit for Bank approval a plan of the activities, and
enter into satisfactory arrangements in respect of the local
populations, for (i) the appropriate implementation of the plans,
(ii) the future maintenance of the investments, and (iii) their
contribution to investment costs;
(e)   undertake  procurement  of  goods,  works  and  services,  and  the
recruitment of consultants, according to procedures acceptable to
the Bank (para. 5.39);
(f)   submit to the Bank for comment, no later than November 30 of each
year, beginning in 1992, the project's draft annual budgets and
financial plans, and implement such br -gets and reports taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon (para. 5.48);



- 49 -
(g)   maintain project accounts  in accordance with  sound accounting
practices with project accounts audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; audited financial statements would be
submitted within six months after the end of each fiscal year
(para. 5.51). By November 30, 1992, Government will submit to the
Bank a timed action plan indicating how it wili ensure meeting its
audit requirements of project accounts for the following year, and
thereafter carry out such plan taking into account the Bank's
comments thereon;
(h)   ensure  that ANF's Director General  is responsible for overall
project implementation, and at all times provide his office with
adequate human, physical, and financial resources to carry out this
task (para. 6.02);
(i)   constitute  a  troject  Management  Team  as  part  of ANF's  line
management, to be headed by the Project Director and to include a
Deputy Director, an economist, and a secretary (the economist and
the accountant will be appointed no later than November 30, 1992, to
be part of the Project Management Team (para 6.02));
(j)   make  arrangements,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  no  later  than
September 30, 1993, in respect of those who use forest lands to be
replanted under the project for grazing purposes, to ensure that the
reforestation activities are consistent with grazing activities
(para. 6.05);
(k)   no later than June 30, 1995, carry out a mid-term review jointly
with the Bank, and no later than four weeks before this review
prepare a report on the progress achieved by the project
(para. 6.13).
Condition of Effectiveness
8.02        Employment of consultants for forest operations, watershed management
operations, and project research activities (para. 6.09) would be a condition of
effectiveness.
8.03        With the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable for
a Bank loan of US$25 million to the Government of Algeria.   The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.



ANNEX 1
-50                                                                  Table 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PILOT FORESTRY AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summarv
IDA ' 0001                                          (US$ '0001
S Total                                            S Total
S Foreign  Base                                    S Foreign  Base
local   Foreign   Total   Exchange   Costs           Local  Foreign Total   Exchanne   Costs
:s.c::s:  :.:;: :c:s:: .:nszc:::::  :1:s::sss ...............................   c.c:c  ..... .: ..g s::t c:c:c:s: cctt:.::t::
A. Sector Strategy
_.. _.  _   _.......... ..  . ....... ..
1. Forest sector study                          4. 115    11.916    16.031         74         2        187      542       729          74        2
2. Watershed masterplan                         2. 619    7.585    10.204           74         1       119      345       464          74         t
3. Forest management plans                      9.246   29.069   38 315             76        6        420    1.321    1. 742          76        6
Sub-Total Sector Strategy                          15.980   48.569   64.549            75         9       726   2.208    2.934            75         9
S. Forest Operations
1. Nursery establishment                        8.350    17.238   25.588           67         4       380       784    1.163           67        4
2. Pilot plantation                           122. 121  107.660  229,781            47       34     5.551    4.894   10.445            47       34
3. Skikda cons. strengthening                   2.548     4.383      6.931          63         1       116       199      315          63         t
4. Pilot logging operation.                     5.430    8.869    14.299            62        2        247      403       650          62        2
5. Tarf cons. strengthening                     1.228    3,549    4,777             74         1        56       161      217          74         1
6. Guerbes research station                    17.386    16.870   34.256           49         5        790      767    1.557           49        5
7. Jijel research station                         582       215        797         27         0         26        10       36          27        0
8. Tizi Ouzou research station                    582        215       797         27         0         26        10       36          27        0
9. Bainem research station                      9.888    13.840   23.729            58        3        449      629    1,079    I    58          3
_- -   -    -- -- -   -- -- -    -- - - -   -------.   ........... .......    ........ .....    .......... ....... ...... ... ..... .... ....... ...
Sub-Total Fc,est Operations                      168.115  172.839  340,954             51       50      7.642    7.856   15.498           51        50
C. Watershed Management
1. lnfrastructure works                       42.588    19.092   61.679            31         9     1.936       868   2.804            31        9
2. Works on private lands                      10.529    3.896    14.425            27        2        479       177      656          27        2
3. Works on collective  lands                  24.269    11.368   35.637            32      . 5     1.103       517    1,620           32        5
4. Strengthen. of El  Chlef cons.               8.509    12.781   21,290            60        3        387      581       968          60        3
5. Renf. D. ag. Tissemsilt                      8.686    12.818   21,505            60        3        395      583       977          60        3
6. Research S Development                       6.826    3.197   10.023            32         1        310       145      456          32        1
7. Tenes research station                       9.838    13.538   23.376           58         3        447      615    1.063           58        3
Sub-Total Watershed Management                   111.244   76.690  187.935             41       28      5.057    3.486   8.542            41        28
D. Nature Conservation                              1.719    7.408    9.127            81         1        78       337      415          81         I
E. Support Activities
.......... .............. _
1. Project Managment Team  (PMTI                2.904     5.667     8,571          66         1        132      258       390          66        T
2. Strengthening of  INRF                         672    3.252       3.924         83         1         31       148      178          83         1
3. Equipement                                  31. 562   35.293   66.855           53        10      1.435    1. 604   3.039           53        10
........     .......... ........    ............ .... ....  ------   ....... . ------- .... ---- ---   .-.-._--.-- .    ............... .. ..
Sub-Total Support Activities                      35.138   44.211    79.350            56        12     1.597    2,010    3.607           56        12
.. ...;.. ....... ........ ........ ........... ........ ........... ....... .........  .............. .... ......  ....._.......... ...
Total BASELINE COSTS                               332. 196  349.718  681.914            51       100    15. 100  15.896  30.996            51       100
Physical Contingencies                           30,359   34.565   64.924             53        10     1.380    1.571    2.951           53        10
Price Contingencies                             135.432  113. 186  248,618            46       36      1.941    1, 511   3.452           44        11
,.......... ........ ..........  ................ ........ ......... ....... ..... ....... ....  ...... ................ .. ...
Total PROJECT COSTS                                497.987  497.469  995.457             SO       146    18,421   18.979  37.399             51      121
.sa:.::.  ....n:. -   .....::: cx:sc        ss:                Sc::::;ccc::: sasxagS:s 18.SSSS
............... . ......................... ...... ..................................................................................
May TS, 1992  17:53



Table 2
- 51 -
Protect COiinentp by Yeac
Totals Including Contingencies                              Totals Including Contingencies
t0A '0001                                                   IUSS ' 0001
........ ............ __...... ................ ..;;..  ........................................
*   1     2          3         4          S        Total          1        2       3        4       5     Total
sss,:s,a esasm.. 33,58551 :;3:ISS3 51333,81 S:535S81 3281 .32 313883 88388: 822518 888888 38..88s
A. Sector Strategy
.........................
I. Forest sector study                                -          -   15. 816      9.523           -   25 339                     -    577      338        -      91S
2. Watershed msterplan                            1.985     S. 113    3.559            -          -    14.657          80      344     130                -      554
3. Forest management plans                       15.603    26,603      7.589      4.523           -   54.318          629   1,004      277      160       -   2.070
Sub-Total Sector Strategy                           17.589    35, 717    26.964    14.046             -   94.315         709   1.348      984      498        -   3,539
8. Forest Operations
............ .............._.._._.__
t. Nursery establishment                        32.490        571                     -           -   33,061       1.310       22        -       -             1.332
2. Pilot plantation                             113.577   31, 836   57.435    64,732    75,935   343.515           4.580   1.201  2.096  2,295  2.618  12,791
3. Skikda cons. strengthening                     6.911        760        501       536        573      9.281         279       29      18       19      20      364
4. Pilot logging operation.                      11.831     2.124      1.873      2.004      2. VI4    19.978         477       80      68       71      74      771
S. Tarf cons. strengthening                       2.794      2, 127       787       456        488      6.652         113       80      29       16      17      255
6. Guerbes research station                     21.206    11.099       5.803      5.626      3.663    47.398          855     419      212     200      126   1,812
7. iije6  research station                          196        219        284       304        179      1.183           8        8      10       11       6        44
8. Tizi Ouzou research station                      196        219        284       304         179     1, 183          8        8      10       11       6        44
9. Bainem research station                      24.609       1. 359    1,568      1.905      2.038    31.479          992       51      57       68      70    1. 239
Sub-Total forest Operations                        213.810   50.316    68.535    75.868    85.199  493,727             8.621   1.899  2.501   2.690  2,938   18.650
C. IWatershed Managemnt
I. Infrastructure works                          3.194    19,206   25,340    27.772    21.517    97,029               129     725     925      985     742   3.505
2. Works on private  lands                             -    5.937      7.183      4.687      4.556    22.363            -    224       262      166     157      810
S. Works on collective  lands                          -    8.051    12.660    17.221    20.062    57.994                     304      462     611      692   2.068
4. Strengthen. of El  Chief cons.                15. 991    4 169    3.277        3.507      2.667    29. 611         645      157     120      124      92    1. 138
5. Renf. 0. eo. Tissemsilt                       15.991      3.704     3.777      3.507      3.046    30.025          645      140     138      124     105    1. 152
6. Research A Development                           479     2,129      4.578      4.286      4.586    16.057           19      80      167      152     158      577
7. Tones research station                        14.940     4.905      5.328      4.180      3.531    32.883          602      185     194      148     122    1.252
... ....__. .... ..... .... ..... _.. ._ ... ... _.,_. ......__..... ....... ..  ...  .......   ,   ....... ......  ........ .......  .........  .
Sub-Total Watershed Nanagement                      50.595   48. 103   62.143   65.160   59.964   285.964              2.040   1,815  2.268  2,311  2.068   10.502
D. Nature Conservation                               6.414      1.248      2.170      1.875      1.252    12.959         259       47       79      67       43      495
E. Support Activities
,__...._ ...............
1. Project fanag'ent Team  IPtlT)                6.148      1. 737     1.229      1. 315     1.407    11.835         248       66       45      47       49      453
2. Strengthening of  INRF                         2.514      1. 03        620       663        709      5.609         101       42      23       24      24      214
3. Equipemwnt                                   43. 123   47. 924                      -          -   91.047       1.739   1.808         -        -            3.547
_.......... ........ ........ ....... .......... ..... ..........  ........ .... .___......... ... _. ;. .. .... ........ ........ ... ... . _...... 
Sub-Total Support Activities                        51.785   50.765        1.848      1.978     2. I6   108.492        2.088   1.916        67      70       73   4.214
_   .....................  ........... ........  ........... ........  ...........  ....... ........ .._ ......  ........ ...... ......  ...
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  340.191   186.147   161.660  158.927   148.531   995.457    13.717   7,024  5.900  5.636  5.122  37.399
8.sx..: 288888.8 .82 ..8.2, a.   ss8 ...8.888 ...               s8t. 2,,                      ..t.. 2. 2:28888   a8888  a8 8.88  S*    8 :s388
....................................................... ......................................... ........................7_..
Ilwy 15, 1992   17:53



Table 3
- 52 -
S,.nnsry Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                            Totals Including Contingencies
IDA '0001                                                lUSs '000)
.,,. .......................,... ,........ ............. ........ ............. ....... ........... ............ ..................... _
I        2          3         4          5       Total          1       2.      3       4       5     Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
.....;...........
. Construction                            61.706    6,514            -         -              68.220      2,488      246       -        -       -   2.734
B. Uorksite cabinet                       19.044                     -                        19.044        768                                           a -  768
C. Terrassing equipment                   92. 965                    -                        92,965      3.749        -                -       -   3. 749
0. togging equipment                      26.453          -          -                        26.453      1,067                -        -         _    .067
E. Light equipment
...............
1. Office equipment                    4.733                    4- 4733                                  191                                        191
2.  Sma11 tschn. equipment             9.502      1, 582     1. 701    1. 821     1.947    16.553        383      60       62      65      67       637
3. Audio-visuel equipment                 244          -         .                            244         10        -       -               -        10
4. Laboratory equipm.                  9.133           *         *         *                9.133        368                                -      368
...... ; .     ........     .......  ........    ........     ........  .......     ......     ..............................
Sub-Total Light equipment                 23.612      1.582     1.701      1.821     1.947   30.663         952       60      62      65       67    1,206
F. Vehicles                               61.935   47.924                       -            109.859      2.497  1.808                  -       -   4.306
C. Studies                                 8,998   33.295   26,016   13,778               -   82.087        363  1. 256    949       489        -   3.057
N. Contract works                          4.649   34, 848   61. 505   69. 515   79, 036  249.554            187  1. 315  2.245  2.465  2. 72S   8. 938
1. Contrsct works, water sheds             3.194   19. 129   24.499   25. 981    18. 513   91 316           129    722       894    921      638   3.304
J. Works on private  lands           .               5.937      7. 183    4.687    4.556   22. 363                   224     262     166      157      810
It. Morks on collective lands                   -    8.051    12,660    17.221   20.062   57.994               -    304      462     611      692   2.068
L. Force account works                       479    2. 129    4.578       4.286    4.586    16, 057           19      80     167     152      158      577
I. Training
1. Docu'mentation                      1,128         41         44        47         51     1.312         46       2        2       2       2    . 52
2. Training abroad                     14.298    8.421      4.272      4.148      1.520   32.658         577     318      156     14?      52    1.250
3. Local training                       1.4ew     1.398      1. 119    1.112        576    5.668          59      53       41      39      20       212
4. Technical assistance                16.3.. i    7,143    6.680    4.739    4.210   39.120             659     270    244       168     145    1.486
Sub-Total Training                        33.238    17.003   12,115   10.046    6.357    78.758           1.340      642    442      356    219   2.999
.................  .........................  .......... ........  ....... ..... ........    .... .........  ...... ;.......  ... ....... ......  ........ .......
Total INVESTMENT COSIS                      336.273   176,412   150.257  147.335  135.057  945.334    13.559  6.657  5.484  5.225  4.657  35.582
usu:::X: .5.::::.  S::.t:t  s::StC:: :umnncS  ::s:::.:  5SSSZ*S utSS: us.:.: SC;::: s23:38  StRIlSS
II. RECURRENT COSTS
_..............
A. Salairies                              2,594     4.666      4.982     4,468    4.781    21.490           105     176     182     158      165      786
8. Travel allowances                        352        871       958        749       786     3.717          14      33      35      27       27      136
C. Building 08 H                                    1.409      1.653     1.770      1.893    6.725            -      53      60      63       65      242
0. Vehicle operating costs                  528     1,110      1, 194    1, 119     1. 197    5.148         21       42      44      40       41      186
E. Office opreating costs                   226       527        567       606        649    2.574            9      20      21      21       22       94
F. Research operating costs .               197     1.000      1.075       946      1.012     4.228          8       38      39      34      35       153
0. Maintenance of proj. works                22        152       975     1.934    3.158    6.242              1       6      36      69      109      220
Total RECURRENT COSTS                         3,919      9.735    11,403    11.592    13.475   50.123           158     367    416    411        465    1.817
..?: : :.:::zS:s  u..SSSS  ur:::.:.u. .::   u: .; :    r:.::, s.:.   tn t5:                         s..::  S..:,::
Total PROJECT COSTS                          340 191   186.,147  161.660  158927  148.531  995.457    13.717  7.024  5.900  5.636  5.122  3?.399
:uu.S:ha 8*zSaS::   ::::t:u   ..sss:sgs Sn::..: :Sn:;:.:    nSaS:SS  wS..  aS:*Sf   aSsist ttnna  :..SnE
.................................................... ..................................................................................    
May 15. 1992   17;53



- 53 -
Table 4
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank LoanI"
IBRD                Semester        By End of      Cumulative    Cumulative
Fiscal Year          Ending          Semester                          X of
------ US$ million -          Disbursementk\
FY93               Dec. 92            0                  0             0
June 93            1.0                1.0          4
FY94               Dec. 93            1.0                2.0           8
June 94            1.0                3.0          12
FY95               Dec. 94            1.0                4.0          16
June 95            2.0                6.0          24
FY96               Dec. 95            2.5                8.5          34
June 96            2.5               11.0         44
FY97               Dec. 96            2.5               13.5          54
June 97            2.5               16            64
FY98               Dec. 97            2.5               18.5          74
June 98            2.5               21.0          84
FY99               Dec. 98            2.0               23.0          92
June 99            2.0               25.0        100
Expected Effectiveness Date: October  1992
Expected Completion Date:    December 1997
Expected Closing Date:        December 1998
Standard Disbursement profile for Agricultural Sector in the EMENA
Region, as of 04/18/90.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PILOT FORESTRY AND WT9ERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Assurances Related to the Imnlementation of the
Pilot Watershed Management Component
1.    Prior to undertaking field operation in the Dilot watershed areas,
Government will take appropriate actions to:
(a)   call together the parties necessary to draw up a multi-sectoral
medium-term local development and resource management plan for each
of the pilot watersheds--including project staff, APC leadars, and
representative of all Ministries involved;
(b)   have an initial outline of such plans prepared for each pilot
watershed and submit them to the Bank for approval, said outline to
incorporate planning for all social infrastructure;
(c)   successfully conclude funding agreements for these plans with the
local populations (the agreements will spell out the respective
contribution of the Government and the local populations to the
implementation of the plans, and provide for a gradual reduction of
Government's share of financing for works on-farm and on collective
land, according to the following sliding scale: 801, 651, 501, 401
and 30X by the end of the project implementation period);
(d)   submit the funding agreements to the Bank for approval (para. 5.22).
2.    During the imolementation of the Pilot Watershed ComRonent, Government will
take appropriate actions to:
(a)   carry out field operations under the pilot watershed component in
accordance with the plans;
(b)   monitor and evaluate on a yearly basis implementation of the plans
and compliance with agreed funding arrangements, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)   prepare and submit to the Bank monitoring and evaluation reports no
later than September 30 of each implementation year, with
recommendations on revisions to the plans in the light of the
experience gained; and
(d)   promptly incorporate revisions agreed to with the Bank into the
plans (para. 5.22).



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIR
PILOT FORESTRY AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ProDosed Bank Supervision Ingut into Key Activities
Dates                                      Expected Skill             Staff
(approx.)         Activity                    Requirements             Input
(weeks)9/
07/92   Start-up of technical    Organisation/TA Training.               1.5
assistance and training.
09/92   Supervision Mission       Finance/Organisation                   8
(Project start-up)       Land Use Planner
Forestry/Research/Nat. Cons.
Logging
Procurement/Disbursemet.t
Monitoring and Evaluation
12/92  Watershed Workshop       Land Use Planner                        5.5
Soil/water Management Specialist
Socio Pastoralist
02/93  Supervision              Organisation/Finance                     7
Land Use Planner
Forestry/Research/Nat. Cons.
Logging/Wood Industries
Monitoring and Evaluation
06/93  Supervision              Organisation/Finance                     8
Land Use Planner
Forestry/Nat. Cons.
Logging/Wood Industries
08/93 Review of TA and          TA/Training                              1
Training
Staff Input is In addition to regular supervision needs for review of progress repc-ts, procurement
actions, correspondence, etc. (estimated for this project at 4 aw per year durlng the first three
project years and 2 sw thereafter).



- 56 -
Page 2 of 2
ProRosed Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities (Cont.)
Dates                                Expected Skill                 Staff
(approx.)         Activity              Requirements                   Input
(weeks)
11/93  Supervision              Organisation/Finance                    7
Land Use Planner
Forestry/Nat. Cons.
Logging/Wood Industries
04/94  Supervision              Organisation/Finance                    7
Land Use Planner
Forestry/Nat. Cons.
Logging/Wood Industries
07/94  Supervision              Organisation/Finance                    7
Land Use Planner
Forestry/Nat. Cons.
Logging/Wood Industries
12/94 Mid-term Review           Economist/Finance                      12
Land Use Planner
Socio Pastoralist
Soil/Water Management Specialist
Hydrologist
Forestry/Reserach
Nature Conservation
Logging/Wood Industries
1995   Two Supervision Missions Organisation/Finance                   14
Land Use Planner
Forestry/Nat. Cons.
Logging/Wood Industries
1996   Two Supervision Missions Organisation/Finance                   14
Land Use Planner
Forestry/Nat. Cons.
Logging/Wood Industries
1997   Two Supervision Missions Organisation/Finance                   14
Land Use Planner
Forestry/Nat. Cons.
Logging/Wood Industries
1998   Two Supervision Missions Organisation/Finance                   14
(including work on PCR) Land Use Planner
Forestry/Nat. Cons.
Logging/Wood Industries



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POEULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PILOT FORESTRY AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
1.    Preparation Report by FAO/CP, January 30, 1990
2.    Implementation Volume Annexes (in French)
Annex 1:    Forest Management
Annex 2:    Pilot Reforestation
Annex 3:    Wood sector and pilot exploitation
Annex 4:    Nature Conservation, including preparation of a
management plan for the El Kala national park
Annex 5:    Forest Research
Annex 6:    Watershed Management
Annex 7:    Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 8:    Financial and Economic Results
Annex 9:    Cost Estimates
3.    Laws and Decrees
-      9Loi no. 87-03 du 27 janvier relative a l'amenagement du
territoire.
-     Loi no. 84-12 du 23 juin 1984 portant regime general des forets.
Loi no. 88-01 du 12 janvier 1988 portant loi d'orientation sur les
entreprises publiques dconomiques.
-     Loi no. 90-08 du 7 avril 1990 relative a la commune.
-     Loi no. 90-09 du 7 avril 1990 relative A la wilaya.
-     Loi no. 90-25 du 18 novembre 1990 portant orientation fonci&re.
-     Decret no. 81-348 du 12 Decembre 1981 portant creation de
l'Institut national de recherche forestiare (I.N.R.F.).
-     Decret no. 87-44 du 10 fevrier 1987 relatif a la prevention contre
les incendies dans le domaine forestier et a proximitd.
-     Decret executif no. 89-170 du 5 septembre 1989 relatif a
l'exploitation des for6ts et la vente des coupes et produits de
coupes.
-     D6cret exdcutif no. 90-13 du ler janvier 1990 portant organisation
de l'administration centrale du minist&re de l'agriculture.
-     Decret executif no. 90-114 du 21 avril 1990 portant crdation
de l'Agence nationals des forets.
-     D6cret exdcutif no. 91-59 du 23 fevrier 1991 modifiant at
compl6tant le decret no. 90-114 du 21 avril 1990 portant creation
de l'Agence nationale des forets.
-     Decret exdcutif no. 90-116 du 21 avril 1990 portant statut
type des Offices regionaux de d6veloppement forestier.



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
D6cret ex6cutif no. 90-311 du 13 octobre 1990 portant
dissolution des Offices d'amenagement et de mise en valeur
de perimetres.
Decret executif no. 90-312 du 13 octobre 1990, portant
dissolution de l'Office national des for6ts (O.N.T.F.).
Decret executif no. 90-313 portant creation de l'Office
regional de developpement forestier de la r6gion tellienne
occidentale.
D6cret exdcutif no. 90-314 portant cr6ation de l'Office
regional de ddveloppement forestier de la region tellienne
orientale.
Decret executif no. 90-315 portant creation de l'Office regional
de developpement forestier de la r6gion steppique occidentale.
D6cret executif no. 90-316 portant creation de l'Office
rdgional de d6veloppement forestier de la region tellienne
centrale.
Ddcret executif no. 90-317 portant cr6ation de l'Office
r4gional de d6veloppement forestier des monts des Aures, du
Hodna et de Tebessa.
Decret executif no. 90-318 portant creation de l'Office r6gional
de developpement forestier de la region steppique orientale.



- 59 -
6NNX 5i
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PILOT FORESTRY AND WJATERSHED MANGEMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PRICES OF SELECTED OUTPUTS AND INPUTS
Financial and Economic Prices, and accounting Ratios
Item                          Unit           Fin, p,       Econ. D.      Acc.
DA per unit ------      ratio
Output
Pine timber                   m3             1255          2540          2.0
Pine chipwood                 m3             870           1760          2.0
InPuts
casual labor                  m.d.           145           72.5          0.5
foreman                       m.d.           184           184           1
seedling                      unit           1.2           1.8           1.5
fertilization                 seedling       12            30            2.5
soil analysis                 ha             80            80            1
structural charges            z              misc.         misc.         0.55
chinning, 20 years            m3             100           130           1.3
thinning, 30 years            m3             80            104           1.3
thinning, 40 years            m3             75            97.5          1.3
clearfelling, 50 years        m3             70            91            1.3
mechanized clearing           ha             475           950           2.0
mechanized subsoiling         ha             475           950           2.0
transport                     t*km           1.5           1.5           2.25



ALGERIA
PILOT FORESTRY AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Organization of Forest Services
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
National institute                                      National Forestry                         National Agency for              Other
for Forestry Research                                          Agency                               Nature Conservation           Directorates
INRF)          l<(ANF)                                                                              (ANN)
Directorate                Directorate                                      Directorate                Directorate               Directorate
of                         of                                              of                           of                        of
Forest Protection              Planning                                Management & Development        Soil Conservation       General Adninistration
of Forest Resources_
R  E  G  I O   N  A  L                     I  N  S  P  E  C  T  I O    N  S
West              western Steppe             Center             Eastern Steppe             East                North East
1 6          C   o   n   s   e   r   v   a  n   c   i   e   s



PILOI FOR.wIRYAND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJET PILOTE DE DEVELOPPEMENT FORESTIER ET
D'AMENAGEMENT DE BASSINS VERSANTS
r        FNOR1EST) ACRSETAlRES                                                PROJECT.
ZONE    laRSFEE                                                   P5O3ETV
MAJOR TREE SPEIE INFORESTEES AREAS                                     MAAGEMENT FEANS
ESSEN0RCES GR5EE SSERES RRIIPAI SANS LIs ZONES FORESTIERES;     A      PANS DEAMENAGEMENT
" OunCous lihon    V.en an Hlm Ok L                                  EPLANTATIONS
QK    G uonus Sub.n (Cho.. J15e1 or Conk OAL                              EXPLJOTATION
K                                                    U    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXPLOITATION
IhirirIII   (cre: F.....  ain- OnnQ-- Min,6-bni                          A.    NATURE CONSERVATION                                                                                                                                                                E Cola
iEJnIIlllllI    (ChrO.. Allon.c o ChAse Zoon- en A6.. and Z... OA               PRFOTECTiON OEJA NATRES                                                                                                                                      * /                      P3S
FCES  RESEAECH                                                                                                                                                         6ARnnabS 
----    FLoNrIERESDES V0l;AYA                              /  r      Y           TonI Ohle OOa SPlV1aSnUS  ONUS; ISyleee)                                                                                      I.e'S       fe -R C  F EE"6 B
naP ...... I, MrMol                                                   Tan      am anZma  llbdnoe eN,od.S   ,                                               L .ui R
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p' y , 1 1    ,                           '_;/ C   /L. A
B.'.  -W                                                                     {,   r~O,                                            ,                                     -'
PIu Hlpnn' P. d'AJp)                                                                                In                   ALGIERS   Rordj el                                 e6 \o ; oR
N                                                                *      PILOTOPEEATIONS FOR WATERSHES MANAGEMENT   *    *\ '8ohrI  /                RJ !                          <*TI5         / WATES'ANT
F7Y0J    JnMna.Fkn.Tiona IGsn&ni,nAnFSdASiol        La   ~~~~~~~~ALMOETNA GORME MNOTLOTESTDETBASSINS                                TIVEmom B                                   .h'  ogRnT'i                                          4p1Ab%
SIEGESODESWIALAYA                                                          7.SIoSBIE4o  -                                    /C
NATIONAL CAPITA
WILAYABOUNDtrIES                                                'C-             -NAEATR"                                                                 -
FRONTIERES XESTAPA                                                                                                                                                 BordjBoshI                              /                                    x
I    chief,
INLEERNAEIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                e.' /Onnl                                                                      b-
PRONTIEREE INTEEI'AFION'ALES                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ou/  ElII  1""<
KCALA NAATIONAL FARSK                                                       y~<'                                                                                    A,           7 ,                                       ~'         '' /        Kas5
Sly                   21-%       (\I'\ 1                   ~~~~~~~~      ~       ~~~~           ~~M'silac .roon                   "        - 
Ai. Teno.ch.ntn              C)-                MOT,,I                                                                                                                                           -t
\>   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  I                                                                  A                                         ,T          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oBiskro
'"'S           /                                                 'K                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALGIERS
t                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                        5
1 I                                                                  OP    /   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALGERIA
'I                  0~~~~~LoghouoRt  
Er Boyodh         K'                                                                                                                                       NC
)  /                                                                                              I                           R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOMETEE~s                         " 
/                           5                                     1      mm nnp h. bonn aannnnad p Ph.Wnnnd Thnk',onmE oad.konp-Ro



