Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19315
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PILOT FORESTRY AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3487 - AL)
June 30, 1999
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East & North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DZD)
Exchange Rate at Appraisal (March 1992) US$1.00 = 22.50 DZD
Official Exchange Rates (DZD per US$)'
Year        Annual Average
1992         21.836 DZD
1993         23.345 DZD
1994         35.059 DZD
1995         47.663 DZD
1996         54.753 DZD
1997         57.707 DZD
1998         58.739 DZD
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A^NF       National Forestry Agency2
Agence national desforets
ANN         National Agency for Nature Conservation
Agence National de la conservation de la nature
BNEDER    National Office for Rural Development Studies
Bureau national d 'etudes pour le developpement rural
BNEF        National Office for Forest Studies
Bureau national d 'etudesforestieres
DGF         General Directorate of Forestry
Direction generale desforets
FAO/CP      FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
Organisation des nations unies pour l 'agriculture et I 'alimentation
GEF         Global Environment Fund
Fonds de 1 'environnement mondial
INRF        National Institute for Forestry Research
Institut national de recherchesforestieres
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
Rapport d 'achevement
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
Suivi et evaluation
ONTF        National Office for Forest Works
Office national des travauxforestiers
ORDF        Regional Forest Development Office
Office regional de developpementforestiers
PMT         Project Management Team
Cellule de Gestion du projet
Vice President:      Kemal Dervis
Country Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:     Doris Koehn
Staff Member:        Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough
1 Note: 16.5% average annual depreciation in the foreign exchange rate
2 ANF was transformed into the now General Directorate of Forestry (DGF)



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMNIOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PILOT FORESTRY AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3487-AL)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface  ................................................................i
Evaluation  Summary ...............................................................                                                      ii
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment
A.  Statement and Evaluation of Objectives ................................................................I
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ............................                             ....................................       3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ...........................;.6
D. Project Sustainability ..................................... ...........................6
E. Bank Performance ................................................................7
F. Borrower Performance ...............................................................                                                  8
G.  Assessment of Overall Outcome .....................                             ..........................................           8
H. Future Operations ................................................................8
I.  Key Lessons Learned ................................................................9
PART II: Statistical Tables
Table  1. Summary of Assessments ............................................................... .                                       11
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits ...............................................................                                      12
Table 3. Project Timetable ........................................... .                                      ..................         13
Table 4. Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual                                                  . .                13
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation .................................... .......................                          14-15
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation ...............................................................                            15
Table 7. Studies Included in the Project ..............................................................                         .        15
Table 8a. Project Costs ...............................................................                                                  16
Table 8b. Project Financing ...............................................................                                              17
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits ...............................................................                                     17
Table  10. Status of Legal Covenants ...............................................................                                     18
Table  I 1. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...............................................                                19
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                    .............................................  19
Table  13. Bank Resources: Missions ...............................................................                                      19
Appendices:
A. Mission's aide-mnmoire (French) .........................                               ......................................       20
B. Economic Analysis ...............................................................                                                    25
C. Borrower Contribution to the ICR ...............................................................                                     27
MAP: IBRD 22755R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PILOT FORESTRY AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3487-AL)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Pilot Forestry and Watershed
Management Project in Algeria, for which Loan 3487-AL in the amount of US$25 million
equivalent was approved on June 11, 1992 and made effective on March 17, 1993.
The loan was closed, as planned, on December 31, 1998. As of March 25, 1999, total
disbursements reached US$11.3 million. A cancellation of US$6 million was made in
November 1996 and another of US$2.19 million in August 1998. As the recovery of the advance to
the Special Account has not yet been made, the total cancellation amounts cannot be accurately
stated.
The ICR was prepared by Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough, MNSR-E and Christian Lauwers,
FAO-CP. The report is based inter alia, on material gathered from project files, supervision reports,
discussions with representatives of the World Bank and the General Directorate of Forestry (DGF),
as well as on reports prepared by local consultants. Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's
final supervision/completion mission, October 17-23, 1998. The Borrower's contribution is attached
as Appendix C of this report.
i






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PILOT FORESTRY AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3487-AL)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
Herein, the Pilot Forestry and Watershed Management Project in Algeria is evaluated. The project was
designed as a pilot operation to prepare and test activities for replication in a national program for natural
resource management on a sustainable basis. The activities selected were identified as priority actions, and
were to be implemented within a sector strategy which was to be developed as part of the project. World Bank
lending for agriculture to Algeria began in 1975, although, until the preparation of this project, none had been
for the forestry sector. Specifically, the Bank has supported the agriculture sector through several projects,
including the Cheliff Irrigation Project, Loan 2809; Irrigation Engineering Project, Loan 2978-AL; Mitidja
Irrigation Project, Loan 3076, Agricultural Credit Project, Loan 3009-AL; pilot Research and Extension
Project, Loan 3216-AL; emergency Desert Locust Control Project, Loan 3017-AL, and the Rural Employment
Project, Loan 4143-AL (in progress). With the exception of the Rural Employment Project all the projects are
now completed, and they have largely been rated unsatisfactory. The Rural Employment Project, however, is
performing well.
Project Objectives and Components
Project Objectives. The development objective of the project was to strengthen Algeria's forestry sector
institutions and, through appropriate pilot activities, develop the policy and technical basis for replication of
successful components as part of a national resource management program. To achieve these objectives the
project aimed to: (a) assist the Govemment in defining a strategy for the sector; (b) quantify forest resources;
(c) develop and test low-cost techniques, including institutional and social aspects, to manage forest resources
better and increase productivity, in both commercial wood production and forage production for livestock; (d)
develop and test low-cost techniques, including institutional and social arrangements, to increase the
productivity of mountain agriculture and reduce erosion in the watersheds, with particular emphasis on
reducing sedimentation of dams; (e) strengthen Algeria's capacity to manage its nature conservation program;
and (f) strengthen forest, watershed, and nature conservation planning, policies, and institutions through a
program of training and technical assistance.
Project components. The project included three main components: (a) development of a strategy for the
forestry and watershed sectors, including a study of the forestry sector, preparation of simplified
management plans of a master plan for the country's major watersheds; (b) pilot forestry development,
including nursery development, pilot reforestation, pilot exploitation, related applied research, institutional
strengthening, training and technical assistance; (c) pilot watershed management including pilot operations
for protection and production, specifically to increase farner incomes and reduce erosion. The project
objectives were realistic and achievable had there not been complications arising from the difficult security
situation.
ii



Implementation Experience and Results
Project Objectives. Overall, the project did not achieve its key development objective and does not warrant a
satisfactory rating. Project objectives, while quite extensive since they included both the forestry and
watershed sectors, were clear and consistent with the Government's program to better protect and manage its
natural resources. The project objectives were potentially achievable, though perhaps not in the time period
envisaged considering the country's limited institutional, financial and technical capacity. Institutional
capacity was further restricted because the technical assistance component could not be implemented, a result
of the difficult security conditions. This inability to attract appropriate technical assistance resulted in a loss of
implementation momentum.
The project was restructured in February 1996, in response to the difficult conditions and was oriented to focus
more on institutional strengthening. The project objective changed to: strengthen Algeria's forestry sector
institutions and, through appropriate pilot activities, develop the policy and technical basis for replication of
successful components as part of a national resource management program. In addition, funds earmarked for
the pilot watershed management component were re-allocated to finance a program for forest fire protection
through: (a) the provision of fire prevention and fire fighting equipment and vehicles; (b) the implementation
of a sylvicultural program to clear and clean forests; and (c) the training of DGF staff in modem fire
prevention and fire fighting techniques.
Project Impact. It will take some time before the full benefits from the project are realized. Moreover, the
long-term impact will be influenced by the degree of commitment from the DGF and the participating
populations towards maintaining works completed under the project. DGF is clearly aware of the importance
of maintaining investments and priority will need to be attached to maintenance activities. Because of the
varying degrees of success of different project activities, project impact will be more pronounced for some
activities than for others. The most important project impact will be from the capacity building component,
mainly through training received, which was achieved in full. The upgraded nursery at Guerbes, although not
yet fully functional, will, once it reaches full capacity, produce seedlings that are sufficient to cover the needs
of significant re-forestation activities. The watershed management activities, in the long-term, will contribute
to the alleviation of erosion.
Sustainability. Overall, sustainability of the project's investment is uncertain. The project did not achieve its
development objective nor a large part of its project specific objectives, and the quality of project outputs is
varied. Sufficient financial resources exist in the DGF to fund maintenance of these activities, and again, with
priority setting and maintenance, specific activities supported by the project could be sustainable, such as:
(a) the Guerbes nursery; (b) the plantations established; (c) sylvicultural work; (d) the vehicles and equipment
procured; and (e) the staff trained. In the case of trained staff, their deployment and provision of incentives to
keep them in the public sector will be important to allow them to disseminate to others what they have leamt.
Bank Performance. Bank performance is rated satisfactory for identification, preparation and appraisal, but
deficient for supervision, mainly because the security situation did not allow Bank supervision missions to
support the implementing unit adequately. The need to define a sector strategy and develop low-cost
techniques to manage forest resources and watersheds better were clearly identified and given the necessary
emphasis. The project represented a priority investment for erosion and land degradation works. The project
was well prepared and lessons learnt from agriculture and forestry projects in Algeria and neighboring
countries were put to good use. No financial problems were experienced for preparation and both preparation
and appraisal were relatively smooth. However, the Bank could have insisted more on having a larger
implementing unit, a factor which eventually had an impact on project implementation. Bank supervision
missions were, for a long time, carried out from outside the country with a skeleton number of personnel
participating, significantly limiting necessary support to the implementing unit. The Bank could have used
local consultants/firms to carry out supervision missions at these times.
Borrower's performance. Borrower performance is likewise rated satisfactory for identification, preparation
and appraisal, but deficient for supervision. The DGF was adequately involved in project preparation, and
iii



efficiently organized the Bank and FAO-CP preparation missions. The Government also ensured that there
was adequate financing for project preparation. Before the security situation became serious, project
implementation was smooth, but it slowed down drastically when these problems started. Problems were also
experienced with procurement planning and execution, which also affected the project's implementation.
Slow disbursement caused by the cumbersome procedures of the Algerian Development Bank (BAD) affected
project implementation, through slow replenishments and delays in paying contractors. However, despite these
problems, the Ministry of Finance made necessary funds available to the Project.
Economic evaluation. At appraisal, the overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was estimated to be
12 percent, based on benefits from the plantation and exploitation components, as those for other activities
were not easily quantifiable. Based on benefits from similar activities (plantation and exploitation
components), the present estimates are lower, 10.6 percent. This lower ERR is to be expected considering that
objectives were only partially attained. This ERR also confirms that the economic viability of the project,
judged on completed works, is marginal. For assumptions see Annex B.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
Future Operations. The DGF's budget is sufficient to sustain the current priority program of reforestation and
natural resource management, including soils and employment generation and maintenance works. As a
significant number of questions remain to be answered from the pilot operation, it is unlikely that there will be
a follow-up forestry project to replicate results from this project. In particular, issues such as: defining a
sector strategy, preparation of forest management plans, and development of techniques for reducing
plantation costs are still outstanding. However, the Rural Employment Project could be considered as a follow-
up project to the Pilot Forestry and Watershed Management Project, in that a large number of its activities are
designed to address a similar central objective of better protecting and managing Algeria's natural resources,
specifically its forests and watersheds. The Rural Employment Project has also used lessons learnt from the
pilot project to streamline its operations and is performing satisfactorily. It is likely that this project would
have a follow-up project in the future.
Key Lessons learned. In view of the relatively weak institutional capacity in Algeria, presently compounded
by the difficulties in attracting international experience, it is important to design projects that are relatively
simple and easy to manage.
*  Project implementation requires sustained consultations among the project management unit, the
Bank, the private sector, and the beneficiary populations. In particular, it is very important, when
technical assistance is limited, to have more intensive missions to provide needed assistance. This
technique has been found to work well, as exemplified by the Rural Employment Project.
*  The implementing unit must, from the start, have an adequate skills mix to support project
implementation. The failure to recruit an economist, and replace staff that left the unit, greatly
reduced the unit's efficacy.
*  In a country where foreign participation is difficult to attract, the project design and scope must be
adjusted accordingly. The project's high dependency on external participation crippled
implementation when the security situation became difficult, and it became harder to attract
foreign participation. As a consequence, many bids did not receive submissions.
*  Procurement of goods and services must be required training for the implementing unit, and the
Bank must invest in it prior to effectiveness through the provision of more training than that
usually disseminated in the launching seminars.
* For activities that benefit directly the local populations on communal or private lands, their
participation must be actively sought and encouraged in all phases of project activities (from
identification, implementation, monitoring and evaluation). This contribution reinforces the sense
of ownership needed to motivate eventual maintenance of these works and ultimately their
sustainability.
iv






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PILOT FORESTRY AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3487-AL)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
BACKGROUND
1.    In the late 1980s, Algeria recognized that it was faced with serious problems of erosion and land
degradation that, in the long run, would undermine its productive potential and would exacerbate the problem
of water scarcity. Rapid population growth over the past decades, accompanied by encroachment and forest
fires, had led to a steady decline in the area under forests, a subsequent increase in shrubs, and an expansion of
agriculture in marginal areas, both in the mountains and the arid areas. In the watersheds, the combination of
cultivation and overgrazing had resulted in a loss of vegetative cover and consequent intensive erosion. Not
surprisingly, productivity in the upper catchment had started to decline, sedimentation was already
significantly shortening the life of dams, and scarce water was being wasted as runoff instead of being used for
irrigation or to recharge the aquifers. Action had to be taken to prevent further decline in the area and quality
of Algeria's forests, which had the potential to make a significant contribution to the economy, and save scarce
foreign exchange used for the import of wood products.
2.    The Government and the Bank started discussions on ways to address these problems in the 1980s.
The Pilot Forestry and Watershed Management Project, which followed these discussions, was appraised in
1990. Due to the fact that efforts made at that time had not been effective and were too expensive to be
replicated on a scale that would make a noticeable impact, it was decided to start with a pilot operation.
Political developments in 1991 resulted in processing delays in the project and a Bank mission in February-
March 1992 made the final adjustments.
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
3.    Project Objectives. The central objective of the project was to develop a long-term action program to
protect and manage Algeria's natural resources better, specifically its forests, watersheds and nature
conservation areas. The project was to be a pilot operation to prepare and test components for replication in a
national program for natural resource management on a sustainable basis. The immediate objectives were to:
(a) assist Government in defining a strategy for the sector; (b) quantify forest resources, assess why only a
small portion of potential resources is utilized for commercial purposes, and identify constraints preventing
forests from contributing more significantly to the economy than they do at present; (c) develop and test low-
cost techniques, including institutional and social aspects, to manage forest resources and increase productivity
better, in both commercial wood production and forage production for livestock; (d) develop and test low-cost
techniques, including institutional and social arrangements, to increase the productivity of mountain
agriculture and reduce erosion in the watersheds, with particular emphasis on reducing sedimentation of dams;
(e) strengthen Algeria's capacity to manage its nature conservation program; and (f) strengthen forest,
watershed, and nature conservation planning, policies, and institutions through a program of training and
technical assistance.
1



4.     Project Components. To achieve its overall objectives, the project, which was to be implemented
over a period of five years; included the following components:
*  Development of a strategy for the forestry and watershed sector: (i) a study of the forestry
sector, including an estimation of the existing commercially exploitable resource, and an analysis
of the reasons for low demand for local wood when the aggregate demand for wood is so high; (ii)
the preparation of simplified management plans on 60,000 ha of fast-growing forest and 15,000 ha
of mixed forest and maquis; and (iii) the preparation of a master plan for the country's major
watersheds;
*  Pilot forestry development: (i) pilot reforestation on 4,300 ha whose objective would be to
increase yields and survival rates and to reduce unit costs by the introduction of improved
techniques; the Guerbes forest nursery would be upgraded to produce 2 million improved
seedlings a year; (ii) pilot exploitation operations of about 1,000 ha of eucalyptus of various ages
under various conditions to test the possibility of reducing logging costs; and (iii) related applied
research, institutional strengthening, training and technical assistance to support the plantation and
exploitation components;
*  Pilot watershed management: in two different areas, pilot operations for protection and
production, specifically to increase farmer incomes and reduce erosion; this would comprise an
analysis of the problem, the development and adoption of appropriate low-cost techniques,
extension, on-farm investments, social infrastructure, the construction of structures where
appropriate to control runoff and control erosion in ravines, related applied research, institutional
strengthening, training and technical assistance;
-  Nature conservation: (i) support for a National Institute for Forestry Research (INRF) research
unit on protected areas; and (ii) provision of in-service training, bursaries and equipment;
-  Support activities: (i) the strengthening of the National Forestry Agency (DGF) with equipment,
training, and technical assistance for project management and monitoring and evaluation purposes;
(ii) strengthening of INRF to improve planning of research activities and diffusion of research
results; and (iii) provision of equipment, essentially vehicles and spare parts, for DGF.
5.     Project Costs. At appraisal, total project costs, including contingencies, were estimated at DZD 995
million (US$37.5 million) of which US$19 million (51 percent of project costs) would be in foreign exchange.
Financing included a Bank loan of US$25 million and a Government contribution of US$12.5 million,
including US$6.8 million of taxes and duties. The loan was therefore to finance about 80 percent of total
project costs, excluding taxes and duties, or 100 percent of the foreign exchange component and about 33
percent of local costs. This high percentage financing was agreed on in view of the fact that the project was to
make a unique contribution to environmental protection, local population participation, and human resource
development.
6.     Evaluation of Objectives. Project objectives, while quite extensive since they included both the
forestry and watershed sectors, were clear and consistent with the Government's program to protect and
manage its natural resources better. The project objectives were potentially achievable but not in the time
period envisaged considering the country's limited institutional, financial and technical capacity, in spite of the
fact that a large training and technical assistance component had been included for this purpose. Furthermore,
problems associated with the security situation in the country were not foreseen, and consequently jeopardized
project implementation.
7.     The project was restructured in February 1996, with a stronger focus on institutional strengthening.
The project objective was modified to: strengthen Algeria's forestry sector institutions and, through
appropriate pilot activities, develop the policy and technical basis for replication of successful components as
2



part of a national resource management program. In addition, funds were reallocated from the pilot watershed
management component to finance a program for the protection of forest fires through: (a) the provision of fire
prevention and fire fighting equipment and vehicles; (b) the implementation of a sylvicultural program to clear
and clean forests; and (c) the training of the staff of the DGF, in modem fire prevention and fire fighting
techniques. During the restructuring in 1996, the loan proceeds for the forest sector strategy and the watershed
management components were cancelled.
8.    Evaluation of Risks. The Staff Appraisal Report identified four areas of risk. The first was related to
the economic and political environment in which the project had to be implemented as Algeria was moving
from a centralized economy to a more decentralized and market-oriented economy. Given the Govemment's
commitment to the overall economic reform program at that time, this risk was considered minimal. The
second risk concerned the new organizational set-up in the sector, in which Govemment had replaced the
Department of Forestry with the ANF (which eventually became DGF) and regional development offices
(ORDFs). The issue was clarified by the letter of intent, submitted by the Government as a condition of
negotiations. The third area of risk was related to the quality of the studies. This risk was minimized by the
employment of consultants. Before the security problems began, recruitment was timely. The risk associated
with the failure of technical assistance to come to Algeria, in the event of worsening security conditions was
unforeseen and the heavy dependence of the project on intemational technical assistance subsequently affected
implementation. The fourth risk was related to weak monitoring and evaluation. Emphasis was placed on the
use of technical assistance to mitigate for this problem and had the procurement of technical assistance not
been problematic, it would have been adequate.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.    General. The project has not achieved its central objective of "developing a long-term program to
protect and manage Algeria's natural resources" better. The main project objectives have not been met; the
project components that intended to prepare management plans for the quantification and management of
forest resources, develop and test low-cost techniques, strengthen forest, watershed and nature conservation
planning and policies were not implemented, mainly due to the security situation. It nevertheless has made
significant contributions in terms of institutional development, particularly in training where the original
training objectives were surpassed.
10.   The implementation of this project can be divided into four different phases:
(a)    project start-up, which was smooth, with consultants visiting Algeria according to schedule
and efficiently supporting the Project Management Team;
(b)   the period from  1994, when the security conditions worsened, consultants' visits were
suspended, and the pace of implementation slowed down. There was nevertheless hope that
the security situation would improve and that the previous pace of implementation would be
restored;
(c)   the period between 1996 to 1997, when very little was being achieved with the exception of
training; and
(d)   in 1998, when the pace of implementation increased again, but it was already too late to attain
a notable proportion of the targets.
11.   Development of a Strategy for the Forestry and Watershed Sector. The three studies included in
this component were not realized, mainly because of the security situation, which did not allow consultants to
participate.
3



12.   Pilot Forestry Operations. The main forest operations included nursery development, pilot
plantations, pilot exploitation, related applied research and sylvicultural treatments, the last component having
been introduced in 1996 when the loan was restructured.
*  The Guerbes nursery has been partially upgraded, and although all the equipment has arrived, it
still needs to be installed in order to produce the 2 million seedlings a year, as envisioned during
preparation. The nursery produced 300,000 seedlings in 1998. An added advantage of the nursery
is that it has cut the time needed to raise seedlings in the nursery by two months. The seedling
quality appears good. The actual costs of upgrading the nursery exceeded the appraisal estimate by
about 40 percent. This difference is due to the fact that nursery materials were imported over a 6
year period (1992-1998), between which there was a 16,5% average annual depreciation in the
foreign exchange rate.
*  Out of the 4,300 ha of plantations which were planned at appraisal, only 307 ha were planted by
the end of the project, and an additional 200 ha were to be completed in the 1998/99 rainy season.
The proportion of plantations realized is partly due to the fact that the bulldozers, fitted with
special land-clearing rakes, were delivered late, and also, the nursery was not able to provide the
required quantity of seedlings as had been targeted. DGF plans to complete the plantation. The
quality of plantations established under the project appear promising. Actual expenses amount to
only 25 percent of the appraisal estimates. This is not surprising considering that only 7% of the
appraisal estimates were established.
*  The pilot logging operation was not implemented due to the security situation which did not allow
the required technical assistance to develop this component. Some equipment was nevertheless
procured and some training was organized for a total cost of less than 2 percent of the appraisal
estimate.
*  The plantation and exploitation components of the project were due to be supported by a program
of adaptive research. That program was to be carried out by INRF, in the research stations at
Guerbes, Jijel, Tizi Ouzou and Bainem. INRF staff benefited from 16.5 months of external
training and some equipment purchased for the stations in Guerbes and Bainem. A limited number
of trials were established at these two stations and, on the whole, the impact is limited. Actual
costs amount to less than 10 percent of the appraisal estimate. Again, the low utilization of funds
is as a result of the limited achievement of projected targets.
•  DGF departments responsible for work in the wilayas of Skikda and El Tarf were partially
strengthened through training of their staff, vehicles and equipment. Actual costs amount to more
than 60 percent of the appraisal estimate. This activity required a significant amount of foreign
exchange (of which there was a 16.5% average annual depreciation between appraisal and the last
year of implementation), for the purchase of vehicles, equipment and for sending trainees abroad.
This coupled with the restructuring in 1996 to emphasize training in the development objective,
the overall costs understandably overshot initial estimates.
13.   Watershed Management. Due to the security situation, the loan portion financing this component
was canceled in 1996, at the time the project was restructured. DGF departments in El Chlef and Tissemsilt
were nevertheless strengthened (training, vehicles and equipmeni) at a cost of about 35 percent of the appraisal
estimate. The local investment budget presently continues to finance protection works in the watershed of
Bouguedfine (reforestation, gully stabilization and development, fruit tree plantations, road maintenance, etc.);
local communities and their representatives are closely associated with those works.
14.   Sylvicultural Treatment. This component was included at the time of restructuring to finance a
forest fire protection program. Twenty-four vehicles and equipment were delivered, 30 foresters benefited
from 14 months of external training and the sylviculural works were carried out on 56 percent of the planned
4



area. The component has had positive effects, in particular through the reduction of fire risk, increased
plantation productivity, generated employment and hence distributed incomes to the disadvantaged
populations and, allowed private contractors to compete with public corporations for public works. The
program's total costs amount to US$6.4 million i.e. 32 percent of the estimate. The low utilization o0 funds
reflects the low achievement of projected targets.
15.   Nature Conservation. Training was the only nature conservation activity carried out during the
project. The applied research sub-component was abandoned. Actual costs nevertheless amount to 65 percent
of the appraisal estimate. It should be mentioned that significant support to nature conservation was provided
also through a GEF-financed, World Bank-managed project (El-Kala National Park Project) that is being
implemented by the National Agency for Nature Conservation.
16.   Support Activities. This component is the only one that was fully implemented. The project procured
97 4WD vehicles and 56 light cars for the project, of which a large number was distributed to the various
Wilayas. The project provided DGF headquarters with 9 light cars and one 4WD vehicle; INRF received one
light car and four 4WD vehicles. The 4WD vehicles were distributed between the research station at Guerbes
and TUnes. The project also provided DGF headquarters, INRF, and the regional offices: El Tarf, Skikda,
El Chlef and Tissemsilt with office equipment. The training and technical assistance component was sub-
contracted to FAO. Foreign training amounted to 142.5 person/months i.e. 102 percent of the appraisal
estimate and 100 percent of the revised estimate, and technical assistance to 10 person/months i.e. 13 percent
of the appraisal estimate and 100 percent of the revised estimate. Actual costs amount to US$7.1 million, i.e.
168 percent of the appraisal estimate, mainly due to overruns in each of the three sub-components, a result of
the differences in the estimations made at appraisal and those during the project's implementation. The support
given by this component was a very important contribution to capacity building in the DGF and INRF and is
appreciated as such. The vehicles were particularly important for DGF and INRF activities, as, at the time the
project started, there was a scarcity of vehicles in good working condition. Training and technical assistance
were also welcomed because, at that time, the staff had only limited opportunities to be trained.
17.   Project Costs. Total project costs amount to US$20.4 million or 55 percent of appraisal estimates.
The difference results mainly from the cancellation of two components, Sector Development Strategy and
Watershed Management, and from the partial implementation of a third one: Pilot Forestry Operations. On the
other hand, a new component: Sylvicultural Treatment was introduced at the time the project was restructured
and the Support Activities component largely exceeded the appraisal cost estimate.
18.   Monitoring and Evaluation. Due to the pilot approach of the project, monitoring and evaluation
were of prime importance. They were considered a major function of the Project Management Team which
was to be supported by internationally recruited consultants. The security situation made monitoring and
evaluation very difficult; the baseline study on social, economic, and environmental conditions of operations
for the main project components was not completed and it was difficult to collect data needed to monitor the
project. Therefore, it was not possible to test techniques for the reduction of plantation and exploitation unit
costs as planned at appraisal. Progress reports were nevertheless produced twice a year by the PMT. These
reports provided useful information on the project's progress to the supervision missions that were for the most
part unable to visit Algeria, or the project sites.
19.   Economic Evaluation. At appraisal, the overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was estimated to be
12 percent, based on benefits from the plantation and exploitation components, as those for other activities
were not easily quantifiable. Based on benefits from similar activities (plantation and exploitation
components), the present estimates are lower, 10.6 percent. This lower ERR is to be expected considering that
objectives were only partially attained. This ERR also confirms that the economic viability of the project,
judged on completed works, is marginal.
5



C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
20.   Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control. The principal factor that affected the
project was the security situation that worsened towards the end of 1993. This problem seriously limited the
participation of the much-needed technical assistance, both from the Bank and other international agencies.
Internationally recruited consultants were expected to support DGF in preparing the various studies and in
implementing and monitoring the pilot forestry operations and watershed activities. The lack of TA meant that
the well-intentioned capacity building did not take place and the project implementation rate slowed down,
resulting in a cancellation of some components during the project restructuring in 1996. The security situation
also appears to have contributed to making competitive bidding less attractive for foreign companies.
21.   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. The following factors, linked to Algeria's
cumbersome administrative procedures, were identified: (a) time-consuming procedures in procurement
processing; (b) lengthy disbursement procedures of the Algerian Development Bank (BAD), difficulties in
obtaining the necessary approvals from the national banking system; (c) delays in paying creditors and
inadequate foreign exchange regulations affected both local and foreign contractors; (d) the general shortage of
foreign currency which, particularly at the beginning of the project, prevented suppliers from importing
foreign equipment; and (e) the slowness of BAD in transmitting financial statements to the PMT making it
more difficult to manage the special and loan accounts efficiently. A large number of these factors are still
concerns for other on-going projects and need to be addressed. Despite these problems, the Ministry of
Finance made the necessary project funds available to the project.
22.   Factors Generally Subject to Implementation Agency Control. The failure by DGF to recruit an
economist to support the Head of the PMT hampered implementation. In general, there was a shortage of
highly-trained people to implement the project. The economist's input would have been important, particularly
for procurement, preparing progress reports, and the monitoring and evaluation of the project.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
23.   Overall, the sustainability of the project's investment is uncertain. The Project did not achieve its main
development objective - either the original or the modified version - or most of the main project objectives.
For those that were achieved, the quality of output is variable. Although adequate resources are available in
DGF to maintain the project's investments, it will be important that they are given priority over new
investments. In view of the mixed achievement of outputs, it is best to look at sustainability through specific
activities rather than the overall.
* Assembly and maintenance work will need to be completed on the Guerbes nursery. It is
estimated that in the next 2 years, the nursery should be producing at least two million good
quality seedlings a year. This should significantly contribute to the much-needed reforestation
and production forestry work. To attain maximum benefit from these plantations, the
development of a planting medium, which is in progress, would need to be completed. Most
important, the Government will need to ensure that personnel trained in nursery techniques are
deployed and contribute to the nursery's development.
* The plantations established under the project, though significantly less than initially projected,
would need to be maintained to realize their benefits, and the DGF will have to give them
priority. Besides, these plantations would still provide a valuable comparison for plantation
unit costs between the traditional planting methods and the newer techniques, such as, the
nursery-developed seedlings and mechanical soil preparation.
6



* Sylvicultural work in a large part of Algerian forests has generally been weak. Work carried
out under this project has clearly shown the importance of this activity, mainly in its reduction
of forest fires and sustainable production of firewood for local populations. This work has
been popular and has generated interest even in the private sector. The Govermment will need
to continue to support these enterprises and local participation in order to enhance these
activities and increase the benefits to a larger area of the forests. To date, the Government has
shown its interest in doing this, also because the activity has contributed to much-needed rural
employment opportunities.
* As with the sylvicultural works, the Government will need to continue local population
participation to enhance sustainability of this activity. So far, local populations have been
interested by this activity as they have gradually witnessed benefits from the soil conservation
works. As the momentum is already there, the Government will need to give it priority to
increasing the sustainability of work already done, but also to encourage new works to be
carried out;
* The equipment bought with project financing, vehicles and bulldozers were crucial to carrying
out forestry operations. In view of the difficulties associated with obtaining foreign currency
to buy equipment externally, any purchased equipment must last a long-time and the life-span
of equipment purchased will be influenced by the quality and timing of maintenance.
Furthermore, the deployment of this equipment will have an impact on the sustainability of
other forest operations, for example, the bulldozer's use for road maintenance. Spare parts
were purchased with most of this equipment and the present budget should allow for this
maintenance; and
* To maintain the benefits of the project's training component, trained staff will need to be given
adequate incentives to stay and participate in activities for which they were trained. Their
deployment to these jobs will also need to be done such that they are in a position to
disseminate this information to others.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
24.   Bank performance is rated satisfactory for identification, preparation and appraisal, but deficient for
supervision, mainly because the security situation did not allow Bank supervision missions to adequately
support the implementing unit. The need to define a sector strategy and develop low-cost techniques to better
manage forest resources and watersheds were clearly identified and given the necessary emphasis. The project
represented a priority investment for erosion and land degradation works. The project was well prepared, with
lessons learnt from other agriculture projects in Algeria and forestry projects in Morocco and Tunisia put to
good use. No financial problems were experienced for preparation, and both preparation and appraisal were
relatively smooth. However, the Bank could have insisted more on the need for a larger implementing unit, a
factor which eventually impacted on project implementation. Bank missions were, for a long time, carried out
from outside the country with a skeleton number participating, significantly limiting necessary support to the
implementing unit.
25.   The Bank's performance in supervision is rated unsatisfactory, mainly because the security situation
did not allow Bank supervision missions to support the implementing unit adequately. The first two
supervision missions were carried out in Algeria in 1993, the subsequent missions, one per year, had to be
organized out of the country (Paris or Rome) due to the security situation. The last two missions, in 1998, were
again carried out in Algeria but again without field visits to the project activities. Project supervision may have
been improved by: (i) the use of local consulting firms/consultants to assist the PMT in implementing and
monitoring the project; and (ii) placing more emphasis on training in procurement planning and execution, a
major factor that affected implementation. A formal mid-term review was not carried out, and in the case of
7



this project a formal mid-term review could have had a more in-depth examination of these issues, perhaps
more so than the restructuring. However, the Bank did react to the difficulties in hiring technical assistance by
putting an emphasis on foreign training. Furthermore, the decision not to close the project was important in
that it kept open a dialogue between the Algerian Government and the Bank.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.   Borrower performance is likewise rated satisfactory for identification, preparation and appraisal, but
deficient for implementation. The DGF was adequately involved in project preparation, and efficiently
organized the Bank and FAO-CP preparation missions. The Government also ensured that there was adequate
financing for project preparation. Before the security problems manifested themselves, project implementation
was very smooth, but drastically slowed down following the emergence of security problems. Problems were
experienced with procurement planning and execution, which also affected the project's implementation.
27.   In 1993, implementation was particularly efficient, considering the cumbersome administrative
procedures. The contract with FAO supporting the training and technical assistance component of the project
was signed early 1993, as a condition of effectiveness. Soon after effectiveness, the first internationally
recruited consultants visited Algiers to support project implementation. A total of 13 specialists spent 9.5
person/months in Algeria between April and end 1993. Taking into account the complex project design,
limited capacity to implement the project and the failure to engage consultants, who were central to the
project's implementation, the project's slow implementation rate is understandable. However, despite budget
constraints, the Government placed the necessary funds at the disposal of the project, progress reports were
produced twice a year and project accounts were audited annually.
28.   Borrower compliance on legal covenants. The Borrower complied with the key covenants, such as the
preparation of the supervision reports and audits in a timely fashion, although the quality of the audits were
generally low. Overall, all project covenants were fulfilled, apart from the hiring of the economist and the
project consultants. Moreover, a large number of the covenants were no longer valid when some of the
components were cancelled.
G. ASSESSMENT OF THIE OUTCOME
29.   Overall, project outcome is unsatisfactory. The principal objectives were, in substance, not achieved.
The sector strategy, which would have contributed to the overall streamlining of the forest sector was not
prepared and still represents a gap that should be addressed. The sector strategy would also have contributed to
the planning base of the forest sector. Despite the fact that objectives were largely not achieved, important
progress was still made, primarily in nursery development, which will significantly contribute to Algeria's re-
forestation and conimercial forestry plantations. There was also a marked contribution to institutional
development particularly in the training of DGF and INRF staff. The commitment by the Government to
continue financing those components excluded from loan financing shows the Government's commitment to
achieving the overall goal of natural resources management. This project also made an important contribution
to private sector involvement in forestry works, through the sylvicultural component, and this should
progressively attract more enterprises, and eventually enlarge their role to cover other forest operations.
8



H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
30.    The DGF's budget is sufficient to sustain the current priority program, reforestation, natural resource
management, including soils and employment generation and maintenance of works. It is unlikely that there
will be a follow-up forestry project that will replicate components of this operation. Certain gaps still exist,
which make it difficult to replicate any of the results. In particular, issues such as: defining a sector strategy,
preparation of forest management plans, and development of techniques for reducing plantation costs are still
outstanding. However, the Rural Employment Project could be considered as a follow-up project to the Pilot
Forestry and Watershed Project, in that a large number of its activities are designed to address a similar central
objective of better protecting and managing Algeria's natural resources, specifically its forests and watersheds.
The Rural Employment project has also used lessons learnt from the pilot project to streamline its operations
and is performing satisfactorily. It is likely that this project would have a follow-up project in the future.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
31.    Key Lessons learned. In view of the relatively weak institutional capacity in Algeria, presently
compounded by the difficulties in attracting international experience, it is important to design projects that are
relatively simple and easy to manage.
* Project implementation requires sustained consultations among the project management unit,
the Bank, the private sector, and the beneficiary populations. In particular, it is very important,
when technical assistance is limited, to have more intensive missions to provide needed
assistance. This technique has been found to work well, as exemplified by the Rural
Employment Project.
* The implementing unit must, from the start, have an adequate skills mix to support project
implementation. The failure to recruit an economist, and replace staff that left the unit, greatly
reduced the unit's efficacy.
* Besides having a simple monitoring and evaluation system, it is important, in particular in the
case of Algeria, to come up with innovative approaches to ensure that monitoring and
evaluation are carried out, such as the use of a local consulting firm, or local consultants, and
use of videos and photographs for follow-up. These techniques are being applied by the Rural
Employment Project and the Social Safety Net Project and have been shown to be effective.
* In a country where foreign participation is difficult to attract, the project design and scope
must be adjusted accordingly. The project's high dependency on external participation
crippled implementation when the security situation became difficult, and it became harder to
attract foreign participation. As a consequence, many bids did not receive submissions.
*  Conditions to attract private sector participation in forest operations need to be developed.
Although it was relatively easy to involve private sector participation in sylvicultural
activities, it was much harder to induce their participation in forest planting. It turns out that
even though they were "free" to participate, they were unable to, mainly because they did not
have access to forest tree seedlings, which were a pre-requisite for eligibility to bid. The
inclusion of private participation will contribute significantly to the re-forestation activities.
The use of force accounts should be limited to allow private sector participation.
* Procurement of goods and services must be required training for the implementing unit, and
the Bank must invest in it prior to effectiveness through the provision of more training than
9



that usually disseminated in the launching seminars.
* For activities that benefit directly the local populations on communal or private lands, their
participation must be actively sought and encouraged in all phases of project activities-from
identification, implementation, monitoring and evaluation). This contribution reinforces the
sense of ownership needed to motivate eventual maintenance of these works and ultimately
their sustainability.
* Slow disbursement, caused by the cumbersome procedures of the Rural Development Bank of
Algeria (BADR) affected project implementation, through slow replenishments and delays in
paying contractors. This problem is generic and affects all projects, and will need to be dealt
with in a larger context.
10



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
(             / l 
Macro Policies
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives
Institutional Development
Physical Objectives
Poverty Reduction
Gender Issues
Other Social Objectives S3
Environmental Objectives3
Public Sector Management
Private Sector Development
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainabilitv               Likely              Unlikely        Uncertain
Hiw*
C. Bank Performance                  satisfactorv        Satisfactory      Deficient
(O)                 (/)L/
Identification
Preparation Assistance                              7 
Appraisal                                              -
Supervision
D. Borrower Performance               Satisfactorv         Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                       D                  E      
Implementation                    D                 FI                 7
Covenant Conmpliance4
Operation (if applicable)                                               D
Highly                                   Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome          satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
3  Objectives were limited, as were the results.
4  At restructuring in 1996, a large number of the covenants were deleted.
11



TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title                       Purpose                       Year of         Status
Approval
2809-AL:                New irrigation infrastructures on 8 000 ha in the  1987         Closed in
Cheliff Irrigation Project   Upper Cheliff Valley and rehabilitation of 3 000 ha in  Decemnber 1994
the Lower Cheliff to improve the income and social
welfare of families living in project area
3009-AL:                Strengthen the BADR (Banque de l'agriculture et du  1988        Closed in
Agricultural Credit     developpement rural) through financing of various              June 1994
agricultural equipment, technical assistance and
training
3017-AL:                Support Algeria's Locust Control Program           1988         Closed in
Locust Control                                                                       December 1991
3076-AL:                Improve agricultural productivity by developing    1989         Closed in
Mitidja Irrigation Project   14,000 ha new irrigation in the Western part of the     December 1996
Mitidja Plain
3216-AL:                Initiate reform of national research system and test  1990      Closed in
Research and Extension  new extension approaches for cooperative farms               Decernber 1996
3405-AL:                Rehabilitation of southern oases and on-farm       1991         Closed in
Sahara Development      development, supported by institution strengthening,           June 1998
technical assistance and training
3487-AL:                Develop a long-term action program to better protect  1992      Closed in
Pilot Forestry and      and manage Algeria's natural resources, specifically         December 1998
Watershed Management   its forests, watersheds and nature conservation areas
3690-AL:                Support Algeria's Locust Control Program           1994         Closed in
Locust Control                                                                       December 1997
4143-AL:                Generate and stimulate sustainable rural employment  1997       Ongoing
Rural Employment Loan
12



TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned             Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                    May 1988
Preparation                                                                  March 1990
Appraisal                                                                  December 1990
Negotiations                                                                  May 1992
Board Presentation                                                           11 June 1992
Signing                                                                     5 August 1992
Effectiveness                                                               17 March 1993
Restructuring Date                                                         6 February 1996
Project Completion                              3 1December 1998          31 December 1998
Loan Closing                                    30April 1999                30April 1999
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL'
(US$ thousands)
Appraisal estimate        Actual            Actual as % of         Date of final
_____________________       estimate           disbursement
FY93                       1,000                   2,252                 225
FY94                       3,000                   2,794                  93
FY95                       6,000                   4,958                  83
FY96                       11,000                  7,832                  71
FY97                       16,000                  9,287                  58
FY98                       21,000                  9,983                  48
FY99                       25,000                 11,279                  45
W US$9.02 million were cancelled and the total amount disbursed at the end of the project is therefore 71 percent of the
revised amount of the loan.
13



TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Actual as a %o
I. Key Implementation Indicators            Estimated      Revised          Actual       Estimate or Revised
in SAR/ President's Report
A. Sector Strategy
1. Forest Sector Study                        I            -               0                   0
2. Watershed Master Plan                      1            -               0                   0
3. Forest Management Plan                75,000 ha         -               0                   0
B. Forest Operations
1. Nursery Development
- Building                               180m2           -              180m2              100
- Shade Protection                     8,700 rn2         -            8,700 m2             100
- Irrigation System                        I             -                1                100
- Equipment                                I             -                I                100
- Production of Seedlings              2 million         -          0.3 million a'          15
2. Pilot Plantation
- Purchase of Bulldozers                   9             -               9                 100
- Purchase of Work-site Cabins            20             -               0                   0
- Pine Plantations                     4,300 ha          -             307 ha                7
- Cork Oak Plantations                   100 ha          -               0                   0
- Fire Break Establishment               170 ha          -               0                   0
- Check Dam Construction                   3             -               1                  33
- Forest Track Construction               43 km          -               0                   0
- Forest Track Rehabilitation             38 km          -              16 km               42
- Fodder Crop and Trees Plantation       200 ha          -              11 ha                6
- Strengthening of Skikda Cons.            I             -            Partially
3. Pilot Logging Operation
- Logging Equipment                        1             -               0                   0
- Small Equipment                          I             -           Negligible
- Strengthening of Tarf Cons.              I             -            Partially
4. Strengthening of Research Stations
- Guerbes Research Station                 I             -           Negligible
- Jijel Research Station                   I             -               0                   0
- Tizi Ouzou Research Station              I             -               0                   0
- Bainem Research Station                  I             -           Negligible
5. Sylvicultural Treatment
- 4WD Vehicles                             -             24              24                100
- Equipment                                -             24              24                100
- Sylvicultural Works                      -          22,654 ha       12,798 ha             56
C. Watershed Management
- Infrastructure Works                     1             0               0                   0
- Works on PrivateLands                   1              0               0                   0
- Works on Collective Lands               1              0               0                   0
- Strengthening of El Chlef Con.          I              -            Partially
- Strengthening of Tissemsilt Con.        I               -          Negligible
- Research and Development                1              0               0                   0
- Tenes Research Station                   1              -          Negligible
a/ Assumed to be 100 percent by 1999/2000.
14



Table 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (Continued)
I. Key Implementation Indicators                                                         Actual as a teor
in SARI President's Report               Estimated       Revised         Actual         Estimatedor
D. Nature Conservation
- Applied Research                         I              -               0                 0
- Training                                 I              -            Partially
E. Support Activities
- 4WD Vehicles                            71             61              97               159
- Light Vehicles                          34             30               56              187
- Office Equipment                         4              6                6              100
- Foreign Training                       140 p/m        142.5 p/m       142.5 p/m         100
- Local Training                         130 p/m          -               -                -
- Technical Assistance                    75 p/m        10 p/m           10 p/m           100
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
No key indicators for project operation were defined in the SAR. Due to the objective of this pilot
project which was to develop a long term action program to protect and manage Algeria's natural resources
better, only the benefits of the plantation and logging components were quantified. The assumptions related to
yields, production costs, etc. on which are based the economic evaluation, are assessed in Table 9 and Appendix
A.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT3'
Purpose as Defined
Study                   at Appraisal/Redefned           Status          Impact of Study
1. Study on the Forestry      Study on the forestry sector aimed  Not done
Sector                     at a better understanding of the
sector and of the reasons why
domestic wood is so little used
2. Forest Management Plans    To prepare simplified and more      Not done
operational management plans on
a pilot basis for two forests
3. Watershed Management       To prepare a Watershed              Not done
Master Plan                Management Master Plan
covering the 71 catchments that
would have large-scale darns by
the year 2010
a/ None of the studies were executed because of the security risk associated with their inplementation. Due to the difficult
security problems, it was decided in February 1996 to cancel the component to which the studies were associated.
15



TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimate (US$'000)          Actual/Latest Estimate (US$'000) _
Component                          Local Costs   Foreign Costs   Total  Local Costs  Foreign Costs         Total
A. Sector Strategy
1. Forest Sector Study                235            680          915         0             0               0
2. Watershed Master Plan               142           412          554         0             0               0
3. Forest Management Plans             499         1,571         2,070        0             0               0
Sub-Total Sector Strategy            876         2,663         3,539        0             0               0
B. Forest Operations
1. Nursery Establishment              434            898         1,332      899          929            1,828
2. Pilot Plantation                  6,731         5,860        12,791      931         2,228           3,159
3. Skikda Cons. Strengthening          132           232          364         74          128             202
4.PilotLogginiOperation                301           470          771          0           15              15
5. El. Tarf Cons. Strengthening         65           190          255        60           132             192
6. Guerbes Research Station            916           896         1,812       36            44              80
7. Jijel Research Station               32            12           44         0             0               0
8. Tizi Ouzou Research Station          32            12           44         0             0               0
9. Bainem Research Station             517           722         1,239        0           222             222
Sub-Total Forest Operations         9,360         9,291       18,652     2,000         3,698           5,698
C. Watershed Management
1. Infrastructure Works              2,420         1,085         3,505        0             0               0
2. Works on Private Lands              589           221          810          0            0               0
3. Works on Collective Lands         1,408           660         2,068         0            0               0
4. El Chlef Cons. Strengthening        449           689         1,138       251          369             620
5. Tissemsilt Cons. Strength.          460           692         1,152        60          123             183
6. Research & Development              393           184          577          0            0               0
7. Tenes Research Station              516           736         1,252        36           40              76
Sub-Total Watershed Management       6,235         4,267       10,502       347          532              879
D. Nature Conservation                  91           404          495        36           284             320
E. Sylvicultural Treatment               0             0            0      4,406        2,023           6,429
F. Support Activities
1. Project Management Team             150           303          453      1,068          264           1,332
2. StrengtheningofINRF                  37           177          214         15          514             529
3. Equipment                         1,674         1,873         3,547     2,588        2,614            5,202
Sub-Total Support Activities       1,862         2,352         4,214     3,671        3,392           7,063
Total Project Costs               18,420        18,979        37,399    10,460        9,929           20,389
16



TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate (US$'000)        Actual/Latest Estimate (US$'000)
Local Costs  Foreign Costs   Total   Local Costs   Foreign Costs   Tot
Source
IBRD                    6,000         19,000        25,000     1,350      9,929          11,279
Farmers                   800             0           800          0          0               0
Domestic Conribution   11,600             0         11,600     9,110          0           9,110
TOTAL                  18,400         19,000        37,400    10,460      9,929          20,389
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
At appraisal, it was only possible to quantify the benefits from the plantation and exploitation
components. Hence the economic analysis of the Pilot Forestry and Watershed Management Project took into
account the benefits and costs from these two activities. Therefore, the rate of return was calculated for the
plantation component only. The present estimate also takes into account the benefits and costs for the plantation
component only. Appendix A2 presents the assumptions underlying the economic analysis.
Plantation         Economic          N   a/    |         Switching Values
Rate of Return                       Costs           Benefits
Component             (%)           (DZD/ha)           (%)       I      (%)
ICR                10.6            4,366           + 16             -14
SAR                 12             6,744            + 57             - 36
a' At an assumed opportunity cost of capital of 10 percent.
17



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original    Revised
Covenant Present fulfillment  fulfillment      Description of
Agreement    Section     type    status     date        date             covenant                   Comments
Loan 3487-AL
3.03 (a)    04       C                     -      Fumish each 11/30 investment Was generally fulfilled on time
program for following year    as requested.
4.02 (a)    01        C                    -      Action plan to ensure audit    Audits were prepared on time
reports                    as was requested.
6.01       10       C         -          -      Engage Consultants          Security problems eventually
made it difficult to hire
consultants, after the first year
of implementation.
3.02 (a)    9        C       6/30/95       -      Exchange views with Bank on Project progress was discussed
project progress           at each supervision mission.
3.02 (b)     9        C      6/12/95       -      Fumish progress report     Progress reports were
furnished on time.
4.01 (b) ii   I       C       6/30/95       -      Fumish audit report        Audit reports were fumished
on time.
A.l (b)     5        C      11/30/92       -     Appoint project management  -
team
B         11       C      9/30/93       -      Agreements with plantation    DGF reports continued
population are made        activities with the population.
C.2 (c)     9        C      9/30/93       -      Fumish watershed            Component was cancelled at
management progress report  restructuring.
D. I (a)    10      NC      3/31/93              Recruit consultants for forest
management plan
D. 1 (a)    10       C      3/31/94       -      Recruit consultants for wood   Component was cancelled at
sector study               restructuring.
D.2 (a)    9,12      C      9/30/96       -      Furnish watershed           Component was cancelled at
management masterplan      restructuring.
D.2 (a)     9       NC      9/30/96       -      Fumish forest management    Component was cancelled at
plans                      restructuring.
D.2 (a)    9,12     NC      9/30/96       -      Fumish wood sector study    Component was cancelled at
restructuring.
Status                                                    Covenant Class
C - Complied with                                           1. Accounts/audit
CD  - Compliance after Delay                                 2. Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
NC - Not Complied with                                       3. Flow and utilization of Project funds
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time            4. Counterpart funding
CP - Complied with Partially                                5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
NYD - Not Yet Due                                             6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntary resettlement
8. Indigenous people
9. Monitoring, review and reporting
10. Implementation
11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13. Other
18



TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement Number and Title                   Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
Overall, there was conpliance with applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTSA'
Stage of                           Planned                     Revised                     Actual
Project Cycle                                                                                 l
Weeks          US$           Weeks          US$         Weeks         US$
Preparation to                N/A           N/A            N/A           N/A          125.5       187.3
Appraisal                                                                                                 l
Appraisal through             N/A           N/A            N/A           N/A           39.7       120.4
Board Approvall
Supervision                   N/A          N/A             N/A           N/A           63.7      198.7
Cornpletion bl           8.0         29.0                         40.0          10.0        40.0
TOTAL                        N/A          N/A             N/A          N/A          238.9       546.4
t Files were not maintained in this format and the data was therefore not available.
Ais of 3/31/1999.
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Perfomiance Rating 
Stage of          Month/      Number    D            SSpecialized   Implementation    Developmnent      Type of
Project Cycle        Year          of       Field's    Staff Sills        Status         Objectives      Problem o
Persons    Fieldente
Through Appraisal        N/A          N/A        N/A          N/A
Appraisal tbrough        N/A          N/A        N/A          N/A                                -
Board Approval
Supervision
I             April 1993      3          7          T, E, F            1                1              F,M
2             July 1993       2          7           E, F              1                l               L
3             May1994          1         2            T                2                2         A,L,M,P,S,T
4             Dec. 1994        1         3            T                S                U          A, L, M, P, S
5             May 1995         1         2            T                S                S          A, L, M,P,S
6             Nov 1996         1         2            T                U                S           A, M, P, S
7             July 1997        1         2            T                S                S              A, S
8           June/July 1998    2          8           T, E              U                U            A, L, P, S
Completion       October 1998     2          7           T,E
t 1: Problem free or minor problems; 2: Moderate problems; 3: Major problems; S: Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory.
b/ T: Task Manager; E: Econornist; F: Financial Analyst.
c A: Technical Assistance Progress; F: Availability of Funds; L: Compliance with Legal Covenants; M: Project Management
Performance; P: Procurement Progress; S: Security Situation in Algeria; T: Training Progress.
5 Field being away from Washington DC, but not necessarily in Algeria or at project sites.
19



APPENDIX A
MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    The ICR mission was carried out in Alger between October 17 and 23 1998. Only the key mission's
findings have been translated.
2.    The ICR mission was carried out three months after the previous supervision mission. The mission had
the following principal objectives: (i) to discuss the responsibility of the implementing unit in the preparation of
the ICR, including the recording of their views on the overall performance of the project; (ii) to discuss with the
client the recommended template to follow in the ICR's preparation as described in BP/GP 13.55; (iii) to agree
on a preparation calendar; (iv) to prepare the operational plan; (v) to agree on the necessity to hire a consultant
to carry out field work and prepare a preliminary report for use by the Bank; and (vi) to record any progress in
the project's progress since the previous mission.
3.    The mission's key results were as follows:
Procurement. The Borrower was again cautioned not to undertake new procurement of works, goods
or services whose execution was unlikely to meet the deadline of December 31, 1998, the cut-off date
for delivering all works, goods and services funded under the project. The grace period for the payment
of all completed works, delivered goods and services was to be communicated after discussion with the
Disbursement department.
Financial situation. The Government requested a cancellation of approximately $2.0 million from the
unused loan portion and another $850,000 not disbursed under the training and technical assistance
agreement with FAO.
Project components
a. Pilot development forestry. 200 ha were prepared in readiness for planting in the following rainy
season. Seedlings would be provided by the nursery under renovation. Again, it was made clear to
the Borrower that any work that was not completed by end of December would not be eligible for
financing under the loan proceeds as stated in the loan agreement.
b. Nursery modernization. The modernization of the nursery was on-going and was expected to
finish within the time frame allocated. Necessary equipment was still being purchased and the
research on the nursery media still under development.
c. Fire protection. Work was ongoing in 11 of the 13 wilayas identified, and at least 45% of the work
had been completed. Some of the trees from the sylicultural activities carried out were of a
reasonably large size and were of saleable value, which greatly motivated the participating
populations.
d. Pilot exploitation operations. Equipment ordered to carry out this work was delivered, although no
implementation was as yet taking place.
e. Pilot watershed management. Work was most advanced for the construction of offices and living
quarters, but the electricity, water and sewerage connection had began. However, it was highly
unlikely that they would be completed before the project's closing date.
20



4.    The section detailing the outline to be followed, as described in BP/GP 13.55 is not translated. This
section was included in the aide-memoire as a guideline to the Borrower for ICR preparation.
Bank's opinion on proiect execution
5.    These points of view were the mnission's preliminary observation of the project's performance. Detailed
analysis was to be carried out during ICR preparation.
a. General. The project benefited from good preparation and its execution began in a satisfactory
manner. After the first year of implementation, conditions outside the Government's control
significantly affected implementation, in particular works and activities dependent on technical
assistance. These problems also limited participation of external companies in the bidding process
which delayed project implementation further. The project was restructured in February 1996, and
certain components were cancelled or changed in order to accelerate project implementation.
However, the problems persisted. It was also noted, that despite the numerous problems
constraining implementation, the project management unit continued to put a large effort to try and
keep the project implementing.
b. Institutional aspects. The limited number of qualified staff available to assist in the
implementation of the project, in particular in activities linked to procurement, or to the monitoring
and evaluation also contributed to poor implementation. A larger number of personnel in the
implementing unit could have been justified by the complexity of the project and by the size of
procurement that had to be carried out under the project.
c. Procurement. This proved to be one of the most difficult activities in the execution of this project.
The reasons are varied, but the lack of adequate experienced personnel, already mentioned, was one
of the most significant. The lack of qualified bids from external companies substantially slowed the
procurement process. The problem could have probably been ameliorated by contacting the
respective embassies in countries likely to show an interest. In addition, the security situation
contributed to the limited interest by external companies.
d. Special account. The complicated management procedures of the special account by the Algerian
Development Bank caused delays in disbursements. This was however, a problem generic to other
Bank projects in the portfolio.
e. Research. Factors that affected the implementation of the project also affected execution of the
research component. However, the implementing unit could have benefited from a closer
collaboration with universities and other external research organizations, particularly in
neighboring countries, but this opportunity was not seized. This is particularly true on the research
into a better nursery media.
f. Training. Of all the activities, this was the most successful.
Borrower's opinion on proiect execution
a. General. The project was well structured and the first year of execution was very satisfactory, but
due to factors beyond the Government's and the implementing unit's control implementation
significantly slowed down after the first year.
21



b. Institutional aspects. From the start of the project the implementing unit was not adequately
staffed, with only a project director, two accountants and a secretary. The limited staff greatly
constrained the amount of activities that could be carried out by the project. Despite all tllis, the
implementing unit did put in a large effort to implement the project.
c. Procurement. Procurement was generally very slow. This is attributed to the lack of foreign
company representatives in Algeria who could have responded to bids advertised. In addition, the
slow processing by the Algerian Development Bank did not help matters.
d. Training. Realization of the training program was above the estimated targets. The experienced
gained by personnel from this program was critical in assisting personnel to carry out the various
activities, in particular the production of seedlings in the nursery.
6.    Operation Plan. The plan lists major equipment purchased by component, compares the initial
quantities to those eventually purchased, briefly notes possible deployment of this equipment, those responsible
for maintenance, and also provides other relevant comments. This plan was prepared to gauge the sustainability
of the project's investments. This table is not translated. Overall, it was determined that sustainability of these
investments should, in fact, be possible given the availability of adequate maintenance funds. However, the
necessary priority would have to be given and the equipment must be deployed for use in other activities in the
sector not necessarily funded by the Bank.
22



Operational Plan
Composante             Equipement           Objectif a    Periode      % reel atteint     Deploiement prevu        Maintenance (previsions)     Commentaires
l'evaluation   d'execution  au 31 decembre    (Dispositif institutionnel)
1998
Reboisement de la
production
i) reboisement         Bulldozer           9            9              100                I - Reboisement pour la  Les pieces de rechange ont e  La livraison du materiel dont
continuit6 du projet     achetees et la procedure     I'acquisition avait e prevue pour
2 - Contribution a la    d'acquisition d'un camion    la premiere annee du projet, n'est
realisation de programmes  atelier est en cours.      intervenue qu'A la fin de la
de reboisement inities sur                            deuxieme ann6e. Ceci a induit un
financement algerien                                  retard dans l'ex&cution du
programme de plantation.
ii) pepinieres         Materiel d'irrigation                           20                 1 -A partir de l'an 2000 la   Le budget de fonctionnement    80 % en cours de livraison
pepiniere sera capable de    sera assur6 par la DGF.
produire 2 000 000 de
plants.
2 - Le personnel
competent pour la prise en
charge de la gestion est
disponible.
Cagettes            45 000       10 000         22                                                                       Le reste est en cours de livraison
Conteneurs          2 000 000    2 000 000      100                                         Une prospection est en cours
pour faire fabriquer localement
ces conteneurs.
Materiel de         I lot        I lot          100               Installe au niveau de la
laboratoire                                                       pepiniere de Guerbes a la
disposition de l'6quipe de
recherche d'INRF
Tracteur agricole   1            I              100                                         Le tracteur a ete achete     Livwaison prevue avant le 31
localement, sa maintenance ne   decembre 1998.
posera pas de probleme compte
tenu de l'existence d'un SAV6.
iii) exploitation      Mat6riel             I lot       I lot          100                I - Exploitation pour la                              Ce materiel a ete acquis en retard
forestiere             d'exploitation                                                     rtalisation de la                                     par rapport au plan previsionnel. n
composante du projet                                  ne constituait plus une priorite
2 - Contribution a la                                 compte tenu de la difficulte A faire
realisation des                                       intervenir I'assistance technique.
programmes
d'exploitation inities sur
financement algerien
Tracteur forestier  I            0              0                                                                        Deux appels d'offres ont et6 lances
sans resultat.
v) travaux sylvicoles  Vehicules TT        24           24             100                Ces vehicules ont ete    Le budget de fonctionnement
contre l'incendie                                                   _                     integres dans le plan    sera assure par la DGF.
6 Service Apres vente
23



operationnel de prevention
et de lutte contre les
incendies
Materiel de travaux   24 lots      24 lots         100                 Ce materiel a servi A      Le budget de fonctionnement
sylvicoles                                                             equiper les vehicules IT   sera assure par la DGF.
2. Amenagement des
bassins versants
Construction d'un     2            1               50                  Ce batiment servira A
batiment                                                               l'installation de l'quipe
technique chargee de
suivre l'execution du
chemin d'amenagement
du bassin versant.
4. Developpement        Vehicules              121 TT       121             100                 Ces vehicules serviront A    Le budget de fonctionnement
institutionnel                                56 de         56                                  realiser les activites de la   sera assure par la DGF.
liaison                                          DGF.
Ordinateurs avec      6            6               100                 Ce mat6riel servira a
imprimante                                                             realiser les activites de la
DGF.
Fac-simile            I            I               100                 Ce materiel servira A
realiser les activites de la
DGF.
5. Etude                Etude sur Ia          I             0              0                                                                              Lors de la restructuration du projet
valorisation des                                                                                                                 (1996) cette composante a ete
ressources en bois                                                                                                               annulde
Inventaire statistique    I        0               0                                                                             Lors de la restructuration du projet
et plan                                                                                                                          (1996) cette composante a ete
d'amdnagement                                                                                                                    annule
simple pour 60 000
ha de reboisement en
eucalyptus
Plan d'amdnagement   I             0               0                                                                             Lors de la restructuration du projet
sylvopastoral pour                                                                                                               (1996) cette composante a etd
15 000 ha de                                                                                                                     annule
peuplement naturel
de foret
Plan directeur                     0               0Los de la rebcturabon du projet
national                                                                                                                         (I996) cette composante a ete
d'amenagement des                                                                                                                annule
bassins versants
24



APPENDIX B
Economic Analysis
1.    The objective of the Pilot Forestry and Watershed Management Project (PFWMP) was to develop a
long-term action program to better protect and manage Algeria's natural resources, specifically its forests,
watersheds, and nature conservation areas. The project was thus a pilot operation to prepare and test
components for replication in a national program for natural resources management on a sustainable basis. At
appraisal, it had been possible only to quantify benefits from the plantation and exploitation components. The
economic analysis has therefore taken into account the benefits and costs from these two activities.
2.    The precarious security situation has seriously hampered the implementation of the project. Out of
the 4 300 ha of plantations which were planned at appraisal, only 307 ha were planted at the end of the
project and the pilot logging operation was not implemented. Furthermore, the security situation made
monitoring and evaluation very difficult and it was not possible to test ways to reduce plantation and
exploitation unit costs as planned at appraisal. Therefore, the data provided to the ICR mission, which was
not able to visit the project sites, do not allow preparing a full financial and economic analysis. They only
allow comparing the costs of establishing one hectare of plantation and of maintaining it with the revenues,
which are expected to arise from that hectare. The appendix summarizes the data used to prepare this limited
analysis and presents its main results.
3.    Main assumptions underlying the analysis are as follows:
a. appraisal yields for pine timber and pine chip-wood have been used to estimate the ICR expected
benefits;
b. financial and economic prices of pine timber and pine chip-wood have been estimated on an import-
substitution basis as Algeria continues to be a net importer of wood (Table 1); the conversion factor
applied to the Algerian Dinar (DZD) reflects its over-estimation;
(i) financial prices of pine increased three time from 1993 (appraisal) to 1998 (completion) i.e.
25 % more than the inflation rate (Table 2); and
(ii) economic prices of pine were multiplied by two from 1993 to 1998 i.e. slightly less than
the inflation rate;
c. financial and economic prices of the main inputs (Table 3) have increased at a lower pace than
inflation with the exception of fertilizer, for which the price has increased over 200 and 70 times in
financial and economic terms, respectively;
d. logging costs (Table 4) have been kept constant during the project life whereas at appraisal, it had
been estimated that they would be reduced by half in line with the results of the pilot logging
operation; as mentioned in paragraph 2, the exploitation component was not implemented;
e. investment and maintenance costs per ha have been estimated on the basis of the quantities of inputs
specified in Table 5; the ha-budget prepared at appraisal has been updated in line with the figures
collected with the contractor; the main change concerns the labor requirements which have been
multiplied by three; as specified in paragraph 3, due to the security situation, it was not possible to
test ways to reduce plantation unit costs, including labor requirements, as it was planned at appraisal.
4.     The financial internal rate of return amounts to 7,9 % (Table 6) i.e. slightly less than anticipated at
appraisal. The Net Present Value at a 10 % Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC) is negative (minus DZD 21
113 per ha). The Switching Values show that the rate of return is not sensitive to changes in costs and
benefits. In order to have a 10 % rate of return, the total project cost should be reduced by 42 % or the gross
value of production increased by 74 %. Therefore, viable production of pine cannot be envisaged if drastic
savings in the cost of production are not possible. Gross value of production increases are, indeed,
problematic, for the time being, as projected yields are already ambitious and as financial prices are linked to
the world market prices.
25



Item             Unit          Financial Analysis         Economic Analysis
Appraisal   Completion    Appraisal    Completion
Internal Rate of Return                   8,3           7,9            12            10,6
Net Present Value      DZD per ha     -16 795        -21 113        6 744           4 366
Switching Values
Cost Increases             %              -37           -42            57             16
Gross Value of             %              +58           +74            36             14
Production Reduction
5.    The economic internal rate of return (10.6 %) is estimated to be slightly above the OCC (Table 7) but
1.4 % less than anticipated at appraisal. The Net Present Value amounts to 4 366 DZD per ha, or two-third of
what was expected at appraisal. The rate of return is not sensitive to increases in costs and reductions in
benefits. To reduce the rate from 10.6 % to 10 %, the total cost of production has to increase by 16 % or the
gross value of production decrease by 14 %. These switching values also show that large savings in costs of
production should be done if the economic viability of producing pine in Algeria has to be improved. The
Government has decided to pursue the plantation program and it would be recommended that the Forestry
Department continues to test for new techniques to reduce production costs.
26



APPENDIX C
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    Overall, the project's objectives were not realized, a result of the difficult security problems
encountered. Some components were cancelled, such as the development of a strategy for the forestry and
watershed sector and the pilot watershed management. In addition, none of the studies were achieved. In
1993, implementation of the project, began in a timely manner.
2.    The project aimed to develop a long term action program for the protection and the management of
natural resources particularly in forestry zones and watershed and nature protection. The project consisted of
two main components:
A. Development of a strategy for the forestry and watershed sector. Two sub-components were to
be funded, (i) three studies and (ii) capacity building. The studies were not realized due to security
problems and the failure of the technical assistance to participate as intended. As a result of the non-
implementation of the studies, the capacity building was also not carried out.
B. Support Activities. This component included several sub-components:
(i) Pilot forestry operations. Several activities were included: (a) the modernization of the Guerbes
nursery to a capacity of 2 million seedlings. Of the five compartments of the final upgraded nursery,
one is completely operational. The nursery is now producing 300 000 plants per year. It is expected
that by the end of 1999, the nursery should be working at full capacity. The nursery has shortened
the nursery time for seedlings from 8 months to 6 months; (b) establishment of 4300 ha of
plantations. By the project's end only 307 ha of pines had been planted mainly because of the
slowness in the modernization of the nursery, and the slow delivery of the bulldozers needed for the
preparation of the soil. By the end of project implementation, a total of 307 ha of pines had been
planted. The success rate of the plantations is estimated at over 95 percent. An additional 200 ha
had been prepared for planting in the last quarter of 1998, but the enterprise that had been identified
to carry out this work was dissolved; (c) pilot exploitation of the planned 1000 ha of eucalypti
plantations was not realized, due to the absence of technical assistance, however training and
procurement of materials was carried out; and (d) sylvicultural treatments of 22 654 ha in 13 wilayas
with the objective of reducing forest fires, 64 percent of the work was realized. This achievement
could have been larger had there not been problems with the procurement.
(ii) Watershed management pilot operations, aimed at increasing farmer incomes and reducing
erosion by enhancing production and protection. Due to the impossibility to ensure technical
assistance support after December 1993, this component was cancelled and replaced by a forest fire
protection program (sylvicultural treatment). However, a certain number of actions were
implemented in the course of the project:
* a socioeconomic guide for watershed management was developed by Alaoui (FAO) in
1994.  The offices, laboratories, housing, guest rooms and garages planned for
Bouguedfine were completed.
*  a climatology study was undertaken for the Bouguedfine watershed and various types of
structures were installed for the control of rainfall runoff in the Oued Sly catchment
(gabions, dry stone walls, plastic bags, and used tires) along the gullies. After two years,
the gabions rapidly filled-in despite the shortage of rain. These were subsequently
27



elevated using used tires, which proved very economical;
* a 5 week session in watershed management techniques and soil conservation was
organized for 4 engineers and another on erosion control and watershed management.
* during the second half of 1993, a consultant specializing in watershed management spend
15 days preparing a master plan for the Bouguedfine and Bayadh watersheds, and during
the second part of 1993, a consultant in social sciences spent 10 days working on the same
watersheds.
iii) Nature conservation through strengthening of research activities and personnel training. With
regards technical assistance, this sub-component took advantage of the services of two experts for a
total of 2 months. Training was also carried out, and in addition 2 engineers were successfully
trained in medical science, one veterinary received specialized training and 4 engineers prepared
theses. Various equipment was purchased to monitor wildlife and ensure installation of sensing
devices against harmful insects.
iv) Research activities. The project envisaged the financing of related actions aimed at
strengthening development research capacities that would promote outcomes of priority programs:
(a) establishment of an inventory of forestry stations with a classification of ecological areas
based on the growth potential of various species (essential document for the preparation of
forestry management plans and identification of areas reserved for reforestation. This
activity has not yet started;
(b) improvement of plantation techniques, including research on nursery operations, choice
of reforestation species and their origin, soil preparation techniques, fertilizers and pest and
disease control. In this area, although the pilot nursery that was supposed to provide the
necessary seedlings to implement research operations involved in the reforestation program
was not achieved, a number of experiments are ongoing at the Guerbes nursery.
(c) Development of management and regeneration techniques for cork and zeen oak while
emphasizing sylvicultural aspects. This element benefited from technical assistance during
the second part of 1993. Several planting techniques have been tested for the cork-oak in
situ under four strata of vegetation. Results are that the rate of survival for seedlings
originating from the nursery was by far the best, ranging from 60 to 100 %. With regard to
the determination of best regeneration methods (techniques/costs) of oaks degraded by fire, a
multi-station test covering 15 origins of cork oak was installed on 1 ha in the Jijel region.
The success rate in November 1997 was 50 %. Other activities are the: improvement of
sylvicultural techniques by establishing norms for thinnings and by fixing production tables
in order to estimate standing volumes. Establishment of technical and economic conditions
of maritime pines cuttings never began; and the implementation of a research program on
wood technology including the research and extension component. The research program
aims primarily at designing and carrying out experiments in sawing and drying of
eucalyptus, sawing and drying of zeen oak, drying of Aleppo pines, and possibilities of using
these three species for woodworking, fumiture and conditioning
Each operation was to include the production of woodworking articles, fumiture, pallets,
fruit or vegetable cases for storage of goods for consumption. Thereafter extension activities
were supposed to be carried out as well as training activities for professionals. A Belgo-
algerian project was to finance the wood technology laboratory. The project was also
expected to target applied research and to finance a sawmill (construction and equipment) in
Bainem. The sawmill was not built and the equipment was not purchased. The component
was cancelled. In this respect, only one study was carried out on the "anatomic variations
and technological properties of Populus alba" underlining the physico-chemical and
mechanical characteristics of this wood. Although the laboratory and sawmill did not
materialize, training of researchers of the INRF took place in this area of wood technology,
and an expert in wood technology was engaged for two weeks at the beginning of the
project.
28



v)    Support and institutional building. In addition to the support activities envisaged in the
components, the project also anticipated other kinds of support benefiting the whole forestry sector.
This support and institutional building were primarily articulated around the purchase of vehicles and
equipment to strengthen the capacity of the institutions involved.
A major beneficiary of the capacity building was the PMT. The PMT was composed of one Assistant
Director and 2 accountants. The economist recruited at the start of the project was after his departure
not replaced. Several vehicles and equipment were also purchased.
Technical assistance and training activities in the project were implemented in the context of an
agreement between the FAO and the Algerian government. Training program went beyond its
forecast. Lessons learned through the training program by the project technicians were valuable for
implementing various activities. Several of the personnel also benefited from academic training.
MAIN FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
3.    The non manageable factors that seriously affected implementation of the project are essentially:
i) The security situation prevailing in Algeria which prevented or hampered normal intervention of
consulting firms and enterprises involved in the execution of the project and put an end to foreign
technical assistance until the end of the life cycle of the project.
ii) The lengthy procedures in the area of procurement for bids which were not always successful
because they did not "reach" potential suppliers or providers of services.
iii) The limited number of local bidders and their low level of interest in bidding procedures that
they did not sufficiently master.
iv) The inadequate assessment of the importance and organization of the PMT which should have
been larger in order to more effectively address the nurnerous activities related to procurement and
monitoring of evaluation - a great number of higher level staff would have been justified by the
project's complexity and the importance of the investment.
4.    Factors that could have been managed are listed as follows:
i) The inadequate knowledge of bidding procedures and monitoring of contracts by the PMT.
ii) The difficulties in anticipating and rapidly addressing problems encountered during
implementation.
iii) The slow procedures of the Algerian Development Bank (BAD) which delayed contract visas
and payment of both local and foreign suppliers which resulted in delays and late delivery of orders
or services. This slowness can be partially explained by the following facts: (a) for a long period of
time, files were handled by two (2) directorates of BAD which implied cumbersome and lengthy
procedures of file handling; (b) services responsible for project components benefiting from outside
financing do not always have a precise understanding of the difference in files being handled in an
"ordinary" manner to those handled in a "bureaucratic" manner and therefore fail to act accordingly.
The subsequent delays eventually hamper the companies' economic and financial outcomes; (c) the
establishment of end of year reports takes time which prevents operators from finalizing their
balance sheets and rescheduling the following year's projects in time.
PERFORMANCE OF THE WORLD BANK
5.    The project benefited from a good preparation and an appraisal that was highly satisfactory. The
Special Account was well managed and replenished when requested. In the first year of implementation
project monitoring was good but after problems beyond the Government's control began in the second year
Bank missions were drastically reduced. After 1994 no more Bank missions were held in Algiers until 1998.
Overall, supervision of the project was satisfactory.
29



PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
6.    Preparation of the project was satisfactory. From the start, project objectives had been clearly
defined and approved by the Bank's preparation mission. It can thus be said that preparation was highly
satisfactory. Reasonable efforts to ensure efficient implementation of the project. The first year of the
project cycle went by satisfactorily.
7.    However, as of the second year (1994) conditions not subject to Government control hampered
implementation of the project by seriously limiting execution of project components related to works or
depending on technical assistance. In addition, foreign enterprise participation was limited or even non-
existent which resulted in: serious delays in the implementation of some components or in their cancellation.
Despite these obstacles and burden of administrative and financial procedures imposed by the environment,
the PMT did its uttermost to execute parts of the project that could be implemented. Members of the PMT
were finally able to master the various functions for which they were responsible and to acquire considerable
experience. Performance of the executing agency is considered satisfactory.
8.    From the start the project benefited from public funding in spite of budgetary constraints. The
project was at no time affected by a lack of financial resources. At this level performance has been highly
satisfactory. Biannual reports concerning the state of progress of the various components have been prepared
regularly by the PMT and submitted to the Bank. Project's accounts have been regularly audited in a timely
manner. Accounting was correctly maintained and audits did not encounter any problem. The evolution of
the project's impacts and maintenance of a cost accounting system have unfortunately not been possible due
to the absence of an economist in the PMT and of the limited number of personnel of the PMT unit.
SUSTAINABILITY AND REPLICATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
9.    The project primarily allowed:
(i) acquisition of important equipment and in particular: 9 bulldozers for soil preparation; this
equipment will enable, in a first stage, to complete soil preparation works in order to achieve the
reforestation program of 4300 ha and, thereafter, to complete works falling in the regular programs
of the Forestry Directorate. Forestry operation equipment which will be used to implement the pilot
forestry development component (1000 ha at El Tarf) and will contribute later to the implementation
of exploitation programs designed by the General Directory of Forestry;
(ii) establishment of a nursery which upon completion will allow production of 2 million improved
seedlings for planting in the context of the reforestation program of the project and thereafter supply
the reforestation areas of future programs of the General Directory of Forestry;
iii) training of a large number of engineers and technicians in the area of seedling production,
plantations, management, exploitation, forest fire protection program, and erosion and nature
protection control. These engineers and technicians represent a significant potential which can be
exploited inside and outside the project in order to maintain and amplify the development dynamic
generated by the project; and
iv) draw results even if they are still partial and need to be confirmed. Equipment purchased will
allow research activities to deepen and extend research areas.
30



KEY LESSONS LEARNED
10.   Key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
i) contrary to many projects financed by the Bank in Algeria, the forestry development
project has been too optimistic in assessing the time required to launch the bids, assess them,
finalize contracts, pay suppliers and acknowledge receipt of goods. In the future, these
elements will have to be taken into account and a longer timeframe will need to be set;
ii) with regard to the forestry development project and taking into account dependence of
plantations vis-a-vis seedling production, a more realistic timeframe should have been set for
the development of the nursery and the start of its production cycle;
iii) the fact that technical assistance is systematically required by the Loan agreement has
often been a serious constraint to the implementation of project components when the
security situation prevented experts to come to Algeria; and
iv) in order to implement the various tasks and ensure a satisfactory execution of the project,
members of the PMT must make significant efforts and demonstrate strong technical and
management skills. They should be able to obtain adequate training as well as the necessary
equipment before the start of the project.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
11.   The project closed on December 31, 1998, was not extended as factors that constituted a constraint to
the proper execution and implementation of all components had not disappeared. However, and when
conditions will be more favorable, it would be desirable to initiate a project which would be an extension,
consolidation and replication of outcomes achieved and which would contribute to strengthen the real
development impetus generated by the pilot forestry development project; dynamic already pursued by the
Algerian technicians who acquired, through various training and field applications, the experience required to
pursue implementation of the various components. Implementation of these components will continue with
Algerian financing.
31






IBRD 22755R
ALGERIA
PILOT FORESTRY AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJET PILOTE DE DEVELOPPEMENT FORESTIER ET
D'AMENAGEMENT DE BASSINS VERSANTS
1EX FOoRESETEpD AREAS                                                    PR0 ZOJECE \V0;*    r-fT . 
MAJOR TRMEE SPCIES N  FORESTED APREAS                                 MANAGEMENT PLANS
/   ESSENCES FQRESTIEREs PR(NINQAITES DANS LES ZONES FORESTERES:      PIANS E'AMENAGEMENT
0-- Erl IChih= /5,/I or Aol.. O.k                                  PLANTARONS
CLNN3    Guecus Tub. IC/   E,) coCoAltOcR C                                     LOIXkTATkJOT AT
uo       .. F ....oROo                                             NATURE CONSERVAnON                                                                                                                                                                El KWe
(     IER IAlarm cI CPEOnTer) or AM.,. on toEc Ook                PROTECTION GE tA NATURE                                                                                                                                                           El No/P
Co/Iou. A/MoRse IC&/Io.ATlocEqueI                 S~~~~~~EC/SERC/IR ORES TIEE                                                                                                                                              n Elo
Cd- Aghkb (C' .Ad.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E l '  Tc
I      >                                                                             umber-cbnt  PIX)qoo c/I i.2 *r                                                                                                                             2 2fr \ /    S
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1y <rVsg TAj rI4.6 ,,~                                                                                                                                               = -,
pi ,*   .~ (__/     -'_f-    _h /*_1                                           /                    e.                   k*                                                                                                         --y  
Re    o           s I/5clongoIoR, .1g.
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[i dIp                                                                                                                               or e     hEmph, en sdddrY  Xfrh  nenfU   fT}   o/  
I   (                 |                                                    l                                            on dwe log f   uYs O°fn thy tPar,tf °f The Wo {d dont Gdr=ol' awown dn th,&    20-    0s             5e       L~~Mhr, I  , ~"- -
-TOPRATI        RWATERSD MANAGEMENT                       oB _                  N I 
luoip.r- ?/hqoIc.. dGpoN. P/Mc.?.                                  AEEREE/SPLISELA INE FESPT                                    "-iiOau0                             1  .tp i 7>                           c    >c'
0  WI1-AYA ,HEARWSARTERS                                                                                   TPSJjg<N'/                      t&4$~'                                                               O.OTT>"                        '
E,GES DS    VA                                                                                                                                                            L-C21. C~E   '/\               /'                       zi'-'         )~S
NATIONAL CAPIAL                                                                                                                                   yt  c>                                   'r-                           ' 
APTLENTAiOAL                                              Lr/t%n                            '               " 4                                       '>>          ~         0ef         I~'''
WOLAYA ROSPNDARIES                                      '/Q3                               pfS          4     OodeK                       <i>        'st'~" K  
RONTIERES I)ES/I N/AA,I                                                                   K                34''                            r7t41TEdBuI, 7'                                                                           -
FRONTRE NTR AT)NLSUfNt'zNf                                                                                                      ' 1~0-74                                                                  ' u               B-cogi            I    %     '$
,CELIKALA NATIONAI PARK                                             ,        rt                       0-44U>                       y    ~     t       '    5                                                 >'''t
P -  ARC TERTONRI EL KA               otgoeo                                                      -                                           K   '                       U    JA1I A               4 J
4'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
AiR TemDRoecnt                /1     LiA        MOER          E"       /      Tioret
Ps                         5 ~ ~~~~~~~~~ 6/')                                   0 -'                                  Y
/3                                                                                                           B~~~~~~~~~~~'-~    i,,krII                                  C
K.  I R R T E o A'n/c.j()   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'>')Soidap%                           C5,)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  '-'U                                                           0   ~~~~~~~~'--&        ALGIERS35  -* LG ER
<iN]    <                                                                      £*R                             >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tt    K'~ -                            K   - 11 -1vh-'-
K,-.                      g'o                                                                                                              C'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h~1,..- f-  h  1
/                                       K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h --h                                                                                                                       ALGE-I
2 11-1-1~~~~~~K



