Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3487 AL
(Pilot Forestry and Watershed Management Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
 AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 5, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3487 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated August 5, 1992, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the "Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the "Bank").
      WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS: (B) The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) and 
a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
      (a)   "ANF" means the Borrower's National Forestry Agency (Agence Nationale des 
Forcts), a public administrative agency established and operating pursuant to the 
Borrower's Decree No. 90-14, dated April 21, 1990, as amended by the Borrower's 
Executive Decree No. 91-59, dated February 23, 1991;
      (b)   "Category" means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and 
the term "Categories" means each of said Category;
      (c)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower's central bank (Banque d'Algerie), 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 
1990;
      (d)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower's fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 
31 in each calendar year;
      (e)   "Wilaya Law" means the Borrower's Law on the Wilaya (Loi Relative la 
Wilaya) No. 90-09, dated April 7, 1990;
      (f)   "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture (Ministcre de 
l'Agriculture);
      (g)   "INRF" means the Borrower's National Institute for Forestry Research 
(Institut National de Recherche Foresticre), established and operating pursuant to the 
Borrower's Decree No. 81-348, dated December 12, 1981;
      (h)   "APC" means any Communal Assembly (Assemblee Populaire Communale), 
established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 90-08, dated April 7, 1990;
      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
      (j)   "Chlef" means the Borrower's Wilaya of Chlef, an administrative division 
of the Borrower organized pursuant to the Wilaya Law;
      (k)   "El Tarf" means the Borrower's Wilaya of El Tarf, an administrative 
division of the Borrower organized pursuant to the Wilaya Law;
      (l)   "Skikda" means the Borrower's Wilaya of Skikda, an administrative division 
of the Borrower organized pursuant to the Wilaya Law; and
      (m)   "Tissemsilt" means the Borrower's Wilaya of Tissemsilt, an administrative 
division of the Borrower organized pursuant to the Wilaya Law.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty-five million dollars 
($25,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
Page  3
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
           (ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section. 
          (iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
                  "(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On 
each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding 
during 
the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable 
during such 
Interest Period."
                  "(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the 
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on 
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
Page  4
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out, or cause to be carried out, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate economic, financial, administrative, engineering, 
forestry, environmental, and land conservation practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out, or cause to be carried out, the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1995, exchange 
views with the Bank on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project.
      (b)   Not later than four (4) weeks prior to such exchange of views, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a report, in such detail and of such scope as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, on the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying 
out the Project.
      Section 3.03. (a) Not later than November 30 in each Fiscal Year, beginning with 
the Fiscal Year ending December 31, 1992, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for 
its review and comments, the investment program for the Project proposed to be carried 
out during the following Fiscal Year, together with the financing plan for said 
program.
      (b)   The Borrower shall promptly thereafter finalize and carry out said program 
and plan, taking into consideration the Bank's comments and recommendations thereon.
      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
           (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Page  5
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
           (ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
           (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than November 30, 1992, furnish 
to the Bank, for its review and comments, a plan of action specifying all measures 
proposed to be taken by the Borrower to ensure that it will submit to the Bank, within 
the time limits provided in Section 4.01 (b) and (c) of this Agreement, the Project 
audit reports required pursuant to the provisions of said Section, and all in 
accordance with generally accepted international auditing norms and principles.
      (b)   The Borrower shall promptly thereafter carry out said plan of action, 
taking into consideration the Bank's comments and recommendations thereon.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Borrower, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ANF or INRF, or for the 
suspension of the operations of either or both of them. 
      (b)   The Wilaya Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any one of the events 
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and 
shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have engaged the consultants, in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, to assist the 
Borrower in carrying out Parts B (3), B (4), C (2), C (3), E (1) and E (2) of the 
Project.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  6
11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Economy
            Governmental Palace
            Algiers
            Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FINPLAN                 67073
                  Algiers
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT).
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                  DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR
                    REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
                  By /s/ N. Y. Zerhouni
Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ P. Bottelier
 Regional Vice President
 Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works                     11,000,000        80%
(2) Goods (inclu-              6,500,000        100% of foreign
Page  7
    ding vehicles)                              expenditures, 100%
    and machinery                               of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
(3) Consultants'               5,500,000        100%
    services and
    training
(4) Unallocated                2,000,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                25,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of one 
million dollars ($1,000,000), may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1992.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower develop a long-term 
strategy for the development, management and conservation of its forest resources and 
protection of its watersheds from soil erosion, in accordance with sound practices for 
the protection of forest eco-systems, and, in particular, to assist the Borrower, on a 
pilot basis, in: (i) developing appropriate techniques and strengthening its 
institutional capabilities for reducing the erosion of its watersheds and for managing 
and increasing the productivity of its forest resources and mountain agriculture; and 
(ii) strengthening its institutional capabilities for forest, watershed and natural 
resource management and planning.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:     Forestry and Watershed Sector Strategy
1.    Carrying out of a program to study the existing commercially exploitable forest 
resources, particularly wood, within the Borrower's territory, and to identify ways to 
promote the efficient development of its wood industry sub-sector and use of forest 
resources.
2.    Carrying out of a study to prepare simplified forest management plans for 
selected forests in the Borrower's territory, with a view to developing a suitable 
format for future forest management plans, and provision of training to staff of the 
Forestry Service of ANF to facilitate the implementation of the forest management 
plans.
3.    Development of a national watershed management master plan, based on the results 
of the pilot watershed management activities to be carried out by the Borrower under 
Part C (1) of this Schedule in Bouguedfine (Chlef) and El Bayad (Tissemsilt), and 
based on existing data. The master plan shall set forth the framework for defining an 
appropriate approach for watershed management and a program of watershed management 
activities.
Part B:    Pilot Forestry Development
Page  8
1.    Carrying out, on a pilot basis, of a plantation program in Skikda to increase 
yields and reduce unit costs of tree plantations, consisting of: (a) introduction of 
new techniques for the production of seedlings; (b) plantation of pines and cork oak; 
(c) establishment of firebreaks and check dams; (d) upgrading of a nursery in Guerbes, 
including provision of nursery equipment therefor; and (e) construction of an 
irrigation system, provision of bulldozers, rippers, vehicles, mobile living quarters, 
and construction and rehabilitation of forest tracks and roads, all as required for 
the plantations included in this Part B (1).
2.    Carrying out of a pilot program to exploit eucalypt of various ages and under 
various conditions in El Tarf, in order to test the possibility of reducing logging 
costs by using more appropriate equipment and increasing labor productivity, including 
provision of training to ANF staff in charge of supervising such exploitation and 
potentially to the loggers, and provision of a flat-bed truck, a tractor, and small 
equipment to ANF.
3.    Carrying out of a program to strengthen the capabilities of ANF staff 
responsible for pilot forestry plantation and exploitation activities in Skikda and El 
Tarf, including provision of training, four-wheel drive vehicles, and office and 
forest equipment.
4.    Carrying out of:
      (a)   A program of applied research to support the pilot forestry plantation and 
exploitation programs included in Parts B(1) and B(2) of this Schedule, consisting, 
inter alia, of: (i) development of a forestry station reference catalog, based on the 
ecology of selected areas of the Borrower's territory; (ii) development of improved 
plantation establishment techniques, techniques for the management and regeneration of 
cork and zeen oak forests and improved silvicultural techniques; and (iii) initiation 
of a applied wood technology research program.
      (b)   A program to: (i) strengthen the existing forestry research stations in 
Guerbes, Jijel and Tizi Ouzou, including construction or upgrading of laboratories, 
offices, a small saw mill, storage facilities, staff housing, and an experimental 
nursery and provision of training and four-wheel drive vehicles and equipment required 
therefor; and (ii) establish a wood technology center in Bainem, including provision 
of needed equipment and training.
Part C:     Pilot Watershed Management
1.    Carrying out, in the watershed of Bouguedfine (Chlef) and El Bayad (Tissemsilt) 
sub-catchments of the watershed of Oued Sly, of pilot watershed management activities 
to improve land and natural resources management, develop appropriate low-cost land 
management techniques, increase farmers' incomes and reduce erosion, consisting of:
      (a)   Development of a process to improve multi-sectoral coordination and 
participation of local populations.
      (b)   On-farm activities, including, inter alia: (i) fruit tree planting; (ii) 
fodder tree planting; (iii) establishment of permanent and semi-permanent pastures; 
(iv) establishment of anti-erosion works; (v) fodder plot development; (vi) small 
stock development; (vii) fallow land management; (viii) rangeland improvements; (ix) 
spring capping and development; and (x) small-scale water storage.
      (c)   Public land and non-agricultural land activities, including, inter alia: 
(i) gully stabilization and development; and (ii) road and track development and 
maintenance.
      (d)   Upgrading of water supply, health care and education infrastructures.
2.    (a)   Carrying out of applied research programs to support the pilot watershed 
management activities included in Part C (1) of this Schedule, said programs to focus 
on: (i) control of gullies and river beds to reduce sediment transport; (ii) 
improvement of mountain agricultural production; (iii) improvement of the structures 
to manage runoff; and (iv) introduction of improved
design criteria and techniques for roads and drains.
      (b)   Strengthening of the INRF forestry station in Tenes, including provision 
of additional staff, equipment, four-wheel drive vehicles and training.
3.    Carrying out of a program to strengthen the capabilities of ANF staff 
Page  9
responsible for pilot watershed management, consisting of (a) construction of a small 
operational center in each of Oued Abdel Kader (Bouguedfine catchment) and Lardjem 
(Bayad catchment), (b) provision to each of these centers of an agro-pastoralist and 
socio-economist, topographic equipment, audiovisual aides and four-wheel drive 
vehicles, and (c) provision of training to said staff.
Part D:     Nature Conservation Program
      Carrying out of a program to strengthen the Borrower's capabilities in nature 
conservation, consisting of: (a) the establishment of a research unit at the INRF 
research station in El Kala and provision of training and two (2) four-wheel drive 
vehicles, and (b) carrying out of a training program in nature conservation and 
provision of equipment required therefor.
Part E:     Support Activities
1.    Carrying out of a program to strengthen the institutional capabilities of ANF, 
including provision of training, staff, four-wheel drive vehicles and office and field 
equipment.
2.    Carrying out of a program to strengthen the institutional capabilities of INRF, 
including provision of training and equipment.
*     *     *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
      beginning March 1, 1998
      through March 1, 2009                     1,040,000
On September 1, 2009                            1,080,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Page  10
Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicabletime of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:
Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not             0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity
More than fifteen years before             1.00
      maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits", published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines").
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped into 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000) or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower's territory may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Limited International Bidding:
      Heavy field machinery and related equipment estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of one million dollars ($1,000,000), may 
be procured under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures 
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least (3) qualified 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, and in accordance with procedures set forth 
in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 
thereof).
2.    Local Competitive Bidding:
Page  11
      Works estimated to cost more than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000) but less than the equivalent of two million dollars ($2,000,000) per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of fourteen million 
five hundred thousand dollars ($14,500,000), may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.    Local and International Shopping:
      Computer hardware, office equipment and scientific material estimated to cost 
the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of one million one hundred thousand 
dollars ($1,100,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of: (i) 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three (3) suppliers eligible 
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; or (ii) 
comparison of price quotation obtained from at least three (3) suppliers from at least 
two (2) different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.    Direct Contracting:
      Works estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000) or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000), may be awarded after direct 
negotiations with contractors, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.    Force Account:
      Certain specialized works under the Project, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of two million six hundred thousand dollars ($2,600,000), may be 
carried out by force account.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($150,000) or more, and with respect to each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of five hundred thousand dollars 
($500,000) or more, the  procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for purposes of 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  12
Implementation Program
A.    Institutional Arrangements
1.    National Forestry Agency
      (a)   ANF shall have overall responsibility for the implementation of the 
Project. The Borrower shall ensure that adequate human, physical and financial 
resources are at all times made available to ANF for said purpose.
      (b)   The ANF Director General shall be assisted by a Project Management Team 
(the "PMT") which shall include a Deputy Director, an economist, an assistant 
accountant and a secretary. The qualifications and experience of each of the said 
economist, assistant accountant and secretary shall be satisfactory to the Bank. The 
Borrower shall appoint said economist and assistant accountant to the PMT not later 
than November 30, 1992. The PMT shall be responsible, inter alia, for: (i) undertaking 
Project procurement; and (ii) Project monitoring and evaluation, including preparing 
progress reports.
      (c)   The concerned regional forestry directorates of ANF shall be responsible 
for the implementation of Parts B (1), B (2) and C (1) of the Project within their 
respective regions.
2.    National Institute for Forestry Research
      The INRF shall be responsible for carrying out the research activities under 
Parts B (4), C (2) and D (1) of the Project. For the purposes of said Part C (2), the 
researchers in the Ouzera Station (Medea) shall provide assistance to the staff in the 
Tenes Station.
B.    Forest Operations
      The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure the conclusion, not 
later than September 30, 1993, of arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, in respect 
of the people who use the forest lands to be replanted under Part B of the Project for 
grazing purposes, so as to ensure that the grazing activities in such forests shall be 
carried out in a manner consistent with such reforestation activities.
C.    Watershed Management
1.    The watershed management activities to be carried out under Part C (1) of the 
Project shall not be commenced until and unless: (a) ANF has prepared, in consultation 
with the principal parties concerned (including, the technical services personnel and 
the APCs of the communities and others concerned), and has furnished to the Bank the 
respective medium-term plan (the "Plans") outlining the activities to be undertaken 
under said Part C (1) in each watershed; (b) both the Bank and the Borrower have 
approved the said Plans; (c) the Borrower has taken all measures necessary, 
satisfactory to the Bank, with the parties concerned to ensure the proper (i) carrying 
out of said Plans, (ii) safeguarding of all related investments made pursuant thereto, 
and (iii) payment by said parties of a suitable portion of the costs of implementing 
said Plans.
2.    The Borrower shall: (a) take all measures necessary to ensure the prompt 
implementation of the said Plans as approved by the Bank; (b) establish appropriate 
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with 
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of said Plans; (c) prepare and 
furnish to the Bank, not later than September 30 of each Fiscal Year, a report, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall have agreed, on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the said Plans. Thereafter, the Borrower shall 
promptly introduce such revisions into said Plans as shall have been agreed between 
the Borrower and the Bank on the basis of the said report.
D.    Consultants' Services
1.    The Borrower shall employ consultants: (a) not later than March 31, 1993, to 
assist the Borrower in carrying out the study under Part A (2) of the Project and in 
developing the national watershed management master plan under Part A (3) of the 
Project; and (b) not later than March 31, 1994, to assist the Borrower in carrying out 
the program under Part A (1) of the Project.
2.    The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) the said national watershed management 
master plan shall be developed and furnished to the Bank not later than September 30, 
Page  13
1996; and (b) the program under Part A (1) of the Project and the study under Part A 
(2) of the Project shall be carried out, and the results thereof furnished to the Bank 
not later than September 30, 1996.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to one million 
five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
      (b)   (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   If, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from theLoan Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  14
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
