Donunt of
The World Bank
FDOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4S0b-AR
REPORT AND RECONSTRUCTION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$18.5 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR
A PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 13, 1986
| This document has a resiricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUIRREuCa EQUIVALETS
US$1 = Austral 0.84
(November 1, 1985)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)        = 10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)      = 2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton) = 1,000 kg
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ANA      -   National Customs Administration
BCRA     -   Central Bank of Argentina
DGI      -   Tax Revenue Office
IMF      -   International Monetary Fund
INDEC    -   National Institute of Statistics and Census
ME       -   Ministry of Economy
MD       -   Ministry of Defense
MOSP     -   Ministry of Public Works and Services
HREC     -   Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cult
OPE      -   UNDP Office for Project Execution
PPF      -   Project Preparation Facility
PRONAGRO -   National Agricultural Development Program
PSML     -   Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Loan
SAGP     -   Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and
Fisheries
SC       -   Secretariat of Ecucomic Coordination
SICE     -   Secretariat of Industry and Foreign Trade
SCGEP    -   Secretariat of Public Enterprises Control
SECYT    -   Secretariat of Science and Technology
Institutes and Centers
SP       -   Secretariat of Planning
SFP      -   Secretariat of the Public Function
SH       -   Secretariat of Finance
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Program
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OICIL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
PUJLIC SZCTOR NANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Argentine Republic.
Amount:           US$18.5 million equivalent.
Terms:            15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
ObJectives:      The  proposed  project  would  help   strengthen   the
Government's management of the economy, particularly its
efforts to: (a) develop and strengthen the tools needed
for coherent economic policies and decision making; (b)
reduce the public sector deficit; (c) increase domestic
resource mobilization; (d) -improve the efficiency of
public sector investment; (e) strengthen the performance
of and restructure public sector enterprises; and (f)
improve export and industrial policies and procedures in
liae with the country's comparative advantage.
Project
Description:     The proposed project consists of:
(a)  the   development   of   analytical   tools   and
strengthening of the Information base for use by the
uinistry of Economy which includes: (i) building
practical   forecasting   models;   (ii)   improving
maroeconomic and sectoral data; (iii) preparing and
developing social indicators and poverty impact
studies; and (iv) training programs for the use of
statistical and economic software packages;
(b) a central resource mobilization and use component
to: (i) analyze and reinforce the public investment
cycle especially investment policy, programming,
appraisal, and monitoring; (ii) develop a training
program for project preparation and appraisal; (iii)
strengthen budget   preparation and control;  (iv)
improve    tax    policy    and    strengthen    tax
adainistration; and (v) improve criteria and methods
relating to prices and tariffs affecting the
Nizastry of Public Works and Services' public
enterprises.
Thu docmt hb a nuicd ditribuin and may be %md by recipiets only in the performace 
of thbir ocml dutLIts aontat oa not otherwia be dickad wihout WorldBDnk authorzation.



- ii -
(c)  a public sector enterprises management component to
define the relationship of public euterprises with
the Government to: (i) replace day-to-day government
controls  with  a  system  of  accountability  and
performance   incentives;   (ii)  conduct  in-depth
analyses of financial, managerial and physical
restructuring requirements of the major public
enterpriseb; (iii) improve management supervision of
these   enterprises;   and   (iv)   strengthen   the
institutional aspects of the public management
efforts covered by the loan; and
(d)  an industry and trade component to:   (i) simplify
trade   and   customs   procedures;   (ii)   improve
information for exporters; (iii) strengthen the
design  aud  implementation    of  export  promotion
policies and (iv) undertake studies to improve
export and industrial policies.
Benefits and
Risks:          The  proposed   project  would  benefit  Argentina  by
strengtheuing economic and public sector management
capabilities in the key agencies in the policy area. The
project is expected to produce more effective and
integrated  policy  development,  national  statistical
services,  sector  and  project  analysis,  multi-year
iuvestment  planning  and  program  monitorirg,  budget
planning and coutrol, tax collection, public enterprise
management, and trade and industrial policies.  It would
reinforce current efforts by the Government to increase
efficieucy in the use of resources, improve inter-agency
cooperation, reduce redundancy in goverment activities,
and reinforce their linkages.
The relatively large size of the proposed project and the
number of activities and consultants involved entail some
risk of delay or incomplete implementation.  These should
be minimized by the very thorough goverament project
preparation, the appointment of the Secretary of Economic
Coordination  as  Project Director,  the creation  of a
strong  Project  Coordinating  Unit,  the  participating
agencies'  view  of  the  project  as  instrumental  in
achieving their economic and institutional objectives,
the  preparation  of  Annual  Action  Programs  for  each
component, and  the    commitment  of  the  managers  of
differeut compouents to more effective use of public
sector resources.



- iii -
Estimated Cost                           Local       Foreign    Total
-- -US$ million
Tools for Economic Decision Making        4.8         1.3         6.1
Central Resource Mobilization and Use     5.9         3.5         9.4
Public Sector Enterprises Management      3.9         0.4        4.3
Export and Industrial Development         5.2          1.9        7.1
Coordinating Unit                         0.5         0.2        0.7
Base Cost                                20.3         7.3       27.6
Physical/Price Contingency                -           2.0         2.0
UNDP/OPE Fee                              -            1.0        1.0
Repayment of PPF Advance                  0.4         0.1        0.5
Total Project Cost                       20.7        10.4        31.1
Financing Plan:
Bank                                      8.1        10.4        18.5
Government                               12.6         -          12.6
Total                                    20.7         10.4       31.1
Estimated
Disbursements: Bank FY:        1987        1988           1989        1990
--TS$ million
Annual         5.2        5.7          4.6        3.0
Cuumulative    5.2       10.9         15.5       18.5
Appraisal
Report:        This  is  a  combined  President's  and  Staff  Appraisal
Report.
14iap:           IBRD 18671R.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
PROPOSED PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Argentina for the equivalent of US$18.5 million in
suDport of its economic and public management objectives.  The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the Bank standard
variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Argentina in June/July 1983 and its
report (4979-AR) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1984.
This report reflects the major findings of that mission and subsequent
updating  missions.    The  Board  has  also  received  a  report entitled
-Argentina:   Strategies   toward  Industrial  and   Export   Development-
(5841b-AR), dated September 30, 1985. Country data sheets are presented in
Annex I.
Background
3.        Argentina has rich natural resources, a highly literate popula-
tion, an export-oriented and diversified agricultural sector and a
diversified industrial sector. The economic performance of the country has
suffered, however, from policy instability and economic distortions
introduced by the frequently changing goverrnents. Except for agriculture,
public sector participation in the economy is high, industrial production
is largely domestic market-oriented, and available resources are not
utilized  efficiently.   Until recently, a large public sector deficit
contributed significantly to the country's very high Inflation level.
A. Economic Developments of the Last Decade
4.        Over the last decade, abrupt shifts in economic policies weakened
Argentina's productive capacity and exacerbated structural imbalances.
Changes in policies produced large and rapid fluctuations in real GDP,
inflation, the real exchange rate, the external trade balance, real
interest rates, and real salaries.
5.        High   and   rising   inflation,   physical   and   technological
deterioration of the country's productive capacity, major dislocations in
industrial production and huge external debt service requirements have
resulted in general economic stagnation, such that the real 1984 per capita
GDP was 14% lower than its 1974 level.   There has been no growth since
1984. Heavy borrowing in the late 1970s multiplied the country's external
debt as a share of GDP sevenfold (from 10% to 68Z).   Today, interest



-2-
payments on the external debt absorb nearly half of gross domestic savings,
compared to less than 5% in the early 1970s.
6.        The productive sectors, particularly manufacturing, are beset by
thorny structural and financial problems. More than 40Z of capacity in the
construction industry, artificially inflated during a brief construction
boom of the late 1970s, now stands idle.  Significant underutilization of
capacity also exists in many manufacturing industries and most firms also
lack sufficient working capital.   Financial intermediation is costly and
inefficient, interest rates are high both in nominal and real terms, and
oversized   banking   institutions  are   suffering  severe  difficulties.
Argentina's self-sufficiency in oil has deteriorated as the ratio of oil
reserves to annual output has declined.   Proven reserves of gas have
increased, but the processing and transport infrastructure to exploit them
is deficient.
7.        The public sector is simultaneously overstaffed and seriously
short of managerial and technical expertise.  Ineffective tax administra-
tion, together with inadequate budgeting and investment planning processes,
contribute significantly to the large public sector deficit.   Cuts in
investment to curb the public sector deficit have led to a deterioration of
social infrastructure and have jeopardized the reliability of power supply.
B. Policies for AdJustment
8.        Economic mismanagement and the consequences of the 1982 South
Atlantic war hastened  the departure of  the military  Government.   A
democratically elected Government took office at the end of 1983, facing
spiralling inflation and growing balance of payments difficulties. Also,
the after-effects of the industrial recession were threatening the solvency
of the financial system.
9.        Toward the end of 1984, the Government entered into a 15-month
stand-by agreement with the IMF and rescheduled its external debt with
official creditors, covering interest and principal up to 1985, and with
the commercial banks, covering principal up to 1985. It also obtained the
commitment of US$4.2 billion in 'fresh money' to finance the current
account deficit and to eliminate arrears accumulated through 1983-85. The
principal objectives of the stabilization program were to: (a) lower the
rate of inflation from an average of about 20% per month in the last
quarter of 1984 to about 8% per month by the end of 1985; and (b) achieve a
balance of payments position that would enable Argentina to meet its
external obligations while satisfying the needs of domestic recovery.
10.       The Government moved to comply with the conditions under the
stand-by agreement despite a deepening recession. However, by the end of
1984 shortfalls from the agreed targets of the program were observed.
During the first quarter of 1985, the Government's adherence to the program
became  weaker.    Therefore,  the  IMF  suspended  the  first  conditional
draw-down under the stand-by agreement until the completion of the 1985
first quarter review of the program.
11.       A new economic team took office in late February 1985 and began
preparing a new package to deal with inflation which had already exceeded
20% per month.  By the second quarter of 1985, economic conditions had
worsened significantly. The economy was facing spiralling inflation while



-3-
the recession intensified.  The Goverment then decided to abandon gradual-
ism in favor of 'shock treatment" and set about to prepare the country for
a major change ln economic policy necessary to break inflationary expecta-
tions. In June 1985, the Government devalued the peso by 18X to improve
relative pricest raised the price of meat by almost 100%, and introduced a
number of fiscal measures with the purpose of drastically reducing the
overall fiscal deficit. It increased prices of petroleum and gas products
and tariffs on electricity, telephone, transport and postal services; a
temporary 10X import surcharge and a 9 percentage points increase in the
export tax were approved; a 12X cut in the 1985 budget expenditure took
place; and a hiring freeze was declared in the public sector. Following
these measures, the Government announced a very strong adjustment program,
supported by a revised and more stringent stand-by agreement with the IMF,
and initiated its implementation.
12.       The targets under the Government's economic program comprised:
(a) a drastic cut in the total public sector deficit (including Central
Bank operating losses) from 12.52 of GDP in the first half of 1985 to 2.52
on average in the second half of 1985, with the deficit to be financed by
external borrowing, thus eliminating domestic credit expansion to the
public sector. Further expenditure cuts were to follow the ones undertaken
and lower inflation was to shorten revenue collection lags and allow for
lower nominal interest rates, thus reducing interest service payments; (b)
a reduction in the balance of payments' current account deficit from 3.5Z
of GDP in 1984 to 2.4Z in 1985; (c) a monetary reform that included the
introduction of a new currency unit pegged to the US dollar and a system
for de-indexing peso-denominated contracts; and (d) a wage-price freeze.
The program was supported by an agreement with commercial bank creditors
to: (a) reschedule about US$13.9 billion in principal payments during the
period of the stand-by (1985/86); (b) provide US$4.2 billion of new money
(the same as in para. 9), of which US$2.2 billion were to be disbursed by
September 1985; (c) establish a trade credit maintenance facility to
maintain such financing at its level of September 30, 1984; and (d)
establish a stand-by money market facility that maintains creditor banks'
deposits with Argentine banks at their level of September 30, 1984.
13.       The Government has been able to stabilize the economy in the
short-term, and meet the targets and draw down the first and second
tranches under the IMF stand-by agreement. The monthly rate of inflation,
as measured by the consumer price index, has dropped from 30% in June of
1985 to 2.5% in December.   The overall public sector deficit has been
reduced to about 42 of GDP as a result of the revenue and expenditure
measures and the sharp drop in inflation.   The reserve position of the
Central Bank has also shown some improvement, reflecting increased
confidence in the Government's policies. The Government has also received
the first and second disbursements of new money under the agreement with
the commercial banks. Since cuts in public spending and high real interest
rates will have a dampening effect on domestic demand, the Government has
been careful not to raise expectations for a quick economic recovery. Real
GDP is estimated to have declined by about 4.5% in 1985.  Export response
to the program has not yet been significantly positive, and recent floods
have adversely affected the exportable output of grains. The Government is
now moving to undertake the policy actions needed to resume economic growth
on a sustained basis.  The Government's program focusses on the expansion
of exports, stimulation of new construction, privatization of state
enterprises and greater reliance on the private sector for oil exploration
and production.



-4-
14.       The Government has begun to phase out the freeze on wages and
prices. This has resulted in a 4.5% average increase in monthly inflation
during March-April of this year compared to 1.7% in February. Following
that, the Government made some compensatory adjustments in the exchange
rate and public tariffs.   The exchange rate has been adjusted twice in
April following a policy of periodic exchange rate corrections. The
Government plans to continue phasing out the wage and price freeze.  It
is also expected to gradually reduce import restrictions to make the
economy more competitive. Moreover, the Government has stated that for the
public sector the new wage policy will require compensating fiscal measures
for wage increases.   In this connection, while there may be increasing
union pressures, sustaining the momentum of the medium-term program will
require decisive actions on the part of the Goverrment in the fiscal, trade
and financing sector areas. In particular, continued effort to reduce the
overall fiscal deficit below current levels is necessary to break
longer-term inflationary expectations and ensure the program's success.
C. Development Prospects and Policy Requirements
15.       Argentina's growth performance in the next five years will depend
heavily on the continued success of the present stabilization policies and
the implementation of structural reforms. Restoring domestic and overseas
confidence in economic management and renewing private sector investment
will require maintaining the recent trends in price stability.  Moreover,
given  the  burden of external  interest  payments on Argentina's gross
domestic savings, public investment will be limited largely to improving
the efficiency of existing capacity, completing unfinished projects, and
starting only a few high-priority projects.   The Government is in the
process of revising public investment programs to give priority to those
projects which alleviate immediate bottlenecks, have a high rate of return
and can generate foreign exchange.
16.       Argentina's key development objectives are to: (a) strengthen and
expand the growth of exports in order to reduce the country's external debt
relative to GDP and exports; and (b) resume medium-term growth as the
stabilization program takes hold.  The Government's economic program and
policies are being designed to achieve these objectives.  In particular,
special emphasis is being given to the elimination of distortions in order
to produce a rapid output and export response.   Faster recovery of per
capita consumption  can  take  place  only  after  medium-term  growth  has
resumed.
17.       The current Government strategy is based on an improvement of the
investment climate and the restoration of adequate export incentives. The
proposed policy measures are closely in line with the recommendations of
the 1984 Country Economic Memorandum (CEM), i.e., (a) improvement in public
sector finances and efficiency; (b) overhaul of the tax system and tax
administration; {c) reduction in the number of public enterprises and
reform  of  government-enterprise  relatlonships;   (d)  improvements  in
incentives  for  private  industry and  agriculture;  (e)   reform  of the
financial system and active support for manufacturing exports; and (f)
increased oil exports through increased private sector participation. Since
the strategy aims to promote productive fixed investments, real per capita
consumption  is  projected  to rise only  slightly during  1985-90.   The
Government is now in the process of giving this strategy concrete
operational content and defining the instruments for its implementation to



-5--
make  it viable over  the medium-term.   The Government has stated its
intention of presenting, in the near-term, lts medium-term framework for
growth to the international financial community.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Improving Argentina's growth prospects for the rest of the decade
would require successful implementation of the adjustment program during
1986, the rescheduling of the country's external debt by its creditors as
it falls due, continued lending, and a continued expansion in exports
through the rest of the decade.   Under those assumptions, the current
account deficit of the balance of payments has been projected to reach
about US$2.3 billion during 1986, equivalent to 3.2% of GDP, to be financed
by the remaining balance of the fresh money provided by the commercial
banks,  disbursements   from  the  IMF. stand-by  agreement,  increasing
disbursements of existing and projected loans from public sources, and
direct foreign investment.  Based on the timely adoption by the Government
of medium-term growth policies, real GDP growth, beginning in 1986, could
resume at about 3Z per year on average.   This growth depends on the
projected expansion in exports, in particular, by increasing agricultural
production through intensified use of fertilizer and expanding industrial
production for exports through the reduction of trade distortions and
simplification of procedures, increased export promotion, and renewed
private sector investment activities, and on the availability of increased
external financing over the next years.  This growth will also depend on
improvements in budget control and execution and in increasing the
operating efficiency of public enterprises necessary to maintain price
stability.   Under these assumptions, the current account deficit would
decline rapidly from 1988 on, as a result of increasing proceeds from grain
and manufacturing exports. Thus, projections indicate that Argentina would
be in a position to eliminate the current account deficit of the balance of
payments in the beginning of the nineties.
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
19.       At the end of 1985, the total public sector external debt of
Argentina was US$38.7 billion. From US$8.4 billion at the end of 1978, it
had grown more than four-fold. The structure of the debt also had changed
radically during the 1978-1983 period.  At the end of 1978, the debt to
commercial banks constituted 38% of the total, but this ratio rose to 60%
by the end of 1980, and to 87% by the end of 1984.  By 1979, total debt
service requirements already had surpassed net exports, and since 1982 the
trade surplus, although large, has not been sufficient to pay the accrued
interest. Thus, when the South Atlantic crisis disrupted normal roll-^-,-s
and lending in 1982, Argentina began accumulating principal and interest
arrears.    The  Government  provided  exchange  rate  guarantees  for  the
rescheduled private external debt and eventually assumed a large part of
the private sector's external obligations. Total external debt, including
arrears and private sector obligations, reached US$48.4 billion by the end
of 1985.
20.       A sustained effort by the Government in implementing domestic
policy reform, including a reduction in protectionism, combined with
external support from financial sources, should enhance Argentina's export
potential and thus impro-.  prospects of reducing its debt to exports ratio
from a level of 5 in 1985 to slightly below 4 by 1990, Its external debt



-6-
servicing ratio (excluding short-term) from 61% in 1985 to 42Z in 1990, and
also its total debt as a percentage of GDP from 69% in 1985 to 45% in
1990.  Provided that the arrears are eliminated according to the current
program and that the large debt amortization payments due in 1986 are
restructured with a modest increase in the commercial banks' exposure,
Argentina should be able to meet the servicing requirements of its external
debt during 1986-90, including new borrowing for high-yielding projects
which would support increased foreign exchange generation, efficient import
substitution and increased domestic resource mobilization. At the end of
1985, the Bank's share of Argentina's total debt outstanding and disbursed
was 1.4% and its share of external debt service payments was 2.3%.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
21.       Past Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic because of
periodic macroeconomic and sectoral difficulties.   In the period 1979-
December 1985, the Bank made loans for ten projects totalling US$1,045
million. Bank lending since 1980 has focused on major infrastructure pro-
jects and provision of credit for development of the industrial and hydro-
carbon sectors. The Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project is intended to harness
the enormous potential of the Parana River to provide base-load electric
energy for Argentina in the 1990s.  The Second Industrial Credit Project
supports the modernization and expansion of export-oriented industries. A
Highway Sector Project is helping to augment and maintain the road
network.  In parallel with the above projects, the Bank has supported the
Government's efforts to exploit Argentina's energy resources; for this
purpose, five loans were approved during the above-mentioned period to:
(a) help Argentina assess its hydrocarbon reserves; (b) improve the basis
for rational exploitation of coal resources; (c) facilitate private sector
participation in exploratton and production of oil and gas; (d) alter the
country's two major refineries in order to meet changing demand patterns;
and (e) expand Argentina's capacity to make effective use of its hydro-
carbon resources and increase the utilization of natural gas and its
by-products.  The Water Supply and Sewerage Project approved last December
will help improve sector finances and develop provincial agencies.
22.       The implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Argentina has
suffered in recent years from policy reversals, cumbersome bureaucratic
procedures, curbs on public investments stemmlng from the need for fiscal
austerity, and the private sector's reluctance to invest in an uncertain
economic environment. The Government shares the Bank's concern about this
situation, which has resulted in unexpectedly  slow disbursements.   In
response, several existing projects, including the Second Industrial Credit
and the Oil and Gas Credit Projects, have been restructured to improve
their execution, and the Government has submitted proposals to restructure
the Vocational Training Project. The Bank has also instituted procedures
for   monitoring   monthly   disbursements   and   for   periodic   project
implementation reviews with the Government. Disbursements under Bank loans
in 1985 were more than double the 1984 rate.
23.       Promising prospects for political stability and serious efforts
by this Government to tackle Argentina's thorny economic problems provide
the Bank with an opportunity to play a key role in the country's economic
recovery and future development. The Government has requested the Bank's
help in implementing a stabilization program and in preparing the way for



- 7 -
renewed long-term economic growth. Over the short-term, the Government is
seeking help with economic analyses and expanded lending operations
designed to enhance domestic resource mobilization and increase the avail-
ability of foreign exchange. Our economic and sector work program includes
a comprehensive export-oriented industrial study and a major public sector
investment review which is being completed. Recently, Bank staff discussed
with the Government the framework of a medium-term economic policy refsta
and development program that could lay the grounds for expanded external
lending to foster economic growth and strengthen Argentina's debt servicing
capacity.
24.       The Bank's lending strategy for Argentina is directed toward
helping the country achieve sustained medium-term growth, reduce its debt
to export ratio and achieve a modest increase in per capita consumption.
The focus of the lending program is on:   (a) technical assistance to
strengthen the Government's analytical and administrative ability to design
and implement economic reform programs; (b) financial assistance to support
the process of structural reform and growth; and Cc) playing a catalytic
role in increasing external resource flows.  A key element in the Bank's
strategy is supporting the Government in eliminating the anti-export bias
in the incentive system, realigning the productive structure according to
comparative advantage, strengthening the import and debt servicing
capacity, simplifying export and import procedures and ensuring sufficient
financing to expand exports.  The Bank is also preparing a policy-based
operation to support the implementation of important trade policy reform
initiatives, export promotion and agricultural credit, in addition to an
Agriculture Sector Loan which has been approved by the Bank. Another key
element in the Bank's strategy is support for the reform of the financial
sector.  The basic objective in this area would be to help the Government
lower the high interest rates and operating costs of the financial system,
rationalize banking regulations and supervision, enhance competition, and
provide financing for efficient industrial capacity expansion. The Bank is
preparing lending operations in these areas including, inter alia, credit
for industrial and financial restructuring.
25.       A third lending priority is energy development.  In the area of
oil and gas development the objective would be to support the Government in
rationalizing the scope for private sector development, clarifying the
roles of public and private enterprises with a view to enhance efficiency
of resource use, establishing financ.ng mechanisms to reduce demands on the
budget, expand production and reserves and substitute relatively abundant
gas for liquid fuels.   With respect to electrical power, the objective
would be to ensure adequate and reliable power supply, restore satisfactory
self-financing capacity, overcome the uneven access to and quality of
electricity  service,  improve  sector  organization  and  institutional
relationships and complete the Yacyreta Hydropower Project efficiently. To
support these objectives the Bank is preparing lending for private oil and
gas development, gas infrastructure and power distribution.
26.       A fourth lending priority is to assist the Government's program
of public sector enterprise restructuring and privatization.   The basic
objective of lending in this area is to support programs to reduce the size
of the public sector deficit, increase the efficiency of the industrial
sector, and promote local and foreign private investments. Finally, the
Bank is supporting infrastructure development by assisting the Government
in Its efforts to improve the management of public sector enterprises,



- 8 -
assisting provincial and local governments to plan and carry out programs
of capital improvements, inducing greater efficiency in the use of
resources, and improving and increasing the existing infrastructure.  For
this purpose the Bank is preparing lending operations for ports, water
supply and urban development.
27.       IFC has  made  26  investments  in Argentina,  totalling US$276
million, of which US$156 mlllion has been repaid, cancelled or sold.   A
summary of Its investments is shown In Annex II.  Promotional efforts are
geared to export or import substitution-oriented projects with emphasis on
oil, petrochemicals and related sectors.  IFC will also continue to seek
investments In projects where its presence would facilitate the formation
of joint ventures with foreign participation, and act as a catalyst to
attract higher levels of commercial financing.
PART III - THE PUBLIC SECTOR
A. Overview
28.       Public  sector  deficits  have  been  a  principal  factor  in
Argentina's economic difficulties, particularly since the early 1970s, and
their financing has led in recent years to a sizeable accumulation of
external debt, rapid monetary expansion and growing constraints on the
availability of credit to the private sector.   To a large extent, the
inability of successive governments to control these deficits for any
sustained period has stemmed from systematic weaknesses in the underlying
process of planning, budgeting, and expenditure control, and from the
erosion of the tax base and poor tax administration.
29.       The persistence of substantial public sector deficits reflects
the inability of successive governments to enforce expenditure ceilings and
priorities within a framework of clearly delimlted resource availability.
This inability has been derived from the lack of faniliarity with modern
planning and budgetary techniques and from the lack of a strong consensus,
both within the various governments and among successive governments,
regarding broad development goals that could serve as a politically durable
guide for spending priorities.
30.       During the 1970s and early 1980s, the weakening of public sector
institutions had proceeded so far that by the time the present Government
took office in December of 1983, the supporting services necessary for
efficient management of the economy were not in place.    A poor and
inadequate data base had limited the capacity for a thorough assessment of
economic issues needed in decision-making; planning and budgeting
mechanisms had been severely weakened; criteria for project selection,
determination of priorities and monitoring had become outdated; tax policy
and administration had deteriorated sharply; and the industrial sector was
suffering from serious structural  and  financial difficulties.    Public
sector enterprises had become decapitalized; and inadequate pricing and
tariff mechanisms, lack of management information systems, weakness in the
operations of the major enterprises, and outmoded institutional and legal
structures and procedures had become a major constraint in their operation.



-9-
B. The Government Structure
31.       The Argentine Republic has a federal structure comprised of the
Central Government, 23 provincess and the Municipality of the Clty of
Buenos Aires.   Each of the provinces has elected authoritles and three
separate branches of Government; municipal authorities are also elected.
The present Central Government institutional structure originated from a
law enacted by the newly-elected Congress in 1983. The structure comprises
eight ministries (the maximum established by the Constttution) and seven
Secretariats which are directly under the President.  The Ministries also
have Secretariats and Under-Secretariats within their area of competence.
32.       The Ministry of Economy (ME) plays the key role in economic
management and policy formulation and is responsible for all short and
medium-term policy formulation and monitoring.   It shares, however, with
the   Planning   Secretariat   (depending   from   the   Presidency),   the
responsibility for medium- and long-term planning, setting of priorities
and allocation of investment resources. In addition, both the Ministry of
Public Works and Services and the Ministry of Defense play an important
role in the area of public investment allocation since the 13 enterprises
under the aegis of the former account for about half of public sector
investment, while the latter controls 32 public sector and mixed
public/private sector enterprises.
C. Analysis and Information Systems
33.       Within  the Ministry  of Economy,  the Secretariat of Economic
Coordination is responsible, through its Internal Policy Division, for
policy work in the areas of short-term analysis, monetary and financial
policy, agricultural programing and coordination, industrial and mining
programing and coordination, and coordination with the rest of the public
sector. It is also responsible for overall coordination with the sectoral
and specialized Secretariats.   Its work, however, is constrained by the
lack  of  adequate  analytical  tools  which  impairs  its  ability  to
systematically assess the consistency, probable impact, and longer-term
effects of economic decisions, as well as to monitor their results. Many
of the problems encountered in the Implementation of recent adjustment
plans could have been mitigated with more adequate analytical tools.
34.       Although at one time Argentina's statistics were the best in
Latin America, in recent years the country's statistical information base
has been seriously eroded and the reliability of macroeconomic and sectoral
data has been reduced.  Moreover, since the economy has experienced high
rates of inflation it has become essential to incorporate adequately the
effects  of inflation  upon  aggregate  economic  indicators.    This task
directly affects the National Institute of Statistics and Census (INDEC),
currently under the Planning Secretariat, which was created in January of
1968. INDEC is responsible for the gathering and processing of statistical
information at all levels of governments.   The production of adequate
statistics has been impaired by such problems as insufficient coverage,
non-reliable data, delays In processing, unavailability of information,
limited methodological updating and the unavailability of modern processing
facilities.  INDEC is neither adequately equipped nor staffed to produce
accurate data on a timely basis.   In particular, the results of major
surveys and of the Census only become available after excessive delays, to
the point of making the information irrelevant for cecision-making.



- 10 -
35.       The Central Bank of Argentina (UCRA) is in charge of the main
monetary, credit and foreign exchange statistics as well as preparing and
publishlng annually the balance of payments and national accounts data.
Improving the reliability of the information is a key priority.  BCRA is
also responsible for producing input-output tables.   The last study on
input-output tables was done in 1963 and the data contained in that study
is considerably outdated.   Work on the 1973 input-output table was not
completed.  There is also an urgent need for a more recent update of the
input-output tables based on the 1984 Natlonal Economic Census, reflecting
present conditions, to undertake a more in-depth intersectoral analysis
required for policy decisions in the areas of industry and trade.
36.       The deficiencies in the information-processing capacity of the
public sector account for the low productivity of many of the Government's
information centers. Although the hardware is relatively new, its
utilization level is low and, in many cases, appropriate software was not
introduced.   In 1984, the National Commission on Information prepared a
sectoral report which set the ground for. public sector policies in this
field and resulted in the creation of the Under-Secretariat of Information
and Development in the Ministry of Economy to coordinate and implement
these policies. The lack of coordination between different departments and
agencies within the public sector have resulted, in some instances, in an
overexpansion, with redundant equipment. The present economic team of the
Ministry of Economy is trying to rationalize and improve the productivity
of the information processing capacity of the public sector, upgrade the
quality of services, and introduce savings in its operations.
D. Public Sector Investment
37.       Secretariat of Planning (SP).  Traditionally the Government has
played a strong role in the country's economic activity. Given the present
burden of interest payments on Argentina's gross domestic savings, public
investment will largely have to be limited to completing unfinished
priority projects; in the short-term, only a few new projects--designed to
overcome critical bottlenecks-are likely to be undertaken.  Also, given
the imperative need to reduce public sector expenditures, there is a
requirement to achieve greater efficiency in Argentina's investment system
than now exists. Moreover, the execution of a well-designed and carefully
funded public sector investment program is of fundamental importance to
support the growth of private sector activity.  Thus, the Government will
have to identify the key priority areas for public sector activity, and the
areas in which an increased participation of the private sector should be
encouraged.
38.       SP,  a  successor  to  previous  planrning  institutions,  was
established in 1983. Its operations have been hampered by the lack of clear
guidelines, adequate planning techniques, trained personnel, and weak
management. Strengthening of the planning function would help greatly the
efforts to rationalize the allocation of public resources for investment.
Achieving this rationalization would involve: (a) a clear assignment of the
task of medium-term investment planning; (b) reorganizing SP to address the
multisectoral nature of the task; (c) establishing close collaboration
between SP and the investing agencies; (d) setting up a central project
screening/monitoring/post   evaluation   unit;   (e)   developing   general
parameters for project evaluation; and (f) preparing a viable medium-term
investment program and financing plan.



- 11 -
39.       Ministry of Public Works and Services (MOSP).  MOSP is involved
in formulating and implementing an important portion of the public sector
investment program and in planning, programing and budgeting activities
related to the public enterprises responsible to MOSP's sectoral
Secretariats:   Communications, Transport, Energy and Water Resources.  In
1984, public enterprises under MOSP's authority generated US$7.5 billion in
sales, employed 300,000 people and executed an investment program
equivalent to 3.9Z of GDP.   MOSP,  however, faces serious handicaps in
managing and setting policy guidelines for public enterprises.   The main
problems are caused by incomplete data on the current status of
infrastructure and investment; a lack of coordlnation among sectors when
setting objectives, goals, policies and methodological approaches to
planning, programing and budgeting; an inadequate system for analyzlng
costs resulting in inadequate pricing and tariff policy decisions; and the
absence of guidelines for project formulation, appraisal and effective
monitoring.
40.       Secretariat  of Agriculture,  Livestock  and  Fisheries  (SAGP).
SAGP, under the ME, is responsible for establishing, coordinating,
implementing and monitoring policies  in the agricultural sector.   The
agricultural sector, traditionally important for the Argentine economy, has
become even more so during the last decade because of its dual function as
a foreign exchange earner and supplier of food and inputs for domestic
consumption. The increasing pressure on the sector requires overcoming Its
present institutional weaknesses in implementing policies.   Some of the
current problems include the lack of a consistent agricultural planning
system; the absence of an institutional framework for planning, programIng
and project iavestment design; a poor information base and inadequate
information systems; and the need for training programs designed to raise
management skills.
E. Budgeting and Tax Collection
41.       There are fewer areas in the management of the Argentine public
sector which are of greater importance than budgeting and tax collectLon.
The Secretariat of Finance (SH), under the ME, Is responsible for these
operations through its Under-Secretariats of Budgeting and Tax Policy and
Administration. The National Tax Office (DGI), under the Under-Secretariat
of Tax Policy and Administration, has the responsibility for tax
administration.
42.       Financial  programming,  which  plays  a  central  role  in  the
budgetary process, has long suffered from the uncertainties created by
inflation and intermittent balance-of-payments crises. Additional problems
arise out of the conduct of the process itself. Frequent delays result in
budgets typlcally being prepared and approved well after the start of the
fiscal year.   Many agencies lack the staff and Information needed to
generate  relLable  estimates  of  expenditures  requirements.          Control
mechanisms  are  fragmented.    In  particular,  the  Under-Secretariat  of
Budgeting lacks the analytical and operative capacity needed to rationalize
expenditures.
43.       There  Is  a  large gap  to  be  reduced  between  the  country's
statutory tax system and the effective tax system.  The lack of updated,
accurate and timely information on taxes and taxpayers severely limits
systematic analyses of the performance of different tax policies and their



- 12 -
economic effects.   Present tax statistics have less coverage and quality
than those available in the past.   This is an important constraint for
estimating the tax base and revenues, tax incidence and distributional
impact, both at the personal and corporate levels.
44.       The existing  tax administration system  has  a high level of
non-compliance, due in part, to the lack of an actlon plan that provides
guidelines on potential collections of various economic sectors and
different taxpayers, and of efficient and modern control mechanisms. The
need to increase the non-inflationary financing   of public expenditures
requires technical upgrading of the existing tax management and monitoring
systems, as well as strengthening the generating, gathering and processing
capacity  of  tax-related  information.    Functions  such  as  collection,
auditing, compliance, registry, statistics and data processing have been
weakened as well as the guidelines, administrative and legal procedures and
information processing and monitoring capacity.
F. Public Enterprises (PEs)
45.       In Argentina PEs are found in diverse categories: (a) those
under MOSP's authority; (b) those under the Ministry of Defense; (c) those
created by Fabricaciones Militares, a holding corporation operated by Lhe
armed forces; (d) provincial and municipal enterprises; (e) public
financial entities; and (f) other previously privately-owned corporations
now belonging  to the  National Development  Bank.   PEs became  heavily
indebted during 1981-82 as a result of policies which encouraged them to
borrow abroad to finance the Central Government. The resulting huge debt
of MOSP's PEs (US$11.8 billion in 1984) practically eroded their capital
and reserves.   The incoming Government inherited the PEs in financial
disarray, and with obsolete equipment, low productivity, low tariff levels
and unskilled labor.  Soon after taking office the Government created the
Public Function Secretariat (SFP) to advise the President on matters
related to public sector reform, and in designing and implementing training
programs for upgrading public sector management.  In December 1985, the
Government eliminated the existing office of public sector auditing
(Sindicatura General de Empresas) and created the Secretariat of Public
Enterprise Control (SCGEP) to increase efficiency in the use of the PEs
resources.   Its functions are to control and evaluate the PEs management,
monitor their operations in accordance with Government policies, and
develop and supervise credit systems.  SCGEP coordinates its actions with
SFP in the areas of institutional change and personnel training.
46.       Some of the outstanding problems of PEs relate to the existing
institutional and legal framework that guides the enterprises and the
rules that define their relationship with the Central Government; they also
refer to the decision-making process and monitoring system and to the
training level and existing management skills.   One important reason for
the chronically weak economic and financial performance of PEs has been the
general lack of accountability of their managers. This reflects the lack
of clear priorities, adequate sector planning, unambiguous goals, and
performance monitoring systems.
47.       To address these issues, the Government has created a Commission
of Privatization to define the limits of the PEs' activities and identify
the ones that may be sold to the private sector. At the same time, SCGEP



- 13 -
has begun to assess  the above defects.   SCGEP intends to introduce a
performance evaluation system that will permit the Government to judge the
financial results and efficiency of the firms.  It Is also in the process
of designing systems to evaluate how each enterprise is fulfilling its
objectives and responding to Government priorities.  Through restructuring
programs, SCGEP will help state enterprises deal with their underlying
financial and operational problems, and will also rationalize and
coordinate  government  policies.    SCGEP  will  gradually  hold  managers
accountable for final results, while strengthening and improving its
guidance on objectives and major investment decisions. To accomplish this,
SCGEP is improving its capacity to review and guide enterprise performance.
G. Industry and Trade
48.       Until recently, the Secretariat of Industry has been the branch
of the Ministry of Economy responsible for the design and monitoring of
industrial policy. In December 1985, it was merged with the Secretariat of
Trade to form the Secretariat of Industry and Foreign Trade (SICE), under
the ME, to coordinate industrial incentives with trade policies.   The
Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MREC) and the Ministry of Economy share
responsibilities for the design and implementation of export promotion
policies. MREC has been assigned the task, in coordination with the ME, to
analyze international economic conditions and markets and to design
policies to expand Argentina's share in international trade.
49.       Argentina's    industrial   exports    have   been   constrained
substantially by the protectionist trade regime, wnich has, in the last
five decades, created a strong inward-looking bias in the economy.
Industrial export promotion had been generally co.nsidered secondary to
import-substituting industrialization.   As a number of incentives  and
disincentives for different products were introduced, a multiplicity of
effective exchange rates emerged, with exports of traditional goods
receiving the lowest rates. The system ultimately failed to eliminate the
anti-export bias in the highly protected industries. The incentives regime
was   rendered   particularly   inadequate   during   the   1977-81   import
liberalization attempt, basically because of a deliberate policy of not
adjusting the exchange rate fully for the differential between domestic and
international inflation.   In 1982, import prohibitions and restrictions
were introduced as the economy was affected by a very strong recession.
The industrial sector has the potential for export-oriented output growth,
with attendant foreign exchange earnings and employment creation.   The
sector lacks  a  clear  development  strategy,  institutional  support  and
consistent policy signals.   The main issues are how to: (a) redress the
strong anti-export bias  built onto the complex systems of tariff and
non-tariff barriers while maintaining  a competitive exchange rate;  (b)
simplify trade management and procedures; (c) reduce distortions in the
system of industrial incentives; and (d) improve services to exporters.
PART IV - TEE PROJECT
50.       The proposed Public Sector Management operation has Its origins
in our 1984 discussions with the Argentine Government and in Bank sector
work highlighting the need for major policy and institutional reforms to
improve Argentina's economic performance. In April 1985, a UNDP-financed,
Bank-executed project was launched to prepare the proposed Public Sector



- 14 -
Management Technical Assistance Loan (PSML).   In early  1986, the Bank
approved a US$500,000 Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance to
complete the preparatory and initial diagnostic work, with a focus on
public  enterprise  reform,  public  sector  investment,  foreign  trade
statlstics and analytical tools for economic decision-making. With these
facilities, the implementing agencies designed the components of the
proposed  loan which  address many serious economic management problems
facing  the Argentine Government.    Implementation  plans,  Year-i action
programs, counterpart arrangements and terms of reference for major
assignments and most consultants have been prepared and most technical
assistance personnel identified.   Negotiations with the Government were
held on May 1, 1986.   The Government Delegation was led by Mr. Adolfo
Canitrot, Secretary for Economic Coordlnation, Ministry of Economy.
A. Project Objectives
51.       The  proposed  project  would  help strengthen  the Government's
management of the economy, particularly its efforts to (a) develop and
use key analytical tools in macroeconomic decision-making; (b) reduce the
public  sector  deficit  by  increasing  tax  revenues,  improving  public
investment and expenditure processes and performance, and increasing
incomes from public assets; (c) improve public enterprise performance, by
making systemic changes in the control system, and by taking steps to
restructure major public enterprises; and (d) improve export and industrial
policies and procedures in line with the country's comparative advantage.
Thus, the Government intends to the use the PSML to help achieve its
short-term economic objectives, as well as to strengthen public sector
processes and performance over the medium-term.
52.       The PSML also provides technical support for significant policy
changes, particularly in the areas of industrial and export policies and
industrial restructuring.  Thus, work done under the PSML should support
planned future Bank lending and economic work geared to restoring
conditions  for  resumption  of  growth.    Also,  the  PSML  represents  a
significant  expansion  in  the  Bank's  involvement  in  institutional
development  in  Argentina.    Past  assistance  has  focussed  mainly  on
institutional needs at the sector level.   The proposed operation tackles
the  Central Government's  key  weaknessess  in macroeconomic  management,
fiscal policy and administration, and overall investment choices. The PSML
would contribute to a more intensive Government-Bank relationship on
economic management issues, building on the improved policy dialogue.
53.       In improving its analytical tools for economic decision-making,
the PSML would enable the Government to build: (a) an integrated system to
determine how the economy is responding to policy change; (b) basic
macroeconomic forecasting and policy option formulation; (c) more reliable
national accounts; (d) a current input-output matrix; and (e) better
statistics on trade, industry and agriculture. The PSML has been designed
to provide early results to be used by the economic team in more coherent
policy and decision-making.   These tools will assist the Government in
making possible further policy improvements, and the international
financial community in evaluating Argentina's performance.
54.       Project  components   dealing   with   public   sector   resource
mobilization and use are geared to: (a) enhance the effectiveness of tax
policy and administration; improve systems and criteria in public sector



- 15 -
investment and budget decisions, recognizing Argentina's severe resource
constraints; and (b) strengthen investment planning to resume medium-term
growth.  In addition to strengthening systems and performance in central
finance and planning ministries, the PSML would assist the Ministry of
Public Works-which accounts for about 50X of public sector investment-in
controlling investment and expenditures on low priority projects. The PSML
also supports improvements in policies and resource use In the key
agricultural sector.
55.       To  realize  a  substantial  improvement  in  public  enterprise
performance, the proposed operation will provide a diagnosis and support
the evolution of reforms In government-enterprise relationships and
the latter's operations. The Government intends to use the PSML to help:
(a) drastically reduce the complexlty of the present legal and operational
system of controls and reporting; and (b) reduce the diffused objectives
now imposed on the public enterprises, to be replaced by a more rational
system of financial and economic evaluation of results and Incentives based
on performance.  The other major focus of the public enterprise component
would be to support a diagnosis leading to physical, financial and
managerial restructuring of major public enterprisesd The PSML also would
flnance training of publlc enterprise managers and Ctovernment officials
dealing with parastatals to facilitate introduction of Lhe new systems and
to improve capabilities in key functional areas.
56.       The  proposed  operation  would  also  contribute  to  improving
industrial and export policies, procedures and performance.   Under the
PSML, customs procedures would be revamped and computerized.  Diagnostic
work would be completed on:  (a) further simplification of export and
related import procedures; and (b) means to provide indirect exporters with
access to export facilities.   A system would be installed  to provide
exporters with access to information on export opportunities and market
trends.   The  Commerce  Secretariat, recently merged with  the  Industry
Secretariat, would be reorganized after a study of Its strategic
functions. Work would be conducted on the impact of industrial policies,
with particular attention to reducing distortions and inefficiencies in
resource allocation caused by disparate regional industrial incentives.
Subsector diagnostic work would be conducted, beginning with capital goods,
on policy measures needed to encourage industrial restructuring in line
with Argentina's comparative advantage.
B. Project Description
57.       The proposed Public Sector Management operatlon would have four
major  components:  (a)  building  tools  for  economic  decision-making;
(b)  increasing  Government  resource  mobilization  and  Improving  the
efficiency of resource use; (c) improving public enterprise performance
through systemic and enterprise level changes; and (d) streamlining and
strengthening  industrial and export policies and procedures  to enable
industrial and export growth in line with Argentina's comparative
advantage.
Tools for Economic Decision Making
58.       This component, which Involves about 19X of total costs of the
PMSL would provide Argentina's economic team with: (a) basic short and
mediumrterm macroeconomic  and sectoral models,  charting  the impact of
alternative policy packages under various scenarios; (b) reliable national



- 16 -
accounts, and means to continue improving them; (c) an updated input-output
matrix; (d) tools for assessing the social impact of policy reforms; and
(e) up-to-date statistics on trade flows and patterns in key sectors. In
all cases, usable tools would be provided in 'year one", with final
formulation made in "year two' of project implementation (see Annex V).
59.       Economic Policy Models.   This subcomponent, which accounts for
about  3Z  of  total  project  costs,  would  be  implemented  by  the
Undersecretariat of Economic Policy In the Ministry of Economy over a
24-month period.   The PMSL would provide consultancy assistance.   This
support has been initiated under the PPF, terms of reference have been
drafted, and counterparts identified. Direct outputs would be: (a) a model
to help evaluate and monitor the short-term impact of macroeconomic
policies,  identify likely sources of  disequilibrium  and assess  likely
growth patterns; (b) using the Input/output matrix, an assessment of
medium-term growth patterns  in major  sectors  under  various  scenarios,
focussing on key economic variables and ratios; and (c) a full equilibrium
model.   These  tools  will  enable  the  Ministry  of  Economy  and  other
policy-makers to improve the consistency of macroeconomic and sectoral
policies.
60.       Building and Updating of Input/Output Matrices.   Under this
subcomponent, which would account for 2% of total project costs, technical
assistance would be provided to the Central Bank in building current,
reliable input/output matrices.   The latest input/output matrix-a major
tool for analyzing the impact of policy change on economic structure and
performance-is based on 1963 data.   Under the project, methodological
improvements will be made and quickly tested on an input/output matrix
which the Central Bank is now finalizing, with projections based on 1973
statistics.   The major work will be to employ adequate methodology in
constructing an input/output matrix using the 1984 Census data. The first
matrix should be constructed by month 6; the second by month 18 of project
implementation. The Research Department of the Central Bank has appointed
a strong counterpart team.  Strong consulting inputs have been contracted
under the PPF. Terms of reference for the PSML and a Year-I Action Program
have been developed.
61.       National Accounts.   The 1984 National Economic Census provides
the basis for signficant improvement in the reliability of Argentina's
National Accounts.  Representing 5% of total project costs, it is designed
to result in reliable national accounts, a system for continuous updating,
and methods to further improve the availability of information provided.
Technical assistance would be provided to the Central Bank in: (a)
reformulating methodologies used in constructing the National Accounts,
making full use of available sectoral data; (b) fully capturing public
sector expenditure patterns and trade and financing flows in the National
Accounts; and (c) deepening the analysis of income distribution.   This
subcomponent will be the repoasibility of the Research and Statistics
Department of the Central Bank, working in close cooperation with INDECand
sectoral  ministries,  and  other  departments  of  the  Central  Bank.
Intermediate, usable results are expected by the end of Year I with the
bulk of the objectives expected to be achieved in 24 months.
62.       Strengthening the Information Base.   Under the project, INDEC
would be supported to produce key statistics and analyses for economic
decision-making, and improving the system for data collection, processing



- 17 -
and analysis both at the center and in the provinces. This subcomponent,
which represents about 7% of total project costs, incorporates subprojects
for: (a) gathering and analyzing basic information needed to assess
external  trade  flows;  (b)  strengthening  systems  and  equipment  for
processing statistics at the provincial level; (c) data gathering on
poverty and income distribution; (d) strengthening of the agricultural
census team; (e) design of a new system for industrial surveys; and (f)
introduction of key statistical software packages and training of INDEC
staff on their use.  The durat!:n of this component Is 24 months, with the
expected intermediate results mind impact established in INDEC's Year-I
Action Program.
63.       Economic Information Systems.  Existing economic information and
the additional data produced under the PSML will be integrated by the
Ministry of Economy,  with  support under  the project.    An  integrated
economic information system, for use in economic planning, policy making
and monitoring will be installed in Year 1, with refinements made in year
2. Baslc hardware is in place. PSML support would be used to achieve the
following  results:  Ca)  install  systems  and  procedures  to  resolve
inconsistencies in different sources of economic data; (b) build a system
which provides the economic and project implementation data needed for
economic decision-making; (c) diagnose, recommend and help implement a
system which reduces the incompatibility of computer systems in the ME and
enable better coordination of data banks; and (d) train ME staff in the use
of this information system.  This project subcomponent accounts for 2% of
total project costs and would be completed over an 18-month period.
Central Resource Mobilization and Use
64.       Planning Secretariat.   The main objectives of this component,
which accounts for about 2Z of project costs is to strengthen systems and
staff capabilities in the Planning Secretariat in the areas of investment
project evaluation and monitoring.  During the first year, efforts will
focus on staff training, operational improvements in the Secretariats role
In the investment project cycle, and constructing an inventory of projects
under  execution.    Once  organizational  improvements  in  the  Planning
Secretariat are made, work would be initiated to strengthen the process of
medium-term investment programming, and preparation of guidelines for
sectoral ministries and agencies on the formulation and presentation of
projects and sectoral strategies.   The work proposed would be completed
over an 18-month period Csee Annex V).
65.       Ministry of Public Works and Services.  In addition to supporting
improvements  in  overall  Investment  programming,  budgetting,  policy
formulation and public enterprise management, the PSML would support
improvements  in    MOSP,  whose  Secretariats  of  Energy,  Transport  and
utilities operate at present with excessive autonomy in borrowing,
investments and operations.   This subcomponent, which would account. for
about 3Z of total project costs and would be carried out over an 18-month
period, would provide technical assistance to MOSP in: (a) strengthening
investment  appraisal  programming,  budgetting  in  MDSP  and  related
Secretariats; (b) establishing policy formulation and monitoring procedures
'or public enterprises under MOSP; (c)  improving criteria and methods
relating to price and tariffs affecting public enterprises under MOSP; and
(d) strengthening planning and operating capabilities in the Secretariats
of Water Resources and Communications.  If organizational improvements in



- 18 -
MOSP are made, and Year 1 Actions implemented successfully, additional
resources from the unallocated segment of the PSML would be applied to this
component (see Annex V).
66.       Programming and Budgetting.  The PSML will support the Budgetting
Under-Secretariat of the Finance Secretariat in rational containment of
public expenditures, recognizing severe resource constraints.   Technical
assistance would be provided for the improvement of its budgetting and
control systems.   This subcomponent,  representing about 4X of project
costs, would focus on: (a) diagnosis and implementation of improvements
needed in budgetting methods and processes including computerization; (b)
analysis of and improvements in the general accounting system of Argentina;
(c) special studies to enable more systematic allocation of public
expenditures by sector and region, and assessment of foreign and local
financing availability; and (d) training of staff of Budgetting and
Programming   Division,   General   Accounting   Office,   and   Treasury
Superintendency. With the PSML inputs, the Secretariat of Finance expects
to: (a) establish a more efficient system for programming, budgetting and
monitoring; (b) determine and make improvements in the General Accounting
System, with preparation of guidelines for Government accounting, and
computerization of accounting information; (c) design and install a
monitoring system for foreign debt-related financial transactions; and (d)
build staff capabilities in use of new systems. The Secretariat of Finance
has prepared a detailed work program and Year 1 Action Plan, assigned
counterpart staff, identified major services of consultancy support and
assessed equipment and software requirements. All of the activities are to
be carried out over a 24-month period (see Annex V).
67.       Secretariat  of  Agriculture,  Livestock  and  Fisheries.    The
Technical Assistance under the PSML would complement and support measures
taken and actions initiated under the Agricultural Sector Loan.   Major
actions supported by the SAGP under this component, which constitutes about
8% of total project costs, and would be carried out over a 36-month period,
would consist of: (a) design and implementation of an information system on
the agriculture, livestock and fisheries sectors, in a form which will be
useful in evaluating policies, programs and projects for uses by the public
and private sectors; (b) elaboration and implementation of a sound set of
strategies, policies and programs as outlined in the National Agricultural
Plan with the objective of increasing output, productivity and exports of
the sector; (c) mount a major training program in sectoral and project
design, planning and implementation, and itn use of computers for national
and provincial officials dealing with the sector.   SAGP has developed a
strong set of staffing objectives, staffing elements, arrangements and
expected results during Year-i and also for the entire three yea-r
implementation period (see Annex V).
68.       The Tax Policy and Administration component, which would account
for 13% of project costs, will focus on implementing measures to increase
tax collection as well as providing analysis leading to reform in tax
policies. The PSML wlll provide technical and systems support to install a
taxpayer master file, economic activity codes and current tax account
system. This work will result in an integrated tax compliance system based
on adequate Information and a greater use of automatic processing systems.
In Year-1, the system will be installed for large- and medium-scale
taxpayers, to provide a focussed tax collection effort with the largest
revenue generating possibilities.   In Year-2 a similar system will be



- 19 -
introduced for smaller taxpayers, new tax audit techniques will be
introduced and other improvements in the operational structure for tax
collection and auditing will be installed.   These improvements in tax
administration should have a significant positive impact on revenue
collections, and should improve the tax system' s equity by ensuring more
even enforcement among taxpayers.   While the bulk of funding for this
component will be geared toward improving collection systems, diagnosis
also will be undertaken to assess policy and longer-term administrative
changes. Aspects covered will include: (a) assessment of the adequacy of
present tax policies including sources and uses in financing the fiscal
deficit and impact of inflation;  (b)  establishment of a mechanism  to
formulate and implement tax policies and monitor their impact; (c)
determine, within alternative growth scenarios, the feasibility of
increasing domestic resource mobilization; (d) strengthening institutional
and staff capabilities of the Tax Policy Unit through diagnosis, training
and computeiization (see Annex V).
Public Sector Enterprise Management
69.       The PSML includes a major thrust in improving public enterprise
performance by doing the diagnostic work and supporting changes in the
"rules of the game' affecting public enterprise operations, and in the
restructuring of major public enterprises. These elements will account for
about 14% of total project costs and would be implemented over a two-year
period.    SCGEP  will  be  responsible  for  PSML  elements  dealing  with
institutional reform and enterprise restructuring. SFP will be responsible
for training of enterprise managers and officials.   The diagnosis of
government-enterprise relationships initiated under the PPF is expected to
take six months.  During the remaining 18 months, the PSML will focus on
supporting implementation of reforms in the Government/public enterprise
relationship under which public enterprises operate. Preliminary diagnosis
indicates that major areas for legal and institutional reform will include:
(a) simplification of reporting and control systems, with a move from
day-to-day intervention to evaluation and reward of performance; (b) role
and composition of Board of Directors; (c) modifications in the legal
structure  of  public  enterprises  to  enable  greater  autonomy  and
accountability for results. In parallel with these systemic changes, SCGEP
will use technical assistance funds to carry out a diagnosis of physical,
financial and managerial restructuring requirements of major public
enterprises, with a view to make more radical changes in the control
system, to test systemic changes and at the same time, identify
sector-specific policy reforms and restructuring requirements to increase
revenues from existing assets. In many cases, such reorganization is seern
as a prerequisite to privatization; in others, the enterprises are expected
to remain public with the objective to improve operating efficiency and
competitiveness.   The SFP will support these systemic and firm level
changes by providing training to about 400 PE managers and Government
officials to facilitate implementation of reforms and to increase managers'
capabilities in key areas of finance, accounting, marketing and general
management (see Arnex V).
Industry and Trade Policies and Procedures
70.       About 22% of total project costs would be largely used to support
SICE in its measures to improve industrial and export policies and
procedures, assist in efficiency improvements and modernization of Customs



- 20 -
Administration, and improve services to exporters, strengthen the design
and implementation of export promotion policles and undertake studies to
improve export and industrial policies.   The Ministry of Foreign Affairs
would use about 2% of total project costs to analyze world markets and
design policy proposals to expand Argentine exports (see Annex V).
71.       Export  Policies  and  Procedures.    The  PSML  would  provide
consulting, trainlng and equipment support to SICE in: (a) diagnosing and
taking additional measures to streamline export and related import policies
and procedures;  (b) designing and installing a system of information for
exporters on market opportunities, trends and requirements, making full use
of strong secondary data banks available and directly linked with
commercial offlces abroad; (c) reorganizing the Commerce Under-Secretariat;
(d) devising means to incorporate repayment of Indirect taxes into the duty
drawback and to provide indirect exporters with access to export
facilities; and (e) study of service export opportunities and international
trends.   These action-oriented studies and initial steps would help form
the basis for subsequent lendlng operations in support of trade policy
reform and export development. SICE has prepared a detailed implementation
program, Year-i action plan, and draft terms of reference for major
activities. The PSML would provide consulting and equipment support to the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs in analysis of medium- and longer-term trends
of the international economy and information required for policy decisions
in bilateral and multilateral trade arrangements.
72.       Industrial Strategy and Policy.   Under the PSML,  consultancy
support will be given to diagnosis of industrial policy problems and
restructuring requirements In private industry.    SICE,  with technical
assistance under the project, will diagnose national, sectoral, and
regional impact of existing policies: why they have not achieved the
desired results; impact on industrial structure, efficiency, and balance of
payments; and required reforms in industrial policies and incentives.
Particular attention will be given to assessing costs and benefits of the
diverse regional incentives, as a basis for discussing with the provinces
the need for a more rational and consistent set of policies and
strategies.   In addition to supporting policy diagnosis and change, the
PSML will help finance subsector diagnostic studies, beginning with capital
goods focussing on reasons for low international competitiveness of costs
and quality in major market segments; export and domestic market
opportunities;   physical,   financial   and   managerial   restructuring
requirements; and policy changes needed to achieve efficiency Improvements.
C. Project Features and Operation
73.       Project Costs and Finaalcing.  Total project costs are estimated
at US$31.1 million, of which US$ 10.4 million (33%) represents the foreign
exchange costs. The estimate excludes taxes which are borne by the
Government.  A loan of US$18.5 millilon (59% of total costs) is proposed.
It is proposed that the loan finance this proportion of total costs in view
of the serious fiscal constraints of the Government, which reflect the
desirable stringency of public sector expenditures, and the priority of
these activities.  The loan Includes:  US$15 million of base costs, which
comprise the four Public Sector Management components and US$0.7 million to
fund the Project Coordinating Unit; a physical and price contingencies
amount of US$2 million (13% of base costs)-external inflation projections
of 7.2% in 1986, 6.8% in 1987 and 6.8% in 1988 have been utilized in the



- 21 -
project cost estimates; up to US$1 million (5Z of loan costs) in a fee to
be paid to UNDP/OPE under the Management Services Contract; and US$0.5
million (3X of loan costs) to repay the PPF advance.   Of the total loan
amount, an estimated US$13 million (70X) would be allocated to contract
consultants, US$1.3 million (7%) for training, US$3.7 million (20X) in
goods (computer hardware and software, and supplies), and US$0.5 million
(3Z) to repay the PPF advance.  The project execution period is estimated
to be four years. US$600,000 of retroactive financing would be allowed to
ensure  continuity  of  activities  initiated  under  the PPF.    Costs  of
international and Argentine consultants services have been estimated on the
basis of actual prices for management, economic and financial consultants
services in Argentina in April 1986.
74.       The Government's contribution is calculated in value at  US$12.6
million (41% of total project cost) consists of US$10.6 million of the
imputed value of manpower, office space and equipment in the implementing
agencies which will be used for executing the project. An additional US$2
million in counterpart funding would be incorporated in the public sector
budget for 1987-88 to enable hiring qualified incremental staff to
strengthen the process of implementation of the Government's medium term
institutional development objectLves. This would make it possible to hire
permanent staff in the participating agencies to work on the key activities
supported by the loan.
75.       Prolect  Organization,  Management  and  Administration.    The
Ministry of Economy will have overall responsibility for project
organization, management and administration.   The Ministry has appointed
the Secretary of Economic Coordination as Project Director to be
responsible for project implementation and follow up on recommendations of
the consultants.
76.       The proposed PSML would fund a strong Project Coordinating Unit
which would report to the Project Director. The main functions of the Unit
would be to: (a) coordinate implementation of all project components, with
emphasis on expeditious completion of project activities, and achievement
of  intended  impact;  (b)  provide  technical  backstopping  to  the  11
participating agencies in implementing project components; (c) guide and
assist each implementing agency in drafting terms of reference, determining
qualifications and selecting of local and foreign consultants subject to
Bank approval; (d) review all consultants, interim and final reports,
providing feedback to the Project Director, implementing agencies, and the
Bank on their content and use of recommendations; Ce) provide quarterly
progress reports on planned vs. actual activities, commitments and
disbursements, and results, with in-depth reports prepared semiannually for
use in the six monthly field reviews of project implementation; (f) with
assistance from the UNDP Office for Project Execution (OPE), make all
administrative arrangements for contracting of local and foreign
consultants, and purchase of equipment and supplies; and (g) assist the
Project Director to ensure that activities result in policy, institutional
and performance improvements in public sector management.
77.       The  Unit  would  consist  of:  a  project  coordinator;  two
economists/public sector management specialists; two programming officers;
one administrative assistant; and two secretaries, all of which would work
full time. The Government and the Bank have agreed on: the composition of
the Project Coordinating Units and the terms of reference for the Unit and



- 22 -
each member.   Establishment of the Project Coordinating Unlt would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
78.       Annual Action Programs.  To administer the project, there would
be a series of annual action programs for each component. These would be
based on a multi-year framework reflecting: (a) the major issues that need
to be addressed; (b) each particular agency's implementation capacity; and
(c) the system required for more effective government operation. Each
impiementing agency has already prepared, and the Bank has in turn
received, an Action Program for Year 1 of the PSML operation.   These
programs   specify  objectives,   activities,   institutional   development
arrangements, terms of reference, and expected impact for Year 1 for each
of the sub-components; they also provide loan and counterpart costs and
arrangements. A major Government-Bank review would be conducted after Year
1 at which allocations would be reviewed, and if need be, revised to
maximize the impact of the operation as a whole. Action programs for years
2 and 3 would be submitted for Bank approval by December 30, of 1986 and
1987, respectively. The Government and the Bank have agreed on Year 1
Action Programs for each component.  Joint project implementation reviews
(IBRD, the borrower, and the implementing agency of each component) would
take  place semiannually.   These reviews would cover progress made on
completing activities supported under the project, and also consultation
with the Bank on which and how recommendations emanating from PSML work
will be implemented.
79.       Hiring   of   Procurement   Agent.        To   facilitate   project
administration and overcome the cumbersome government procedures for hiring
consultants and importIng equipment, the Government would hire UNDP/OPE as
procurement agent under a Management Services Contract, financed by the
PSHL.    UNDP/OPE  would  procure  goods  and  services  under  procedures
consistent with Bank guidelines. The Government has agreed with UNDP/OPE
--n the administrative services to be rendered and the fees to be provided.
Execution of a Management Services Contract between the Borrower and
UNDP/OPE, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
80.       Procurement.   All goods, services  and  consultants would  be
procured under procedures consistent with Bank Guidelines. The Bank would
review and approve the terms of reference, selection procedures,
qualifications and fee range for all foreign and local consulting
positions.   After approving these, and for consultants earning less than
US$2,000 in monthly fees, the Bank would review the selection process and
contracts for the flrst ten such consultants and, if adequate, delegate to
the Project Coordinating Unit the responsibility for selecting and
approving all further consultants under this threshold.  It is estimated
that 75-80% of consultants would be Argentines. Procurement of all goods,
principally computers and their corresponding software and office
technology equipment, would be carried out through international shopping
including quotations from at least three suppliers in conformity with the
Bank guidelines for procurement.
81.       Disbursement.  Disbursement of loan funds is expected to require
about four years.  The Bank loan would disburse: (a) 100 percent of the
costs of consultants and associated services; (b) 100 percent for directly
imported equipment; (c) 100 percent of expenditures for training and
scholarships; and (d) 100% repayment of the PPF advance.  The project is



- 23 -
expected to be completed by June 30, 1990; the closing date would be
December 31, 1990.
82.       As conditions of loan disbursements for individual components,
each of the 11 implementing agencies would be required to send letters to
the Bank containing: (a) a chart outlining the main features of the
component during the implementation period: key government objectives to
which project-financed activity will contribute; results and impact
expected; activities to be undertaken; organizatlonal arrangements to be
made to ensure effective implementation and institutional development; and
(b) Year 1 action program for each component being Implemented by the
respective agency, including breakdown of costs to achieve Year-I results.
In the case of the Central Bank and INDEC. they would have to enter into
contractual arrangements with the Government for the execution of their
respective parts in the project.  The Government and the Bank have agreed
on the substance of these letters, including Implementation Plans and Year
I Action Programs.
83.       Consultation/Supervision.       With  the  proposed  implementing
arrangements--Coordinating Unit, UNDP/OPE administration contract, specific
annual action plans--Bank supervision work would focus primarily on
substantive aspects relating to improved economic management, policy
reform, and institutional improvements.  In a number of components-notably
public enterprise reform, investment planning and budgeting, and export and
industrial development--work under the PSML is likely to result in key
policy-making decisions during the course of FY87 and FY88.
84.       Accounts and Audit.  The Borrower would establish and maintain
consolidated project accounts for all expenditures financed under this loan
in a clearly identifiable manner. The Special Account, as well as other
accounts and supporting records pertaining to the services and goods
financed under the loan, would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
E. Benefits and Risks
85.       Benefits.    The  proposed  project would  benefit Argentina by
strengthening economic and public sector management capabilities in the key
agencies taking decisions in the policy area. This would take place at a
time when the Government is in the process of giving its development
strategy concrete operational content and defining the instruments for its
implementation. The project is expected by the Government and the Bank to
produce more effective axd integrated policy development, national
statistical services, sector and project analysis, multi-year investment
planning and program monitoring, budget planning and control, tax
collection, public enterprise management, and trade and industrial
policies. It would reinforce current efforts by the Government to increase
efficiency in the use of resources; and Improve inter-agency cooperation,
reduce redundancy In Goverment activities, and reinforce their linkages.
86.       Risks.  The relatively large size of the proposed project and the
number of activities and consultants involved entail some risk of delay or
incomplete implementation.  Successful project implementation will require
the continuing commitment of Bank supervisory staff as well as Argentine
managers and staff.  The Government is, however, firmly committed to the
program of improvement in public sector management as an integral part of



- 24 -
its medium-term growth framework.  Recent government measures demonstrate
both the willingness to undertake necessary reforms and the ability to
implement them.   The project' s risks should be minimized by the very
thorough government project preparation, the appointment of the Secretary
of Economic Coordination as Project Director, the creation of a strong
Project Coordinating Unlt, the preparation of Annual Action Programs for
each component, and the degree of commitment of the managers of different
components to more effective use of public sector resources, together with
their view of the project as instrumental in achieving their economic and
institutional objectives.
87.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply wlth the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed project.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 13, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -                               ANN  I
T     A A L e  3                        Pag e     of  6
AGNTInlA              - SICIAL l OIATy5 DATA Silt
ANGWIRA                             REiPSNKNC Gmagjfl MelW3TfoD AVAS) 7-
MST                     (MSr wcarT mArcDATh) /b
igbaLb~~ li?l   ECENT         tIloLW   LAWCu          qtOULC I"ClCO
19bo!t    197ut!Z CspL0TII4b  LA1f. AIICCICA L CAR         w'alpE
-MA (Tmam   . a)
TOTAL                            276b.9      27b..9     2706.9
ACAICULTURAL                     174t.2      1777.0     1753.0
GNP PR CATA (550)                      ..         ..       2070.0            1l75.9                   2144.3
sits?Y wNlnwnou PE Cii rA
(KILOcQs OF OIL RQUrVALEUT)       506.0      1211.0     1415.0             993.6                   11W.8
OPULAON Asn VAL STATISTICS
PoPUUSION aa11ua-v    (TmOUSANDS)  20616.0    23962.0    29627.0
URW  POPULATION (2 UV TOTAL)       73.6       78.4        53.6              67.7                     A7.5
POtIAUTION PalOECrZONS
POPIiATION IN YEAR 2000 (MLL)     ..          ..        30.5
STATIONAXY POPULATION (KILL)      ..         ..         54.0
POPULATION METUM                             .,          1.5
POPULATION  ENSy
PER SEq. KR.                      7.5        5.7        10.7              45.0                     84.7
PER SO. I. ARI. LAND             11.1       13.5        16.3              91.1                    166.1
POPUIATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 llS                        3a.7        29.1       3U.6              3B.5                     31.2
15-04 YRS                        63.6       63.6        61.1              57.1                     61.5
65 AND IDOMI                      5.5        7.1         8.2               4.2                      7.2
POPUlATION Gru RATE CZ)
TOIAL                             1.5         1.5        1.6               2.4                      1.6
UVNA                              3.0       2.1         2.1               3.6                      3.7
CRUDE lIOn  RAtAE (PER TROlS)      23.0       22.9        24.3              30.9                     23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)        8.7        9.4         9.0               8.0                      8.9
GROSS REPROWCTION RATE              1.5         1.5        1.6               2.0                      1.5
FArILY PLANNING
ACrTORs. ANNUAL (TKOUS)           ..
USERS (Z OF MARRISED WO)          ..         ..          ..               45.3
FOOD AM am ino.
INDEK OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      90.0      101.0       116.0             3U9.6                    1t9.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF RS)UIR1ENTS)     124.0       125.0      121.0             113.2                    131.5
PROTEINS (GRIS PER DAY)         110.0      107.0       106.0              69.A                    92.4
OF JHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      66.0       68.0        69.0 7c           34.2                     34.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE         4.5        3.2         1.0               4.8                      4.7
STALlN
LIFE EPECT. AT  lRTH (YEARS)       65.1       66.6        69.5              64.b                     t7.2
INFANT nWErr. RATE (PER THOUS)     60.0       53.0        3b.0              59.7                    53.3
ACCESS TO SAFE "ATEg (Pl'P)
TOTAL                            47.3        5e.0       57.0 Id           65.3                     70.2
UIBAN                            58.9       69.0        65.0 /d           76.5                     59.4
RURAL                             9.6       12.0        17.0 7i          *4.2                      57.u
ACCESS TO EXICRTA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                            62.0       85.0        79.0 Id           50.3                     59.6
URBAN                             ..        87.0        59.0 7i           73.4                     65.9
RURAL                             **        79.0        32.0 7d           25.5                     47.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIA           740.0      520.0       430.0 /c         1909.7                   1070.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           760.0 la   590.0            ' 1           08.2                   769.5
POP. PR HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           160.0       180.0        ..              362.0                    325.3
UR1AN                           190.0 Ie   200.0         ..              422.0                    201.9
RURAL                          "490.0 7    1030.0        ..             2716.7                   4519.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED         ..         ..          ..               27.5                    2U.0
OUSUI
AVERSZE SIZE Of HOU5EHLD
TOTAL                             3.7        3.8
URIAN                             3.5        ..
RURAL                             4.3
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOI
TOTAL                             1.4        1.4
URBAN                             1.3        ..
RURAL                             1.7        ..
PERCENTAGE OF DWELLINIS 111TH -LECT.
TOTAL                            69.2       76.0        87.0 /d
URIAN                            54.7        ..
RURAL                            18.6        ..



-26-                                                   ANN I
TAbLI 34                                      Pase  2  of  6
AmIWt1UA - uocWM. TIIHO SOC DATA MUEUT
A5~~NZ1NA                  NM      " REC OIU' (twiffEU AVIRAOS) Lo
tDYT                      101T RMT   SSTMATS) fb
IlltCCHT         NKN0   1O              HIDOLE INCOMI
IP.OLk.    197aLkb USIHATllt       LAT. AMELICA i CAt KM
ADJUUI ENROLIMNT RATISOS
PRmARtI  TCTAL                    98.0      1Ub.0       119.U              106.7                    101.9
mAL                    93.0       106.0       120.0             106.5                     103.2
FPIALE                 91.0       107.0       119.0             I14.6                     97.5
SKCONDWt TOTAL                    23.0       45.0        59.U               44.2                     57.5
IALL                   23.0        42.0        54.0              42.7                      b4.9
pHALI                  14.0       4U.0        63.0               44.9                     50.0
VOCATIONAL CZ O1 StCONDAJ )         50.3       58.4        61.3               13.3                     Z1.0
PUP1L-T!AcME RATIO
PR81LM                           22.0        19.0       20.a               29.9                     Z5.1
SKE010A                            7.0        7.0         7.0 /f            16.7                     19.1
PASSRUIQ CARS/TIOUSAND POP          23.0        0.l         ..                4b.0                     54.2
RADIO 80CSIVEUSITUUSAND POP        169.3       375.6      727.1              328.3                    170.7
TV RICKIVERS/TROUSAND POP           21.8       146.1      202.3              112.4                    149.3
UEVSPAPE ("DAILY GCNERAL
DINTESTM) CIRULATIOu
PER TIOUBIAND POPULATION          154.5       177.2       114.7              81.1                      97.0
CIMNUA ANIIUAL ATTEINDAM/CArTr       7.0        2.2         1.5                2.4                      2.7
TOTAL LUOR FORCZ (IROUS)         11133.0    12700.0    14589.0
FCKALE (PERCNT)                   21.4       24.7        27.1               23.6                     36.3
A=EICULTURE (PtRCNT)              20.0        16.4       13.1 _Jd           31.4                     40.8
IDUSTRY CFERCNT)                  35.9       32.1        34.0 7;            24.3                     23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PRCENT)
TOTAL                             54.0        53.0        47.7              33.5                      43.1
HALE                              84.0        81.0       75.0  d            51.3                      55.1
FLE                               23.0        27.0       27.0 /d            15.9                     31.4
ECONOMIC DPENDECY RATIO              0.7        0.7         1.0                1.3                      0.9
loo DISTRIBUTION
PERCENIT OF PRIVATE ICOME
RZCZiED Ft
iGSmT 5X OP VOUSEROLDS            27.5
RIGISl T 20Z oF UOUSVAOLDS        50.9        50.3
LOWZST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS           b.9         4.4
LUOEST 402 0F HOUSEOLDS           16.6        14.1
Pmzm TANT  -S
tSmDATED AmSOujT  ioRm    INCOtmS
LEVL (USS PER CAPTAT)
u..                                            ..          ..              2U8.3
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..               155.3
ESTDUZD REATI  POVERT IlNCOM
LEL CUMS PER CAPITA)
uI.                                5. ..                   ..              519.a
m                                  ..          ..         ..               359.7
ESYDGAE  POP. BEW ABSOLUTE
POVERT iicmgz LEML ()
UCREm                              ..
RUMAL                              ..          ..
. 01 AVAILAU
N. T APPLICAE
NOTSS
f   The graup vrape  for each  ncator are populat1on-ubited aritlutic  _ane.  Cverpe of countriAm
aSng the Indicators dapenda an availabilty of daa and Lo not amdform6
b  Udnles otbend..e noted, "Data for 1960" rotr to aV year between 1959 ed 1961; 'Data for 1970" b-tern
1969 ad 1971; end data for "Hmt laent  atiLute' bat_m  1951 aud 1983.
Ic  1977;  id 1980; 1. 1962; I/f 1979.
Jun, 1985



- 27 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
No  AMtoghthe datadssdmwn efromsoumnwayjudhmd trn utholut ad ml. lI mmalma be note thal they may not beIntermlonafly
couparab  baumo do lak of b mddrdim dekidhhl and ,Uts umd by dOrsa countruie In eollacdng be data. Tme dat am, musthalea muaul to
dowdb aa ot malmu, indidn uaWd6, and _hracwiucna  mor dlwdMne- bawa. cunuin
ohe crsocaogpa at (I) the m-m any gomp of da sbja comutry and (2) a cowntry group wisth oonwwhat hig4br avenge laon than the country
group ofldaabjotantsy (exp  for "HIh looe Oll Ean"group wh    idd Ina North Afl adS Middle East" ih disn beme of stronger
socilo4lkural alWIn a the rafarea  gpoup data WMausn  an population weighted authmade samma for eah Indcato and ahown only whn majority
oftdoaeotrtl In a up baa da ror tat rltior. ma tb covawa ofcounrl among tIdo hIdlato dIrd _on dw a vaikbilky of da and Is amt uform.
cuadmn mibe ea d in reltIawr   of one Inator to eothet. Tme avweue a ouly umrl In comprarng tk wvae of    Indictor at a tin, among
th ountry and *rnce group
AREA (thousan sq.km.)                                          Cre hWAiNot fl er(enrkuuhdD-Number orlive births in the year
Teed-Total surface area comprising land area and inlnd waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Chr Deth lat (per toskuama-Number or deaths in ihe year
AgriubwwnF-Etimate of agicultural are  used temporarily or     per thousnd or mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pennanently for crops, pture market and kilchen prden or to    Gro Rlpvedue        Asat -Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data                           will bear in her normal reproductive period if sht experiences
presnt agepecific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPTA (US)-GNP per capita aetimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, cakulated by me conversion method as World
Bank Adtl  (198143 basis); 1983 data.                          ber of acceptors of birth-control device under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMMON PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning progrm.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.    kiAsu   PliUr-L mrs (pmewt of irmird n ne-The peren-
petroem, natul gas and hydro-, nudear and geotbermal ec-       tiFae of nmuried women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
trcity) in kilograms of oil equivaknt per capita; 1960 1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any form orcontraeeption Wbmcn
1982 datL                                                      orchild-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49, although for
snoe countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL S'LTISTICS                                group.
Teed P1p98-a, ti.  -Yewr (thkusandaI-As of July l; 1960, 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1913 data.
(Ue ?epasa (p_ es  of setl)-Ratio of uban tO toull    Indezf FoodPrdwda PerCapita             ( 169-71 - 109-n ndex of per
capita annual producton or all food commodities. Producton
populaton; different deftions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and saed for agriculture. Food commodities
ity of dt amog countries; 1960,1970, and 1983 data.            inldude primary commodities (eg. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Ap4fir  Rjcdms                                                 which are edible and contain nutrients (cg. coffee and tea are
Populai. h yer 20W-The projection of poputation for 2000,      exduded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separatdy. Startng with information on   vegetablos fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sa, fertility rates. mwortlity rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
intnational nigration in the bae year 1980. these paameters    on national average producer price weights 1961-6S. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the bais of generalized  1982 data.
sumptin   until the poptulaon beame staionary.                 Pli, Cpi.SeIy ofCalris (pew  efreqtenreurs)-Comput-
Sadoaarypopulauioa-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from caloricequivalent of net food supplies available in country
talty rate have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domesdc produc-
fertiity rtes have simultaneously remaiied at replcmt level    tion. imports kss exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate-1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exdude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs ror normal activity
size w  estimated on the basis of the projected charactristics of  and health consideing environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of populadon. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacment kveL                                        waste at household leks   1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Pop lotar Mea_erw-fs the tendency for populaton growth to      Per Capia Supp  of Protein (gro  per day)-Protein content or
continue beyond the tame that replacement-level fertility has been  percapita net supply of food perday. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for mrinimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultinate stationay population to the population in  day and 20 grms of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the yea rt. g     the asumpton that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
mnt eved from  ewr  otnwaA. 1985 dat                           75 gmns of totaI protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
-          DBeuty                                              average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per seAm-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-    Supply; 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
tares of total are; 1960 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capita russi Supply rom Animal and Pire-Protein supply
Per sq.kJL agrdharin lu te-domptel as above for agricultural   of food derived from animal and pulses in grams per day, 1961-65.
land only, 1960, 1970, and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Ampai Age Savant (paesrc l-Chldren (0-14 years), wrk-         CAild (as 1-4) Dusk Rare (per rkJusamd)-Number of deaths or
iag age l(5-64 yers) and retred (65 years and over) as percentage  children agd 1-4 years per thousand children in the s-me age
of mnid-year population; 1960.1970. and 1983 data.             group in a given yea. For most developing countries data derived
Ripalai Guwk Rare (pewcus-retaf-Annual growth rates of         from life tables; 1960.1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year populaton for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-43.    HEAIT'H
Apulda Growth Rar (enS _r)         aAnnual growth rates        life Erprwy as Dith (yewsn-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197083 data.     infant would live ir previing patterns of mortality for all people



- 28-                                        ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to sfy the saume throughout Its lire;  AqMlI-eaher Rato - prhaary, and seondarp-Total students en-
1960.1970 and 1983 data.                                      rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
hIos Mtalsp Em(er trhusuu)-Number of  nlfts who die           teachers in te corrsponding levels.
beore reaching one year ofage per thousand live births i n given
year, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data                                CONSUMPTION
Aes to Soft  W.p (pu     . pofm) rban. WI                     hser Con (per thme d papuheleub)-Pftuenger cars cormn-
rrnl-Number of people (total urban and rual) with reaonable   priw motor cars sting lek than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to Sfe water supply (includes treted surface water or  ances, hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such - thet From protected  RDod Rcems (per t* mandpopmWan)-All types or receivers
borehole, springs ndw  tary wells) prcentges of their repe-   for radio broadcasn to gneral public per thousand or population:
tive populations In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  exdcudes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 2DO metr from a house may be considerd  registration of radio sets was in effect: data ror recent years may
as being within reanable acce  of eth houew. In rural mes     not be comnparble since most countrics abolided licensing,
reasonable acces would imply that the housewife or members of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TYRee dimers (rdonsmadpopudoalJ-TV receivers ror broadcast
in fetching the family's water need6                          to general public per thousand population: exdudes unlicned TV
AXeLvss to E xem  Dirposal (pac    of {popefitio)--ro  . wr ,  freceivers in countries and in yeas when registration of TV sets was
an rural-Number of people (total, urba  and rural) srved by   in
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Newspar Circulto (per thmasd popuhta)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the coliction and disposal, with or  age circulation of "daily generl interest newspaper." defined as a
without treitment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodial publication devoted primarily to recording  nerl news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installitions.  It is considered to be "daily" if it appears at east four times a week.
Pop.lai. per Phjslium-lbpulation divided by number of prac-   Chem Ar_ Attendance pr Capit pr  Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at univenity kwel  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Pepwhar5o pr Nsun Permau-FPbpulation divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                     LBOR FORCE
Awldthu p.er ilpept Bmi--mel, urban and noWalPbpulation       Twt Labor Foce (thousandrl-Economically active pesons in-
(total, urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  duding armed rorces and unemployed but ecduding housewives,
hospital beds available in pubic and private. general and    students, etc., covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers Hospitals ae c lishments  various countries are not comparablc. 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
pemmanently staffed by at least one physicma. Establishments prov-  Feiak (percenth-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. ural hospitals  forc.
however, include heath and medical centers not permanently saffed  Agriculre (percentj-Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical asistant, nurse, mnidwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor frce; 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical racilities.                                       ludstry (percentl-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Admisns Per Hospial Red-Tot  number of admissions to or       facturing and dectricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
frskadan Rat (percear i-ra   mfle. nvdfnmIe-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as totaL rmale. and female labor force
Avege Sme of Housebo  (persons p. hmnsehoj)-tata. urd         as percentages of totaL mae and female population or al ages
anwal-A householconsistsofagroupofindividualswhoshare         respectively. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on lL's
living quarters and their main mes. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sea structure orthe population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes  long tme trend. A few estimates are from national sources
Average Number of Pron pe Reon-eal, urba  and rural-          Ecosni DepedewyAp Rio--Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per rootm in all urban, and rural   65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DISTRIBUTMON
Pecetev of Dueings with Elersricitp-val ura, ad rural-        Percenrge if Tarot Dposable eJre  (bah in cash and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively,       hold incorne.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A 4utd EweErmen Ratios                                        The following estimates are very approximatc measures of poverty
PJimary school - total. mal aid femake-Gross total, male and  klvels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
femal enrolment of al ages at the primary lvel as percentages of  Esimwed Absote Poverty Incomw Level (d US per capitak-erban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rral-Absolute poverty income level is that income kvel
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are refleated in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estmared Relrive Por  Income Level (U=Spr cpa)-nrhan
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  ad rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban kve,l is
age.                                                          derived firom the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Seconary sckoot - total, male and feak-.Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estinurei Ppulaieon Beloa AbsoltPert y Income Leve (per'
mary nstructioi provides genealL vocational, or teacher training  csfl-urban and nrual- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age corespond-  who are -absolute poor.'
ence courses are generally exduded.
Vocationa Enrolnmeni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-         Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technicaL industrial. or other programs which operate  Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ECOMIiC Kla -        JEG IATI
MITII          An. meal 5ooth Rat.                                        b PFrcwt of IRV
Mht*sol Iccaats
1M35           1707  1975M)   39mJ   191 1111MITI                     191      2933    1915
lilli  of I29  IUS so                      Ihrecntapsi                                     I
rosn  lmtic Prajit                          *13m               L3        1.9    -1.2    -1.1       3.2             ".12   100.31   I00.31
rrn of Trid Elhet                             19.                                                                   0.11    0.31     0.31
orm  Oo.tc Income                           63255               4.1      1.7    -2.5    -3.1       3.6            100.00   100.30   00.00
lawts of Goods ad F5                         6193               1.1    13.3   -27.3    -2.6        33              15.11     9.11     t.l
EsWrts of Inds ad FS                       1l517                0.7    14.1       4.2     4.4      Lb              13.01    IbI.65   iLs
Eports Ajustud b  Torn of Irad              1022                 .2    12.0    -5.3    -7.0        6.9             U.9    6.34    1.34
RnErce 6iw                                   41J                                                                    2.0    -6.15      L54
Couswtaion                                  50S32               4.5      1.5    -3.4     -1.9      2.6             92S.    79.65    ?.U5
lnmtut                                        i."4              1.9     4.4   -13.6    -6.2        6.4            I2.61    IL.       13.01
omestic Saing                               1251                2.5      2.1      1.9     0.0      5.5             17.41   26.35    20.35
latoi Smaug                                  7491               3.0      2.0    -7.1    -5.3       9.6             12.96    1l.96    11.11
IOIISE TUINE                                 1911    1902    1933       1934     19ve5    1,1     199               lb   mit of Total)
I23llim  of Cwr.t US D1lls)
laeata Ic..f.l                               9430    537      4505    4600    4050    4620        7015             200.0   200.0   100.0
Capital God                                2059      950      769     600      650      511      *b2              21.1     17.1    16.0
lotweeOate 6oode                           4723    3320      3074    3254    2740    361    5541                  50.1     u8.2    67.7
Patrol.. FrPodert                          1011      672      053     S07      420      29       S32              10.7    10.1    10.4
cusuastim  6od                             122       35       209     239      240      iS       179              17.3      4.6      5.9
atre t f.s.h.)                               1146    67M7    7166    9107    339         773    12252              100.0   100.0   100.0
Pri.a   PFD.ts                              05s    46t1    5735    6909    7205 n        45    9023               14.3     D.7    3L.
haoufactiad 6od                            2091    2206    1332       113      1193     law     39                25.7    19.3    14.2
reriYdit Trade ldica                                           21970 * 1001
EuWt Firme  bbs                           319.4   270.0   241.9   254.7   233.4   219.0    22.5
ltwt Prce  abd,                           299.3   292.2   2729   27.9   270.3   2959    334.9
Ta. of Trad  l1a                          17        92.4    ea3      93.      3.3    74.0    10.9
VUIE AI3  BY 5ECT                        lNillias of US S at 193 Fricem  I Exugr btlas                                  IU. I of GpI
icult                     III             ISI         O693      52    91I0      T5                                  13.7   I2.4    15.5
ladstry                                     25420    2915   20607   20nl771    244                                  4L.2    35.9    32.9
Svc.                                        25410   27619   2793    23187    23659                                  43.2    40.1    51.1
6IF at FKtr CUt                             5377   55476   57442   5313    56112                                   100.0   100.0   140.0
PILIC FINIKG                                         IPorctapr  f SF7P)
ICoolidated Pulic Sectbrl
Cerr.ut hapts                                34.7    31.6    31.7    33.5       a.a.
cvremt ED tur                                41.7    40.9    39.0    44.9    G.A.
SJnIqs                                       -7.0    -9.2    -6.3    -7.3       a.*.
I=.etets                                      9.9      7.9    LP5       6.9    C.A.
SUnloulhfzcat                               -16.a   -17.0   -14.9   -14.1       D..
NM,  CUbT An Ples                           (3illis rA  as Otstadiog End Period)
Hwy one OUR   mhy                            16.0    33.3   193.6  1193.4  *.a.
Crdit to FP lic Sct.r                        20.t    34.1   212.3   994.9    R.A.
Credit to Private Stctr                      22.2    69.9   290.1  106.6    G.A.
busy mud bai  Nby a
I of 9I                               29.23   25.41   26.19    23.2t    G.a.
adoe Mopr IB
1970M    .001                             430    25611   71954   4493  37063
'mel prcut.p chages in:
Nolucal PrIm  lon                           100.9   257.3   360.9   53.6   6b4.6
ak Dveat to Plic Sect.r                     21957   222.2   510.I   L 361.6      .a.
3.  erdit to Privat Suct.r                  167.5   210.4   322.1   541.1    u.a.



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
Estileu   Pr dcti
amx   am          m    nui   urn  Iaiu   341   sm    as%  ur
Ebprts Red. I1n                            m1       tot     to7r    IIS4        -5      ms2       s     lown      W7    lml
hetl   linu. 53                           -me    iS        -1400    1M7    -719    -01    -i    4123    4797               572
sruns klau                                 2466      34    -3219    -9    2             2t1   3217    40          230      4950
Nut Facttr Srit. lert                      -U0      -ne    -1331    -f        -4719   -m       -72   -5341   -51s    -M
rat Crrat Tr_uhr                             a        35       23      -22       32       1*       3                12        9
tmma   Driat  ctua                         1        -37    -47*    -4714   -2357   -2401    -w          -120    -22"        -a
irKt lamut_ut                               274      2*       7        m        57       13      2H       915      413      74
Nrt Pulic ILT Bo Ing                       -m        la      5311    73        510      127      U07    212       3121    -2*2
Rut  ivati INLT  erwalq                     23      133 It            04*9     2239      I3   -5        -1U    -1352       -120
uIh o  I.  eamn.                                                                       U13        I    tl07       367    -47X
Part Tre Capital Trmsuacts                 3215    303    -1K0  I1 -6093 N40U            135    3*73    417  -22            177
CeatuL TraK.eetim  m.l.                    I3        43     -637      430       50*    -326    -IU        731      1*  US
Chu  in ilourv    1- * itiael             -993    -442       271      37         51    -244     -Itl   -1141         0      127
EMIT A  LN    hlflSITEI
Public ILT Lea                             2491 U            233      73       1012   1t         *2      4300
15                                         *5      34I        27    3*        100       0      1001 
Other  Itilatural                         233      323       44      321      IN        2      5        IN
lItatird                                   93       52      135        9       42       14       0 
Spplie                                    372      S        2tl    1*7        In        30       *        0
Fibaual tstttetius                       15*0    209       24V     13         49      k779       0    420N
KUT I KT SENICE
Tutu! OMs betaut    ad  idwis I/    1249    19034   V13*2    35*71   43243   4405   43123   49510
Public OtV 21                               35      9*      34459   23024        2    3317*  3Q2    402*
Priwt. kSt                                 013      9074 12M         1*47    14901    129    urn         -3
lhteuet Payae  te  etaIl 31                330      1400    2175      -D       492*    542      557    SWI
bupwab   an AT  41                         239      2SU      2        3005    50W       H0       27U     2D3
Tult   DtM wIcs                            3305    4U        4740      15    "973    11513 I     02    795
Tuu  DOt Sici                              43.4    44.2    44.3        9.7    114.7   212.1    30.2    75.4
intet DUrim                               13.2    14.*       2L2      3S       51.7    527.0    5.2      50.4
IDAE TM IF RIC lMT
lDt    /t/D  51                            I.3      3I       9.4     33       1.       3.2    11.3    10.4
utzati  n I P,ri lVor O3                   17.3    22.       13.*    11.2    14.3    3s I         h.0     53
BM Wi   KIT IT  an.m ldisores alp)                             am
Total Etnal lot                                               49514
Tutu  3 & LT Dot                                          492
3m                                                        613
IlUr hltlUlaterl                                         1332
liata                                                   3356
Swollen                                                  3730
iANDREW  NNaMe                                          3023
OF                                                       2213
Shurt Tw     t                                             419*
15  1     5                               umOr 31, 190
1   DSt 513 *3
11l1 Dt a     of Tedi IU                             1.2
I    kmt levirs                                      17*
11111OtKSevicea Zof Tetdl                            2.
IIis tstea   Ot t2t
21  laclimLw
V ctw IIIF.
Sf tiB.
4V  Fro 392 aM me     n i  tue urigau  uttentiUn  mfW.? ML
S   M1 n    a sw       of priw .d  cart yw.
tril 3,1911



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANRK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1986)
ARGENTINA
Amount less      Undis-
Loan No.  Year    Borrower           Purpose       Cancellations    bursed
(US$ million)
Fully disbursed loans                                  662.4
1384      1977    Argentina         Highways           104.7         21.9
1463      1978    Bauco Nacional    Industrial         100.0          1.3
de Desarrollo     Credit
1521      1978    Argentina         Grain Storage       87.0         65.9
1761      1979    Argentina         Yacyreta Power    210.0         174.0
1880      1980    Yacimientos       Oil and Gas         27.0          2.1
Petroliferos     Engineering
Fiscales
1905      1980    Argentina         Vocational          58.0         57.2
Training
S-020     1980    Argentina         Coal Exploration   10.0           2.8
2031      1981    Banco Nacional    Oil and Gas        100.0         79.7
de Desarrollo      Credit
2032      1981    Yacimientos        Refinery          200.0         38.3
Petroliferos       Conversion
Fiscales
2063      1981    Banco Nacional    Industrial         100.0         93.3
de Desarrollo      Credit II
2296      1983    Argentina         Highway            100.0         74.3
2592/1            Yaciuientos       Gas Utilization   180.0         180.0
Petroliferos      and Technical
Fiscales          Assistance
2461/1    1986    Argentina         Water Supply        60.0         60.0
Total                                      1,999.1
Of which has been repaid                     500.7
1,498.4
Amount sold               12.8
Of which has been repaid  12.8              *__
Total now held by Bank                     1,498.4
Total undisbursed                                         850.8
/1 This loan is not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1986)
ARGENTINA
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ million
Year           Obligor                 Type of Business      Loans  Equity  Total
1960       Acindar Industria            Steel Products         3.7     -       3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960       Papelera Rio Parana, S.A.  Pulp and Paper           3.0     -       3.0
1961       Fabrica Argentina de         Automotive             1.5     -       1.5
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.
1962       PASA, Petroquimica           Petrochemicals         3.0      -      3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/72    Celulosa Argentina, S.A.   Pulp and Paper          12.5      -     12.5
1969/75    Dalmine Siderca, S.A.        Steel Products        17.0     -      17.0
1969       Editorial Codex, S.A.        Printing and           5.0    2.0      7.0
Publishing
1971/73    Calera Avellaneda, S.A.    Cement                   5.5      -      5.5
1977/84/86 Alpargatas S.A.I.C.          Textiles & Fibres    28.4    2.0    30.4
1977       Soyex S.A.                   Soybean Processing   25.0      -      25.0
Plant
1978       Massuh, S.A.                 Pulp and Paper        13.5    2.0    15.5
1978/      Juan I4inetti, S.A.          Cement and            83.0     -      83.0
81/82/86                               Construction
materials
1978/      Ipako-Industrias             Chemicals and         20.0     -      20.0
79/82     Petroquimicas                Petrochemicals
Argentinas S.A
1979/83/84 Alpesca S.A.                 Fisheries              5.2    1.6      6.8
1984/86    Petroquimica Cuyo SAIC       Chemicals and         37.2    4.0    41.2
Petrochemicals
1986       Inversiones Industriales   Money and                 -     1.3      1.3
S.A. and Roberts Partici-  Capital Markets
paciones, S.A.
Total Gross Commitments                                      263.5   12.9   276.4
Less Cancellations, Terminations                  156.2    2.0   158.2
Repayments and Sales
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                107.3   10.9   118.2
Total Undisbursed                                 44.3    4.4    48.7



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT TECBNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
A. Time taken by the Country to Prepare Project: 11 months
B.  Appraisal Mission Departure:                   March 7, 1986
C.  Completion of Negotiations:                    May 1, 1986
D.  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                 August, 1986
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
A. Condition of effectiveness of this loan would be:
(i)   execution of a Management Service Contract between UNDP/OPE,
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 79) and
(ii)   establishment of Project Coordinating Unit (para. 77).
B.  Condition of disbursement of each individual component would be (para.
82):
(i)   receipt by the Bank of a letter, whose content would have to be
satisfactory to the Bank, containing:
(a) a chart outlining the main features of the component
during   the   implementation   period:   key   government
objectives  to  which  project-financed  activity  will
contribute; results and Impact expected; activities to be
undertaken; and organizational arrangements to be made to
ensure effective implementation and institution-building;
(b) Year-I Action Program for the component being implemented
by the agency, satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii)   that the Central Bank and INDEC have entered into contractual
arrangements with the Government for the execution of their
respective parts of the project.



- 34 -
TABLE 1                   ANNEX IV
Page I of 2
ARCINTINA - PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Zatimated Foreign and Local Costa:               Local     Foreign    Total
------US$ millton--
A. Tools for Economic Decision Making
1. Models, SeenarLo Building (ME)              767       268       1,035
2.  li,formatLon Base (INDEC)                1,319       824       2,143
3.  Nattonal Accounts (BCRA)                 1,553       117       1,670
4.  Input-Output MaLrLees (BCRA)               552        13         565
5.  Economlc InforMatLon Systems (ME)          582        48         630
Subtotal                                4.773      1.270       6,043
B.  Central Resource Mobilization and Ume
6.  Secretariat of Planning (SP)               311       460         771
7.  MinLatry of Publlc Works and Service       951       100       1,051
8.  Secretariat of Agriculture (SAGP)        1,370     1,040       2,410
9.  Programming and Budgeting (SH)             621       484       1,105
10. Tax PolLcy and AdmLnistratton (SH)      2.643      1.360      4.003
Subtotal                                5.896      3.444      9.340
C.  PubiLc Sector Enterprises Management
11. System and Firm-Level Improvement
(SCGEP)                               2,731        270      3,001
12. Increasing Mainagement, Technical,
Finam^1al Skills (SFP)                1,155        150      1.306
Subtotal                                 3,886       420      4,306
D.  Export and Industrial Development
13. Export Polieles and Procedures
Strueture (SEC)                          260        50         310
14. CUStOm AdministratLon (SH)               1,521       900       2,421
15. Information Systems for ExporLers (SICE) 879         491      1,370
16. Trade Negotiatlons (MKEC)                 979        200       1,179
17. Industrial Pollcy (SICE)                1.627        300      1.927
Subtotal                                 5_266     1.941       7.207
E.  Coordinating Unit-Project                      490       210         700
Total Base Cost                                 20.311     7,285      27.596
F.  Physical/Price Contingency                    -        2.000       2.000
C.  Fee UNDP/OPE                                   -        1.000      1.000
H.  Repayment of PPF                               400        100        500
T,tal                                       20,711    10.385      31,096
Financing Plan:
Bank                                             8 115    10.385      18 500
Government                                      I            -
Total                                       20,711    10,385      31,096
_~~ -



- 35 -
TABLE 2                                     ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
ARGENTINA - PUBLIC SECTOR NAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Components                                Personnel     Training    Equipment   Supplies       Total
Disburuemnt Plan of Loan by Main Categories:                                 (in US$Thousanda)       n     -
A. Tools for Economic Decision Making
1.  Models, Scenario Bullding (HE)                       400           150          50          100         700
2.  InformatLon Base (INDEC)                             400           100         300          100         900
3.  National Accounts (BCRA)                             600            40          20           10         670
4.  Input-Output Matrices (BCRA)                         300             -           -           50         350
5.  Economlc Informatlon Systems (tE)                    300            60           10           0         370
Subtotal                                           2.000           350         380          260      2,990
B.  Central Resource Mobilization and Use
6.  Secretariat of Planning (SP)                         300           120          40           50         510
7.  Ministry of Public Works and Services (MOSP)         500            50          50           50         650
8.  Secretariat of Agriculture (SAC?)                     900           50           90          50       1,090
9.  Programming and Budgeting (SH)                       700             -          50           20         770
10. Tax Policy and Tax Administration (SH)             1.700            70         800            -       2.570
Subtotal                                           4.100           290       1.030          170       5.590
C.  Public Sector Enterprises Management
11. System and Firm-Level Improvements (SCOPE)         1,240             -          90           50       1,380
12  Increasing Management, Technical, FinancLal                        500          30           70         600
Skills (SFP)
Subtotal                                           1.240           500         120          120       1,980
0. Export and Industrial Development
13. Export Policies and Procedures Structure (SICE)      200             -           -           20         220
14.  ustoms Aduinistration (SH)                          700             -         200            -         900
15. Information System for Exporters (SICE)              500             -         400           70         970
16. Trade Negottatlons (NEEC)                            400             -         200           50         650
17. Industrial Policy (SICE)                             850             -          50          100       1.000
Subtotal                                           2.650             -         850          240       3,740
E. Coordinating Unit - Project                           450             -          100         150         700
Base Cost                                         10.440         1.140       2.480          940      15,000
F.  Physical/Price Contingency                          1.550          170         250           30       2.000
C.  Fee UNDP/OPE                                        N.A.          N.A.        NA.           N.A.      1.000
H. Repayment of PPF                                     N.A.          N.A.        N.A.          N.A.        500
Total                                             11,990         1,310       2,730          970      18,500



Annex V
ntegi;1 of 20
ARGENTINA PUbLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT LOAN
KEV PROJECT ACTIVITIES
A.1 Tools for Economic Decision-Makino
Project             Institutionel Responsi-
Main Government Objectives         Comoonent Activities        bilities  Arrannoements    lxaicted Outout/Imoact                Timins Taroets
A.1 Macro-economic Forecast-  a  TA to construCts             o              Economy.    a Decision-makers to use        alMcnth 6 -First formulation
inn. Scenaio-UuIdinu                                      Underseeretery ofEco-    forecasting, scenario                       of model.
a) short term, partial        nomic Policy, with          models. and sensitivity                 -Start an-the-Job
- Develop adequate analy-          equilibrium models -        substantive support         analysis to Improve                      troining.
tical framework toe              incorporating prico-       from Division of             pelcly packages. assess-
ensure coherent macro-           wage dynamicsl public    Internal Policy (OPI).    mnt of tradeoffs.                   Year I  -Definition of
economic policies  help         sector deficits and                                                                              plausible scenarios,
policy-makers judge              financingl external    a Models to be used              a) madel to help evaluate                sensivity analysis.
economic and structural          tradel                     directly by Economic            and monitor short-term                adJustment of models.
consequences of alterna-                                    Terms, GOA, as well as          Impact of policies.
tive adjustment packages                                    by key sectoral minis-          Identify likely             Year 2  -Final results, model
and specify policies          b) medium-term s*ctoral        tries (e.g., Public            sources of desequili-                 policy and strategy
appropriate tu different         models, enabling           Works, Industry and             brium. and project                    implicstions. inclu-
scenarios                        assessment of alterna-   Comoerce. Agriculture),           patterns In prices and                Ing sensitivity
tive growth paths,                                        volumes                               analysis in various
- Develop decision-making          constraints, emport                                                                              scenarios.
tools which Incorporate          and employment impact;                                  b) using Input/output
assessment of structural                                                                     "tric (A2), assess       b)donth 6 -First formulation of
characteristics of the        c) a general model using                                      aed1um-ter growth                     mdel
economy and behavior of          real variables, prices                                     In main sectors, under
key agents in price deter-       and financing.                                             various scenarios, to       Yeer I  -Msedl Installed.,
mination, financial inter-                                                                  assess supply/demand                 -First trials
mediation, and deficit.    o Systems development,         o Terms of Retereneo              coverings savings,                   -Interim policy
- Incorporate assessment of    on-the-lobs and formal         prepared for coordina-          Imports, Income                       Implications.
-      Incorporate  assessment of    training to increase      tion: profilse  for            capital-output, labor-
long term impiications of    internal capabilities          other senior and junior         output. depreciation,       Yeer 2  -Final formulation
short-term policy              to develop and utilite       consultants,                    savings and investment                of mdel.
decisions,                     these decision-making                                        current eccounts,                    -Policy Implications.
tools.                                                      public revenues and
- Avoid errors in adjustment|                                                                 expenditures.             e)bonth 6 -First formulation of
policles and strategies by                                                                                                        general equilibrium
better grourding of deci-                                                                c) provide full model                    model, policy Impli-
slons in slhost- arid long-                                                                 covering, supply/demand               cations and strategy.
term macro-economic                                                                         equilibrium analysis.
Implications,                                                                               demand of primary           Year I -Medel installed.
factors of production,              -First trials.
price patterns, public
revenues and expendi-       Year 2  -Final formulation
tures. balance of                    of model.
payments, current                    -Policy implicatons.
accounts, balance of
public savings, invest-
ments
o Increased abilities In
macr- and sectoral
deision-making.



Annez V
Paga 2 of 20
ARGENTINA PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT LOAN
KEV PROJECT ACTIVITIES
A.2 Inout-Outout 2ateaa
A.3  E - Inform tion  es tem
Projoct              Institutional Responsi-
Main Government Ob-ectivas       Component Activities          bilitia. Arrangementa       Expected Outout/lpact              Ti1-ng Tareto
A.2          A-to-Dte           - Rapidly complete input-  Central Bank. Republic of  Battar policy and invest.ent  1973 matrix coqplated
Input/Output ;atricsa         output matrix, extra-    Argentina, Department of    decisions. due to ability to  Vear 1.
I                                  polating from 1973        Economic Research and         analyze structural changes
To enable Improavments       data to update to 1983.  Statistics - group              which have taken place In       1333 mAtrix c'-leted
in global and sectoral                                  responsible to national       economy during lost decade.   Vear 2.
strategy, policies and    - Employ new methodology,  accounts and elaborating                                                 t
planning.                    national account           input/output matrices.        Apply Inter-sectoral            1Y8J motr1x  ompleted
i                                  estimates and technical                                 analysis to policy              Month 30, Integrated
coeff1e1entsr                                           formuilati0n.                   date gnerarted for
- Prepare 19a4 Input-                                                                     nx r ::e: ccounts
output matrix, using
1984 data (from 1985
census) and other key
Information inputs
produced under PSUL.
- Train staff on new
systems.
|A.3 DOvelup integrated          - Information. planning,   Mlnistry of Economy.           Dramatic reduction in the    All activities completod
information base and         programming and            Secretary of Ceordination.  multiple processing of           In 24 months.
systems to Improve           monitoring systems         in collaboration with         informtion which exists.
coherence, quality of         established in Ministry  technical personnel of         Increase productivity and    Year Is
macro-economic policies.    of Economy. integr-ted   Secretariat for                  capability In Information
data supplied from        Informatica of the            processing.                    Mechanism Installed tO
various census.           Secretary of Science and                                     resolve discrepancies.
Technology (SECT).                                          conflicts In inform_tion
Management information                                                                 exchanges among entities.
system installed in       Coordinating committee of
Ministry of Economy:      relevant entity exists.                                      Decisions taken on
will be used to Implement                                   information to be
this component.                                             stored.
MIS system Installed.
Finalize proposal for
I computer systems equipment
I                                                                                                                        lselection.



hnex V
Page 3 of 20
ARGENTINA PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT LOAN
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
A.4 National Accounts and Incoe Diotribution
Project                lAstitutional Responsi-
Main Government Objectives    Component Activities             bilities, Arranoements       Exoected Output/Imoact            Timin  T*aroets
A.4 Produce Reliable         a) Make adjustments In           a Central lank of Republic  o Reliable national           a All activities completed
Natuonal Accounts           estimatos of key                cf Argentina (OCRA) -         accounts for 1985          In 24 mnths.
and Anal ae Income          segments of national            Department of Economic        1986 and 1987 -
OTstribut an Patterns       accounts (1985. 1956.           and Research and              with system for           a All major adjustments In
bvi                         1917) with particular           Statistics.                   continuous refine-          *stimted and incor-
attention tot                                                 ments, Improvements.        poration of new data
o Getting more solid                                                                                                   sources to be made in
-estimates an key          o Industrial sector.                                                                      Year 1 (1986 national
macro-economic aggre-        Inputs and outputs                                                                      accounts), with
|     gates and seotoral         a agriculture                                                                             refinements made In
I     data.                      a public and private                                                                      Year 2.
construction
a EApanding data source    a gas, water. passenger,
and refining instru- |       communication
ments for meshing          a o financial Intermediaries
I    'empirical data with        a a national and Interna-
|     modeling.                    tional commodity flows.
I                            |b) Extension of information
base.
o elaboration of informa-
tion on public sector
national, provincial.
municipal). harmonizing
budget Information
o new Information sources
for construction sectors
o merchandise coamerce and
transport
0 monthly Indicators on
Industry
o income distribution
o external accounts.



Ane  V
Page 4 of 20
ARGENTINA PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT LOAN
KEV PROJECT &CTIVITIES
A.5 Stati.tical els
Project                 Institutional Responsi-
Main Govarnment ObJectives       Comoonent Activities            bilities, Arranaeuwnts       Expected Outputj laosct            Timina Target.
A.5 Strenathening the
Information Bass
Enable better           - Building basic inform-         National Institute of            - Improved data              - Complete improva mnts
economic strategies       ation on external trade.       Statistics and Censuses            system on external           In Interna;  rade
and polieles by           including key Indicators.    (INDEC)                               trade.                        informtion. YVar 1.
improving the data        and information by unit
base In key sectors.    and prices.
- Organize a unit for the                                          - Agricultural Census          Agriculture Unit In
National Agricultural                                              Unit established,            place. Year 1.
Census.                                                                                         Equipment purchased,
Year 1.
- Training program
completed, Month 15.
- Preparation of now system
for the industrial census.
training of personnel.                                                                                                  tE
MD
- Strengthen provincial                                            - Introduction of            - Design. selection.
statistical offices (DPE)                                          software systems,            Installation of
and the national atatistics                                        Improvement In               hardware, software
system (SEN)a                                                      capabilities In              completed by Month 14.
provinces and
a) hardware and software                                           INDEC.                       Permanent support group |
packages for PPE and                                                                         established. Month 7.
INDEC
- IhDEC sottware systems.
b) support unit establi-                                                                        capabilities.
ad                                                                                           strenothened uwth
activities outlined
c) conduct research on                                                                           In INDEC action plan.
poverty                                                         Research to use In           Research completed,
assessing Impact of          Month 9.
policy change.
econamic performance
on poverty.



Annex V
ARGENTINA PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT OPERATION                                   Page 5 of 20
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
B.l. Secretariat of Plannina
Project                 Institutional Responsi-       _
I Main Government ObJectives j   Component Activities              bilities, Arrangements        Expected Output/Impact               Timing Targets
1-Improve efficiency of        |-Improve capabilities and    -Planning Secretariat.            -Improved capabilities of    -All activitles comploted
investment resource            systems in the Planning         Subsecretariat General ot    key officials and terminal   In 18 months
allocation                    Secretariat in medium term   Planning will coordinate.    staff In SP.                         'one year
global and sectoral plan-
noa programma ng e and        -Subsecretariat of Program- I-Investment plans which           -Three training courses.
monitoring. through train-   ming, Public Sector, and          better reflect resource
ing of SP officials In         Long-Term analysis              constraints and recurrent   -Once organizational
project evaluation and in    involved in training end          cost implicators.              changes made. caplm ta
Investment planning and        change In systems,                                             by month 1PI
prooramming techniques.                                       -More consistent economic
criteria for investment          Investment project
-Make inventory of invest-                                      decisions.                        Inventory.
ment projects, by sector.
Economic criteria,
-Improve systems, methods                                                                        guidelines. improvement
in project evaluation and                                                                       In project evaluatian.
monitoring, including
preparation of criteria.                                                                         Improvements In systems.
guidelines,                                                                                     methods of investment    #
planning.                  0
-Improve systems, methods
in Investment planning.
with particular attention
to strengthuning analysis
of short and long term
financial and economic
costs and benefits.



Amex V
Page 6 of 20
ARGENTINA PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT OPERATION
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
0.2.(a) Tax Policy gnd Administration
Project                Institutional Reaponai-  l
Main Government Objectives        ComPonent Activities           bilities. Arrangements        Eceected Output/lmoact               TIming Taro-te
. 2(s)
Improve global and sectoral  A. TAX POLICY                      Finance Secretari&v,          o Establishment of a base    o All activities complated
policies, to respond more                                       Directorate of Fiscal           and mechanism for formu-        in 24 months
closely to development          - An analysis of the tax        Analysis and Research           lating. iplementing.
objectives, improve               system  An rgentina                                           and monitoring tax policy  a In year Is
resource mobilixation,                                                                                                       (a) -Identify concrete
I and increase equity.            o diagnosis of existing                                       a Determination of means            policies and actions
tax structure                                                 to increase Internal              which should be
resource generation               adopted. incorporated I
o analysis of adequacy                                                                            Into tarn system as
of present tax policy                                      a Improve institutional              efficient lnstrum_nts
and realization in                                           capabilities of the tax
financing public axpen-                                      policy unit                      -Determine  itthin
diture and the deficit                                                                          realistic economic
o On-the-job training of            growth projactiona.    I
o analysis of tax burden,                                       officials                         means to 1ncrease
distribution and                                                                                4nternal resource        _
Incidence of different                                     o Introduction of refors            mobilization
taxation schemes                                             In global and sectoral
tax policies which ore    (b) -Have functioning the
o financing of the racial                                       better ensured to                 office of Tax Policy
security system. distri-                                     development objectives
bution among federal.                                         and strategies              (c)  Training of Finance
provincial and munici-                                                                          Secretariat offices
pal sources.                                               o Introduction of Improve-           In foroulation and
ments In equity of taxes.         analysis of t-a policy
o approach balance between                                                                        by way of courses and
public expenditures and                                    o Particular attontion to            seminars.
incomes.                                                     reform In taxes on land
and combustibles, which
o estimates of tax                                              were not reformed in
evasion.                                                      1985.
o proposals on future                                        o Functioning of office
tax policies                                                 responsible for analysis
and design of tax policy
- Institutional OeveloDm nt|
o assessmant of existing
and needed Institutional
structure
o asses3ment of computorI-
astion requirements



Annex V
Page 7 of 20
Project               Instltutlonal Reeponsi-
Main Government Objectives       Component Activities         bilitime' Arran P nts        Emoected Outautllact                Timna  Trreta
- Traininu
- on-the-Job training
- courses
S. TAX ADMINISTRATION         o General Directorate of    o Reduction In tax evasion.  oAll actvwitio- completed
Taxation                     improvaemnt In collection    in 24  months
Incroase tax revenuos        (a) Collection System                                          of varloua tax programs.
for financing public                                          Subsecretariat of Tax                                        In y-ar 1  impl me nta-
revenues, by strengthening    I) installation of an           Policy and Tax Adminis-   o Increase equity In tax           tion 0f`
tax administration                 efficient system for       tration of Finance            burden
control of. collection    Socretar1at - componant                                       a(i) to a(v)
from large inco_e tax      a - f                       a Final effect - program        b(i) to b(il)
payers for all taxes.                                    of public expenditures         c
o Subsecretariat of Tax        which corresponds to           d - 60  of courses
1i) Installation of an         Policy and Administra-        resourceas generated.
efficient system for       tion will collaborate
control of. collection    with General Directorate  a Effidient tax audit and
from small tax payers,    of Taxation on compo-          control system based upon
for valuo added taxes    nents g and h.                  adequate information
iii) Installation of                                        o Automated tax processing
automated system for
management of collec-
tion of other contri-
butions and taxes.
Iv) Installation of a
system to Improve
banks' tax collection
systems and procedures
v) Installation of a
system which consoli-
dates tax objections
and payawnts by con-
tributors
vi) Computerized system to
monitor legal action
on tax collection
vii) Development of
Information syatem
for management control
of collections



Pass S of 20
Project               Institutional ReuqJOnli-
Main Government ObJectives       Component Activities          biities, Arranugents        Exrected Outout/Zmamct              Timlno Tenets         L
(b) automated Control
I) Installatian of a
date base for large
Income tax payers
(20.000 equal 72%
of tar collection)
Ill Install system of
Economic Tax Informa-
tion to validate
tax declarations
IM1) Install MIS. evaluate
efficiency of operat-
ing units of the
institution
(c) Prepare a classifica-
t1an of tax payers
by branch of economic
activity, which will
allow rapid retrieval
for auditting and
control purposes                                                                                                   W
(d) Oesign and give
training programs on
new systems
(a) Preparation of new
auditting techniques
to increase compliance
(f) Prepare internal
audit system



Anex V
Page 9 of 20
ARGENTINA PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT OPERATION
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
8 2 tb-d) Budget Proaramng and Control
Project                Institutional Remponsi-
Main Government Objectives          Comoonent Activities           bilities. Arrangements         Exoected Outout/Impact                 Timing Tareta
B 2! 1b-d)
Budoot Proorammino and
ControI
o Reduce the budget deficit  Improvements in system,    o Secretariat of Finance,    Reduction In budget deficits  a All activities completed
by establishing and Imple- procedures. and quality ofs   National Directorata of                                                 in 27 months.
menting improved systems                                       fudget Programming work-
and criteria In budeet        o programming of public           ing in cooperstion with    o Modernize budget program-   In Year Is
programming and control.        expenditures, on aggre-        General Accounting               ming and control by *stab -
gate lovel and by sector,   officel Subsecretarist             lishing criteria  method-   a Di>agnosis of change
o Strengthen lnstitutional        regions, and Institutions   of External Debt:                   ology, norms, procedures,        needed in the actual
capabilitieo  otf  the                                         Treasury.                        hardware and software and        process of budget pro-
National Department of        o dnalysis of internal                                            training, to hnow the            graming.
Budget Programming:             structures of sectoral                                          structure and level of
General Accounting Office:    refine and institutional                                          public expenditures and        o Design of systertefor
and Treasury Superin-           programs, and calcula-                                          to exercise efficient            physical and financial
tendency.                       tion of resources.                                              control of these                 monitoring of project
expenditures.                    execution.
o programming of revenues
methodological guides,                                       o Establishment of a system   d Evaluation of existing
permanent sources of                                           of physical and financial         and needed government
financing, analysis of                                         monetary of project              accounting system.
Int-rnrl and extornal                                          execution.
credit sources.                                                                               o Evaluation of existing
o Establishment of an              and needed informtion
o approach balance between                                        Information system which         system on monetary and
public expenditures and                                        ensures adequate Integra-         fiscal situation of the
revenues.                                                      tion In the budget               Treasury.
processing steps falling
o preparation of criteria                                        under the Secretariat of    a Evaluation of existing
for allocating resources                                       Finace.                          and needed system for
by program and by                                                                                control of financial
Institution.                                                 a Evaluation and recoauend-        operations related to
ations on the Governmwnt         repaying foreign debt.
o design of technical                                            accounting system.
instruments for improving                                                                     o Full diagnosis and
budget preparation,                                          o Completion of a manual on        decisions on informrtion
government accounting.           systems and equipment
o develop better flow for                                                                          needed.
formulation and approval                                     a Computerization of public
of budget,                                                     accounting data.



Anne V
Pae 10 of 20
Project               Institutional Responsi-
Main Government ObJectives        Camoonant Activities          bilities, Arrangements         Exoected Outout/lmoact                 Timino Tgrggt-
o Analysis of the structure                                  o Eatablishmet of computer-
of government accounts,                                      1ed Information system
and prepare guide for                                        and up to d-to data On
the reform of accounting                                     the monetary and fiscal
systems.                                                     altuetion of the Treasury
o Evaluation and implemen-                                   o Eatablishment of system
tation of Improvement in                                     of control of external
accounting systems.                                          financial obligatluns of
Argentina.
o formulation of informa-
tion base and systems on                                   o Improvement in akills of
financial situation of                                       officials In key agencies
the Treasury.
a Preparation and Installa-
tion of better methods
for programming repayment
of public ekternal debt.
o Oesign and provision of
Informal training courses
on new methods.



Auz.z V
Pap. I of 20
ARGENTINA PUOLIC SECTOi MANAGEMENT OPERATION
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
5.3 Proorameino Pricina. Policy Formulation
Ministry of Public Works
Project               Intiltutiolal Rooponal-
Main Government ObJectives        Comoonent Activities         bilities  Arranpeemnts       Emaected Outout/lmoect               Timina Tarosto
Oevelopment of Criteria for  o Sub-sectoriel analysis of  o Coordinatian will be the  o Improvement In quality of   o All activities to be
Investment Programming         investment requirements        responsibility of the         fnvestoent decisions,          co plotqd in 10 monthe
and corresponding financ-    departments of Program-        increased efficiency of
ing.                          Ing Budgeting and             public investment.              Sub-sectorial analysis
eudgeting, Planning,                                         completed in year I
o Development of an             and the Secretariat of
appropriate investment        Coordination *t Ministry                                    a Financial analysis
system.                       of Public Works (MOSP)                                        carried out during the
last U months
o Proposal for reform of      o The sbove units will be
present project approval      complemented by the                                         o Pro-investment and
system.                       departments of Policy &                                       project related work    '
Planning ot the Sectt.                                       carried out during the
o Design and put In place       of Communications and                                         first I months
a system for monitoring       Water Resources, both
project implementation        under the aegia of MOSP.
in activities dealing
o Produce appropriate            with these sectors.
Improve project evaluation    manuals and guidelines.
at sub-sectorial level         project evaluation train-  o MOSP ulil coordinate
Ing at general and secto-    with other Ministries and
rial level (in coordina-      agencies particularly
tion with Planning            the Secretariat for
Secretariat).                 Oudgoting in St1.
o Develop and/or introduce
Improve cost estimates,        appropriate mothodology                                    o Increased efficiency both   o Costs, price and tariffs
price and tariffs in            for costing and price/                                      et macro and enterprise         related activities first
public enterprises              tariff fixation using                                       level through more realis-    i months
controlled by MOSP.            main enterprises as case                                     tic pricing procedures
studies.                                                    increasad transparency of
policy decisions



Aim    V
Pop 12 of 20
Project               Institutional Responsi-
Main Government ObJectives        Comoonent Activities         bilities, Arranmements       Eoected Outout/toIact                Tina Taroots
Improve policy formulation  o Develop appropriate
and monitoring cepabilities  msthodolooies for the
at MOSP                        definition of policy
objecthvas to be fulfilled
by public enterprises and
a*encies under ROSP.
o Implement system for
policy formulation and
monitoring including
development of analytieal                                 o letter managsemnt by MOSP
tools.                                                      with Increased efficiency
Strengthen planning          o Design anq implementa-                                     o Increased efficiancy In
capabilities at the            tion of reorganization                                       the administration of the
Secretariat% of                plans fors The Secreta-                                      Coasmunications Secretariat
Communications and Water       riat of Communications,                                      and In the main enterprises
Resources.                     Postal Enterprise and                                        under Its aeogs.  Maximize
Teleco.munications                                          production and technologi-
enterprise                                                  cal impact on local supply-
ing industries.
o Diagnosis of w"ter
resources utilization                                     o Increased production (agri-
cultural and electricity)
o Investment programing                                       through.b*tter use of
for water resources                                         water resources.
utilization                                                                                                           4
o On the job training for
the Water Resources
Secretariat technicliia.



Annez V
Page 13 of 20
ARGENTINA PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT OPERATION
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
S.4  Strenothenino Planning and Prograommin  At The
Secretariat of Agriculture
ProJect                 Institutional Respons1 -
Main Government Objectives          Comoonent Activities           bilities, Arranoemants        Expected Output/Impact               Timing Tara*ta
|Strengthening SAGP to           o Analysis of present           o The Department for           a Increased productivity          During the first 12
Iobtain more efficient and         institutional framework         Agricultural Policy within   In agricultural, 11vwatock,  months. it Is expected
cptrdinstsd dctagn with           recommendatpens  for            SrGP oill be the  a            sn bnd fish producta in r nd    to complate octiv ti3  s
thc  dlffdrent agencwes that      reform,  implementatinf         responsible for this mubstanthrlly inuetsn a                   1, 2, parta of a v 4
conform with the agri-                                            component,                     potential exports.            I 6a and Sb -
cultural planning system.       a Evaluation of alternative                                                                    I
planning and programming   o Substantive responsibility a Obtain substantial changes
Improve the sectors               methodologies.                  for activities dealing         In the regional distri-         Completion of activities
Istatistical base and                                              with the Department for        bution of production            In 3 plus 5. Sb. and Oc
information systems             o Restructuring of present        Marine Fishing under the       capabilities,                   will be achieved during
Information system.            Undersaecretar1at of                                           the 36 months of the
Improve personnel.                                                F1isharia.                                                     project.
professional capabilities        Disaggragatian of the
national agricultural
Strenuthen SAGP's capabi-         program at the regional
lities for investment             and sub-regional level.                                                                                                 e
policy and programming
design a development            a Evaluation of a number
strategy and plan for the         of Investment projects
fisheries sector.                 and identification of
sources for financing.
o Diagnosis of the fisheries
sector, policy design,
project formulation;
evaluation and reform
proposals for fisheries'
legislationa training
activities.



Am= V
Page 14 of 20
ARGENTINA PUBLIC SECToR MANAGEMENT OPERATION
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
C.  Publie Sector Entereriae d nae mnt
Project               Institutional Responsi-
Main Government Objectives        Component Activities          bilitieis  Arrannements      Excected OutoutlImact              Timlng Targ to
Improve Public Enterprise    1. Changes In System
Finpnee and Economic
Performance by:                A. Diagnosis of Institu-       Under Responsibility of       o New Information and Con-   a Diagnosis and recoamend-
tional and legislative    Secretariat of Control and    trol systevs installed             ations campleted by
o simplifying and reducing        system affecting public   Management of Public                                             month O
controls over operating         enterprises, and govern-  Entsrprises (SCGEP)             o ex-ante central controls
decisions, moving to            ment enterprise rala-                                       reduced with central         a Simplifted Information,
a system of control over        tionships.  Rcacseended                                     government attention           reporting system -
financial flows, and            changes in structure                                        focussed an establish-         year I
evaluating and rewarding        reporting. control sys-                                     ing clear operational
performance against             tems, performance eval-                                     objectives for PEs           o ImpIm_nt new central,
agreed operational              uation and incentive.                                                                      p.rfor--nce evaluation
objectives                                                                                a encouraging improvements       system. campleted
B. Technical Assistance In                                     In operational efficiency    year 2. Intermediate
implementing changes                                       of PEs                         results year 1
in "rules of the game".
a financial performance        a Introduce simplifice-
o information, reporting                                      Improvements measured          tions In regulations
systems                                                                                    affecting PE decieion-
mking.  Completed
 transparency in finan-                                                                     year 2, intermdiate
cial vs. social accounts                                                                   results year 1
o reform regulations and
Institutional relation-
ships to increase auto-
nomy, accountability
o measures to increase
clarity, transparency In
comnercial vs. social
objectives, costs,
performanee of PEa
a Complementing and reinforc- 2. Changes at Enterprise
Ing changes in the system        Level
of government-enterprise
relationshiips by tackling   A. Oagnosli of physical,    o Under responsibility           a Diagnoses of eight           a Selection of eight PEas
problems of eight key            financial and managerial    of Secretariat for              firms with action              reflected In year I
public enterprises               restructuring require-        Control and Management        programs developed             action progra
ments of eight major          of Public Enterprises
public enterprises            (SCOEP)                                                    a Diagnoese of eight
covering Inter ail                                                                         firma completed and
Sector/Market                                                                          oroce- Indatio0ns. year 1
Assaet Valuation,



hAuez V
Paas 15 of 20
Project               Institutional Responsi-
Main Government Obiactives        Comaonent Activities          bilitles, rrmnroenta    E*o-cted Outcut/Iomact                   Timine Tarmets
Legal structure
to Increase autonomy
accountability
a activities, product-
mervice six, present
*nd proposed
.Key financial and
operating ratios.
indicators - present
and proposed
, Personnel - size,
quality, remuneration
Policy, prices.
procurement, govern-
nt controls over key
operating decisions -
present and proposed.
S. Implementation of
changes at PE and insti-
tutional level.
 using 8 PEs as pilots                                     a Significant improvemnt    o PE-level and rlated
In introducing systemic                                     In operating e'ficiency,       institutional changes
changes, e.g., perfor-                                      financIal performnce           made In years 2 and 3. q
mance incentives MIS.                                       of eight *"Jor PEa                                      O
moves from ex-ante                                          expected over the
control over decisions                                      present period
to emphasis on results.
o consideration of alter-
natives. e.g. holding
company structure off-
loading activities which
are unviable or not
central, with measures
taken.
o financial restructuring
when positive measures
taken to improve
operating efficiency
o Facilitate Introduction    3. Training of PE Managers,
of systematic and               Government Officials
firm-level changes.                                                                                                    I
through training              o Training of top and         o Responsibility of            o letter management           a Deoign of fir_-level
middle managers of PEs        Secretariat of Public          skills                        and operative training
In key functional areas.    Functions (SFP)                                               programs - montho 6
officials on now systems
o Smoother iEpleentation   a Training of about 500.
o training and orientation                                     of new systems and fir_-    with about ISW in
of PE managers and                                           level Improvements           YVar I
concerned Governrmnt
officials on new systems



hAnez V
ag.e 16 of 20
ARGENTINA PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT OPERATION
KEV PROJECT ACTIVITIES
0.1-6 Industrial *nd Exoort Policlos and Procedures
KVy Government                                              Responsibi litilea
ObJectives Addressed            Prol-ct Activities               Arrangoments             Expected Output/Impact               Ti1ing Targsts
A. Industrial PollcX,
Efficiencv
  Increasa international    a Diagnose national. *ac-   a Responsibility of Secre-                                       o Completion of all activ-
competitiveness In key        tor-l and regional impact   tariat of Industry and                                         1ties In 24 mnths.
industrial subsectorsi        of existing policies--        External Trade, with
- restructure industrial        why they have not             substantive involvemenf                                    a Y-or I. coplete all
subsectora                  achieved desired results,   by the Subsecrateriat  or                                      diagnosttc studies on
- improve policy.               impact on Industrial          Industrial Development,                                      the existing incentive
incentive signals          structure and efficiency,   Industrial Modernization.                                       system.
- bridge technology/            fiscal costs, Implica-        Export Policy, and Small
efficiency 'gops            tions for SOP, as a basis   and Medium Industry.                                         o Year 2, make chanes In
- enable efficient export       for Industrial and trade                                                                   industrial policies and
growth                      policy reform, industry                                                                    incenttves, using
restructuring.                                                                             diagnostic work as a
major input.
  ReadJust industrial         o Recommend changes In                                      o Use of this work to =difyy
policies, strategles to       industrial, trade and                                       Industrial and trade
achieve an Industrial         financial policies,                                         policy/incentives, to
structure which reflects    asses1ng Impact on                                            promote efficiency and
Argentina's dynamic           efficiency, employment                                      exports.
comparative advantage.        exports.
Integrate regional
Industrial promotion       o Evaluate costs and bene-                                   o Reduce distortions and       a Regional policy diagnos-
into overall strategy,        fits of regional Indus-                                     inffticient resource           tic work completed In
industrial development                                      allotation Caused by           Year 1.
instruments used over the                                   existing Incentive sy&tem.
last decade--incentives                                                                  o Discussions, maditca-
decentralization, indus-                                                                   tions made In Year 2.
trial parks--to enable
discussion at provincial
level of more rational.
consistent, and efficient
set or regional develop-
ment polrcies  and
Istrategies.



An    v
Pap 17 of 20
Key Government                                               Responsibii1ties                                            _
Oblectives Addressed             ProJect Activities               Arrangements        _     xoected Outnut/Imoact               Tim    Taroes
o Install data bass to
enable monitoring impact
of policy/promotional
Instruments on firm-level
decision-making and
actual performance.
o Complete subseCtor                                        a Develop programs for         o Capital goods study
diagnostic studies,                                         physical, financial and        completed In Year 1.
beginning with capital                                      managerial restructuring       with policies changes
goods. focussing ont                                        In key Industry groups.        _ade restructuring
international comp-ti-                                                                     progress developed In
tiven-ss of costs and                                                                      Vear 2.
quality In major product-
market segments; product-                                                                O Other subsaector studies
process technology,                                                                        completed In Year 2,
export and domestic                                                                        with changes made Year 3.
market opportunities and
requirementsl physical,
financial and managerial
restructuring needsl and
policy changes needed to
encourage efficiency.
o  Improve quality of          o Identificatior of key
private industrial            success factors at firm                                                                                                LA
investments made and          level which have enabled                                                                                               1.
efficiency of startups        good project formulation
and opsrations,               and execution--to use in
streamlining future
appraisal.
o Clean out all industrial                                  o Streamlining and improve-  o Industrial approvels
projects In queue for                                       ment in criteria used in       brought up to date.
Industrial licensing                                        Industrial projset             month 6.
approval,                                                   approvals.
o Design and install system                                 o Monitoring system            o Streamlining of approval
for project monitoring.                                     Installed,                     system and of monitoring
system.
o Assessment of *ppsd,
efficiency of control and
monitoring of industries
by different agencles;
r&comaendations for
procedural reform.



Annex V
Pag    8 of 20
Key Governmeni                                                Raspansibllities
ObJectives Aadrebsed             Project Activities                Arrinoements             Expected Outout/lmoact               Timing Targets
f. Exuort Policies and
Procedures
 Analyze main factors          SICE                                                        a Diagnostic work comple-
affecting industrial                                                                        ted, Year 1.
export performance.
Assess areas of
comparative/competitive
advantage for Argentine
Industry.
a Relate policy-induced
problems and performance
of Industrial structure
to limited export
prospects. Recommand
changes.
o Complete assessment of
exporters' response to
existing Industrial
trade, and export
policies and procdures.
Assess main barrlars to
export growth. Recommend
changes in policies and
procedures.
l   Improve and streamline    o Diagnose, recommend and                                     a Reduce 'hastle factor         a Streamlined export m*d
export procedures to          assist in further simpli-                                    In export procedures. to        Import procedures Intro-
erduce delays. compensate   fication of export and                                         Improve exporters ability    duced Year 1.
for direct and indirect       related Import policies                                      to meet orders In a tieely
taxes and encourage           and procedures.                                              manner. increase their
indirect exports.                                                                          Interest In exporting,
o Assess and recommend                                         End reduce holding costs.
areas to Incorporate
indirect taxes Into duty
drawback or other compen-
satory  xport revenues.
o Devise means to provide
indirect exporters access
to export facilities.



Annex V
Page 19 of 20
Key Government'                                               Reasponsibilitie e
Objectives Addressed              Project Activities               Arrangoments             Expected Outout/Iuoact               Timing Tarueta
o  Improve Information to    a Design and install                                           a Increase exports, by          a Exporter Information
exporters on concrete         computerized export                                          masisting exporters in          system Installed, Year 1.
opportunities and on          Information system to                                        responding to product-         Refined and Iproved.
market trends,                serve end-users, making                                      market opportunities.           Year 2.
full use of appropriate
computerized market data
sources, and info
received from commercial
attaches.
o  Gear government organi-   a Recommend reorganization                                     o Facilitate procedural         a DOlagnoatic and reorgani-
zation to exporters'          of trade sections of                                         streamlining. and improve    naton. Year 1.
needs.                        SICE, based upon strat-                                      SICE's services to
egic obJeectives.                                            exporters.
I
a  .                                                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



Anex V
Pag 20 of 20
ARGENTINA PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMEtIT OPERATION
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
0.7 Ministry of Forsion Aftairs
I     Key Government                                               Reasponsibilities                                      I
Objectives Addressed             Project Activities               Arrangements         _   Expected Outout;,Pact               Timino T-reots
To endow tho Ministry of        Definition and installa-   a Ministry of Foreign            This component should          Organisation of
or Forelon Ralattons %eth       tion of documentation          Relations (MREC) thru Its  substantially improv*            docu- ntatlon center.
the required data bass and    center for support of            Under4ecretariats of         the economic work carried    Months 1-6 operation.
adialytical capabilities        analytical activities and    International Ecanomic         out by MRE which ia hey.       Months 7-24 lmprovements
required for an efficient       appropriate system for         Relations and of Inter-   given the leading role this
Iperformance in multi-           Information retrieval,         national in Coordination 1 Ministry has both in trade   Putting in place
Ilateral and bilateral                                          with the Secretariat.    I ngotiations and Interna-    Information and DOat
leconomic negotiations.                                                                      tional economic analysis.    Processing Departmnt.
Information and Date                                                                       Months 15-24.
Processing Departments
- project design                                                                          Economic Analysis
- software and hardware                                                                   Departeont. 24 Months
requirements
- procurement                                                                             Advisory Unit. 24 Months.
Economic Analysis Depart-                                                                  Comuwn1cations Unit,
mont           nstablisnment and
- selection and  easign                                                                   operation. 24 Months.
of analytical
Instruments
- short- and long-term
analysis of forelgn
trade (sectors,
markets)
Establishment and
operation of Advisory Unit
Establishment of Communi-
cations Unit



B O        L   I V I A
>A MEICA                CXXOICAC S                      P A RPARAGUAY
,     /   -'' 0 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V 1UEU    #R
I    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~          -                   
SAN/U             2 20 RA                     R U
__~~~~~~ABA S  S             20    2u4    C       -      A   4  i  LO-As/SA
RAA                                    AIRE A
PASO                          ARGENTIN~~~~~~~~~~A-
DELRA?AA SA PATASJCO
4* "   Zrv tl h /6  jtaeg  DVIEDMA
< {8  \       yt 5~~AWSON
'    ^50C}    /2                         ARGENTINA
COACDOROAO                              OO      BO
~ t  @  - Xd 1YADAVIA                   MAJC     - -0IDCb
2--                                  O -ILROAU so2D CCN--CTILA-
<~~~~~~~~~WIIA O LApo                         -
-50- ~ ~   ~     ~     CA*                                 20 20    0           0
h .o BaA tAS                                                                                        (A
\ A,%OGA LEGO                         AKZDD/SMD
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 '"0 r2?
5~~~~^__   ~~~~~~~   Ub            D     IOD      M~~~~~~~~~~~~-LES  Xo d, 
>'  3   -                                                                     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S






