DoaauMm of
The World Bank
MOR OMFICAL USE ONlY
bpt No  12124
PROJECT COPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PUBIC SECTOR NANAGONE  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LON 2712-AR)
IUE 30, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12124
Type: PCR
Public Sector Management Division
Techncal Deppartent
Latin America and The Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted diributon and may be wsed by recipients only in the performance of
dhir offical duties. Its conten may not otherwise be disbosed without Worid Bank authorization.



LIST OF ACRONYMS
ANA      Administraci6n Nacional de Aduanas (Customs Department)
BCRA   Banco Central de la Repdblica Argentna (Central Bank)
CECRA Comite Ejecutivo de Contralor de la Reforma Administrativa (Executive Committee of the
Comptroller of Administrative Reform)
CEDES  Centro de Estudios de Estado y Sociedad (Center for the Study of State and Society)
CEPAL Comisidn Econ6mica para AmErica Latina y el Caribe (Economic Commission for Latin
America and the Caribbean)
CIET    Centro interamericano de Estudios Tributarios (InterAmerican Center for Tax Study)
DEP      Directorio de Empresas Pdblicas (Directorate of Public Enterprises)
DGI      Direcci6n General Impositiva (General Tax Office)
DNI    Direccion Nacional de Impuestos (National Tax Office)
DNIAF Direccidn Nacional de Investigaciones y Anglisis Fiscales (National Office for Fiscal
Investigation and Analysis)
DNPP   Direccidn Nacional de Programaci5n y Presupuesto (National Office of Programiring and
Budgeting)
INDEC Instituto Nacional de Estadfsticas y Censo (National Institute of Statistics and the Census)
ME       Ministerio de Economfa (Ministry of Economy)
MEOSP  Ministerio de Economfa y de Obras y Servi'ios PNblicos (Mimistry of Economy and Public
Works)
MOSP   Ministerio de Obras y Servicios Pdblicos (Ministry of Public Works and Service)
MREC Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto (Ministry of Foreign Relations and Culture)
PE       Public Enterprise
PERAL  Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan
PEREL  Public Enterprise Reform Execution Loan
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PSMTAL Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Loan
PSRTAL Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan
SAGP   Secretarfa de Agricultura, Ganaderfa, y Pesca (Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, and
Fisheries)
SCAT Secretarfa de Coordinaci6n Administrativa y Tecnica (Secretariat for Technical and
Administrative Coordination)
SCE      Secretarfa de Coordinaci6n Econ6mica (Secretariat for Economic Coordination)
SCGEP Secretarfa de Control y Gestion de Empresas Piblicas (Secretariat for Control and
Management of Public Enterprises)
SE       Secretarla de Economfa (Secretariat of Economy)
SEF      Superintendencia de Entidades Financieras (Superintendancy of Financial Entities)
SFP      Secretarfa de la Funcidn Pdblica (Secretariat of Public Functions)
SH       Secretarfa de Hacienda (Secretariat of the Treasury)
SIC      Secretarfa de Industra y Comercio (Secretariat of Industry and Commerce)
SICE    Secretarfa de Industrh y Comercio Exterior (Secretariat of Industry and Extenal Trade)
SIGEP   Sindicatura General de Empresas Pdblicas (General Union of Public Enterprises)
SP       Secretarfa de Planificaci6n (Secretariat of Planning)
SPE      Secretarfa de Programaci6n Econ6mica (Secretariat of Economic Planning)
SSEE SubSecretarfa de Estudios Econdmicos (Undersecretariat of Economic Studios)
SSFP    SubSecretarfa de Finanzas Pdiblicas (Undersecretariat of Public Finance)
UNDP   United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Waohington, D.C. 23443
U.SA
OM"ic of Otwotor4fnbral
Oparone Evaluaion
June 30, 1993
NZEDUMS; TO  ECUTVE DIRECTORS AND TIM PRESIDREN
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Argendna - PublH Sector
NMnement Technical Asstance Project fLoan 2712-AR
Attached is the Project Compledon Report on Argentina - Public Sector Management Technixa
Assistance Project (Loan 2712-AR) prepared by the Latin America and the Carbbean Regional Office, with Part
II prepared by ihe Borrower.
This was a large and complex Technical Assistance project, and the PCR revisits its origin, design and
implementation issues in a highly professional manner. With some fifteen (15) major compoaents ranging from
$500,000 to $1,700 million It Is not easy to draw general conclusions on the project performance as a whole.
Strictly spealdng, components amc nting to $9.7 million receive an unsatisfactory rating by the PCR,
against a total of $7 milion considered satisfactory. However, many of the project's relevant objectives vmere
achieved. In particular. thle project succeeded in strengthening the public sector information base, implementing
and monitoing the economic reform program, improving tax policy, improving budget programming and
control system and strengthening insdtutional capacity for agncultural planning.
The main reasons given for the unsatisfactory performance of several components of this project are
filiar, i.e., disregard of effective demand by the client, excessive reliance on outside consutats (some 800)
with little participation of Government officials, and overall overesimation of the absorptive capacity of the
institutional machinery. On balance, considering the extraordinary circumstances ffaced by the newly inaed
Government, the project is rated satisfactory.
The institutional impact of the project is rated as substantial, and its sustainability as likely if one takes
into account the fact that a number of activities carried out under the project with less than satisfwactory
performance became the seeds of subsequent operations and better focused technical assistance projects.
The PCR correctly states that the main lessons of experience to be drawn from this project are: (i)
Public Sector Management reforms should be more limited in scope and in areas where political, managerial
and technical commitment is strong; (ii) too heavy a reliance on consultants is detrimental to Borrower
ownership; and (idi) reallocation of funds during project implementation should be transparent and linked to wel
justified changes in project scope.
No audit of this project is planned.
Attachment
Itie documeat W a resicted distibution nd may be ued by recipiewa only in the perfoImance of theit official duties. as aotents may
no othew   be disclosed without Wodd Bank authorization.



FOR OMCJAL USE ONLY
PREFACE                      .IaCOAPLMN EPR
EVALUATIONS~AUgM                                          MA               Y. i
PB:PRLOSEOETREVIEWROMTHENT BgCAANKA PISTANCEPPROTECT
aDAN 2212-A
IABE OF CONET
E No.
PREFACE  .......................................................                                      i
EVALUATION SUh8MARY  ..................................................                             iu
EART1:  PROJECr REVIEW FROM THE BANUS PERSPECTP/E  .....................................             I
A.   ProjectIdentity 1........................ 
B.    Background                  1.............................-                                   I
C.   Project Objectives and Description                  .............................              2
D.   Projet Design   nd...............................                                              3
E. Project                     ......................................                              4
F.    Reslts ............................................... S
G.   Sustaitability ...........................................                                    6
H.   Assesment by Component  ..................................                                    7
1    Bank and Bonrower Performance ...............................                                17
J.    Lessons to be Drawn for Future PSM Technical Assistance
Projects ..............................................                                    18
K.   Project Relatonships ......................................                                   19
L.    Consulting Services .......................................                                 20
M.   Projet Documentation and Data ...............................                                21
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ........   22
A.   lntroducton and Condusions .................................                                 22
B.   mpact ...............................................    24
C. World Bank Performance .24
D. Government Pedormance.                                                                          25
E.  Relatonship between the Government and the Bank .                                             26
F.  UNDP/OPS Performance ...................................    27
G. Coordihnng Unk Performance .28
H. SpecificProblems .28
I.    Lessons of Experience .....................................                                 29
J.  Recommendations ...............,.,,.,,. 31
PART : STATISICAL NFORMATION ., ,    34
Table 1:        Project Timetable ...................................                             34
Table 2:        Loan Disbursements:
Cuwmlative Estimated and AMcta Disbursements ...............                      35
This document has a restficted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTE`TS (contd.)                                                              }Ig No.
Table 3A:    Project Financing ...................................                       36
Table 3B:    Project Cost Breakdown by Component .....................                   37
Table 4:      Status of Covenants  .................................                     38
Table 5A:    Use of Bank Resources ...............................                       40
Table 5B:    Mission Supervision by Year ......      .......  ..............             41
Table 6:  Re-,ted Bank Projects .42



PROJECB COQMPL REPORT
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSMITANCE PROJ
(LOAN 2712.-AR,
PREFACE
(i)          This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Public Sector Management
Technical Ass;stan^e Project in Argentina, for which Loan 2712-AR in the amount of US$18.5
million was approved on September 12, 1986. The Loan was closed on December 31, 1991 (the
original loan closing date was February 28, 1991). The loan was fully disbursed on May 14, 1991.
Dii!         Pars I and m of this PCR were prepared by the Public Sector Management Division
of the LAC Technical Department (on behalf of the LA4 Country Department). This report is based
upon an examination of Appraisal Reports, Loan Agreement and Supplementary Amendments,
Supervision Reports, Implementation Reviews, Project Correspondence Reports, Financial Statements
and Audit Reports. In addition, interviews were conducted during the final supervision mission with
personnel in the Project Coordinating Unit and with key personnel involved in the various project
components. Finally, this report benefitted from the examination of the Final Report prepared by the
Project Coordinating Unit and an Executive Summary of that report. Part II of the PCR was prepared
by the Government of Argentina.



- lii -
PROJECr COMELQN REPOQRT
ARGENES,
PUBLIC SECR NANAGENMEN               NAL ASSSTAN
(LOAN 2712 ,A
£YAL!UflIiMamA
Introduction
1.    The Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project was conceived as a means for
recouping badly deteriorated adminisative capabilities; for introducing modern information,
analytical, and procedural techniques to the public sector; and for improving sectoral and global
capabilities for planning, programming, and monitoring, such that effective capture of available
resources might be accomplished. The extremely weak instiutional framework of Government and
the paucity of technlcal personnel provided strong impetus for pursuing a strategy that would bring
immediate skllls to Government for the longer term institutionalization of sustainable reforms. It is
within this context that the conceptualization of the need for support of reform on multiple fronts and
for an effort to provide for the integration of information systems, resource mobilization capabilities,
the development of analytical policy making capabilities, and the strengthening of the policy climate
for investment activities in industry and trade evolved. The loan was ambitious and complex in terms
of the numbers of component activities and the number of consultant activities under each component.
It was intended as a funding structure for activities that would assist the GOA in the arduous task of
strengthening management and analy-,al capabilities in the face of an economic and political climate
of increasing uncertainty. While a mnmber of achievements under the loan made important short term
contulbutions to the management of principal functions of Central Government, and longer term
contributions to the development of information bases and policy-making capabilities, some long term
contributions of the loan were circumscribed by volatility in the climate of reform in the 1980s, by
some initial changes in the managerial responsibility in the Bank, changes in the auithorities in charge
on the side of GOA throughout project implementation, and by weaknesses 3n the design and
implementation of some activities under tde loan.
Qb.Mie&
2.    The Project's principal objective was to improve the Government's capacity to manage the
economy through the strengthening of economic and public sector management in key agencies
involved in policy determination. This was to be accomplished through the improvement of effective
and integrated policy development, particularly Government efforts to develop tools necessary .1r
coherent economic policy and decision making, to increase domestic resource mobilization, to
improve public sector investment efficiency, to strengthen the performanie of public sector enterprises
including the restructuring of enterprises, and to improve export and ind.s-ial policies.



- iv -
3.    In presenting the loan to tae Executive Directors, the Bank correctly identified the main risks
of the lending operation as the multiplicity of isitutions Involved, the ambitious and complex nature
of the tasks, and the lack of human resources in Government at the time. However, with hindsight
these risks were underetiae and the absorptive capacity of Government overesdmated. In
particuar, the Project experieced exeme delays and difficulties during the first three years of
implementation. This was a result of the precarious natr of the Argentine economy; volatility in
Bank personnel supervising the Project; a changing commitment on the part of the GOA to reform;
the sheer number of individual consultants involved in the Proiect; delays in procurements; and
weaknesses in counterpart personnel and continuity in the Executing Agencies.
4.    The. Project passed througt three fairly clearl; demarcated phases during Its life. The first
year of project implementation resulted in a flurr; of activity, when there was a great deal of fund
disbursemet. In this initial period all components lagged behind schedule, and in the first year nine
components had not begun. The Project moved into a period of intense re-examination ("pausa de
reflexi6n') of the intent and diretion of a number of the components, and indeed of the Project as a
whole (mid-1987 through mid-1988). In addition, concern was expressed with regard to excessive
delays in initiation of activities and the poor use of consultants. During this second period, the level
of activity under the loan was reduced dramatically. Finally, the last three years have seen an effort to
provide continuity to the Project from the Bank's side, to redefine the overall scope of the Project,
and to restructure some components and to reallocate funds from others to different components in an
effort to provide a more integrated scope to the Project and to link it to other t,chnical assistance
activities. The su-tainability of activities initiated under the Project is a result of this redefinition and
recommitment, evident in the current administrative reform efforts and associated Bank loans.
Sgstainabflt_
5.    Sustainability under the conditions of Argentina in the 1980s would have been difficult in the
best of all possible circumstances. In a positive sense, much of the informatics developed under the
loan are in use, at the point of becoming available for use, or may need to be strengthened in the
context of current technical assistance activities under new loans. A number of component activities
have become inputs into ongoing loans and technical assistance operations. However, a small but
meaningful portion of the consultant activity under the loan was stop-gap management and technical
advice, serving more for immediate activities than for the longer term. In some cases, this short-term
strategy was warranted given the needs of the time. In others, it was driven by the availability of
talent. One significant result has been the development of a pool of talent where some consultants
under the Project have become key actors in the current Government.
6.    In one sense, the Project served to provide for the very real need for continuity in the face of
turbulent administrative, economic, and political times. The provision of large numbers of individual
consultants can be seen in two lights: (a) as a short term solution and a weak strategy for assuring
institutional transfer of skills, structure, and processes; or (b) as a means for maintaining line
functions and direction in a time of turbulence and a possible means for strengthening initial
institutional efforts that require furter institutional support over the longer iun. This project is a
mixture of both of these realities. On the positive side, the Project did produce much needed
information systems, valuable short term policy advice, and served as the initiative for a number of
current technical assistance and policy-based operations. On the other hand, some consultant activity



v -
provided only stop-gap management and technical advice; there is evidence in the early years that
some individual consultant activities encouraged government personnel to become active consultants to
the Project outside government, and some of the ambitious informatics were weakly connected to
extant demand or capacity.
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.    While the incredible economic, administrative, and tr!itical turbulence of the 1980s may not
characterize current Argendne conditions, there is still dramatic change occurring and the need to
consider issues of project  g, implmemltatiQn, and   vision during such times. Several key
lessons emerge from this project. Attempts at PSM reform need to be limited in scope and well-
focused in areas where there is strong commitment at all levels (political, manage:ial, and technical),
particularly in weak and/or uncertain political and economic environments. Clearly identified outputs
and expected impact must be incorporated in design. Succe:ses can then serve as the basis for future
assistance and reforms. Supervision by the Bank and the Borrower on a continuous and intensive basis
is paramount in public sector technical assistance efforts. There needs to be a careful balance between
short term exigencies (eg., maintaining line functions) and the long term needs of strategic institution
building. The heavy reliance on consultants throughout the Project created difficulties in supervision,
in maintaining government personnel, in transferring technologies and skills to institutions. In
addition, transferring skills and talent to government in the absence of a viable wage structure is not
likely; there is a need to focus human resource development programs on the prior need for incentives
to performance. Finally, while flexibility in the allocation of funds served the Project well in some
cases, and allowed for the reallocation of funds to apidly changing circumstances, there is the
potential that flexibility may lead to slippage and to the failure to define adequately the scope of
changing use of funds.



PROJECT COMPLEIO  REPORT
PUBLIC S13TO  MANAGE=StI TECHNICAL4 ASSISTNCE PROIECT
lLAN 271&MA
PART 1:  RO_    REVIEWF           THE BANK'S PERSPTVE
A.    Poect Identit
Project Name: Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
Loan Number: 2712-AR
Regional Unit: Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country:           Argentina
Sector:      Public Sector Maagement
B.    Backgind
1.           Any public sector reform effort in Argentina during the extremely turbulent times of
the 1980s would likely encounter dramatic difficulties in implementation and would be required to
respond to changing economic, administrative, and political circumstances. Five stabilization
programs in the period from 1984-1989 failed, due largely to difficulties in adjustments to the public
sector. Tre Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project was conceived as a means for
recouping badly deteriorated administrative capabilities; for introducing modern information,
analytical, and procedural techniques to the public sector; and for improving sectoral and global
capabilities for planning, programming, and monitoring, such that effective capture of available
resources might be accomplished. The Project had its origins in the efforts of the Alfonsin
Government to respond to the severe economic crisis it inherited upon assuming office in 1983.
Facing spiralling inflation and deteriorating balance of payments difficulties, initia reforms of the
Alfonsfn Adminison attempted to introduce orthodox demand management with the assistance of a
15 month IMF stand-by agreement. However, failure to adhere to the inital reform program resulted
in suspension of the stand-by agreement in 1984.
2.    The ascendance of a new economic team in early 1985 and the introduction of the Plan
Austral, the shift from gradualism to "shock treatment," and the initial success of reform efforts
provided a positive backdrop to the initiation of administative reform efforts and for the provision of
technical assistance to strengthen and deepen the ongoing reform program. The extremely weak
institutional framework of Government and the paucity of technical personnel provided strong impetus
for pursuing a stategy that would bring immediate skills to Government for the longer term
institutionalization of sustainable reforms. It is within this context that the conceptualization of the
need for management support on multiple fronts and for an effort to provide for the integration of
information systems, resource mobilization capabilities, the development of analytical policy making
capabilities, and the strengthening of the policy climate for investment activities in industry and trade
evolved.
3.    Substantal effort preceded the implementation of the Loan. Beginning with initial discussions
in 1984, Bank-Government negotiations led to the development of a UNDP-financed, Bank-executed
project to identify components and to prepare a proposed Public Sector Mana',ement Technical
Assistance Loan. A Pre-Appraisal Mssion in July 1985 assisted in the identificadon of initial
activities that might be pursued under a Public Sector Mnagement TAL. Subsequent approval of a



.2 -
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in early 1986 furihered the identification and diagnostic work, with
the resuiting locus on a number of critical areas including: public enterprise reform, public sector
investment, the development of analytical tools for economic decision-making, and the strengthening
of an integrated information base for planning, progranming, and monitoring in several key sectors
of the economy. In addition, work conducted under the PPF developed implementation plans, Annual
Action Programs, counterpart arrangements, and some terms of reference for major assignments.
Appraisal in March 1986 and subsequent negotiations in May 1986 led to Bank and Government
signing of the Loan Agreement in September 1986. In addition, UNDP provided bridge financing to
ensure continuity betweec. the PPF and loan effectiveness.
C.    Pojegt Objectives and Descridt.
4.           The Project's principal objective war to improve the Govermnent's capacity to manage
the economy through the strengthening of economic and public sector management in key agencies
involved in policy determination. This was to be accomplished through the improvement of effective
and integrated policy development, particularly Government efforts to develop tools necessary for
coherent economic policy and decision making, to increase domestic resource mobilization, to
improve public sector investment efficiency, to strengthening the performance of public sector
enterprises including the restructuring of enterprises, and to improve export and industrial policies.
These efforts were intended to reduce the public sector deficit as well.
5.           The Project, as originally designed, consisted of:
(a)   technical assistance to the Ministry of Economy for the development of Walytical
tools for decision-making through (i) the building of forecasting models; (ii)
improving macroeconomic and sectoral data through the development of input/output
matrices; (iii) the establishment of integrated information systems; (iv) the
development of reliable national accounts; and (v) the improvement of economic
sistics and the strengthening of INDEC's resource capabilities;
(b)    a central resource mobilization and use component to (i) strengthen SP's capacity for
global planning and for project and program evaluation; (ii) strengthen SH's
capabilities in programming and budgeting through improvements in tax policy and
administration, criteria for determining public expenditures, computerization of the
budget process, and the provision of appropriate and timely information; (iii)
strengthen MOSP's capabilities in investment programming, policy formulation, and
monitoring of the public enterprises and other public agencies under its purview; and
(iv) strengthen SAGP's institutional capacity and the coordination among entities in
the agricultural sector;
(c)    a public enterprise management component to define the institutional relationship of
public enterprises (PEs) with Government to (i) improve systems of control,
information, and performance incentives; (ii) conduct in-depth analyses of
restructuring requirements for major PEs; (iii) training of public enterprise managers
and central government officials to facilitate institutional reforms; and
(d)   an industry and trade component to (i) simplify trade and customs procedures; (ii)
improve the capture of taxes from indirect exporters; (iii) reorganize SICE's external



-3 -
trade capabilities; (v) strengthen the ANA; (v) strengthen the design and
implemenWion of export promotion policies and services to exporters; and (vi)
conduct studies to improve export and industrial policies and the capability to analyze
world market trends.
6.           Three components were added during the life of the Project, which were financed
through unallocated ard reallocated funds. In i)87, amendment to the original loan reallocated funds
to support the effort to privatize the petrocLmical sector. The component to support the design,
implementation, and monitoring of the new Economic Reform Program was initiated in July, 1990,
and expanded in 1991. Tbis was an effort to strengthen the coordination and integration of activities
within the Ministry of Economy in support of the new economic program, with particular emphasis
on administrative reform. The component to strengthen the Superintendancy of Financial Entities
(SEF) thl .  the purchase of computer equipment and seftare resulted from the reallocation of
funds in July, 1990. The purpose of this component was to enhance the physical capacity of SEF to
improve financial control and information of the banking sector. In addition, several original
components were modified, discontinued, and/or combined for more effective use of project funds.
D.    Project Design and Organization
7.           The design and attribution of responsibility for various activities under the loan was
driven by several factors: (i) an image that the institutional needs of Argentina were great; (ii) that the
Initial enthusiasm on the part of Government would carry the Project; (iii) that the existence of a
newly created coordinating agency in Government (the Secretariat for Economic Coordination in ME)
and the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) could provide effective integration among components; and
(iv) that the answer to institutional shortcomings was technical assistance to individual agencies within
Government. No fewer than seventeen distinct entities were to implement the various components of
the Project. The staff appraisal report correctly identifies the potential problems of project complexity
and multiplicity of consultants: The relatively large size of the proposed project and the number of
activities and consultants involved entail some risk of delayed or incomplete implementation."
However, the number of components and the complexity of relationships among components,
consultants, and the coordinating unit proved more onerous than perceived, and the presumption that
the supply of technical assistance could resolve institutional issues was overly optimistic. Problems in
design complexity affected implementation throughout the Project, from early delays in
implementation of individual components to inadequate integration among components.
8.           The limited absorptive capacity of Government was not fully recognized at design
stage. Given the recent restructuring of much of the administrative apparatus of Government under
the Alfonsfn Administration, and given the relative organizational ambiguity that existed for much of
the Project, it is not surprising that complexity should lead to delays, shortfalls in some component
goals, and weak integration and transfer for other components. As a result, for some components
(eg., B1, Cl) various Government reorganizations during the life of the Project resulted in shifts in
the siting of components. Further, this shifting of institutional settings also resulted In a limited
transfer of some of the systems developed as well as weaknesses in institutional memory.
9.           While relative continuity existed within the PCU over the life of the Project, the same
was not true of either the organizational framework of Government nor of counterpart personnel
within Government or in the Bank. Given the complexity of project design, the absence of this
continuity has meant obstacles to the transfer of technologies and skldls.



-4 -
10.   Furthermore, design complexity also implies the need for intensive supervision, which was
not fuily recognized at the design stage yet was very evident within the first year of project
impl.vnentation. No fewer than thirty staff weeks of supervision were invested in the Project in the
first year - and another 38 weeks in the second year - and still there were significant delays in the
implementation of most components. Finally, complexity is evident in the number of consultants; even
at the design stage, some 800 consultants for some 4,000 work months of consulting services were
envisaged. The internal weakness of Government staff skills was a major reason for the inclusion of
large amounts of consulting activities in the hope that high level expatriate technical personnel could
be drawn back to Argentina through the Project to strengthen national level expertise. Yet, to presume
the need to draw on this expertise and not recognize the limits of absorptive capacity became a
contradiction evident in various activities of the Project. In some cases, consultant experts became de
facto line personnel involved in fire fighting activities (eg., B4, D12356). In other cases, consultant
advice and products became technical products not easily absorbed nor easily transferred to weak
organizational entitles (eg., A3, B2al).
11.          There was a heavy investment of staff preparation time allocated for the Project.
Project preparation began in late 1984. Ihe utilization of the UNDP-financed project in 1985, as well
as the PPF financed by the Bank and "bridge" financing by UNDP, meant that some US$ 1.2 million
was expended at the preparation stage of the technical assistance loan. Yet, in spite of the intensive
preparation, problems that resulted from design plagued the Project throughout. While multiple
institutional problems and the enormity of the task were identified correctly, project design suffered
from the lack of an integrated vision, the absence of an understanding of the need to sequence
institutional interventions, and the assumption that the provision of technical assistance would create
institutional stability. With hindsight these risks were underestimatd and the absorptive capacity of
Government overestimated.
E.    Proiect WMolttq
12.          The Project passed through three fairly clearly demarcated phases during its life. The
first year of project implementation resulted in a flurry of activity, when there was a great deal of
fund disbursement and component initiaticu. In this initial period all components lagged behind
schedule, and in the first year nine components had not begun. The Project moved into a period of
intense re-examination (upausa de reflexidn") of the intent and direction of a number of the
components, of the excessive delays in component start-up and of the use of individual consultants,
indeed of the Project as a whole (mid-1987 through mid-1988). During this second period, the level
of activity under the loan was reduced dramatically. Finally, the last three years have seen an effort to
provide continuity to the Project from the Bank's side, to redefine the overall scope of the Project,
and to restructure some components and to reallocate finds from others to different components in an
effort to provide a more integrated scope to the Project and to link it to other technical assistance
activities.
13.          In part, this tremendous volatility can be accounted for by volatility in national
circumstances, as Argentina was going through precarious political and economic shifts continuously.
In part, this volatility is the result of reorganization in the Bank and changes in Bank personnel
supervising the Project. In the first three years of the Project there were four project managers or co-
managers; in the last three years project management was continuous. Finally, during the first three
years of the Project this volatility resulted from inadequate linking of individual consultant activities
and components to a consistent overall vision and institdonal framework for the purpose of the



technical assistance loan itself. In some components the assistance was seen (and used) as a temporary
maintenance program for technical personnel, a stop-gap measure to retain skills needed during
"transition." In other cases, components became insulated from the day to day supervision that may
have been necessary within the executing agencies, due in part the Incapacity of executing agencies to
supervise. In yet other cases, volatlity was the resut of changig visions of the appropriate role of
Government in the economy, affecting how particular component activities (eg., global planning,
strengthening central control over PEs) were to be carried out. Implementation in more recent times
has benefitted from (a) strong and continuous leadership of the reform program from within the
Government and the ME in particular; (b) continued supervision and with a single direction from the
Bank; and (c) improved interaction between the Bank and the PCU.
F.    Results
14.          Judging the n ults of many activities under the loan is made difficult because the
Project is directly related to continued activity under the PSRTAL, and the impact of this project
needs to be viewed in terms of the reformulation of the Government's reform program in the post-
1989 period. Recent efforts by the PCU to create an archive of data/studies produced under the
Project and the decision to produce 15 volumes of the studies will provide useful bases for further
institution strengthening in Government. Generally, while the Project has produced a massive amount
of studies, has developed a series of information systems, and has strengthened a cadre of personnel
(primarily outside of Government), the shortfalls in results are attributable to the weakness in linking
the supply of technical expertise to practical demand in the short term, and the failure to integrate
much of the information and to incorporate in insdtutions much of the work conducted. What does
seem apparent is that the areas of greatest success under the Project are those components that aimed
at relatively focused outcomes that linked performance to accountability (eg., A5: strengthening
capacity and inibrmation base in INDEC; A6: support for the current economic reform program;
A7:support for the Superiedancy of Banks; the subcomponent under B2 to strengthen capabilities in
the Subsecretariat of Public Finance; C4: individual privatazations of petrochemical companies; and
D12356 and D7 which focused on specific activities to be achieved in the trade and industry sector).
The weakest components and subcomponents were those where the supply of technical assistance was
not in tune with the extant demand for the use of TA. This applies to those components that either:
(a)    became contrary to the reformulated vision of the State (eg., Bi: global planning; C3:
strengthening human resource capacity in an entity aimed at controlling PEs);
(b)   those that were driven more by the availability of technologies rather than the demand
for the use of these technologies (A2,4: national accounts and input/output matrices; a
number of the components aimed at integrating sophisticated information systems and
hardware; A3: integration of computerization of ME); or
(c)    did not reflect clear demand and consensus from leadership (eg., B2a: Tax Policy and
Administration).
15.          There are a number of components that must be seen in continuity. The outputs of
these components provide strong potential inputs to ongoing TA projects and serve as foundations for
further institutional strengthening (eg., Al and A4: forecasting tools and the national accounts; parts
of B2: Tax Policy; B2bd: budgeting and programming improvements and links to the new Fnancial
Administration Law).



-6-
G.    Sustainabiliy
16.          Sustainability under the conditions of Argentina In the 1980s would have been difficult
in the best of all possible circumstances. In this loan, the lack of sustainability of some elements is
directly related to this economic, political and institutional ambience. However, in some cases the
lack of sustainability can be traced to weaknesses in the design of components and difficulties in
incorporating consultant activities into the existing institutional structure. The sustainability of several
of the components should be seen in light of the comments in par. 14. In a positive sense, much of
the informatics developed under the loan are in use, at the point of becoming available for use, or
may need to be strengthened in the context of current technical assistance activities under new loans.
However, demand for some data and systems remains limited, and use is circumscribed. The lack of
integration across entities within the ME and across secretariats Is a major challenge to be overcome.
A number of component activities have become inputs into ongoing loans and technical assistance
operations. For example, some of the studies generated under the tax policy subcomponent served the
current Tax Administration TAL; however, the same appears not to be true of much of the activity
under the tax administration subcomponent of this loan. Activities in the area of reformulation of the
administrative strategy have fed directly as inputs into the current PSRTAL. Similarly, some of the
activities focusing on PEs (component undet C) have beeni useful in the development and activity of
the current PERAL and PEREL. However, a small but meaningful portion of the consultant activity
under the loan was stop-gap management and technical advice, serving more for immediate activities
than for the longer term. In some cases, this short-term strategy was warranted given the needs of the
time. In others, it was driven by the availability of talent. One significant result has been the
development of a pool of talent where some consultants under the Project have become key actors in
the current Government.
17.         TMis use of consultants was not true for most components under the loan, but can be
seen to varying degrees in: components focusing on resource mobilization (B1, B2a2, B3, and B4); In
the human resource development component (C3), and to a minor degree in the component focusing
on industrial and export policies and procedures (D12356).
18.          In one sense, the Project served to provide for the very real need for continuity in the
face of turbulent administrative, economic, and political times. The provision of large numbers of
individual consultants can be seen in two lights: (a) as a short term solution and a weak strategy for
assuring institutional transfer of skflls, structure, and processes; or (b) as a means for maintaining line
functions and direction in a time of turbulence and a possible means for strengthening initial
institutional efforts that require further institutional support over the longer run. This project is a
mixture of both of these realities. On the positive side, the Project did produce much needed
information systems, valuable short term policy advice, and served as the initiative for a number of
current technical assistance and policy-based operations. On the other hand, some consultant activity
provided only stop-gap management and technical advice; there is evidence in the early years that
some individual consultant activities encouraged government personnel to become active consultants to
the Project outside govermnent, and some of the ambitious informatics were weakly connected to
extant demand or capacity.
19.          One of the weakest aspects of the sustainability of activities under the Project was the
design decision to limit the amount of training that would take place under the Project. Virtually no
training was contemplated in project design, and very little funding was allocated to training during
the life of the Project (US$506,000). In one sense, this limited training is the result of the high
degree of movement of personnel at mid-level technical positions out of Goverment and the



-7-
perception of the need to bring personnel (expatriate Argentine In particular) into Government
activities. However, the transfer of skills to line personnel remained weak in many components,
resulting in greater difficulty in the maintenance of modernized systems. Ihis became important in
some of the informatics components in particular, where in-house expertise Is only now beginning to
take effect.
H.    Assessment by Comp
The complexity of the Project and the differences in performance among components warrant
individual attention to each component.
20.   Components Under A: Eonomic Policy Tools. One of the principal thrusts of the Project was
intended to respond to the dearth of analytical information for the development of effective policy
responses in the country. The absence of clear and reliable indicators or analytical capacity within
Government was viewed (correctly) as a critical gap that needed to be filled in order to respond to the
major macroeconomic crises of the time. Fully 19% of the original total project funds- and over 16%
of Bank funds - were to be devoted to the development and integration of information and analytical
capacity, particularly within the Mhinstry of Economy. However, the early period of implementation
exemplified the conflict between the desire to provde quality information and sophisticated analysis
and the need for short-term advice and analysis for decision-making In response to immediate
exigencies.
21.   Al: Development of Macroeconomic Tools (US$93S,881). Within this component the conflict
between supply-driven technical assistance and the demand for policy decisions is clearly evident. The
objectives were to develop both partial and general equilibrium models for use by decision-makers
and the integration of these capabilities within the ME. Two ideifiable stages are evident here, the
first of which (through 1989) focused on the creation and supply of information without much
integration. The contacting of CEDES for the development of equilibrium models was based upon
that institution's experience with macroeconomic modeling and analysis in Argentina. While numerous
relevant studies and the development of economic models reslted, little capacity was developed for
responding to short term exigencies within the ME and little integration with line functions of the ME
resulted. Even the choice of computer technologies to acquire (i.e., a Digital PDP 11-70 as opposed
to smaller capacity PCs within the ME) suggests the conflict between the decision to opt for relatively
high powered available technologies adequate for computer modelling exercises and the immediate
needs within the Ministry. It is only with the much later (1989) shift in strategies for this component
that effective policy-relevant activities can be seen. In part, this shift is the result of yet another set of
external shocks and the even clearer perception of the need for policy response. In this second stage
there was great reliance on individual consultants, an effort to recoup much of the information
generated under the earlier activities, and the reallocation of additional funds (some $250,000). It is
only recently that the outputs of this component can begin to be felt. While on the job training was
not strong in this component, and only limited integration of this informational component with other
information technologies developed has yet occurred, some progress and potential can be observed:
(i) the development and consolidation in a specialized policy analysis unit (SSEE);
(ii) the beginning of integration of information with other components (Component A2,4) is
now underway; and
(iii) studies generated during the two stages of the activity have proved useful in recent
negotiations (eg., Brady Plan, Uruguay Round).



-8-
22.          A2.4: Revsion of National AccounU ,d Deve10gm=n of InptQO"u Matrices
M  1,440.835). Among the most important analytical tools for effectve macroeconomic and
intersectoral policy analysis are reliable and timely national accounts and input/output tables.
Deficiencies in Argentina meant that at project outset the extant data bases were antiquated, in fact
unusable: the latest input/output matrices relied upon 1963 data and the natonal accounts data relied
upon 1970 estimates. Again, underestimates of the requirements for development of these systems, of
the volatility of the envronmental and instituional context of Argentina, and of the institutional
capacity needed to carry out these activities led to unwarranted optimism in design, both in terms of
time needed and cost. While the original design conceived of two separate componnt, the clear need
for their Integration led to redesign. In spite of the participation of CEPAL and of a technically
competent team contracted witin BCRA, the results at project end have been less than anticipated at
the design stage. Ihe development of the input/output matrices was abandoned as a main priority
because of difficulties in the industrial census that was to serve as a basis. The development of the
national accounts data has consumed enormous effort, but has resulted in a sophisticated and inclusive
methodology that is complete, and the development of the national accounts based upon a new
reference year (1986 is now available for use and is to be updated regularly within BCRA through
the system for administering economic time series (SASTE). However, to date there remains a need
to improve effective interaction among institional actors, especially between BCRA and the ME.
The lack of integration of systems with personnel trained in their use has meant the development of a
data base that has future potential but has had litte immediate impact. Efforts to improve current use
of information systems made under the Project merit mention, including the development of a
monthly statistical bulletin and a mid-project seminar on the use of national accounts. There appears
to be a sense of asynchronism in the development of the information systems, with the creation of
data and the acquisition of hardware, within and among key institutions, not linked.
23.          A3: Inte8gration of CMU     into the ME (MS$825     . In an effort to provide
for the integration and management of economic information within the ME and with other key
insitutional actors (eg., BCRA), this component envisioned the development of information systems
within the ME for monitoring, planning, and managing data, including the development of an
integrated network of computers within ME. However, this component re-emphasizes the absence of a
conceptualization of the "why" and the -who" of the development of such a system, a grounded
perception of the demand and the users of the system. Once again, the provision of technical
assistance and equipment was driven by the capacity to supply said inputs rather than by demand or
capacity to use the information generated. As is noted in the Informe Final of the PCU, hardware and
software were instaled, even though the definitive end users have not been defined.
24.          Weak mstitutional capacity, weak counterpart support, the absence of clear
internalization of the use of the intended system, and reliance on external consultant expertise to
define the objectives and the activities under the component plagued it from the beginning. In the first
several years, little was accomplished. Component reformulation and the movement of the component
from SCAT to SCE in 1988 were intended to respond to initial design and implementtion
shortcomings. However, the component appears to have continued to have been supply-driven. As a
result, a data series with some 5,000 variables was initiated, major sophisticated hardware (HP
9000/825) and software were purchased, and the budget for the component more than doubled from
initial appraisal estimates. Yet, as of early 1992:
(i)   only 8% of the data series are completed;
(iR)   little use of the data series for decision-making or integrating information has been
accomplished;



- 9-
(iii)  the failure of the counterpart to provide for maintenance of equipment has resulted in
breakdowns;
(iv)  the initial goal of networking users in and across ninistries has only begun; and
(v)   there is weak capacity among personnel within ME to utilize the system.
25.          During the early period of implementation of this component (which was delayed by
at least a year) there appears to have been a concerted effort to Muike technical inputs and assistance
(equipment and consultant expertise) while it was available, rather than view the need for the
integration and consolidation of information systems for institution building. The component
experienced a constant lack of counterpart commitment and, as a result, the preparation of technical
expertise for the use of systems has lagged the development of systems. In addidon, interviews
suggested that one serious problem with the integration and usS of available information stems from
both a 'lack of marketing" and bureaucratic rivalries that see the control of information providing
more power than the sharing of information. In a real sense, commitment to integrated information
systems did not precede the development of information bases.
26.          Very recent efforts to capture the potential of information systems have begun to yield
results. This component has become a focus under the recent Administve Reform efforts of
Government to institutionalize information systems. Clear resetting of goals is apparent in current
efforts to consolidate the information systems rather than expand capacity still further. While some
use of information has begun within the ME, the current effort is to integrate ministeria personnel
more fully into the system. In addition, efforts to provide for greater funding for maintenance
suggests a positive change in commitment.
27.          A5: Strengthening Public Sector Information Base (US$ .275,751). In addition to
strengthening the economic information base and system within the ME, a concurrent component
aimed at strengthening specific information series and databases within INDEC. Reasonable success
was achieved under this component, a result no doubt of the relative specificity of the information
supply and use to be obtained. Seven principal infrmation-focused activities were envisioned under
the component, including: (i) the generation of data on exter  trade; (ii) the development and use of
data generated from the 1986 agricultura census; (iii) the completion and use of the industrial census;
(lv) strengthening of the technical capacity of Provincial Directorates; (v) incorporation and training
in the use of statistical packages within INDEC; (vi) the automation of a cartography program; and
(vii) a study of poverty in Argentina.
28.          Practically all outputs under this component were achieved, information was generated
for use, and the activities were incorporated institutionally. One major exception has been the
development of the data series from the industrial census, where the relative insulation of INDEC
from users, and problems in the quality of the series, have made the data less useful. Since these data
were intended to be used in the development of the input/output series, the consequences of the lack
of effective sequential development of information has been felt in other institutions and across other
components.
29.          A6: Su=ort for the Design. Implementation and Monitoring of the Economic Reform
Program (US$715.M_4). With the refornulation of national strategies for reform in 1989-1990, funds
under the loan were reallocated to this additional component, agreed to under amendment to the
original Loan Agreement. The intent of this component was to support the emergng economic reform
initiatives of the Menem Government, and particularly to strengthen the institutional framework for
the carrying out of reform of the public sector. Objectives of the component were to: (1) support the



- 10-
administrative activities of several units, and most especially the SCAT, In the face of the changing
reform agenda to aid in the design and monitoring of the reform plan; (2) assist reform of the
National Administration; (3) support reform of the Bancos Oficiales through diagnostic work; (4)
assist in the restructuring of the rail system (transport sector) related to pricing, debt, and equipment
sales; and (5) assist In development of norms and procedures for channeling external technical
assistance.
30.          This was a cost effective add-on to the original project, providing for a means of
continuity in the reform program and for a sense of instaitional ownership of the program. A series
of norms and decrees have resulted direcly from this component. Of greatest significance have been
decrees implementing the new administrative reform program (435/90; 470/90; 1482/90; 2476/90;
and 1887/91) as well as several decrees altering the functional structure of the administration (1991)
and decrees affecting the labor code (with particular attention on a new regime for executives within
the administration in 1991). In addition, an executive committee for the reform program (CECRA)
has been created as a direct result of loan activities. In fact, this component provided an important
backdrop to three new loans: the Public Entelprise Reform Adjustment and Execution Loans
(PERAL/PEREL) and the PSRTAL. To some extent, the component also served as a PPF for these
new loans. Other achievements that have resulted from initial activities under this component include:
the development of profiles of new personnel; a functional review of the central administrative
structure; the reorganization of lines of authority and responsibility in the Central Administration;
procedural simplification; the strengthening of central coordination for carrying out reform initiatives.
In addition, it provided fcr continuity in leadership and a vision of reform initiatives.
31.          A7: Suor for the Sperintendan  of Financial Entities (US_148.330. The addition
of this component came as the result of Bank supervision mission interaction with Government in
mid-1990, and was intended to provide rapid support to the SEF to strengthen its capacity to monitor
financial sector policy. Seen as an effort to provide early support to the larger reform initiative
supported under the PSRTAL, this component provided for hardware and software development. The
existence within the SEF of technical expertise meant that the provision of this equipment found
immediate and continued use. Specificity of purpose and transparency of use of funds has made this
component a successful activity, assisting the ongoing strengthening activities of SEF.
32.          Components Under B: CentWral Resource Mobilizadon. A second major thrust in the
design of the Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project was the strengthening of the
capacity of the public sector to capture and mobilize resources effectively. Woeful inadequacies in
both the revenue capture capabilities of goverment and in the capacity of the Central Government,
provincial governments, and public enterprises to link resource generation, resource use, and the
planning and programming functions had led to increasing public sector deficits and irrational use of
public sector investment planning and programming activities. Approximately 30% of total project
costs and of Bank lending were to be allocated to the components under this activity. The six
components under this major direction of technical assistance were intended to improve the
functioning of these systems.
33.          B1: Strengthening Global and Sectoral Investment Planning (USS991.270'. This
component initially was intended to strengthen the Secretarfa de Planificacion's capacity to prepare
medium- and long-term global and sectoral investment financing programs and to improve the
capacity of the SP to evaluate and monitor investment projects and programs. The relevance of this
component was substantially modified as a result of the shift in Government (Alfonsfn to Menem) and
the changed perception of the role of planning that occurred in 1989. With the declining emphasis on



- 11 -
State planning, both the SP and the planning function became less viable, and the sustainability of
some activities under this component is in doubt.ln spite of early implementation delays, a number of
activities under the component were completed:
(i)    a number of diagnostic studies and guides were carried out informing the process of a
national system of investments;
(ii)   a methodology for investment programming, evaluation, and prioritization was
developed and sectoral guides for evaluating investment projects were generated,
including specific evaluations;
(iii)  an inventory and me.thodology for following the project cycle was developed at the
national and provincial levels, and personnel within SP were trained in the usage of
the technology; and
(iv)   a number of training courses (5) were conducted and some 125 functionaries were
trained from various entities of Governmt, albeit at substantial unit costs.
34.          However, the shift in emphasis away from a planning model, the volatility of the
economic climate, and the absence of resources for public sector investment have resulted in
questionable sustainability of some of these activities; in particular, failure to maintain the project
inventory has rendered it obsolete, while the design and methodology for project selection remain.
TMe end result is: the existence of methodologies; diagnostic studies in sectors and on specific
projects; some trained personnel in a much reduced SP (politically and in terms of numbers) now
located as the Secretarfa de Programacidn Econdmica within MEOSP; and a methodology and
equipment for Investment programming in the absence of an institonal setting which has weakened
the relevance and weight of such activities, at twice the original cost estimate.
35.          B2ai: ImpViJg Tax Policy (US4AA41S. Improving resource mobilization direcdy
targets the improvement in tax policy and aminision. While originally part of the same
component (B2a) these two activities were separated during implementation and became somewhat
autonomous from each other, and from other project activities. The tax policy subcomponent was
intended to produce a series of diagnostic and analytical studies of the existing taxes and the impacts
of the tax system. These studies were coordinated by the DNIAP, and conducted with the conual
assistance of CIET. As a result of these activities there were a series of reasonably well designed and
conducted studies of a number of specific tax policy issues such as an analysis of the current tax
system and structure, studies of incidence, burden, and distributional impact, estimates of evasion,
etc. While a number of the studies conducted under this component were of high quality, there was
little strengthening of tax policy capabilities within DNIAF. CIET consultants carried out their
individual research activities, but the weakness of counterpart personnel in Government left these
studies without an audience in DNIAF. There was a very strong research focus to the component
(some 90% of funds) with little transfer or training: four junior professionals did receive training but
they did not remain in DNIAF. Many of the studies produced are excellent but had little direct policy
focus, partially because of the nature of the studies and partially because activities were unabsorbable
in the public sector. Weak counterpart supervision existed; few qualified personnel in DNIAF
existed; there was little monitoring of activities by the Bank or by the Project Coordinafing Unit; and
there were no links to the Administration component at DGI. However, some of the products and
personnel (mvestigators) now form part of the new (consultant) tax team for the current Tax
Administration TAL I. Several of the studies have provided input more recety for legislation and
decrees, and a data bank project developed useful time series data on collections for the 1970-1986
period. The sudies have also provided substantial input into Bank-produced analyses of tax policy
and systems, which have been circulated wifthin Argentina.



- 12 -
36.          SW2a2 Strengthening Tax Adminatlon (USSI387.691). From early appraisal this
component was an overly ambitious undertaking within the context of the loan. While Initial efforts to
develop a comprehensive reform of the chaotic state of tax administration was pared down during
appraisa, the design of the component remained unwieldy. Activities intended under the component
included redesign of collection and fiscalization systems, reorganization and training in the DOI,
creation of coding system of contributors by economic activity for monitoring and projections, and the
development of an information planning system and a strategic information management system for
control within DGI. Delays in implementation occurred from the outset, in part a function of the
number of individual consultants involved in the component, as well as difficulties in the effective
management of consultant resources by the PCU.
37.          While a number of individual activities were carried out by consultants, the increasing
centralization of control over the component activities by leadership within DOI led to little
transferability of systems developed and of activities carried out by consultancies. One of the major
achievements under this component was the development of a system for identifying tax contributions
(CUrT). In addition, a set of data bases, a number of tax forms, the identification and
Systematization of information on various classes of contributors, and an information system for
monitoring key economic transactions (S1TER) were developed when the decision to alter the scope
and intent of this component occurred in late 1988. The decision to adopt a different tax information
and administration model from the Spanish Government, coupled with deteriorating control over the
transfer and sustainability of elements of this component led to decisions to suspend activities in
1989. Activities suffered from strong strategy differences among key actors, differences that were
resolved in favor of a highly centalizing strategy of tax information. However, the strategy to utilize
a centralized system with large computer capabilities and sophistication came to overwhelm the extant
technical capabilities of staff, and the capacity of the system was never utilized and ultimately left
behind.
38.          Little transfer to line persomel within DGI, little implementation of activities
conducted, the decisions to centralize tax administation information through highly sophisticated
hardware and software, and the loss of much analysis developed by disparate consultants meant litde
susainable activity at a rather steep cost, even with suspension. One might question why this
component continued to receive attention in the face of clear signals that sustainable institutional
activity was not to be accomplished. There is some evidence that the component continued in spite of
efforts by the PCU to terminate activity, in part an inertia that resulted from the realization on the
part of both Bank and Government that this activity was critical for the longer run. It would appear
that monitoring capabilities within the Bank and the PCU were inadequate to judge the quality or
viability of activities under the component. Highly technical crieria that may have guided the initial
design and enthusiasm for inclusion of this component did not generate highly technical and
enthusiastic demand for specific implementation of activities conducted.
39.          One of the more immediately successful activities under this component was the effort
to strengthen the information processing and technical computer capabilities within the Subsecretariat
of Public Finance. A brief nine-month activity with careful and discrete focus was planned utlizing
funds ($78,000) from the orighial component (as amended). Substantia hardware and appropriate
software were supported, and initial training in their use for staff members occurred. A tax data base
was developed and is currendy operational as the source of fiscal information for the Government.
40.          B2bd: Impoving Budget Programming and Control Systems (USS861.926). This
component focused on improvements in general control over the expenditure allocation system,



- 13 -
including improvements in and computerization of the budget process, strengthening the general
accounting system, diagnosdc studies, and improvements In the timely provision of information on
public expenditures and linkages among the budget, accontng, and treasury functions. Ih spite of the
critical need for improvement in these functions, work under this component did not begin effectively
unti 1990, the result of a lack of consistent leadership, weak inter  capacity for incorporation of
activities within the Direcci6n Nacional de Presupuesto, an early focus on budget conditions under
inflation which became less relevant in later years, and the lack of a legal framework for carrying out
reform.
41.          A second stage of activity under the component began In 1990, with the assistance
provided by CEPAL as well as individual consultants. This second stage has resulted in the
achievement of a number of objectives in the 1990-1991 period, including technically sound analyses
of budgetary implications of inflation, the development of systems for monitoring and projecting
flows of funds, the creation of a monthly bulletin and a technically proficient redesign of the
accountir of public debt, and the preparation of early drafts of the new Law on Financial
Managem,.it and Performance Control. It is only recently that the provision of an integrated
information system for accomplishing the budget, accounting, and flow of fhnds functions has come
to possible fruition. However, weaknesses in technical capacity within the entities involved contnue
to threaten the susnabhiity of actvities under this component. Because of weaknesses in staff skllls
and incentives to performance during much of the period in question, there was little interization of
technical advances and certain activities of some consultants were consumed in short-term firefighting
exercises and in the performance of routine line functions. Longer term benefits were initiated under
the loan, but the implementation process has not reached full fruition. It is important to stress that the
consolidation of these achievements and the deepening of the process of integration of these key
fimancial management and control functions are critical foci of the new PSRTAL.
MOSP (MSS723M95. This component in many ways symbolizes the impact of the rapidly changing
environment external to the loan and the dramatic change in philosophical vision with regard to the
State's role in investment programming. The objectives of this component were to strengthen MOSP
capacity in investment programming and evaluation, in policy formulation and monitoring, in
developing pricing and tariff criteria for MOSP-controlled PEs, and the strengthening of specific
Secretariat's within MOSP (Water and Communications). Most of the early activity involved
diagnostic work of a rather academic nature which was removed from implementation, with the
development of implementable activity occurring only beginning in 1989. A shift in focus led to a
change in the thrust of activities. Early work focused on increasing the capacity of MOSP to control
PEs under its jurisdiction. While much information about particular PEs was gathered during the early
phase of the component, and a methodology for prioritizing projects was developed, these proved of
little use to MOSP as the emphasis shifted from central control and regulation to privatization. In the
later phase of the project (post-1989) the diagnostic work on specific enterprises and the inventory of
projects served as inputs under component C12 in an effort to strengthen the privatization process.



- 14-
43.          B4: -S=g& U n gthiglsitlonal Capaci for-Agriculturl Planlning (US$1.35QM97)
This component also symbolizes the shift In perceptions of the appropriate planning functions of the
State, and suffered from the shift In the external envlronment and the vision of the role the State
should play. The logic of the inclusion of this component would seem to stem from the early high
expectations of agro-export deveopment and the concomitant aggressive role of the State in
agricltural planning, parallel to the efforts under the Agricultura Sector Loan and the National
Agriculture Program (PRONAGRO). As such, the initial objectives were to (i) design and implement
an information system for agricultural policy and project development; (ii) strengthen SAGP's
capabilities for investment programming and project identification, including training; and (iii) install
a system for project monitoring and evaluation. The component generated a large number of
diagnostic studies of various subsectors, each with sets of recommendations for action. Virtually all of
these studies, howt, :, were conducted by a very large mnmber of consultants with little development
of absorptive capacity within SAGP. Almost $1.2 million of the $1.35 million expended under this
component was absorbed by more than 90 individuals exenal to SAGP, albeit primaily local
consultants. A substanial portion of the acdvity of consultants was absorbed in line functions on a
regular basis, firefighting exercises performed by external personmel in the absence of qualified
permanent staff. One interview suggested that as much as one third of consultant labor was dedicated
to these line activities.
44.          During the life of the loan there were four different counterparts and significant
changes in agricultural strategy, resulting in an uncertain (at best) institutional environment for the
conduct of the activities under the component. In spite of the difficulties imposed by the changing
external environment and the very high dependence on consultant services, a number of meaningful
results from this component have occurred. As a result of work conducted under this component, an
Inventory of potentil projects was developed, many diagnoses of specific subsectors and policies
were carried out that have played a role In developing policy direction, a strengthening of the
information base on projects at the decentralized level was achieved, a sector level workshop in 1990
was held to disseminate information on the sector, and a sector level report on the use and availability
of information was produced. However, heavy reliance on personnel extemal to the SAGP, changes
in the mandate of the role of SAGP, and consequent downsizing of the Secretariat has resulted in the
lack of applicability and the failure to incorporate much of the information gathered.
45.          Cl.2: Strengthenine Public Enterprise Management (USS1.720863). Activities under
this component suffered serious delays from the inception of the loan and were subjected to multiple
organizational changes and counterpart changes during project activity. While originally conceived as
separate components, as the result of amendment to the original loan agreement, activities under these
two components were combined - and remaining activities under B3 were redirected toward enterprise
reform as well - as the change in emphasis occurred from strengthening central governmental
performance in relation to the public enterprise sector to a focus on restructuring the enterprise sector
itself. In the early phases of the project, the emphasis was on restraining the cost burden of PEs to the
central government and to increase central control through the SCEP. Objectives included diagnoses
of changes needed in the system of central control, information and performance incentives; the
implementation of institutional reforms in PE management based on the diagnoses; and diagnoses of
the restrucuring requirements of major PEs. However, this emphasis on improving central control
proved difficult due to (i) the limited capacity of the SEP (and the SCEP within it) to absorb the
activity; (ii) the rapidly changing institutional environment as the newly created DEP was to assume
new functions and to absorb any residually acceptable functions of the SCEP, and subsequently
activities were transferred successively from DEP to MOSP to SEP in ME, and then back to OSyP in



- 1S -
ME; (iii) the shift away from concern with strengthening the investment role of DEP; and (iv) the
effort to create budgetary control and consolidated accounts for the PEs which resulted in improving
the quality of data on PEs, but not the capacity of DEP to exercise effective control.
46.          During the first two years of the project, activity (and disbursements) was minimal
due to the Obsence of a clear work program of technical assmce. Through 1988, less than $100,000
was expended under the component(s). It is not until mid-1988 that the presentation of a work
program became reality, and it is not until 1989 that substantive activity under the compinent was
begun. However, by 1989 the emphasis had shifted to privatization of a number of major enterprises
(railroads and communications In particular) and to the restruchtring of labor relations within
enterprises undergoing transformation. As a result of the changing organizational context and the
changing perception of the role of the State in relation to public enterprises, what is sustained is
difficult to measure in an organizational sense. Due to the initial lack of clear design criteria that were
responsive to the reality of Argentina, the component became reactive to changing environments
throughout the life of the loan. What is clear is that activities provided substantial input during the
process of privatization of some enterprises and served as inputs in discussions and negotiations of the
current Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment and Execuon Loans. Systems for project evaluation
and for monitoring enterprise performance were developed; studies of specific PEs were conducted;
time series data on prices and tariffs for specific enterprises were developed and an admimbitrative
system for main. uning the series (SAST) was developed; a set of labor regulation proposals was
developed, including proposals for early retirement and assistance in the negotiation of collective
contracts. In addition, at the level of some individual enterprises there was assistance in the
elaboration of monitoring flows of funds, budget, and investments.
47.          C3: Strenghening Human and Institutiona Rsu    apait for Public
Adminision IUSA415-92L, As described in the original loan agreement, this component was
intended to provide trainig for senior personnel within public entprises and central governmental
personnel dealing with enterprises. 'he component was reformuated in 1987 with two objectives:
training and institution strengthening in the SFP; and strengthening of specific entities in the Central
Government on a pilot basis. t is not until 1988 that any funds were expended under this component.
Decisions to reformulate the component -yet again- at the end of 1988 resulted in sets of studies
conducted by individual consultants that attempted to provide direction for the restructuring of the
non-enterprise public sector. This reformulation of the objectives of the component was directed
toward proviing a diagnostic framework for the reform of Public Administration, including such
studies as the structure of the public sector, normative studies of the public sector, labor market
studies, an examination of decentralization, relations between the central administion and the
enterprise sector. However, unclear terms of reference and the failure on the part of a numiber of
individual consultants to provide satisfactory products resulted in less than satisfactory outputs in this
newly reformulated component. Monitoring of contracts and activities of individual consultants
appears to have been weak, a function in part of the sheer number of individual studies to be
performed. A second stage of this component began in 1989 with yet another formulation of
objectives: to provide analyses of how to implement administrative reform (eg., draft decrees,
constitutional analysis). Again, products were of mixed quality and weak supervision of individual
consultants plagued this stage as well. While numerous studies were produced, the effectiveness of
this component was extremely limited. Not only did virtually no training or trasfer occur, but the
average quality and applicability of the numerous studies conducted under the component seems not to
have merited the expense.



- 16-
48.          C4T Phvatization of-Pechemical Enerises (USS93-417). 'Me addition of this
component in 1987 (through amendment to the loan agreement) was a narrowly focused effort aimed
at assisting the Government in privatizig the petrochemical sector. The objectives of the component
were to provide valuations of specific enterprises under the Ministq of Defense for possible sAe and
to develop a methodology for esmating enterprise value. As a result, one eerprise has been
transferred to the private sector and three others are in various stages of prvatization. In addition,
activities under this component have been continued under the current PEREL.
49.          D1.23,s56 Improng Industrial and Export Policies and Procedures
(US$ -620fD37. Activities under this component aimed at strengthening foreign trade, particularly in
the industrial sector. Key objectives were to simplify export procedures; expand the reach of export
facilities; reorganize the SICE's external trade area; improve services to exporters; and conduct sub-
sector studies to support growth-oriented policies. A number of major studies and recommendations
were developed focusing on five areas: (i) studies of Argentina's relative competitiveness within the
context of regional integration; (ii) diagnostic studies and recommendations on the automobile sector;
(Iii) sectoral analyses of capital goods to support trade protocol with Brazi; (iv) diagnostic studies
aimed at strengthening the promotion of small and medium scale industries; and (v) the development
of methodologies for the analysis of the behavior of productive sectors in the economy. While a
number of studies developed under the component proved useful in later developments of economic
relations In the region (eg., protocols on economic integration with Brazil, negotiations for
Mercosur), much of the activity under this component was supply driven, relatively self-contained
development of information bases with little transfer to the supposed client (SICE). While some of the
consultants involved under this component have interacted under other components (eg., Al),
interviews suggest some consultant frustration with the lackc of demand for the information bases
developed. In the words of one of the principal consultants, the information generation that occurred
under objective (v) was a "relatively autonomous, technical, and academic exercise' with limited
applicability and counterpart inteion, or interaction with related exercises under other components
of the loan.
50.          D4 Automation of                                          Thio    Customs Admisato (U$77.616i. The objectives of
this component as designed were overly ambitious and the level of commitment to real reform of the
cstoms system was not apparent at the time. As a result, this component suffered from attempts to
accomplish a great deal with extremely limited financial support and without a clear mandate in
Government to carry out profound reform. The objectives aimed at strengthening the capacity of the
National Customs Administration to collect import duties and export taxes, to simplify export
procedures, and to provide a statistical base for monitoring exports. While originally envisioned as a
relatively ambitious undertaking and major component (US$900,000) of the loan, little was
accomplished. What is most apparent is that as a result of the limited commitment on the part of
Government at the time, the component lacked a sense of realism. It is worth noting that the original
design called for expenditures for major reform that amount to less than one-tenth of the current level
of effort in the new modernization of customs project. While the current level of effort in the French
Government supported MARIA project may be somewhat overestimated (US$7.92 million, together
with the Bank support of US$4.65 million), the evident commitment today contrasts sharply with the
earlier effort. Lack of clarity in initial proposals for activities, substantive disagreements as to the
appropriate direction for activities, and early decisions to attempt to model the Argentine Customs
Administration after the French model (SOFT II) met with serious resistance from within the project
(from the Coordinating Unit) for lack of careful p;eparation of the proposed project and costs. Lack
of real movement through 1990 resulted in decisions to limit dramatically the scope of the component
to diagnostic activities and the preparation of a new program on the modernization and reorganization



-17-
of Customs. A majority of the funds were reallocated. A detailed program for customs administration
reform and several technical studies were produced, and customs reform has become a major
component under the 1991 PSRL and PSRTAL.
51.          17: Strgetening of Intenaional Relatiors and Eomic Policy Analysis
Oa    .806). The objective of this component was to strengthen the analytical capabilities in the
Ministry of Foreign Affais and Culture (MREC) through the creation of a data base and training in
Its use in the examination of international economic relations. While the activities under this
component suffered from delays In the early portion of the loan (through 1989), it appears that long
term sustainability of improved analytical capacity and information bases has been achieved. The
development of the information system and the installation of both hardware and software has been
accomplished. The information bases Include reference data on imports and exports, reference studies
and data on key trade negotiations, arcbival materials on other external trade issues. More
importantly, the use of the system by persomel in the MREC has resulted; in addition, the
development of several significant reports on current issues of bilateral and multilateral trade based
upon the use of the system has resulted. Finally, the institutionalization of the computerized
information system (PRIPE) has resulted in linking the Ministry to important information systems.
I.    Bank and Borrowe  ebgac
52.          Given the ambitious agenda established by the loan, the number of components, the
-emely large nber of individual consultants, and the flexibility of the loan in tms of the initial
allocation of funds and the subsequent reallocation of funds to existng and new components, there
was a premium on the need for supervision of the Project. While the amount of Bank staff time
devoted to supervision was high (a total of 195 staff weeks), the large number of personnel involved
in supervision and the high turnover in project management from the Bank side (5 different project
managers) meant that close scrutiny of behavior of components and consultants was not present in the
early years of the project.
53.          Similarly, Bank discussions with the PCU also pointed to the need for closer
supervision and repordng on consultant scopes of work and final outputs. Decisions In 1987 to
delegate greater responsibility to the PCU to supervise administraive activities of the Project resulted
in a reduction of the administrative supervisory responsibilities of Bank Task Managers. The
adaptability introduced during the third year of the Loan (through Bank -Government agreement) led
to better substantive focus in Bank-Government exchanges and an improved productivity of the Loan.
This is clear in the effective reallocation of funds to the new component -A6- in anticipation of the
PSRTAJL. However this same flexibility placed a greater premium on effective PCU monitoring and
contihuous supervision by counterparts within executing agencies. While the efficiency and
effectiveness of supervision improved in the final stages of the Project, the lack of continuous
counterparts in some exeuing agencies of various compnens resulted in some consuttancies,
especially individual consultancies, without clear work progrms.
54.          The second and third years of the project were marked by a clear lack of consensus
between the Bank and the Government as to the role of TA and of consultant actvities, and the
willingness of Government to commit resources for counterpart actiities. There was a marked
deterioration of the Bank/Coordinating Unit relationship during the "pausa de reflexi6n" and for
months aftward that affected coordinated action, led to implementation delays, and resulted in the
changed scope of several components. In part, this was the result of the changing vision of the role of



- 18 -
TA and the role of the State, and therefore the role of the project. Later years show a marked
improvement as stability to Bank supervision and to the Government program has been more evident.
J.    Lessons to be Drawn for Future PSM Technical Assistancrojects
55.          There are a number of lessons to be learned both for the broader issues of the role of
TAL/PSMLs, as well as for the continuing role of technical assistance, especially PSM assistance in
Argentina during continuing difficult times. While the incredible economic and political turbulence of
the 1980s may not characterize current conditions, there is stil dramatic change occurring and the
need to consider issues of project design, ilementation. and jy ision, during such times.
56.          PSMllALs sahd not be overxy ambitious, particularly in turbulent administrative
and political environments. Size of loan, complexity of operation, and the number of component
activities all tax the capabilities of borrowers as well as the Bank. A smaller, more focused, loan
with fewer components is more likely to succeed. In this case, overly ambitious design did not
respond to the existing climate of the country. Furthermore, the design of technical assistance must
take into account the absorptive capacity of Government. Portions of this project were supply driven
in the sense that the assumption was that if enough technology was thrown at the project, It would
stick, even in the absence of carefully cultivated demand for the TA or capacity to absorb. In
addition, while the design laid out a comprehensive scope, insufficient attention was paid to the
specific activities to occur within components in spite of the requirement that Annual Action Plans be
maintained. Another difficulty with this 'comprehensiveness' was that too many agencies under too
many components were included, further exacerbating the coordination and supervision dilemnmas.
57.          Suervsion by the Bank and the Borrower on a continuous and intensive basis is
paramount. Bank supervision coefficients should take into account that TAL/PSMs frequently address
politically sensitive issues and complex Government structures, and are inherendy more staff intensive
than most projects. In addition, multiple objective TALs, involving several sectors and complex
sectoral issues, may require specW expert supervision. In the case of 2712, efforts to strengthen tax
policy/administration, customs, informatics, and the overlap with some sectoral ministries and
activities (industry, agriculture) meant that there was a need for special technical expertise to guide
the institution building exercise. The participation of this technical expertise in tax and agriculture in
particular represented some ten to fifteen percent of total Bank supervision in the critical years of
1988-1989. The implications, however, should not be that high Bank supervision coefficients alone
are enough. Rather, the implication is that adequate delegation of adminkirave responsibility to
PCUs that are committed and competent and adequate counterpart supervision within executing
agencies are critical.
58.          There was a conflict between short t   exigencies and the long term needs of
strategic institution building in the Project There is a need to build credibility for the project (and
often for consultants) and legitimacy for Government in the short term, while there is also a need to
build toward longer term solutions. In this project the use of consultants to assist in some routine
functions may have been necessary to maintain Government at all. However, short-term exigencies
sometimes overwhelmed component objectives and highly paid consultants (by the Project) became
day-to-day operations managers.



- 19 -
59.          The heavy reliance on individual consultants throughout the Project demanded extra
supervisory efforts on the part of the Bank and the PCU to assure that quality personnel were being
utilized for clearly agreed upon goals, that do not entail operational activities better financed as
recurrent costs by Government. Also, at the early stages of the Project in particular, there was
concern expressed by Bank staff, by the PCU, and by sources outside the Project that the Project had
become a virtual employment service for expatriate Argentines who were utilized at all levels. While
the high numbers of individuals may have been affected by UNDP preferences for individual
expertise, the clear concern of Government to "bring Argentineans back in" was a driving force.
While affecting decisions to hire individual consultants, this did not Imply, however, that the project
in any way relaxed the requirements for selection of consultants. As noted earlier, the high use of
consultants may have been necessary to maintain Govermment at all. The effort to utilize the Ptoject
to draw talent to Government in the absence of viable wage structure in Government meant that a
parallel Government was created through the project, but one that became dependent on the project
for sustainabiity. Long term viability under these circumstances is nonexistent. Instead of building a
talent base and institutional strength .wthin Government, there was evidence in the first tiree years
especially that the Project was drawing talented personnel out of  and to the Project as
consultants. While the January 1988 decision to require that no hiring of former Government
personnel within a month of service was one in the right direction, it was insufficient to stem the flow
of personnel from Government to the Project. Finally, the heavy reliance on consultants without
effectively incorporating staff in their activities meant that some activities under the Project became
enclaves of activity, sometimes residing in the institution and sometimes residing in external
consulting institutions.
60.          While flexibilit in the allocation of funds served the Project well in some cases,
allowing for the reallocation of funds to rapidly changing circumstances, there is the poteni that
fiexibility may lead to slippage and to the failure to adequately define the scope of changing use of
funds.
K.       PetRlainhrs
61.          Bank relationships with Government began very well as the enthusiasm, for the
endeavor was shared generally. However, implementation delays and problems that often resulted
from weaknesses in design and supervision continuity led to increasing tension between Bank and
Government. The 'pausa de reflexi6n" from mid-1987 through part of 1988 marked a low point in
relationships. However, improved continuity on the Bank side (subsequent to a setting out of its own
reorganization) and improved supervision performance by the PCU led to a strengthening of the
coordination. However, lack of continuity and commitment within some executing agencies remained
a problem.
62.          it is worth noting that under 2712 the  inisve role of UNDP/OPS was
satisfactory. Early in the project, delays in procurm ent and some contacting supervision difficulties
were experienced as a result of UNDP/OPS administration of these activities. However, the decision
to utilize UNDP as the procurement agent at that time was a correct one given the limited likely
accountability that might have resulted from Government assumption of these admini tive roles. In
addition, UNDP flexibility during the maturation of the project benefitted the project; this is evident
in the 1987 decisicn (agreed to by UNDP) to delegate increasing responsibility to the PCU over
administrative activities. The end result was greater accountability, reduced delays, and a more
efficient use of supervision time.



- 20 -
63.          One important aspect of project relationships is that between 2712 and several
subsequent technical assistance activities. It is clear that while a number of activities originally
envisaged as pan of the Project were ambitious and not in tune with the times, subsequent input into
other projects and the evolution of several of these gained both from the groundwork done in 2712
and from the learning experiences gained from the Project. This is the case, for example, in the
development of the Tax Administration TAL I in relation to B2a, and in the development of the
PSRTAL with input and support from A6.
L.    Consulting Servce
64.          A number of the issues related to consultant services have been noted in individual
component discussions and in para. 58. From the records available it appears that in most cases the
consultant services were of high quality and consultants were recruited in accordance with Bank
norms. However, several key issues need to be reiterted briefly:
*     Simply put, the Project relied too heavily on individual consultants for the
performance of Project activities;
l     The furter reliance on large numbers of local consudtants, vvhile by intent an
admirable endeavor, led to problems of parallel operational personnel, a tendency in
some cases to use consultants as line personmel, and difficulties in the evaluation of
the credentials of some consultants;
*     Selection of a number of consultants by implemendng agencies was based on the
existence of a prior "working relationship' with the consultant, oftei because the
consultant had been employed within Government prior to contracting as a consultant;
3     In some cases vague terms of references and weak recruitment practices allowed for
slippage In both the quality and the content of consutant reports. In other cases, the
TOR for specific actvities seem not to have reflected the ultimate goal of user and
instition strengthening. In yet other cases, the Borrower was unable (and on
occasion unwi1ling) to incorporate the results of consultant outputs becase the outputs
were overly sophisticated and not absorbable, and at times the outputs demanded skill
levels not extant within Govenmuent. Finally, in some cases consultant activities were
enclaves somewhat removed from the institutions they were intended to serve;
*     The use of sole-source consultancies in some cases may have weakened the ties of
consultancies to Project-defined objectives and the absence of competitive bidding may
have allowed consultancies to develop products more in tune with their own agenda;
*     The number of consultants, the reliance on implementing agencies for initi
recruitment, and the use of local consultants as opposed to international consultants
with prior "track records all required the need for intensive supervision by Bank
staff, a burden that was compounded by the frequent changes in the early years in
Bank task managers.



-21 -
M.        ect Documentation and Dta
65.          Documentation for the project is generally very good, and improved greatly during
the life of the project. In particular, early and conDatinuous concern with the documentation in support
of individual consultant terms of reference and outputs led to steady improvement in this regard.
Similar improvements In the timing of audit reports are evident. While some problems of consultant
TORS remained throughout the project, improvements were steady and reflective of Bank-
Government dialogue.
66.          The main documents governing project implementation were the Staff Appraisal
Report and the Loan Agreement and Amendments. A comprehensive First Year Evaluation (12/87)
offered important insights into the relative strengths and weaknesses of ongoing activities and served
in the redefinition of some activities. Most iniial project documents were carefidly prepared,
although the complexity of design may have contrbuted to difficuldes In implementadon.
67.          The preparation of the PCR was facilitated by the quality of the documenation
throughout the project's life, and most particularly by the quality of supervision reports and the
updates on projectlcomponent status, finance, and activities maintained by the PCU. In addition, a
final report prepared by the PCU and access to project files and personnel fciitated greatly the
preparation of the PCR.



-22 -
ARPENAT:
PUIBLIC SECTO  MUM =GN    TEC= IC    ASSISTANCEPRJC
9AN 2712-AR)
PART Il: PROJECT REVIE  PROM  THE BORRtOWER'S PERSPECTVE
A.    Introduction and Conclusion
1.           The project helped strengthen or substitte scarce administrave capacwity in key policy
areas involved in adjustment, stabilization and reform. It also helped identfy and establish
institutional conditions and policies necessary for the mobilization, design and start-up of new projects
and initiatives. Although there was a concern over the large mmber of project components, it
became clear during project implementation that all components were thematically consistent, and
most of these have in fact established activities that have already become institutionalized and
supported by national budgets or other sources. The principal project objectives provided continuity
and supported the short-term actions of both AdmitOnS in such areas as emergency fiscal and
stabilization policies and public sector reform. The project helped generate subsequent projects in tax
administration, provincial management, privatization, and public enterprise reform. Other projects
generated by this operation include activities of the Central Bank, Secretariat of the Treasury,
Customs Department, Secretariat of Public Functions, and those relating to exter  debt management,
regional and bilateral integration, and external economic negotiations (GATr, among others).
2.          In spite of the institutional weaknesses that prevailed at the time of project start-up
and the deteriorating absorptive capacity of the public sector during adjustment, the project evolved
favorably. This may be measured by the continuity of, and growing commitment to, fiscal and public
sector reform - administrative reform and privatization. Both objectives, together with others aimed
at strengthening analytical capabilities and supporting or developing policies, taclded short-, medium-,
and long-term constraints, including structural ones, by strengthening or substituting weak institutional
capablities during the adjustment and transition periods in order to reach the ongoing reform. They
provided continuity and stability to the project, overcoming policy shifts and instittonal changes
and, in some cases, anticipating possible faiures due to discontiuity, lack of commitment,
insufficient funds, or inadequate strategies, by canceing certain components and reallocating funds.
3.           Project design underestimated institutional, administrative, managerial and financial
difficulties, and this caused demands and tensions that affected the length and transfer of the technical
assistance. There was also a lack of commitment on the part of some counterparts, thus threatening
project sustainability. However, there were several factors that contributed to ease institutional
pressures and to avoid an oversupply of services. These include the following: The project (a)
incorporated flexible yet coherent approaches; (b) had the political backing and commitment of the
LI    This is a free translation of the unedited text of the Borrower's PCR from which we excluded
the comments to the Bank's Part I and m. These comments have been taken into account.
Ihe full Spanish version is available in LAC files.



- 23 -
National Project Director; (c) was equipped with the managerial and administrative capabilities of the
Coordinating Unit; (d) had the Bank's growing and permanent support; and (e) benefitted from
UNDP's input during the preparatory phase. Although the Secretariat for Economic Coordination had
a relevant function and was subject to permanent pressures, it was also in charge of coordinating the
design and implementation of policies, and was able to distance itself from sectoral disputes. Thanks
to this situation, helped with the presence of both the Bank and the UNDP, a "protection zone" was
created between the Coordinating Unit, the governmental organizations, the counterparts, and the
various sectors involved, which helped avoid pressures from, or preferences to, any one organization.
Although the enormous work carried out by the Coordinating Unit and the World Bank in providing
technical assistance, monitoring, and evaluation activities could have been reduced through
appropriate mechanisms, the results achieved were in large part due to this effort. Finally, the
growing effectiveness and efficiency of the Coordinating Unit in coordinating and disseminating
results, and developing a project institutional memory, were part of the overall success of the project.
Among the Unit's most important contributions were those of complementing activities, enhancing
absorptive capacities, and providing sustainability. The combination of local talent complemented by
international experts proved to be adequate, as evidenced by the fact that part of the critical mass of
experts drawn to the project sti1l play an important role in designing and implementing policies, or are
working with other organizations or in the private sector. A more detailed project design during the
preparatory phase, however, would have improved the quality of the experts' terms of reference, the
criteria for evaluating performance, and the payment terms, and this would have improved the
selectior, monitoring, and evaluation criteria of contracts.
4.           As a result of the Bank's reorganization in 1986 [sic], the Bank went through some
organizational changes and staff rotations. This involved some adjustments in administration,
management, procurement, and contracts in accordance with the specific conditions of the new
context and the project. During the project's preparatory phase and throughout the first part of its
implementation, the Bank did not provide timely expertise in areas of fiscal and budgetary reform,
customs administration, institutional development and computerization. Better coordination between
the project, its sectoral activities and new projects would have increased the project's quality, impact,
and transfer of results. UNDP contributed to resource mobilization and provided substantial support
during the preparatory phase. The OPS, however, lacked the appropriate mechanisms and capabilities
for purchasing computer equipment and managerial and administrative information systems. Although
these problems were overcome by decentralizing these functions to the UNDP's field office and then
on to the Coordinating Unit, this demanded extensive training to the Coordinating Unit, and this
capacity has not yet been fully transferred to other projects or to other organizations concerned.
There are several possibilities of improving administration, management, costs, benefits and impacts
of projects under consideration. Experience indicates that guidelines should be developed to help
identify key problems, evaluate performance, identify, monitor, and develop impact and management
indicators, verify project lists, and determine cycles and alternative approaches for the reform
process.
5.           Technical assistance under the project supported but could not promote nor create the
adequate political conditions for the reform process. Unfortunately, the circumstances that prompted
the implementation of these policies were structural, political and economic. In effect, the lengthy
adjustment process plus the two hyperinflationary periods of 1989 and 1990, created a climate of
strong economic pressures and, in turn, sufficient capacity to face and overcome previous sectoral
resistance.



-24-
6.           The project: (a) may be considered successful In most of its components, given the
economic and instittional context In which it was implemented and the continuity of many of its
components and activities; (b) played an Important role In promoting and designing new loans, and in
laying the foundation for improved technical relations with the Bank; (c) taclded most of the key
problems during its implementation; and (d) contributed to the liberalization, privatization,
stabilization, integration, deregulation, resource mobilization, and development of information
capacity, economic management and policy formulation.
B. Impact
7.           It is difficult to evaluate the project's profound impact, due to the convergence of
internal and era  factors and to the external shocks that afflicted the country at the ti-3.
Notwithstanding, the project was instrumental in carrying out reform and adjustment policies, and has
become the analytical, conceptual and information basis for policy design and decision-maldng. The
main project areas were the diagnostics work, information systems, policy analysis and proposals for
fiscal reform and management, as well as the design of sectoral policies in trade, industry,
agriculture, public enterprises and public sector reform. The diagnostics and structural proposals
have a permanent impact in terms of policy formulation and reform, since they take into account the
profound political and economic restrictions faced by the different sectors, and becuse they require
dissemination. Support for policy management, administration and short-term management, however,
albeit important and deserve to be maintained, do not need to be disseminated since the supporting
studies and analysis are rapidly outdated after being implemented. The project has contributed in
increasing the analytical capacity for design and management of macroeconomic and sectoral policies;
expanded the Information base and enhanced decision-making by strengthening technical and
professional capacities; increased confidence, coverage and timeliness in sectoral information and data
on national accounts, income distribution, and social and poverty indicators; and developed computer
capacity at the provincial level. In addition to the results mentioned in Part I as well as in this section
of the report, the provision of computer capacity is an important technological impact of the project.
Although subject to improvements, this appropriate, portable, compatible and flexible technology has
probably introduced a permanent institutional and cultural transfrmation.
C.    World Bank Performance
8.           Proiect rationale, perception of the need for adjustment. reform, and expertise: This
project provided timely and appropriate management strengthening support. During the preparatory
phase, however, the Bank shared the Government's view of focusing its approach on those activities
aimed at developing analytical instruments, improving the information base, and promoting sectoral
development and investment rather than on fiscal reform and adjustment, institutional development
and improving capacity for policy generation and management. The need for adjustment and
profound public sector reform was missing. Also missing was the Bank's experience in the areas of
tax policy and administration, budgeting, programming and control, customs administration,
institutional strengthening and development, and managerial computer tools. Tax and fiscal areas
were partially covered with the participation of specialists and staff from the Internadional Monetary
Fund, while the Bank's experts and their analysis and evaluation capabilities were only provided mid-
way through project implementation.



- 25 -
9.           Project design. administration and managemen: This large and diverse project posed
a challenge for both the Government and the Bank. The Bank's reorganization in 1986 [sic] and the
transition from a Bank-executed UNDP-financed project, created a gray area in which the norms of
the various institutions overlapped with regard to the criteria for approving contractual services and
procurement, retroactivities, and the hiring of local experts. This, added to changes in task
managers, discussions over criteria used for monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, and some doubts
with regard to political biases in selecting and hiring consultants and consulting firms, resulted in a
period of intense re-examination ("pausa de reflexidnu). This period lasted from the onset of the
project i AI the first quarter of 1988. It was not until after staff from the Coordinating Unit visited
Washington, D.C., that it was agreed to: (a) make hiring, procurement and expenditures mechanisms
more flexible; (b) allow modifications in performance-in terms of results and Impact; and (c) delegate
most of the functions to the Coordinating Unit, for their ex-post evaluation by the World Bank. In
retrospect, this was an appropriate decision given the circmaces and capacity level of local
management. This is evidenced by the continuity of the project and its components, its objectives, its
results and its few and favorable reallocation of funds. Since the Bank's task managers were
constanty rotated and the institutional memory was inadequate, there were some losses i time and
effort during the first years of project implementation. It is important to stress these facts, since Part
I of the report offers a different interpretation with regard to the implementation pace, the different
project stages, and the quality of the design.
10.          Coordination, and expenditure allocation and control: A better coordination between
the Bankes sectoral divisions and the Coordinating Unit in the field in articulaing the development of
methodologies, information systems, and analysis of sector policies and investments would have been
very useful to evaluate resutts, improve their impact and sustainability, avoid overlapping with other
loans, and improve the design and generation of new projects. The absence of these fictors
conributed to the lack of inter- and intra-sectoral coordination that normally exists among most
organizations. An example would be the evaluation in Part I of this report of the little usefilness of
the activities linked to methodologies, training, investment systems, and project inventory in the
changing role of the State. Even now, after stabilization, this situation poses serious bottlenecks to
the new secooral and regional loans under implementation or negotiations in their effiorts of recovery
after the adjustment and reform processes. Local counterparts and coordinators of certain components
had expressed concern over the Bans request that project funds in a few cases be used to effect
payments of some international consultants whose missions were not directly related to project
objectives.2 No doubt the need for coordination and prior justification should be emphasized.
D.    Govarment Performance
11.          Direction. coordination and management: The fact that the project was under the
direction of the Secretariat for Economic Coordination and that the Secretary was the National
Director of the project gave strength to the project vis-a-vis the executing agencies and the local
La     his statement may be misleading. In fact, in very few cases, the Bank felt, after reaching
agreement with the concerned Government agency, that it would be appropriate for the Public
Sector Management Technical Assistance Loan (PSMTAL) to finance consultant services that
were considered crMical to the strengthening/reform of a particular agency that was also a
beneficiary under the PSMTAL.



-26 -
counterparts. The Secretary's responsibility for policy coordination and the physical independence of
the Coordinating Unit provided a relative autonomy with regard to the components and executing
agencies, thus avoiding internal fights and conflict of interest with respect to certain organizations.
The letters of commitment signed by all organizations involved In the project were useful, although
they should have contained certain triggering or conditional clauses. The initial phase of
implementation not only required a lengthy period of training in design, management, contractual and
procurement procedures, but also called for very tight controls to avoid diversion of funds. This
created tensions and pressures on the National Project Director and on the Coordinating Unit, but
since these were shared with the Bank, the proposed action plans were able to be fulfilled.
Nevertheless, this situation could adversely affece the performance of the Coordinating Unit since the
Unit needs to confront these problems directly.
12.          Design and implmentation: Most of the components that aimed at strengthening the
information base or at developing analytical instruments had very detailed working/action plans, stable
counterparts and were subject to very few pressures. Conversely, the sectoral components, given the
need for short-term 'crisis management," changes in policy orientation, institutional shifts, and
sectoral pressures and interests, required political negotiations in order to overcome technical
weainesses and changes in the level of institutional/political commitment and ownership. Probably
the components linked to fiscal resource mobilization could have evolved faster if some of the
political and institutional problems had been addressed on time. The immediate development
objectives were too broad and open-ended to allow for an adequate convergence and prioritization of
components, activities and results. This, in turn, required more efforts from the Coordinating Unit
and the Bank during project implementation.
13.          Sustainabiit and ransfer:  Generally, the Ministry of the Economy and the executing
agencies must increase their managerW and administrative c ?acity, as well as their institutional
capacity to coordinate, design, and increase the impact and absorptive capacity of the projects under
implementation. Certain activities linked to privatization, fiscal and administrative reform, debt
management and other key problems are still being implemented under new projects with various
sources of financing. Information systems required special attenton. They had to be carefully
designed, taking into account the quality, continuity and coverage, as well as the institutional
commitment and coordination. The managerial, administrative and policy reforms required different
criteria for conducting ex-ante, instittional, political and technical evaluations. The reduced
investment capacity and the prevailing macroeconomic conditions at the time of project start-up did
not entail much effort in programming investment and 'project cycle' vis-a-vis other priorities. The
formal task of developing methodologies, systems and training is useless when there is neither
financial capacity nor a need for formulating concrete projects. However, an efficient task was the
design of the Agricultural Credit Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. Formal training produces low
results during periods of adjustment and expenditure restrictions. Prior knowledge of information
bases, sector policy frameworks, macroeconomic conditions or various scenarios would have
increased the effectiveness and impact of sectoral analysis and studies, as was the case with tax
policy. In many of the works and systems developed, no attention was given to cost-effectiveness,
cost recovery and user charges. In addition, consideration was not given to alternative approaches of
examining institutional and managerial restrictions, the degree of human resources needs, and other
aspects. Ihis will be furfther analyzed in the section devoted to lessons of experience.



-27 -
E.    Relationship between the Government and the Bank
14.          Adjustments were required during the transition from project preparation to full
project implementation, due to the institutional changes in the Bank, government and counterparts,
and the transition from one Government administration to the other. Notwithstanding, the
relationships between the National Project Director, the Coordinating Unit, the counterpart
organizations, and the Bank were smooth, consistent and appropriately channeled. However, a better
coordination at the sectoral level, through the Bank's task managers, would have improved
effectiveness, efficiency, and impact of activities under way. This was the case with public and
sectoral investments under several components, agricultural sector loans and other tasks, since it
served both to evaluate results and to coordinate activities.
F.    UNDP/EOP Performance
is.          Project pregaration: UNDP made an important contibution toward project
preparation, by financing a Principal Technical Advisor-PTA- with experience in Bank operations.
The PTA participated in project preparation and negotiations. Interregional and specialized agencies
also collaborated in their areas of expertise. The UNDP field office facilitated the coordination with
other projects under execution, and provided the necessary infrastructure and adminitrative support
for this initiative. This enabled project design and negotiations to be carried out within a reasonable
time frame, giveL the project's complexity and size.
16.          The Management Services Agreement -MSA-with UNDP's Office for Project
Services-OPS--constituted a learning process for OPS. Consequently, there were many
inconveniences during this period which resulted in delays in procurement, contracting of services and
project implementation. As in the case of the Government and the World Bank, there was insufficient
internal capacity for administering and evaluating the acquisition of computer equipment.
Acquisitions, therefore, were slow and lacked efficacy and, at times, even efficiency. There were
frequent claims, revisions in terms of reference and purchase orders, and delays which had negative
consequences in project activities and operations. This continued until procurement was decentralized
and many of the activities were delegated to the UNDP field office who, in turn, passed many of
them over to the Coordinating Unit.
17.          Contacting, bidding, provision of financial statements, as well as other elements
should be reviewed to improve coordination, timeliness and consistency of actions. The
administrative staff of the Coordinating Unit, fianced by OPS, and the external comptroller of the
project ("Tribunal de Cuentas de la Naci6n") spent too much time reviewing statement of expenses
and procedures. Undoubtedly, there are many ways that procedures and coordination of norms for
which both OPS and the World Bank are working, could be simplified. An example where OPS
made a substantW and cost-effective contribution was in the evaluation of the terms of reference for
DGI bidding, where the main problems were identified by hiring short-term consultants to make
specific evaluations.
18.          As planned, the input of the UNDP field office was reduced during project
implementation as a consequence of the capacity developed in the Coordinting Unit. Actions to
compensate for differences in the exchange rate, conciliations, allocations and other expenditures were
encouraged, and this led to a significant resource recovery for the project, thus increasing its



- 28 -
implementation capacity. Unfortunately, the wage policy established by the Ministry of Foreign
Relations and Culture conditioned UNDP's policy in this regard, negatively affecting the project in
various instances during lengthy periods of time. This had negative consequences on the performance
of certain activities because of substantial differences with salaries of the private sector.
G.    Coordtiang Unkit fmanc
19.          Location and role of the Coordinating Unit: The activities of the Coordinating Unit
were concentrated in the areas of technical assistance, administration, procurement, management,
coordination, institutional development, dissemination and publication. It had a relevant role during
all the phases of the project. Its direct dependence on the Secretariat for Economic Coordination and
independence from any specific organization gave It flexibility, relative autonomy and helped it avoid
biases toward any particular organization. As part of its technical assistance activities and
responsibilities, the Coordinating Unit provided assistance in preparing working/action plans, and
performed supervision, monitoring, coordination, control, and evaluation, of all which demanded a
great deal of dedication and stressed its working capacity. The Coordinating Unit was also in charge
of reviewing inputs-consultants, consulting firms, equipment, etc.-and outputs, which required
substantial andysis due to the diversity of subjects involved in the project.
20.          E>ect managen: The complexity and diversity of the components, the
institutional and technical weaknesses of the counterparts and the need for a timely preparation of the
project, surpassed, in some cases, the technical and managerial capacity of the Coordinating Unit.
Hence, the Unit was unable to adequately evaluate and anticipate some sectoral and insftiional
problems observed during implementation. Administrative, managerial, coordinating, and
dissemnation systems improved during implementation, although they could have been further
improved had they been incorporated during preparation so as to provide for better performance,
analytical, monitoring, and management capacity. The computer advisory capacity in the
Coordinating Unit allowed the Unit to evaluate computer demands, in terms of effectiveness,
efficiency, compatibility and portability; analyze, supervise and evaluate systems, and provide the
capacity for necessary coordination, portability and transfers; and analyze sustainability and training.
This capacity was developed over project implementation and served as a teahing process. ITe
coordination and dissemination of results demanded specific activities, in terms of seminars,
workshops, document and time series databases, creation of a library that operates in the Secretariat
for Economic Planning, and publication of a compilation or individual reports. Ihe administrative
tasks involved contracting, "procurement cycle," accounting, reviewing and adjustment of interests
and discrepancies over the exchange rate, audit reports and entry, as well as periodic financial reports
and statements for different organizations and users. It also worked as a liaison with UNDP, OPS,
the World Bank, and the external comptroller of the project ("Tribunal de Cuentas de la Nacidn").
R.    Specific Probems
21.          Development of instuments for economic decision-making: The analytical
instruments that were developed were scarcely used or disseminated in the public sector and, due to a
lack of counterpart staff, were difficult to transfer. The input of the National Institute for Statistics
and Census was important, although this participation declined during the final stage when its
absorptive capacity and sustainability weakened. Technical assistance, aimed at strengthening
institutional development, requires availability of ex-ante absorptive capacity through human resources



- 29 -
and counterpart budgets. Sustainability and institional pressures still represent a problem with most
of the components.
22.          Miliatn an utilizion of central administionresourc: Due to the weak
political presence and inadequate economic management capacity of the Secretariat for Planning,
sustainability was scarce, except in the areas of methodology advice and information equipment. The
results of the work in the area of tax policy were used to formulate policies, although their design and
conceptualization lacked the adequate macroeconomic and sectoral framework for the analysis of
sectoral scenarios. The excessively ambitious, centralized and overly broad focus of the tax
administration, in conjunction with the handling of various fiscal emergency packages affected the
timely availability of terms of refr-ence for the development of tax collection and fiscalization ..ystems
for a measure that had already exhausted its political capacity. Likewise, the centralized strategy,
administration and coordination of too many individual consultants were the result of errors in the
design that affected efficacy and efficiency and created a negative external image on the existng
administration. However, the emergency packages, the taxpayers registry-CUlT-and the tax
inspection were important outputs of this component. The role of the Ministry for Public Works and
Services vis-a-vis the public enterprises, the institutional setup, and consultants difficulties in
accessing the companies, significantly delayed obtaining reliable information. In addition to the
technical and institutional problems mentioned in the above paragraph, attention should be given to
the development of a coherent macroeconomic and sectoral framework, identification of tax, financial
and investment restrictions and priorities, taking into account the available economic and political
cycle and horizon. Although this comment may seem obvious and redundant, the effectiveness and
impact of many activities were impaired by these factors or by lack of feedback.
23.          Public entedsg mao ngg=       and centrw adminzip$strative gf     In those cases
where consultants had inadequate counterpart participation, such as in labor production, consultants'
output became no more than work guidelines of scarce application and specificity. While many of the
tasks were inputs to the reform process, there was an insufficient management, selection, monitoring
and implementation capacity of the Secretariat of Public Functions since it does not have much
expertise in designing and implementing policies. The privatization policy was implemented after
many policy and institutional changes, and after the government faced insurmountable fiscal problems.
The pace of the privatization process has implicit risks in the regulatory capacity medium-term
socioeconomic impacts that should be considered. The administrative reform is a lengthy process that
requires permanent policies and support to avoid the loss of administrative and management capacity
necessary for the structural reforms and the new role of the State. Attention should be given to the
effectiveness of training within this particular global and institutional framework.
24.         Industrial and extemal trade development: The support and line substitution task for
designing and administering policies in the Secretariat for Industry and Commerce was successful and
important, even though it was not totally transferred and lacked absorptive capacity and sustainability.
The customs component was never started up due to the lack of adequate technical, political,
institutional and managerial conditions. The services project-advisory and information system-for
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Culture was very useful in streamlining the Ministry's activities
and procedures, and it has been integrated into the administrative network of this entity, and made
possible the transformation of the analytical capacity and working instruments.



-30-
1.    Lesons of lSpeie
25.   (a)    A project of such size, complexity and scope requires a solid admnistration capacity,
commitment and clearly defined responsible actors. It would be prudent to
concentrate efforts in fewer objectives and components to improve project
administration and impact. However, the size, "critical mass." and the inertia of
some projects produce economies of scale that should be evaluated on a case-by-case
basis and in light of alternative strategies. A clear definition of strategies and
immediae objectives could contribute in reducing the components and activities, and
prioritizing them for a better allocation of funds.
(b)    Sectoral components that are subject to institutional and policy changes are more
difficult to administer than information systems, studies and methodologies.
(c)    The commitment from the Government and some counterparts was insufficient in
certain -ases, and should be subject to triggering or conditional clauses to avoid
freezing of funds during lengthy periods. Sustainability of some components is still a
major problem, demanding commitment of counterpart funds to guarantee project
transfers. The Ministry of Economy and Public Works and Services should develop
adinistration capacity to improve coordination, selection, formulation, commitment,
impact, transparency and transfer of projects.
(d)    The decision to hire local and international experts, consultants, consulting firms and
institutions depends on the activities they perform and their relationship with the
conte of the project. However, given differences in cost and the need to guarantee
sustainability, international consultants should be hired when there is a lack of local
expertise, and there are economies of scale, time savings and possibilities of
technology transfer to reach the desired political impact on time. Active counterparts,
action plans, overall activities and on-the-job training to allow transfer of knowledge
should be identified in each case. Local experts are better able to perform in cases
where politically sensitive problems exist, where potental conflicts with personnel
may arise, or when there are delays in obtaining statistical, legal or other types of
information. This is particularly true when the objective is to manage policies. Local
experts could, however, be provided with timely assistance from international
consultants.
(e)    Ihe start-up of projects should be based on training workshops in the areas of
administraion, operations and management that provide very precise guidelines for
formulating wofking/action plans, criteria for eligibility, procedures, norms for
contracting and procurement, administrative information systems, audit rules,
information and report dissemination systems, publishing and other aspects intrinsic to
project activities and results. The coordination of components or local counterparts
requires technical and administrative capacity to carry out the projects in order to
guarantee adequate implementation, sustainability and transfer.
(f)    Managing too many individual consultants could affect the administrative capacity of
the organizations involved and represent a fixed cost independently from the results,



-31 -
with consequences on efficiency and pedromance. These problems should be
addressed and evaluated promptly.
(g)    The dm      e, supervisory and disseminaon system  involve economies of
scale, Increase coordination, reduce operational cost, develop istutiona memory,
allow more time for analysis and more important tasks, and could be conveyed within
and among ptOject. PerforRmac and manemet indicos and repors should be
adjusted to the different users, such as the Coordinating Unit, the World Bank, the
Government, executing agencies, Services Agency, adn auditing. The ex-ante
definition of impact indicators and their follow-up could prioritize aves, determine
project's cost-effectiveness and cost-efficiency and evuate the results more
accurately.
(h)    Computerzation represents an important factor that requires adequate approaches and
capacities due to the terms, cost and excess demand of Incorporating it. Guidelines
to increase effectiveness, cost-efficiency, impact and transfer should consider the
institutional and political capacity; the conceptual framework for its development,
design, pilot tests, and development and implementation environment; hardware and
software transferability; plans that involve pilot tests: hardware and software
aintenance and required management and operational staff.
(i)    Disemiion of results could be achieved through seminars, workshops,
coordinator, information systems, databases, libraries and publication of works.
With regard to the transfer of technology and products, there should be a difference
between product technologies-incorporated-and process technology-disincorporated-
to later determine the appropriate mecnsm. Formal ttaining is importat and
should be adequately conditioned to developing the institutional absorptive capacity.
f;)    Given the different time frame between sectoral and adjustment process, on one hand,
and institutional development and reform process, on the other, nesay conditios
should be established to avoid changes in the short term, and thus develop the critical
mass to achieve the foreseen institutional policies and impact. ITe equiibrium should
be established during the preparatory phase, with appropriate conditions, "trigger"
dauses, and management indicators. These activities will require a permanent
supervision and the necessary flexibility to adapt to changes.
J.    Recomdatio
26.          Due to the economic and social costs of adjustment and the institutional conflicts it
Involves, the aspects of legitimacy, participation, and representaon should be taken into account.
Even though they bear a great political bias than those related to public and economic management,
such as transfer, predictability and auditing, the relationship among the different government
branches, during the reform process, is important and contributes to the insttional strengthening and
stability of *he system. Notwithstanding, they constitute new challenges and they are essential to
guarantee s. bility.



- 32 -
27.          These conditions also exist in the decentralization process that is responsible for
addressing social policies, social Investment programs and funds, and social emergency networks.
28.          The recurrent failures of the economic policy have had economic, social and political
consequences, in terms of exclusion, weakness of the productive web, political indifference and
abstentionism that provokes rapid political deterioration. Itegrating adjustment, reform and growth
represents a challenge, but also shows that fiscal restrictions could be overcome through coercion or
growth.
29.          The defense and sustainability of this democratic stabilization and transition period
demand a greater participation, representation and legitimacy from the different powers, and a
decentralization process.
30.          The factors that make up governance, linked to the institutional and organdzational
structures of the policy management process are subject to conditions, restrictions and diversity, and
are related internally and with their context.
31.          The policy formulation process has two dimensions that characterize the State:
autonomy and capacity. The reform processes have been gradual, partial, with various impacts, and
based on administrative approaches. The severe structura restrictions-fiscal, monetary and exteral-
have caused abrupt changes in direction, pace, terms and coverage. At times, economic coercion has
substituted political power.
32.          The reform process may follow different paths and stages, depending on the
economic, political and social restrictions, and the political, financial and technical capacity. The
conventional administrative reform should be extended in the medium- and long-term, and cover
institutional, managerial and administrative changes focussed on the structures, functions,
employment, flexibility, and simplification of procedures. The reform of the 'policy cycle' is more
selective, of short- and medium-term, policy-based, of inter-institutonal nature, and focussed on the
policy management areas. It is oriented towards the processes and deals with the analysis,
coordination and control of results, consequences and impact of policies at different levels and scales.
33.          The timeliness, suitability and strategy of reform will depend on the evaluation of the
political, social and institutional factors involved. ITis situation could determine the possibilities of
confrontation, negotiations, consensus tr establishment of fronts or coalitions, and possible
overlapping or sequence among processes and changes from one phase to the other.
34.          The different State functions should be differentiated from the management and
administrative approach as well as from the economist's focus, in order to form a three-level
structure: policy design and implementation, administration, and management. Each with its own
particular analytical base, instruments, and time frame, but complementary among them.
Notwithstanding, the reform must be systematic, sustained, have ample coverage, and be subject to
lengthy trial periods that normally go beyond an administration, this process should possess an
strategic, selective and flexible framework comprising the three levels of action and the different
stages determined by the reform strategies.



- 33 -
35.          Due to the growing complexity of the State functions, it could be argued that change
from administrative to management reforms, characteristic of the recent reforns, does not adequately
address the instittional base on which policy management lies. Public and private sector
managements have different analytical basis and instruments that could be complemented but not
substituted among them. It is difficult to determine public sector productivity, even more when
formulating and executing policies.
36.          The evolution of the role of an interventionist and developing State to a more open
and competitive structure, in which the "engine of growth" is based on private initiative, is necessary.
In this context, the State acts as a promoter and guarantor of the public and private interests,
increasing public and political participation, representation, legitimacy, transparency, efficiency and
control. Aspects all linked to stable democracies, as well as growth and equity.



-34 -
PROJEC COMPLLEnON REPO-RT
ARGENTIN
PULC-SC0 MAAGMNT TEHEAASITANCE PROJEC
QAN 2712-AR)
PART III: MThM=ALMINFOMATION
Table 1: proect Timetable
Activity                         Original Loan Dates            Actual
Initiating Activities                                            December, 1984
Project Identification                                           December 1984
Pre-Appraisal Mission                                            July-August 1985
Approval of Project
Preparation Facility                                            December 1985
Appraisa Mission                                                 March 1986
Negotiations                                                     May 1986
Staff Appraisal Report                                           May 13, 1986
Board Approval                                                   June 1986
Loan Agreement                                                   September 12, 1986
Effectiveness                     August 1986                    Febnary 9, 1987
First Amendment to Loan                                          November 17, 1987
Second Amendment to Loan                                         February 27, 1991
Loan Closing                      February 28, 1991              December 31, 1991
Project Completion                August 30, 1990                April 30, 1992



- 35 -
Table 2: Loa Disursen
Cumlluative Esdaed and Actual Disbursemns
(JS$ millions)
Bank FY
1985-86   1987       1988       1989       1990       1991
Appraisal Esimate              .5    5.2         10.9      15.5       18.5         00
Actual                          .4    4.9         8.9      11.9       14.4       18.5
Actual as % of Estimate        84      94         82         77         78        100
Execution of Loan               .5    2.8        6.7       10.9       15.4       18.1
Execution as % of Disburse-
ment                          100     57         75         92        100        982
Date of Final Disbursement: May 14, 1991
LI Approxately US$ 400,000 was executed din the period from Jamnuy -April, 1992.



- 36 -
ale 3A: Erject inancing
Category                              Original                  Actual
(millions}               (millions
(1)   Consultant services:             12.300              14.141
Consultant firms                                     3.096
National consultants                                10.885
International consultanIs                             .160
(2)   Training                                               .506
(3)   Goods                            3.700                2.365
(4)   Refunding of Project
Preparation Advance             .500
(5)   Other expenses*                                       .619
(6)   Commission for UNDP/OPS
Administration                                       1.026
(7)   Unallocated fimds                2,000                .024
TOTAL                           18.500            18.682**
The amount listed in this category is presented as the sum of "various expenses" under each
component. The principal identified expenditures included approximately $220,000 in editing
expenses by the Coordinating Unit (PCU) and an additional $343,000 of various expenditures
by the PCU.
**    Disbursements by the Bank to the UNDP/OPS account generated interest income of $195,024
which were assigned to the Projece, yielding a total of funds utilized under the Project of
$18,695,024.



-37-
Table 3B: Proie¢t Cost Breakdown by Comnonent ($000)
AlloCation in
Project components            President's Report       Actual
FORESEEN IpI QOIGINAL PROJECT DESIGN
Al.  Models, Scenario
Building                 700                      936
A2.  National Accountgt         670                   1,441
A3.  Economic Information
Systems (MW)             370                      826
A4   Input-Output Matrices     350
A5   Information Base
(INDEC)                  900                   1,276
Bl.  Global Planning           510                      991
82a. Tax Policy and
Administration         2,570                    1,840
1. Policy                                          424
2. Administration                                1,388
B2bd.Programming and
Budgeting                770                      862
B3. MOSP Investment
Programming              650                      724
B4.  Agricultural Planning   1,090                    1,351
C12. System/Firm Level
improvements           1,380                    1,721
C3. Improving Management
Skills                   600                      452
D12356.
Industrial/Export
Policies/Procedures    2,190                    1,621
Export Structure          220
information Systems       970
Industrial Policy       1,000
D4.  Customs Administration    900                       78
D7.  Trade Negotiations        650                      724
Coordinating Unit              700                    1,861
Contingencies, Fees (UNDP)   1,000                    1,026
Unallocated                  2,000                       --
Repayment of PPF               500
NOT FORESEEN IN ORIGINAL PROJECT DESIGN
A6.  Implementation of ERP     ---                      716
A7.  Support for SEP           ---                      148
C4. Privatization of
Petrochemicals            ---
TOTALS                      18,500                  18,6591
L4   Components A2 and A4 were combined in acoordance with amendment to loan.
LI   PPF funds have been allocated to the component for which fimds were used.
&    Actual expenditures are equal to US$ 18,657,826, with an additional US$23,512 in unallocated
funds for a total of US$18,681,338. The actual funds available to the program were US$
18,695,024 due to interest of $195,024 earned on Bank transfers to UNDP accounts applied to
the Project.



- 38 -
Table 4s tatus of Loan Covenants
Section           Brief Description of Covenant           Compliance and
Remarks
Carry out Project through               Complied
3.01a          Executing Agencies as described in
Annex to Schedule 2, and shall
provide funds, facilities,
services, and other resources
required for the Project.
3.01b          Establish and maintain in ME a          Complied
project coordinating unit.
3.Olc          Ensure PCU is headed by a Project       complied
Director, assisted by project
coordinator and staff.
3.02a          Enter into contractual agreement        Complied
with BCRA and INDEC for carrying
out Parts of Project assigned to
them.
3.02b          Enter into contractual arrangement      Complied with by
for handling contracting of             estaILishment of
consultants, procurement of goods,      Management Services
and arranging training activities       Agreement with
under the Project.                      UNDP/OPS.
3.03           shall cause eac. Executing Agency       Compliance during
to furnish Bank by December 30 of       first year, but with
each year the Annual Action             subsequent years
Program for following year.             experiencing delays
in submissions.
3.04           Carry out all studies through           Compliance, although
Executing Agencies in accordance        TORe for some
with terms of reference acceptable      studies unclear and
to Bank.                                outputs for some
consultancies not
clearly defined.
3.05           Procurement of goods purchased for      Complied
Project shall be in compliance
with standard Bank guidelines.



-39 -
3.06           Employ, or cause Executing               Complied with, and
Agencies to employ, consultants         by subsequent Bank-
satisfactory to Bank and in             GOA agreement,
accordance with Bank principles         increased
and procedures.                         responsibility
delegated to PCU to
facilitate and
simplify
administrative
actions.
3.07           Borrower and Bank shall exchange        Complied
views semi-annually on progress
achieved by each Executing Agency,
and PCU shall provide progress
reports on each component fifteen
days prior to said exchanges.
4.01           Maintain separate records and           Audit reports
accounts to be audited on an            consistently delayed
annual basis and provide to the         beyond four month
Bank a certified copy of audit          period, and final
reports no later than four months       audit for project
after the end of each year.             closing has not been
received.



-40-
Table Us Ue og Bank Resoures2 (Staff Weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual Staff Weeks
Pro-Appraisal                         17.6
Appraisal                             16.7
Negotiations                           2.8
Supervision                         158.2
TOTAL                                195.3
Project Completion Report              6.0



-41-
Tabl  Sg: Mgin
Stage of Project         Fiscal               No. of          Total
Cycle                 Year                 Persons         Days
Preparation              1985/
1986                7                 88
Appraisal                1986                 11                84
Negotiations             1986                 3                 14
Supervision              1987                 9                146
Supervision              1988                 10              188
Supervision              1989                 10              202
Supervision              1990                 4               111
Supervision              1991                 9                84
Supervision              1992                 5                59
PCR                      1992                 2                30
TOTAL                                                         1,006



-42 -
Table     Related Projects
Project/Loan          Purpose                           Year of      Status
No. and  Title                                          Approval
2920: Municipal       Project is intended to assist    1988          Completed
Development           provincial and municipal level
Loan ($1201)          governments through
improvements in financial
mechanisms for municipal
investments,
3015: Tax             Project is intended to            1989         Currently in
Administration        strengthen DOI structural                      operation
TAL I ($6.5M)         reform program through
assistance in computerization,
tax inspection, training,
auditing and control.
3280:                 Project's objective is to         1991         Currently in
Provincial            provide financial support and                  operation
Development           incentives for provinces to
Project ($2003)       undertake their own adjustment
programs consistent with
national adjustment program,
principally through physical
investments. In addition, 10%
of project costs are devoted
to Institutional Development.
3291: Public         Loan is part of a program of       1991         Currently in
Enterprise            Bank support to GOA objectives                 operation
Reform                of stabilizing the economy and
Adjustment            resuming growth. Loan aims to
Loan-PERAL            support efforts to privatize
($300M)              PBs in several sectors and to
assist in management
improvements in other sectors.
3292: Public          Project is part of a program      1991         Currently in
Enterprise            of Bank support to GOA in                      operation
Reform                efforts to achieve PR reform
Execution Loan-       program. The focus of the loan
PEREL ($23M)          is to finance costs of
services and equipment
contemplated under the
accompanying PERAL and to
extend activities to
additional sectors.



-43 -
3362: Public         Project supports GOA efforts       1991         Currently in
Sector Reform        to modernize Customs                            operation
Technical             Department, to strengthen
Assistance            administrative reform in the
Loan- PSRTAL          Central Government, to
($23M)               establish an integrated
financial management system,
to modernize the Central Bank,
and to implement a complete
restructuring of SEF.
3394 s Public        Loan is part of a broader Bank   1991           Currently in
Sector Reform         program to help restructure                    operation
Loan- PSRL            and reduce the size of
($325 Million)       Argentina's public sector, and
supports fundamental reforms
of the Federal Government and
Monetary Authorit.y to mobilize
resources, rationalize
expenditures and strengthen
the Central Bank in relation
to the Treasury.



