Do y_ of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rept No. P-3850-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TME
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 24.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT IN
ELEVEN CENTERS
February 8, 1985
ITh docane hw a retited dis sbuii am_ d many be wed by reits madly in the perforumace of
thder official dute Its cote_ts nay n  otdrwise be disdosed -wi    World Bak  StioaL



CURRENCY EQUIVALETS
Currency Unir           -      CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                 -      CFAF 435
CFAF 1                  -      US$0.0023
CFAF 1,000              -      US$2.30
WEIGHrS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)                        -    3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                   -    0.62 miles
1 liter (1)                        -    0.26 US gallons
1 cubic meter (W3)                 -    264 US gallons
1 cubic meter/second (=3Is)        -   31.5 million cubic meters
per year or 22.8 million
US gallons per day
I liter per capita per dav (lcd)   -    0.26 US gallons per capita
per day
ABBREVIAIIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      African Development Bank
BADEA     Banque Arabe de Developpement Economique pour l'Afrique
BCEAO     Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economi:que, France
CEAO      Communaute Economiaue des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CGES      Compagnie GEnerale des Eaux du Senegal
CAA       Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
EEC       European Economic Comumanitv
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation, France
ICS       Industries Chimiques du Senegal
IGIP      Ingenieur-Gesellschaft fur Internationale Planungsaufgaben ibH
Kfw       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, FRG
ME        Ministere de l'Hydraulique
OCAM      Organisation Commune Africaine et Malgache
SmIG      Salaire Minimum Interprofessionnel Garanti
SOME      Service des Operations et de la Maintenance Hydraulique (MH)
SO-EES    Societe Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux du Senegal
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
SON-EES: January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMKARY
Borrower:            Republic of Senegal_
Beneficiarv:         Societe Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux du Senegal
(SONEES); 14inistere de l'Hydraulique (ME).
Amount:              IDA Credit of SDR 24.1 million (US$24 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard_
Relending Terms:    US$9.5 million equivalent of the IDA Credit would be onleut
to SONEES on IBRD terms (20 years, including 5 years of
grace). SONEES would bear the risks related to exchange
rate and interest rate variations. US$9.5 million
equivalent would be passed on by the State as contribution
to SONEES' equity.
Project              In line with the Government's policy to redress and
Description:         restructure the parapublic sector, the objectives of the
proposed project would be to assist the Government in
strengthening the urban water and sanitation sector by
transforming SONEES into an entity with a capacity to
develop and operate the sector without recourse to
Governx2ent subsidies. The project would also aim at
assisting the Goverment in defining the best solution for
the expansion of the Dakar/Cap Vert water supply system, in
developing sound investment planning, maintenance and cost
recovery in the rural water supply sector, as well as in
promotin- appropriate technologies in the urban sanitation
subsector. In support of these objectives, the project
would include: (i) a rehabilitation component for SONEES,
including technical assistance, consultancy services, office
space, training, as well as additional working capital;
(ii) construction and rehabilitation of boreholes, water
treatment, storage, transmission and distribution
facilities, house crnnections and standpipes in eleven
secondary centers; (iii) feasibility studies for the
Dakar/Cap Vert water supply system, (iv) rural water supply
technical assistance and institutional/policy studies; and
(v) urban sanitati'on studies.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Benefits:   The proposed project would support the Government's
objective of enhancing the economic performance of the
sector through improved investment planning, programming,
project design and cost recovery. By 1991, it would benefit
an additional 280.000 people in the eleven centers covered
by the project (an increase of 66%) through domestic
connections or access to standpipes, half of the additional
population served belonging to the urban poor.
Proiect Risks:      Project risks relate to possible cost overruns caused by
delays ia procurement and construction, to improper
operation and maintenance by SONEES, and to the general
ability of the latter to meet the demanding challenges of
institutional development. The risks relating to cost
overruns have been minimized by basing projections on actual
cost of similar works being undertaken in the country and by
using the regional profile for the project implementation
schedule and sufficient contingencies for foreign and local
currency expenditures. Operational and maintenance risks
are being reduced by technology which takes into account
local technical capabilities and by a substantial technical
assistance program to strengthen SONEES's operations. The
institutional development risk, while real, is mitigated by
the Government's determination to redress the parapublic
sector and its commitment to this investment; moreover,
SONEES's performance would be closely monitored.



-i-
Estimated Cost:                                    Local     Foreign   Total
(Excluding Taxes)                                         US$ million
Water Supply Systems in Eleven Centers             4.0       6.5       10.5
Rehabilitation of SONEES' Operations               1.0       8.3       9.3
Water Supply and Sanitation Studies                0.3       1.3        1.6
Base Cost                                       5.3      16.1      21.4
Physical Contingencies                               0.8       1.5        2.3
Price Contingencies                                  3.2       4.1        7.3
Project Cost                                    9.3      21.7      31.0
Refinancing of IDA Engineering Credit                0.5       2.0        2.5
(Cr. S-23-SE)
Interest during Construction                         1.8       0.7        2.5
Total Financing Requirements                   11.6      24.4      36.0
Financing Plan:
IDA                                                  5.1      18.9       24.0
CCCE                                                 2.8       4.8        7.6
SONEES                                               3.7       0.7        4.4
Total Financing                               11.6      24.4      36.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93
3ibrem s  _ US$ million
Annual                        8.5    3.4   2.5   2.6   2.4   2.0   1.4   1.2
Cumulative                    8.5   11.9  14.4  17.0  19.4  21.4  22.8  24.0
Internal Economic Rate of Return:  9%, using agreed water tariffs as a proxy
for benefits.
Staf' Appraisal Report:  No. 4119 of Februarv 1, 1985
Man: IBRD No. 16700R



IbTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLTC OF SENEGAL
FOR THE ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendat.on on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Senegal for SDR 24.1 million (US$24.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance the Eleven Centers
Vater Supply Project. The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) of
France has provided a loan of FF 66 million (USS7.6 million equivalent) to
Societe Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux du Senegal (SONEES) for 16 years,
including six years of grace, at 5% per annum with a guarantee fee of 1 imposed
by the Republic of Senegal.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Senegal: Country Economic Memorandum" (5243-SE) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on November 5, 1984. Country date :opear
in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past De-zelopments
3.        Three-quarters of Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel zone, wbich
suffers from low rainfall and periodic droughts. The mainstays of the tradi-
tional economy are millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic
consumption, and groundnut cultivation for export. The modern sector of the
economy is concentrated in Dakar, the capital, a city of over one million
inhabitants, the economic base of which consists of excellent port facilities.
an important industrial sector, and a small but fast-growing tourism industry.
With a population of 6.2 million in mid-1983, Senegal's per capita GNP for 1983
is estimated at US$440.
4.        At Independence in 1960, Senegal lost its privileged position as the
center oF French West Africa. and subsequeatlv had to adapt to reduced economic,
administrative and political circumstances. In the latter part of the 1960s,
income from groundnuts (the principal export) fell due to ur.favorable weather
and lower export prices resulting from the loss of EEC special preferences.
Over the decade, the Senegalese economy marked time as real output increased at
a rate estimated at 2.5% per annum, hardly more than the rate of population
growth.
5.        Economic management became even more difficult during the 1970s as a
result of the growing unreliabi-lity of agricultural production and its linked
effects on fiscal and export revenues. During the 1970s, Senegal's groundnut
production was again hit by sharp climatic fluctuations, and even with higher
rates of private and public investment, average CDP growth did not rise abeve
the level of the previous decade. Buoyed bv a series of good harvests and
relatively high international prices, real CDP increased at about 5% a year



- 2 -
between 1973 and 1977, but then declined by 2% a year between 1977 and 1981,
reflecting the effect of three severe droughts. A marked recovery occurred in
1982 with an estimated 10% real growth in GDP. Results of the 1982/83
agricultural season were also good, leading to an estimated 6% growth of GDP in
1983. A 40Z decline in the 1983/84 groundnut and cereal harvest due to another
severe drought in the Sahel region has been followed by a mediocre, but somewhat
improved, harvest in 1984/85.
6.        Fluctuations in physical output are aggravated by the price volatility
of Senegal's major exports and imports.  For example, in 1974, the terms of
trade improved by over 21% in one year, due to exceptionally high prices for
phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity; however, in 1975, export
prices for groundnuts declined sharply, followed by a decline in phosphate
prices. Increases in imported oil and rice prices brought a further
deterioration in the terms of trade, causing a total loss in income of roughly
6% of GDP between 1974 and 1982. This deterioration in terms of trade, along
with the unsatisfactory performance of the economy as a whole, led the Govern-
ment to launch an economic and financial stabilization program in 1980. The
main objectives of the Government's five-year program were to stabilize the
economy during the first two years and to achieve an economic growth rate of 4%
per annum in the following three years. This program was supported by an
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) of US$243 million equivalent, approved by the IMF
in August 1980, and a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit (SAL) of US$60 million
equivalent approved by the Bank in December 1980.
7.        The structural adjustment program consisted of an economic stabili-
zation plan (agreed with and monitored by the IMF), introduction of new produ-
cer incentives, reorientation of the public investment program, a change in the
national policy on parastatal enterprises, and a package of structural reforms
in the agricultural sector. Despite delays caused by a record low 1980/81
groundnut crop and by the change of presidents in early 1981, the Government
achieved significant progress in financial arrears reduction, parapublic sector
marnagement and industrial incentive policies. However, in other areas, and
especially in the reform of agricultural policies and institutions and in
reduction of the current account and fiscal deficits, action was disappointing.
The SAL second tranche of US$16.2 million was cancelled on July 1, 1983.
Recent Economic Developments
8.        The overlay of acute structural and financial problems which Senegal
had suffered for seven years was compounded in 1983/84 by the return of severe
drought conditions. These reduced by almost 40 percent the volumes of
agricultural crop production available both for export (groundnuts) and for
domestic consumption (mainly cereals). The drought, probably the second most
severe since 1972-73, had a negative impact on the level of economic activity in
1984, on Senegal's balance of payments and, indirectly, on its public finances.
Despite these difficulties, the current account deficit was reduced in 1984,
according to preliminary estimates.
9.        While there are signs that the secondary sector may have been
relatively unaffected by the impact of the latest drought, prospects for a
sustained recovery in output and employment are still uncertain not only because
of climatic aberrations, but also as a direct result of the persistent financial
crisis. Although the economy appreared to have recovered strongly in 1982 and
1983 from the effects of the two preceding drought-affected years, restoring



- 3 -
real per capita income to its 1979 level, GDP probably fell by about 4.0 percent
in 1984; it would have been even lower without the growth in fisheries,
petroleum refining and other export-based industries, notably fertilizers, for
which a 200,000 tpy phosphoric acid plant came on stream at mid-year.
10.       In August 1983, following the announcement of measures to eliminate
subsidies on petroleum and imported food products, an IMF standby was agreed for
1983/84, with commitments to observe strict public employment limits and
domestic credit ceilings. This program, which aimed at reducing the current
account deficit by more than three percentage points of GDP and reducing the
overall fiscal deficit from 9 to 4.8 percent of GDP on a commitment basis, was
successfully completed. A new standbv covering an 18-month period to June 1986
was approved by the IMF Board in January, 1985.  It is clear, however, that in
future years Senegal's drawings on further IMF resources would largely be offset
by its repurchase a-ad interest obligations due on outstanding credit, requiring
an increase in budgetary assistance from other sources.
Producer and Export Incentives
11.       The structural adjustment program addressed the need to improve
Senegal's trade balance by increasing the basic rate of import duties from 10I
to 15% of f.o.b. value and by introducing an export premium system for certain
manufactured goods. The export premium system has had a positive impact on
export and employment levels in some of the five industries to which it was
applied, especially fish processing. An extension to 20 other product lines, as
well as a change in the payment system to a value-added basis, was introduced in
1983. In February 1982 the Government announced a 31% increase in the official
consumer price for rice, which was again raised substantially (24%) in August
1983 and (by another 23%) in January 1985, in order to reflect higher import
costs and to provide a measure of protection for domestic cereal production.
The net producer price for groundnuts was increased substantially in 1981, then
lowe-:ed in 1982 when export prices for groundnut oil fell sharply and was
subsequently (December 1984) restored to its 1981 level. Cereals are marketed
mostly through private channels but the official floor prices were raised by
about 10% in late 1984.
12.       A major constraint on the Goverrment's finances and the balance of
payments is the serious and growing burden represented by service of the
external foreign debt. This has now been rescheduled four times with the Paris
Club, as well as with the banks, and is projected to average around $250 million
per year over the next four vears, without further reschedulings.  At the last
Paris Club meeting, in January 1985, creditors agreed to a significant softening
of the terms for rescheduling of Senegal's repayments due this year.
Investment Program
13.       The outlook for investment has deteriorated since the establishment of
the structural adjustment program in 1980.  While the latter imposed ceilings on
the investment program to reestablish macroeconomic equilibrium, implementation



-4-
of even the reduced program has become problematic because of financing
problems. In the present climate, a careful screening of new investment
projects is particularly needed, together with increased attention to
rehabilitation and maintenance needs of existing assets. In view of the
difficult public finance situation, the Government's ability to generate public
savings for financing the investment program will remain very constrained during
the next four-year development plan covering fiscal years 1986-89, and the
investment level itself will be largely determined by the availability of
concLssional foreign resources.
Parastatal Sector
14.       Reform of the large parastatal sector in Senegal continues to be a
high priority. Over the last three years the Government has taken significant
steps to reduce the budgetary burden presented by non-viable enterprises
(through the liquidation of about 20 companies) and has transferred ownership of
several other companies to the private sector. For some of the remaining public
enterprises, the Government has moved to improve performance by negotiating
multi-year contrats-plan which set financial objectives for company operations
and spell out the reciprocal obligations of the Government and enterprise
managers.
15.       To date, the Government has signed seven contrats-plan, including one
for SONEES, and several others are well advanced. The objectives of the Second
Parapublic Technical Assistance Project, approved by the Board in July 1983,
were to provide technical assistance to 12 public enterprises for the
development of rehabilitation programs, which can serve as the basis for
realistic contrats-plan, and to strengthen the institutional framework for
performance monitoring. The proposed Eleven Centers Water Supply Project
clearly supports these objectives.
Long-term Prospects
16.       The Government's long-range development strategy continues to be based
partly on the promotion and diversification of agricultural and export-oriented
activities. The agricultural program calls for the development of areas less
susceptible to drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal) where rainfed cash crops
other than groundnuts can be grown, and increased incentives for domestic millet
and maize production to replace imported rice. Agricultural research is being
oriented more to farming systems than to individual crops, with the objective of
lowering the costs of yield-raising agricultural techniques and better adapting
them to farmers' constraints. Irrigated cereal production is being developed in
the arid northern part o' the country along the Senegal River. Construction has
started on the two large dams planned for the Senegal River by the Organisation
pour la Mise en Valeur de la Vallee du Senegal (OMVS), and the first (Diama)
should be completed by 1986. The Government's new agriculture policy aims to
reduce the present high level of state subsidies required on irrigated rice,
which otherwise will severely constrain the pace of new irrigation development.



17.       The $250 million ICS phosphoric acid/fertilizer project started
commercial operations during 1984, and the combination of export subsidy/import
duty increase and Senegal's attractive investment code should help to attract
more light export industries, once the international economy has improved.
Export diversification is necessary to offset the uncertain prospects for
groundauts, still Senegal's main export commodity in terms of domestic
value-added (fish exports from Senegal have a verv high import component).
Senegal's groundnut oil exports suffer fron irregular production and from an
increased supply to EEC markets of competing vegetable oils, which has tended to
narrow the price premium previously enjoyed by groundnut oil.
18.       The assistance provided to Senegal in support of the Government's
1980-85 stabilization program has helped the country survive a period of
extraordinary economic difficulty and to start to address some of its most
difficult problems. However, the overextended public sector, as well as heavy
domestic arrears and external debt service charges, continue to impose serious
burdens on public finance and on the current account of the balance of payments.
The Treasury will not be able for a few years to absorb additional recurrent
cost charges from development projects and will continue to need exceptionally
high shares of foreign financing for the investment program and for budgetary
assistance. MIoreover, a much more stringent policy is being applied with
respect to Government guarantees for private borrowing. The persistence of the
financial crisis has helped persuade the Country's planners of the necessity for
a reassessment of longer term development strategy and for the establishment of
a new program of action to achieve the required structural adiustments.  Such a
program was presented to the Consultative Group meeting in December 1984 and
endorsed by the donors. The Bank aims to strengthen its support for the
Government's efforts to stabilize and restructure the economy, in coordination
with the IMF and other donors and within the limits of availab'lity of funds on
IDA terms.
PAR. II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
19.       As of June 30, 1984, the Bank Group had approved 57 operations in
Senegal for a total of US$544.6 million, including 32 IDA Credits, 12 Bank
loans, five blends of Bank and IDA funds, five IFC operations, two blends of
Bank and IFC funds, and one blend of Bank, IDA and IFC funds. Physical execu-
tion of projects is progressing reasonably well, although some operations are
affected by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's continu-
ing difficult public finance situation. Annex II contains the Status of World
Bank Operations in Senegal.
20.       Until a few years ago, our assistance was mostlv project-oriented with
a strong emphasis on diversification of the economy and improvement and
expansion of basic infrastructure. The acuitv of the financial crisis of the
past several years has led to a major shift in our strategy, which now has the
following three main objectives:
(a) to promote the long-tern development of the country by supporting
well-prepared investment and rehabilitation projects within a
framework of appropriate sectoral policies and institutional reforms;



(b) to pursue an economic policy dialogue with the government, supported
where appropriate through technical assistance and non-project lending
operations, aimed at restoring in the medium-term a sound financial
basis for development efforts; and
(c) to contribute to improved aid effectiveness in Senegal by acting as
the focal point for greatly increased aid coordination between donors
and government, at the same time assisting the latter to strengthen
its own planning and aid coordination ability.
21.       In agriculture, operations have aimed at fmproving the productivity of
traditional food and cash crops, supporting diversification into new crops and
regions, and enhancing forestry outputs and agricultural research. Most
recently, the Board approved a cotton/food crop project for the rainfed regions
of Eastern Senegal and Upper Casamance. Prospects for developing irrigated rice
farming in the Senegal River Valley along the northern border of the country are
being examined for a possible future project.
22.       Diversification has also been supported by lending to the growing
industrial sector through the Societe Financiare Senegalaise pour le
D6veloppement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development finance
company established with Bank assistance in 1974, in which IFC is a shareholder
and for which three lines of credit have been approved. The Bank has also
financed the rail infrastructure component for the ICS phosphoric
acid/fertilizer complex and an engineering credit to promote development of
Senegal's phosphate industry. In response to the effects of the 1979 oil
crisis, the Bank has also financed a petroleum exploration promotion project,
and a study of the possible uses of peat reserves, to assist the Government in
its search for economical new energy resources.
23.       Past projects have strongly supported modernization and expansion of
the country's infrastructure in all modes of transport: highways, rail, port
and airport. But with the stagnant economy and heavy past investments, emphasis
is now being placed on better utilization and maintenance of existing
facilities. To this end, three projects were approved during FY84: a Fifth
Highway Project addresses the Government's limited capacity to provide funds for
road maintenance; the Dakar Container Port Project includes rehabilitation and
maintenance of the Port of Dakar; and the Technical Assistance Project for Urban
Management and Rehabilitation emphasizes maintenance and rehabilitation of urban
infrastructure in support of industrial development.
24.       As in infrastructure, the Bank is supporting the rehabilitation,
modernization and expansion of the major public utilities. In
tele-communications, preparation is underway on a project which would
restructure and reequip the sector entity. In electric power, an engineering
credit approved in 1980 led to sector reorganization, and a follow-up investment
project aimed at rehabilitation and expansion of generating capacity and at
energy conservation is now under preparation. Finally, in the urban water supply
and sanitation sector, an engineering credit, approved in 1979, laid the
groundwork for the preparation of the project described in this report.



- 7 -
25.       While Bank strategy has supported the emphaais on financing produc-
tive projects and rehabilitation needs, it also recognizes the need to support
the social sectors, with due consideration to the capacity of both the
Government and users to bear the recurrent costs involved.  In education,
efforts have been directed at primary education and at technical and vocation-
al training to support activities in the productive sectors, and in health,
efforts have been directed at primary care in the rural regions.
26.       As it became increasingly clear that many of Senegal's economic and
financial problems run across the board and could not be addressed exclusively
through project lending, the Bank program began to shift in the late 1970s
towards multi-sectoral technical assistance and structural adjustment lending.
Two operations in support of this effort are currently being implemented: in
the parapublic sector, a second parapublic technical assistance project was
approved in Julv 1983 to help consolidate results already achieved under the
first project and to begin rehabilitation of some kev public enterprises through
detailed action plans; and a technical assistance project for economic and
financial planning was approved in August 1980 to help the Ministry of Planning
evaluate priority projects and monitor the investment program and the Finance
MIinistry to strengthen its debt management capability.
27.       Given the need to focus Senegal's public investment program on high-
priority rehabilitation and maintenance needs and developmental recurrent costs,
improved donor coordination is now assuming increased importance. The Bank is
pursuing its economic dialogue with Senegal in close coordination with the IMF
and bilateral and multilateral donors. In this connection, the Bank convened a
first meeting of the Consultative Group in December 1984 at which agreement was
reached on the policy measures and assistance levels and aid coordination
mecharisms needed to enable Senegal to overcome its economic and financial
difficulties. The Bank is following up on this meeting by examining the
possibility of a structural adjustment operation and by organizing of sector
meetings of interested donors on the power, water and agriculture sectors. A
second CG meeting is planned for mid-1986 to consider the Government's new
investment program.
28.       The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to Sene-
gal over 1980-83 averaged approximately 20%, of which roughly two-thirds was
IDA-financed. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed debt was 18% at
end-1983 and may approach 20% by 1985. The Bank Group's share in external debt
service is expected to increase from 3.7% in 1980 to about 7.5Z in 1985.
PART III - TIIE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Water Resources
29.       Water resources in Senegal are unevenly distributed, scanty and only
partly assessed. Three perennial rivers border or cross the country: the
Senegal in the north and east, and the Gambia and the Casamance in the south.
Although generally limited in both quantity and quality, groundwater is the



- a -
country's principal water supply source. A firm assessment of the existing
capacity and potential yields of the aquefers, especially the deep maestrichtian
acquifer which underlays 75% of the nation, is still lacking but will be
undertaken with French bilateral aid.
Water Supply
30.       By mid-1982, Senegal's 37 urban centers accounted for 2.2 million
inhabitants out of the country's total population of 6.0 million. Of these, 1.2
million lived in the Dakar area.  About 752 of the urban population have access
to piped water supply systems, 28Z through domestic connections and 4.-7 through
public standpipes. The remaining 25X are supplied by shallow wells and vendors.
Average water production is 115 liters per capita per day (lcd) in the Dakar
area, and 37 lcd in the secondary centers. Uuaccounted for water is estimated
at about 25% oF total water production, which is not excessive.
31.       Water consumed in the Dakar area is obtained from groundwater
resources (total capacity of 108,000 =31d) and from the N'Goith treatment pLant
at the Lac de Guiers. located 250 km northeast of Dakar (capacity of 50,000
m3Id). Aquifer extraction is approaching safe yield levels, and the quantity of
water delivered to Dakar by the Lac de Guiers transmission line has been reduced
over the past years bv en route tapping for irrigation of small farming plots.
Prelim=nary studies have already been cocpleted to determine additional water
resources for the Dakar area; the first phase, including an extension of the
N'Gnitn plant and the transmission capacity to Dakar, would probably be financed
by the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW). The proposed project would provide
additiontl feasibility studies to consider alternative solutions, particularly a
multipurpose canal to be built between the Lac de Guiers and the Dakar area as
well as a preliminary assessment of the possibilities for re-use of the Dakar
area sewage effluent for irrigation in order to reduce the use of drinking water
for irrigation.  About 75Z of the water production of the other 36 urban centers
is obtained from groundwater sources, a significant part of which is from the
deep maestrichtian aquifer.
32.       Under the proposed project. the water supply systems of eleven
secondary centers would be rehabilitated and expanded. These centers represent
25% of Senegal's urban population and include eight of the ter. regional
capitals.  Rehabilitation and expansion of the Sairt Louis system in northern
Senegal is already underway with financing from the Federal Republic of Germany.
Most of the installations of the eleven centers are old and have become
inadequate due to piecemeal development, extension delays, poor standpipe
spacing, decreased well productivity, and poor reservoir locations. At present,
ouly 75% of the population of about 420,000 in these centers is being served by
domestic connections (27%) and by standpipes (48%). Under the project. coverage
would increase to 38% by connections and 51% bv standpipes. The project would
benefit an additional 280,000 people, of whom 55% belong to the urban poverty
group.
33.       The rural population, located in about 13,000 villages, derive their
water mostly from some 40,000 traditional dug wells, of which 10,000 onlv yield
water during part of the wet season. Additional supplies are obtained from



- 9 -
about 1.000 modern dug vells or rural boreholes which are equipped with band or
powered pumps. This sub-sector is characterized by poor planning and
investments, inadequate operations and maintenace, and by the absence of cost
recovery policies. To help the Government improve and better manage this
subsector, the proposed project would provide for technical assistance and
finance institutional and policy studies for rural water supplies and
sanitatIon.
Sanitation
34.       Public sewerage systems exist only in the larger cities of Dakar,
Saint Louis, Kaolack. Thias and Louga. Services provided are restricted,
however, to the central areas. The remainder of the urban population has
individual disposal systems. Expensive sewerage and draiage systems recentlv
constructed in Kaolack, Thias, and Louga were designed without adequate
consideration of appropriate technology and do not function effectively;
furthermore, there has been little interest so far on the part of potential
customers to pay for the connection to the system, in view of the high cost.
Also. these expensive systems are often blocked by sand deposits fro roads
without bitumen surfaces. Collection and disposal of solid wastes are grossly
inadequate and present a threat to public health. The proposed project would
finnce a study aimed at assessing existing investments to make then more
efficient or operational and to elaborate conditioas under which appropriate
technology can be introduced in other secondary urban centers.
Public Health
35.       There are few reliable statistical data on specific water-borne and
sanitation-associated diseases, although morbidity due to common enteric and
parasitic diseases is known to be high throughout the country. The more
commonly observed of the important water-related diseases are: malaria, various
types of diarrhea, dysentery and parasitic infections directly attributable to
environmental deficiencies. Riverblindness remains prevalent in areas bordering
the rivers of southern and eastern Senegal. The Ministry of H.ealth is
responsible for monitoring the water quality of public svstems and the
reliability of waste disposal installations, but the shortage of qualified staff
prevents it from routinely fulfilling its role; therefore, the Ministry has
limited its intervention to urban areas at critical periods of epidemics.
Sector Objectives and Investments
36.       The Government's declared policy is to provide access to potable water
and adequate sanitation facilities to as manv inhabitants as possible- However,
in the past, this policy and the planning process for its implementation have
been poorly articulated, resulting in incoherent or overambitious investments
(such as those in the urban sewerage sub-sector), inadequate tariff policies,
and relatively poor maintenance. This unsatisfactory situation has been
perpetuated by a poor and unclear demarcation of responsibilities between the
Ministry of Hydraulics and SONEES, the operating entitvy The financial



- 10 -
difficulties which have faced Senegal during the last few years and the
obviously inadequate sector organization have led the Government to redefine iti
sector priorities. Objectives in urban water supply are to plan and implement a
coherent development program based on an autonomous and financially sound
SOIEES. In urban sanitation, the Government has recognized the need to
discontinue investments based on expensive traditional technology, namly
water-borne sewerage systems, and is now committed to developing lover cost                 -
investments based on appropriate technology.  In rural water supply, a sector
which is critical in a Sahelian country affected by recurrent droughts, the
Government has become increasingly aware of the shift in emphasis needed from
investing in an ever larger number of wells and boreholes to establishing viable
maintenance institutions and improving planning and cost recovery (para. 33).
37.       Investments planned for the future are now in line with these
objectives. In the near furure, the emerging priority in the urban water supply
sector will be the provision o' additional resources and facilities for the
growing population of the Dakar/Cap Vert area, which will suffer from water
shortages in the coming years. The first phase of such a major investment is
now estimated to cost some US$50 million_ In urban sanitation, investments will
be limited to meeting urgent needs in Dakar under concessionary financing. In
order to ensure that scarce external resources are channelled into priority
investments in the urban water supply and sanitation sector, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Government and SONEES would present a
financing plan and consult with the Association before undertaking any capital
expenditure project in excess of US$1.0 million equivalent (Section 4.04 of the
draft DCA and Section 4.03 of the draft PA). In rural water supply, planned
investments under the current Revised Development Plan (FY82-85) amount to CFAF
31.6 billion (USS72-6 million equivalent), of which 35Z were implemented during
the first two vears of the Plan period. In the coming years, emphasis is
expected to be placed on rehabilitation and maintenance of existing wells and
boreholes.
Bank Group Role and Strategy
38.       The main objective of the Bank's involvement in the water sector has
been to restructure the responsibilities of the sector institutions in order to
improve planning, investment decisions, preparation and implementation of
projects, as well as the efficiency of operations. A continuing dialogue
between the Government, the Bank and CCCE over institutional reforms and sector
reorganization took place during the 1970s, resulting in the first Bank Group
involvement in this sector, an IDA Engineering Credit (Cr. S-23-SE) approved in
April 1979. The Engineering Credit, which was closed on December 31, 1984,
provided funds for studies on sector reorganization, training, finances, tariff,
and technical aspects of the proposed project. This led to a major sector
reform, including a change in SONEES's legal status in July 1983.  The proposed
project includes additional technical assistance, consultants and trainin:
necessary for SONEES to implement the recommendations of those studies anc to
enhance project implementation. The Bank was further involved in a sector
survey completed in Februarv 1985, the purpose o' which was to review the sector
investment program and to analyze the financial and economic viability of
planned investments.



- 11 -.
Sector Organization
39.       Until July 1983, all assets in the urban water and sewerage sector
belonged to the State, which serviced debt related to those assets. SOIEES,
whose legal status as a joint public-private company was invalidated when its
private shareholders sold all their shares to the State in 1972, was only
responsible for operations and maintenance. In July 1983, SONEES was
transformed by law into a Societi Nationale, fully owned by the State and
municipalities but organized as a limited liability stock corporation. The law
provides that facilities of the State's "private domain" are transferred to
SO3EES's property, while for facilities of the state's untransferable "public
domain" (mainly underground pipes), SOMEES is entrusted with full physical,
accounting, and financial administration. Thus, it is responsible for project
preparation, implementation and operation but tariff proposals must be approved
by MR. SONEES's obligations as a company responsible for providlig an essential
public service and its rights and obligations towards customers are embodied in
Regulations agreed between the Government and SOnMES (Cahier des Clauses et
Conditions GEnerales). This restructuring still leaves the responsibility for
overall development policy in the urban water and sanitation sector to MR. The
rural water supply sector remains under the responsibility of MH, which was
reorganized in December 1983 to strengthen its role in developing and managing
this sector.
40.       Such a major and complex sector restructuring requires a transitional
period to allow for a full evaluation of assets and debts and a smooth transfer
of responsibilities as SONEES's management, financial and operational capacity
is progressively increased. The Government and SONEES have agreed on a
transitional period of five years ending on December 31, 1988. The transitional
arrangements, set forth in detail in the Contrat-Plan (para. 47). allow the
Ministry to complete several projects started before the reorganization. By the
end of the transition period, SONEES will have full responsibility for all
existing assets and related debt obligations and for the initiation and
implementation of investment projects, subject to the Government's approval of
SONEES's overall investment program (Section 4.05 (a) and (b) of the draft DCA).
SONEES' Organization and Finances
41.       SONEES has a Governing Council, with functions similar to those of a
Shareholders' Assembly, a Board of Directors and a Managing Committee. The
Board, composed mainly of Government officials and representatives from private
and industrial users, is responsible for developing overall company policy,
including the approval of the Contrat-Plan (para. 47). The Maraging Comittee,
composed of several members of the Board and the General Manager, meets every
month. The General Manager is responsible for daily management. SONEES's
present set-up is excessively centralized. An organization study carried out
under the EngAneering Credit recommended increased decentralization, especially
-or the Dakar/Cap Vert operations. SONEES's management of existing water supply
facilities is relatively good, while the efficiency of the sewerage operations
is low: absence of preventive maintenance has caused some operating problems and
in some cases, premature deterioration. SONEES has staff of about 1,300. Its
Ceneral Manager and department heads are all qualified Senegalese professionals.



- 12 -
However, the training needs of SONEES's intermediate level staff would be met
under a comprehensive training program financed under the Project (para. 49).
42.       SONEES's financial procedures and practices, in general, are
satisfactory; however, several weaknesses affecting accounting, data processing,
budgeting and planning, and billing/collection would be addressed under the
project by means of technical assistance and expert services.  SONEES's accounts
for FY79-81 were audited under the Engineering Credit and accounts for FY82-83
are being audited under a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance. Further
audits and technical assistance would be provided under the Project to help
redress the shortcomings identified by past audits (Section 4.02 of the Draft
PA).
43.       The major problem plaguing SONEES's finances has been the exceedingly
high level of unpaid customer receivables, which amounted to CFAF 10.8 billion
(US$24.8 million equivalent) as of June 30, 1984. About 66Z of these arrears
were owed by the Government, the Municipalities and the parastatal entities. In
order to alleviate the resulting cash shortages, SONEES, for several years, had
been retaining funds it had collected from customers or behalf of the State to
service the debt relating to sector assets. The Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCAA) serviced the sector debt until December 31, 1983. As of June 30, 1984,
SONEES owed the Government CFAF 5.9 billion (US$13.6 million equivalent) while
the Government and the Municipalities owed SONEES CFAF 6.6 billion (US$ 15.2
million equivalent), leaving a net balance in favor of SON-EES of about CPAF 700
million (US$1.6 million ecuivalent). The settlement of reciprocal debts and
claims, as of June 30, I984, between all parties was a condition of Board
presentation.
44.       The Government is aware of the serious cash situation a large volume
of arrears creates for a public service entity; this situation -s not unique to
the water sector but is common to most public utilities. It has worsened in the
past few years, as a result of the difficult budgetarv situation faced by the
Government, past Government practice to allocate in the budget a lump sum
allocations for all public utilities, and the inadequate capacitv of the
Municipalities to mobilize resources and levy taxes. To a certain extent,
exceptional aid has been provided to Senegal bv some donors to alleviate this
problem, provided that the Government takes measures to remedy this situation.
The Government has agreed to introduce in its Budget Laws specific allocations
for the water, telephone. and electricity consumption of the various ministries
and municipalities based on consumption forecasts prepared by the utility
companies. Thus, assurances were obtained at negotiations that sufficient and
specific allocations for water consumption by the Government and the
Municipalities would be incorporated in the Budget Law for TF84/85; accordingly,
modification of the 1984/85 budget, which provided for insufficient water
consumption allocations in the amount of CFAF 1.1 billior (USS2_5 million
equivalent), was approved in January 1985. Similar assurances were obtained for
subsequent years (Section 4.02 (a) of the draft DCA). Assistance would be
provided to SO0HEES under the Project to reinforce its billing procedures to
ensure a better and prompt recovery rate. As a corollary of this assistance and
of increased budgetary allocations in the future, assurances were obtaired at
negotiations that the Government and the Muricipalities would pav their water
bills within four months of billing (Section 4.02 (b) of the draft DCA);



- 13 -
similarly, assurances would be sought that SONEES would reduce receivables from
parapublic entities and the private sector to below four months of billing by
end-December 1985 (Section 4.07 of the draft PA).
45.       Rehabilitation of SONEES's operations and strengthening of its
finances require improving its working capital, which has deteriorated because
r    of slow payments for public sector water consumption as well as past
postponement of tariff increases. As a result, SONEES has accumulated important
arrears towards suppliers, notably the power entity, SENELEC, and has used all
its overdraft facilities with local banks. To help alleviate this situation,
the project would include a contribution to SONEES's working capital:  this
component would replenish SONEES's stocks of spare parts and chemicals. At
effectiveness of the proposed Credit, retroactive financing for such snare parts
and chemicals purchased since January 1, 198&, in a maximum amount of USS2.0
million is also provided under the project. After effectiveness, disbursements
against spare parts and chemicals would be subject to approval bv IDA of a list
of such items to be purchased annually by SONEES and of their method of
procurement (Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the draft DCA). The resulting
improved cash position would help SONEES pay off overdue supplier accounts and
overdrafts with local banks. More generally, the Bank Group is providing more
comprehensive assistance aimed at breaking the chain of illiquidity affecting
the central Government finances and the peripheral parapublic entities. For
example, the Urban Management and Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project
'Crs. 1458-SE and SF-13-SE), approved by the Executive Directors in April 1984,
addresses the issue of mobilizing increased financial resources by
Municipalities to enable them to better cover their operating expenses. Under
the ongoing Second Technical Assistance Project for the Parapublic Sector (Cr.
1398-SE). the broader issues of fivercial relations and flows between the
Government and the parapublic sector are being studied with a view to
simplifying procedures and facilitating settlement of reciprocal debts. Other
operations are being prepared in the public utility sector with similar features
in mind.
Tariffs
46.       An extensive tariff study was carried out under the Engineering
Credit; based on its recommendations, a new tariff structure, representing an
average increase of about 43%, or 13% in real terms, was introduced on September
1, 1983 (the previous tariff had been in effect since July 1980). With the
legal reform introduced in July 1983, all revenues generated by the tariff
accrue to SOLNEES. The present tariff includes satisfactorv indexation formulae
for each component, linking the tariff to the variations in prices of major
inputs; it is to be reviewed semiannuallv as part of the mechanism.s embodied in
SONEES's Regulations (Cahier des Clauses et Conditions Generales) (para. 39) and
Contrat-Plan (para. 47). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that such
reviews w-ould be conducted in accordance with the provisions of SONEES's
Regulations and Contrat-Plan (Section 4.03 of the draft DCA). The indexation
formulae became applicable on January 1, 1984.  Furthermore, to ensure SONEES's
long-term financial viability and capacity to contribute to the development of
the sector, future tariffs should enable SONEES to contribute to capita:.
expenditures and workirg capital. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that



- 14 -
SONEES would generate a contribution of at least 15Z of its total gross revenues
to these two items (Section 4.04 of the draft PA). A rate of return covenant
would become feasible for SONEES following inventory and revaluation of sector
assets and introduction of a periodical revaluation procedure for these assets
(Section 4.10 of the draft PA). Finally, assurances were also obtained that
SONEES would maintain a 1.5 debt service coverage ratio, to be achieved, inter
alia, through appropriate tariff policies (Section 4.05 of the draft PA).
Enterprise Contract
47.       In line with its policy of rehabilitating parastatal entities,
particularly their finances, and granting them more autonomy, the Government,
supported by IDA under the ongoing Technical Assistance Project for the
Parapublic Sector (Cr. 1398-SE), requested SONEES to prepare an enterprise
contract (Contrat-Plan). The Contrat-Plan is an agreement between the State and
SONEES defining mutual commitments to reach agreed targets over a five-year
period (January 1, 1984 to December 31, 1988). SONEES's Contrat-Plan covers the
modalities of transfer of responsibilities between the Ministry of Hydraulics
and SONEES, agreed targets for water production and sales, service levels and
quality, improved billings and collection, productivity increases, and
periodical tariff reviews and increases to ensure SONEES's financial viability.
TDA closely followed the preparation of the Contrat-Plan under the proposed
Project and the Parapublic Project. The Contrat-Plan was reviewed by IDA and
was signed by Government and SONEES in December 1984.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
48.       Following several vears of dialogue between the Senegalese authorities
and IDA on the institutional set-up for the urban water supply and sanitation
sector, IDA financed an Engineering Project (Credit S-23-SE of May 23, 1979) to
provide a better understanding of issues facing the sector (para. 38). This led
to a Government decision to restructure the sector. The proposed project offers
an important opportunity to help the Government implement this restructuring and
redirect external assistance towards current Government priorities. The
proposed project was extensively prepared in the course of the execution of the
Engineering Project. Several preparation missions were undertaken in 1980
through 1982 and project appraisal was carried out in February/March 1982 with
the active participation of CCCE. The legislative process leading to the reform
of SONEES and the preparation of the Contrat-Plan covered much of 1982 and 1983.
Pre-negotiations were held in March 1984 and negotiations in October 1984, with
a Senegalese delegation led by the Minister of Planning and Cooperation. Staff
Appraisal Report No. 4119-SE is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.



- 15 -
Project Objectives and Description
49.       In line with the Government's policy to reform the parastatal sector,
the main objective of the project would be to help implement the reorganization
of the urban water supply and sanitation sector, approved by law in July 1983.
To that effect, the project would he'lp develop SONEES into a strong and
financially sound national enterprise responsible for planning, preparing and
implementing all urban water supply and sewerage projects, as well as for
overseeing efficient operation of the systems.  In support of this objective,
the project would aim at extending access to potable water to 280,000 people in
eleven secondary centers through rehabilitation and expansion of water supply
facilities.  Also, the project would assist the Government in defining the best
solution for the expansion of the Dakar/Cap Vert water supply system, and
developing sound policies in two related areas which are of particular concern
to the authorities, viz., the improvement of the institutional arrangements for
planning, implementing and maintaining facilities in the rural water sectro, and
the promotion of appropriate sewerage technologies aimed at meeting local needs
better.  To this end, the project would consist of:
gi)   rehabilitation of SONEES's operations through technical
assistance, consultants in the fields of organization,
accounting and consumer information, technical training, an
increase in SONEES's working capital, (including supply of
spare parts and chemicals) and expansion of office space;
(i-)   expansion of water supply facilities in eleven centers  1/
including drilling of 12 new wells and rehabilitation of 15
existing wells, supply and installation of 25 chlorination
units, one neutralization plant, 13 km of transmission pipes,
6 reservoirs, 328 km of distribution networks, and supplies for
10,000 small domestic connections including meters and
186 standpipes;
(iii)  feasibility studies for the expansion of the Dakar/Cap Vert
water supply system;
(iv)   technical assistance to the Ministry of Hydraulics as well as
inst4tutional and policy studies for rural water supply; and
(v)    consultants services for urban sewerage studies.
Project Implementation
50.              The project would be executed over an eight-year period (1985 -
1992). All components would be carried out with the assistance of qualified
1  The Eleven Centers are:  Louga, Linguere, Thies, Bambey, Diourbel,
M'Backe, Fatick, Kaolack. Tambacounda, Ziguinchor and Kolda.



- 16 -
consultants to be employed on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. In order
to firm up data on underground water resources for three of the eleven centers
and to undertake other urgent preparatorv tasks (evaluation of sector fixed
assets, SONEES's audits for 1982 and 1983, and recruitment of expatriate
engineers before beginning construction of the civil works, expected for
end-1985), a PPF advance of US$750,000 equivalent was approved in February 1984.
Some major construction contract has already been awarded.
51.              SONEES would be responsible for implementing the component
aimed at rehabilitating its operations and strengthening its finances and the
works for the eleven secondary centers. To achieve this aim, technical
assistance and consultant services would be provided to strengthen SONEES's
management, organizational, operational and financial capacity to assume
gradually increased responsibilities. In the area of management, SONEES's
General Manager would be assisted by an expatriate advisor in overseeing the
transfer of sector responsibilities from the Ministry of Hydraulics and in
reinforcing operational and financial control. Consultant services would be
provided to implement the decentralization of SONEES's operations in the
Dakar/Cap Vert region to respond better to the needs of this densely populated
area. The Division of Studies and New Works, recently created by SONEES, would
be strengthened by consultant services; it would be responsible for implementing
all future investments. Furthermore, the project would include a comprehensive
training program to be implemented with the assistance of a foreign entity,
preferably a water supplv company. This program which was identified by a
specialized water supply training center would create a training department
within SONEES, improve management skills of SONEES higher-level staff, and focus
on technical training at intermediate-level staff. On the financial side,
assistance would be provided to monitor closely progress which SONEES is
expected to achieve in streamlining and improving its financial performance, in
line with targets embodied in its Contrat-Plan. T-o that effect, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that SONEES would (i) prepare annual operating and
capital expenditure budgets and submit these to IDA for review (Section 4.08 (i)
of the draft PA); (ii) revalue its fixed assets on a pro-forma basis, starting
with the December 31, 1985, balance sheet (Section 4.06 of the draft PA); and
(iii) furnish to IDA periodical reports on monitoring indicators (Section 4.08
(ii) of the draft PA). All key advisors, consultants, and experts would be
selected prior to credit effectiveness.
52.              The Ministry of Hydraulics would be responsible for
implementing the feasibility studies to determine the additional water resources
for the Dakar/Cap Vert area and the institutional ard policv study designed to
help reinforce and coordinate the Government's activities in rural water
supplies. The Ministrv of Yydraulics would also be responsible for undertaking
the urban sanitation component. In this sub-sector, where oversized and costly
investments have been made in the past, the transitional modalities embodied in
the Contrat-Plan take into account the need not to overburden SONEES with
non-operational facilities and the corresponding heavy debt service. For that
purpose, a study financed under the Project, to be completed within 18 nonths of
Credit effectiveness, would make recommendations on the respective
responsibilities between the State and SONEES pertaining to (i) debt service
with respect to existing facilities, and (ii) preparation, implementation and
financing of any new project initiated prior to December 31, 1988. Assurances



- 17 -
were obtained during negotiations that the recommendations of the study would be
reviewed with IDA (Section 4.05 (a) of the draft DCA). The Contrat-Plan
provides that, until the recommendations of this study are agreed upon by the
two parties, the Governmert will not undertake any new investment in the nrban
sanitation subsector, will continue to service the debt relating to existing
facilities, and will finance renewals and major repairs relating to these
facilities. After December 31, 1988, anv new investment initiated in the
subsector would be SONEES's sole decision and responsibility, subject to the
Government's approval of SONEES's investment program (Section 4.05 (a) of the
draft DCA).
Project Cost and Financing
53.              The estimated cost of the project, net of taxes, duties and
financial costs, is US$31 ml'lion equivalent (including physical and price
contingencies), with a foreign exchange component of US$21.7 million equivalent,
or 70%. The project would be exempt from taxes and duties. Refinancing of the
Engineering Credit and interest during construction would each amount to US$2.5
million equivalent. Thus, total financing requirements equal USS36.0 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$24.4 million equivalent, or
67.8Z. Project costs are based on preliminary designs and quotations obtained
for similar works in Senegal and West Africa during recent years; all costs have
been adjusted to reflect unit prices at end-1983. The project also includes
provision for consultants and advisory services totalling 180 man-months.
Physical contingencies for construction work, and for technical assistance,
training, and studies have been estimated at 15% and 10%, respectively. Price
contingencies have been calculated for local costs at 12% in 1984, and 10% a
year thereafter, and for foreign costs at 3.52 in 1984, 8% in 1985, and 9% in
1986, 1987, and 1988, 7.52 in 1989 and 6% a year thereafter.
54.              The proposed IDA Credit of US$24.0 mi'lion equivalent to the
Republic of Senegal would be on standard terms. US$9.5 million ecuivalent would
be passed on by the State as a contribution to SONEES's equitv under a
Subsidiary Financing Agreement satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.01 (b) of the
draft DCA and US$9.5 million equivalent would be onlent to SONEES on standard
Bank terms, repayable over 20 years including a five-year grace period, under
the Subsidiary Financing Agreement. SONEES bearing the foreign exchange risk.
The remainder of the IDA Credit would finance the components (urban and rural
water supply and sanitation studies) carried out bv the Ministrry of Hvdraulics
(US$2.5 million equivalent) and refinance the Engineering Credit (US$2.5 million
equivalent). Execution of the Subsidiary Financing Agreement would be a special
condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit (Section 6.01 (a' or the draft
DCA). Under a parallel arrangemert, CCCE has already approved a loan of FF 66
million (US$7.6 million equivalent) to SONEES repayable over 16 years, including
a six-year grace period, at 5%, with a guarantee fee of 1% imposed by the
Republic of Senegal. Cross-effectiveness with the CCCE lean would also be a
special condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit (Section C.01 (b) of the
draft DCA).  The IDA Credit and CCCE loan would cover 100% of the foreign
exchange cost and 79.6% of the local project costs, or 100% of the foreign
component and 62.1% of the local component of total financing requirerents.



- 18 -
SONEES would contribute USS4.4 million equivalent. The PPF advance of US$0.75
million would be refinanced by the proposed IDA Credit.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.              The component related to the rehabilitation and expansion of
water supplv facilities in the eleven centers would be divided into ten major
contracts of which five would be financed by the IDA Credit, and five by the
CCCE loan. The contracts financed by IDA, as well as the one for expansion of
SONEES's office space, would be awarded through ICR in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines; they are expected to be above US$1.0 million equivalent each
and prior review of bidding documents bv IDA would be required. Senegal is not
eligible for domestic preference regarding civil works contracts. Spare parts
and chemicals would be provided either by ICB or by international shopping with
the quotation of at least three suppliers, or by the original supplier, in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Contracts for consultants, technical
assistance, and advisory services financed by IDA would be awarded in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines. Contracts financed by CCCE would be awarded in
accordance with their own procedures. The construction of domestic connections
would be carried out by SONEES's own work force and equipment for SONEES's new
office space would be purchased by local shopping. The procurement arrangements
are summarized below. Figures in brackets represent amounts to be financed by
TDA:



- 19 -
Procurement Method
(US$ million)
Project Element               ICB        LCB       Other     N.A.      Total
Cost
Civil Works              10.00       -         5.35      -         15.35
(9.25)    (-)        (-)      (-)        (9.25)
Equipment                 -         .15        3.05      -         3.20
TA, training, consultant  -          -         6.45      -         6.45
services                 (-)        (-)        6.25     (-)        (6.25)
increase in Working Capital
- Spare parts             -          -         3.00      -          3.00
(-)       (-)       (3.00)    (-)        (3.00)
- Chemicals               -          -         3.00      -          3.00
C-)       (_)       (3.00)    (-)        (3.00)
Total Project Cost             10.00     .15        20.85     -          31.00
(9.25)    (-)       (12.25)   (-)        (21.50)
56.       The IDA Credit would be disbursed on the basis of 100% of expenditures
for all contracts, except for the construction of SONEES's office space where
disbursements would be 64%.
Project Benefits and Risks
57.       The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing an
important restructuring of the urban water and sanitation sector, the most
important element of which is to strengthen and develop SONEES into a fully
autonomous, financially viable entity, responsible for planning, preparing and
executing najor investments, and capable of operating and maintaining sector
facilities in an efficient way, without recourse to Government subsidies.
Benefits expected from this restructuring cannot be quantified but are
considered very important. The project would also assist the Government in
better de'ining its strategy in urban and rural water supply and in developing
appropriate technologies in the urban sanitation sector meeting the particular
needs of urban areas.
58.       The water supply systems in the eleven centers would be improved and
extended. The project would benefit an additional 280,000 inhabitants by 1990,
providing 150,000 with domestic connections and 130,000 with access to
standpipes. The project would provide 10,000 small-diameter domestic
connections, benefitting mainly the urban poor. By 1990, this category would



- 20 -
consume about 35% of domestic consumption in the eleven centers. US$6.5
million, or 37% of the component related to expansion of water supply
facilities, would benefit the urban poor.
59.       The studies for the additional water resources for the Dakar/Cap Vert
area would help ascertain the best technical solution for the major investments
to be undertaken in the sector over the next decade. Studies for the rural
water supply sector would lay the groundwork for improved project planning and
implementation. maintenance and cost recovery; studies for the sanitation
subsector would lead to the development of more appropriate and less expensive
technologies to be introduced in urban centers, and help avoid the recurrence of
large uneconomic investments.
60.       Minor cost overruns could be caused by delays during the procurement
process and the construction period. However, substantial cost overruns are
unlikely since proiections have been estimated on the basis of actual costs of
similar works undertaken in the country and disbursement profiles of similar
projects in West Africa.
61.       Risks pertaining to operation and maintenance should decrease in step
with improvements in SONEES's operations and management brought about by the
technical assistance, consultants and training included in the project. Tariff
adjustments roughly in line with inflation as well as timely payment of the
Government's and Municipalities' water bills should ensure SONEES's financial
viabilitv. Proiect risks are not higher than those of other ongoiag projects in
this sector in the Region; close supervision and monitoring would help control
these risks.
62.       The economic rate of return (ERR) has been calculated using agreed
water tariffs as a proxy for benefits. On that basis, the ERR is 9Z. However,
this figure does not reflect the full benefits, which include improved sanitary
conditions and health, which are not quantifiable. Taking the ERR and the
presumed other benefits together suggests that this investment is suitable for
financing.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Senegal
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between Societe Nationale
d'Exploitation des Eaux du Senegal and the Association. and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
64.       The following are conditions of disbursement for the working capital
component to be financed under the Credit: submission by SONEES of an annual
list of spare parts and chemicals to be purchased with the method of procurement
proposed (Para. 3 of Schedule 1 to the draft DCA).



- 21 -
65.       Special conditions of the Development Credit are listed in Section III
of Annex III.
66.       1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMNENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington D.C.
February 8, 1985
Attachments



- 22-                                                ARM I
ASLm                                         ? .age I of 6
-~~ ii- ^ m m 
SLIBCAL                    Em-          inuis C KGMA1U)AG    la
MD                  C      gTl imm        lb
usi   19~   S1_ em s.                      s   = sainl  u uz   
-  cmin ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                        Z   CC ~
L                                    . 9.MO               10.3                   .
4w   - CwmC  c)                       io-.        no-0       4go..             1uz9                   1249..6
-         _  - .~
CX210CAMw OrL G)                   30          3f2.0      204.0             5s.0                    422_
VOwR7     uzm  -cc
_OIAZZ.D-IKAI CM_3S3              36.0        439.       4024.0                  -
can  l 0aAM CZ or TAL)              23.0        30.0       34.3               29.7                    2
PWca2m Iv Wm 2DW O(IL)                     *0.                                 -
SrATZO       P0r0AU0  (CHUM)                             35-7
ER SQ. lJ_            S7.8                   Z24        29.9                55.8                  36.3
PI SQ. EL aml. LAND               35.1        42.0       53.7              121.5                  441.7
POICLAIT AG S=MMUE CZZ)
0-14  S                          42-7        43.9       44.9               45-4                   43.4
1544 uS                           54-3        53.2       52-4               51-7                   53_1
65  DA                             3.0         2_9        2.5                2_9                    3.3
2_ _        2_3        2.*                2.5                    2.8
MAN                                3.0         4C9        3_7                5-2                    4-5
Ce am= M=E CEl M )                  47.9        46.6       47.9               47.0                   40.4
CWOE 34ATE I    (PER TI0S)          2S_5        Z3.2       20.5               1_2                    11.5
coms   P=Ocr. aE                     3.2         3.2        3.2                3.2                    2.8
PANZLZ PLAMK
(20  s aaF   ilS)                ._      _    .        40 Ic         _ _                        22_2
ACErOS ANCI CTIM 
Z9EX OF WM0 urn. FM CAPITA
C1969-71-100)                      125.Q        330        93.0               91.4                   97.3
FM CAPIT  SCPKX OF
CAIES C!Z OF 3EQCX3flUI)          97.0        92-0      101.0               96.2                  110.8
OTeM  CCRU6S ER DAY               65.0        42.0       7210        J       657                   70.1
OF iICC ASKDA. AM ICLSE         20.0         19.0      19.O /d            17.0                   L7.8
GMU   CAMS 1-4) DEA= RATE           45.0        40.0       34.0               8.7                   14.6
LIFE ECT.r   13 2L3 (YEARS)        37.2        40.3       X4                 51.7                   57.5
UFA5I -K6t. WE (PER T=)            17_60       48.0      155.0              tO2.7                  101.5
ACCS 20 SAFE ATEMR C POF)
TOTAL                                _           _.      37.0 I,            35.6                   59.7
OUS                                 .-          _.       68_0 F.            54.1                   S4.5
RAX.                                __          _.       23.0 7             27.3                   38.4
ESS0 To  ac  DSOSPLL
c: or ParAoCW
CAS                                 ..           . ..
_AL                                             _ .       _
lPOIA.-O  PER ETSICIA           24990.0     16700.0   13600.0 Ic          11946.3                 4345.1
P0?. PER 3sst2   PERSNW           3150.0 If   1940.0    1400.0 Ic           2241.9                 l831_1
roF  PER mSFTTAL BD-
OMAL                             6400         610.0     900.0 Id          9S6.9                   632.9
cM                               460.0  j    450.0      540.0 7            368_7                  543.5
34L                             1990.0 f     120&.0 0  12900 Jd           4012.1                 2513.5
AISSIm   PE BSPI1AL Da              _     _     22.2       29.2 Id              ._                   26.
A_EUAC  S=E OF h __ . ..
UiL _ :Sh                           .    _      .  7../
RUORAL                              -.          6. a76
AWERArE NO. OF 1DRSOuSI3ia
TOTAL.                             1.5 11I      -
ACCSS TO ELECr. (2 OFr VALXIUS)
TOTAL                              1.52 ..                 ..                 ..                     .2
cASeS                               ..           ..        ..                 ..                   77.7
ot:a ..                                          ..        ..                 ..                  1J.1



-23-                                           AM= I
TASBLE 3L                                 age 2 of 6
SESECL                 -        inoxcxr       cm- 2C 6
SENEMIL  ~~~SCWV3XMO=) I
~ 0     ? D m e   {)   b s
8=r                  Q0C  I   s   ESTDq    f     -
1Qtb    1978                       APR!UA s. or 5813    u. ASzzc a MMu Esl
AED3S2M  F TL Tr SAsTS
PRIAU:   TOTAL                     27-0        36.0       48.0                910                     8-3
AM?x                    36_0         4J_0       56.0               90.5                   102-5
FEMALE                  17.0         30-0       38.0               73.6                    73.6
SEC8DaZRY: :OAL                     3-0         9-0      l1_0                 17-4                   43.0
EAI.Er                   4-0         13.0       16_0               23.7                    52-3
}ERALE                   Z_C          5_0       8.0                L4.8                    33.0
VOCATIOAL (: OF SEIAR)               Z3_I         9_2       10.4                 5.3                   10_3
PSPIL-TEACHERAI
paZT                               43-0         45.0      43.0                38.6                   30_3
S     i~AR2                        34-0         34.0      210                24-3                   23_1
Ao=  LrTIRACT RA-T CZ3                5S6 .       10_0      10_0 Id             35_6                   43-5
PASSENR CLISITCaS5   pOP              5,7         8.7         -.                20.7                     7.8
RaDIO w      5zI       1 p0?         35_7        61_0       52.6               100-8                  136.
IT RECTV             pop C     _ _                03         0.7                15                     46.1
W-SAFE   (-MD4fl- GENEAL
arr     ) m ccunim
PE& T         POP1AOS        5_ ,                4-6       4-5 nk             17.2                    31.2
C       ALAL ATIAUCEICA?TA             --          --       .O7 7*               0o3                    1.7
1UMEL LABOR PCE CTOS)              1619_0       1914.0    2430                     -                       -
FEL!E (PERC.)                      39.5         39_0      38_2                338                   I08
AIcnULT_E  (PENCESi)               84-0         80_0      76.9                57.1                    42.4
LfUSliT  (PERCEII)                  5.0         7.0       10.0                17-4                   27_9
PAZiCIPA1IOS RATE (PERUCER)
TOTAL                              46.3         43-6      40.4                36.3                    26_2
SIALE                              56.3         53-7      50.4                47.6                    46-4
FEAI.                             36-4         33.7      30.5                25-1                     5.8
E__I11C DEPEIDE! RATIO                1_0         1_1        1.2                 1.4                    1-8
PERC- OF PRIVAZE INOlE
RECEIE BST
HIGHEST 5S OF HOUSECLTDS           36.8 6         -- 
UHtEYs. 202 OF  0CSE3LDS           62-5 7r        _     
LODESr 207 OF ESEHLr.S              3.2 /1        __        __                  -                       --
L ST 40Z OF iD4FWLfS                9.4 7r .-
013C    IR         5
ESrIMLTED A20OLUTE PO7t  ISCQZ
LE' L5 (CSS MR CAPITA)
01BAS                                __           ._        ..               525.3                   274-8
ROILU                                                     8220 /c            249.0                   X77.2
ESDrMATED REATIVE  0VERTY LR
L.EVEL (USS PMR CAPITA)
L34U8                                __           _.      194.0 Ic           477-4                   402.6
RURAL                                --           --        '-               186-0                   264.9
ESTIPATED POP. 3ELW ABSOLUTEL
POVERMT INCZof LEEL CZ)
_____. __
-NOT AVtAILAIL
orT APPLZCABLE
X 0 T E S
/a  Tbe group averages far each Ladicacor are populatiou-u1ighted aricl_tb c m,e. Coverage of coamtrls Amg the
lidicators depends on avallbIltry of data and IA .oc tuifor0_
lb  Unles oLberWiSe noted. -Data for 1960- refer to ay  year bacume 1959 and 1961; Data for l97J0 between 1969 and
1971; and data for Mst Recent EAtmte- between 1980 a   1982.
tc  1978; Id 1977; ft 1976; If 1963; iL 1962; lb 1973; ai 1955; LI Africa populatIon only; fk 1979; fl PopulatIon.
MM.1 1984



-24--                                      AINEXI
Page 3 of 6
.3 IC... ,tc
C      3.3    -     3.33 .r-  ..3.L*         -  flflt3tL   -   33   33 a..*. - .t  3  ,          - - !..,k3
t3          - - 3  .3- - .30       .fl.3.,      .r.    - dtr.   cn  a- ,-..n   .    ..    n. C.           .   e
n33 -3 - 33-3 3-33333- 3* - fl3.3.fl.3 3.33.3. flfl3.. 
..,-   -    -3 3.-            .   - c'. =1--    -. - -: . 33. S,  .n- -        -3S.3. n     in  t          53  - 5,3
3   .3... *3        :n- *t 3-r-  .               .. t-..   n .t.t   -.5j   - - ..        -  3
ttrt..'. t. 3,3 *3r-  -    .  .-   33- .33-.. ct.3 .30fl, -   t- -. *-s-- - -   -c. . ;cn. - 3,3   fl  1-
333 ,  *.3--.-   3    .-.  - .*-.3fl..       ttn           -      43333. a -. C  *.      **. 3333133    -
..,   0 -3d. C-    -   5.4333-             -33 -.3.--:.   .3 13 3333.5 3,3 .3133 -    r.3i 33 - 5333 -     5,3   3.
  j*                                                              ..:s    333.3-.- - ..,.fl.3 e..3   -    .- a ..atfl
- t.  f.....3.3    333           . - .1     .                  r3-at   33?0t 33.3  3t533    1 S   333353   L
-     C,.                                                   3.,.    -  ..         -  ..st- a.t  3. fly -  in35333
-       .. fl-,-..,n. -  -  ,-r.:. -  .33..                 -  3.   .3.. .,.   t.r3.        . r..33.
-  ..                                                       339.333333 r .-3*.    . 533. .3    3333. -   .333  333..
a. 3- 333s- 33.33- - 3333? 33t3     a    333. -
W   3 3-1. 33 -   ,. ..,s.  3.. - .-3-.3-.c     .n-.                     3. 3 *.t 3   33-33-3       *30         33
-          :.3 .'-:   i.-.              -n-s 333333.3 ,n... -...13.Z. ...3  -t13. ...n.3. n
C. *:. -  :33.. CS..                                           I. - .3    r-5-..-  .a.3. 9.33343.5 .nt..:L. -3.453:
333a4..   3.53...   .33. 3.       31
te.4        - 33a     - 33-.- .3333333  - - -n3. 3*                 3& -333-3   ..-..c:. .a-.e - - ..s,,- 3..,  .
s-sr -5- -3-. -  . 3.333. 33033-. - -  3 - 3333.3. - .333'        3         .   '3. .,.t    .   3.333 3  .3t
.3 .3-33..      .a   .3 *3:   ..  ar ...33.. :..           9.331 - * 3.33.4 3   -  4333 3.n3 :333...
33-3.333333.
=3.333,33333- 33333.33 -3.33.  -    -.   -   5    -:          -'-.rc
.333.                                                             --.-r-3-33. a-. 3-3.-:
- -- .3. - ,..                         . -.  33 -              - 3-.--, .3-333. -. - 33-3.* 3.43..*...   -.3    33-5.33
-                        -  3- -.                                    3-...-.-
:-c3                                                          *-3-.33 --.3    3- -.            -  - 33...- -   -
_______________________  S...- -  -. - - -- .3- *33 -   - -       .3 -3.- - -  *- - .33w.. - ,.: 3.3.3334 -
5333.            fl3333-33*3333*33.53333.3 3**                  -                              ne.r-r..-.
-.43.3-  -    .. *..t.--.-..- - 3..- 3..-.  3 .-                    3c CS3 33.3 *33 3-33s3 .333.5- -
-     -. 3--*-33.*,.33-.3-3,.--.33  333;3t3333t.S.*
?... 93333333. 3333 333       -     - .3    -t            .33 0. -
1          333 -- - .                        333 3..              .3   3  . -  - 39.33 -   -          3r -    fl3
- .3.- - .....  -.                                . ,... ,..c.a  - *t.3..3r  g.3 a r3.. .33*  *
-                .-3-3...*..                   43.              -33.3  .3.3... .3..333.3.33.:.3333.34.  333.333
3333 . 3 r   --                               -                 - .                  . - .3.3:. - C-.3 - --
___                                                           *....--...3.33333.33.-3.333333.33-333333333
-                 .33.-.  -   -3--. *3*33*  3-33333.3.3-3.53C
-. -              .3-..   3.3.-               3.--             .3 - .3--. 3.. *03-3....3 .3'       33333.
__________                                                         3333 3-34 --             3 =      3. 3   3.-
3-3=-.----                                    33  3              -
-   3  33  33.3*                                   3-.    33*              *3.333.33-33.333-333t33.3
3-.--               --            - -               3-.--.-- -.                -.--  3.3--n--.
-3..--.                                           --               -.3-   -33                33.33..33.3-*333:33ic33333
-______                       -                -                      z.-.                           '       --
-.                                     --3. 3.**-3333.333-3333-333.333-333.33333333.333333331.33*
-  ----3- . ..----.---- 3-  3.--              - 3----                  -3333333-33*333333.333333*33-.
33                     ----3 -                   33.3.333-34a3.3.
---3-                            33.*33  ..                       --                   --
-  - --  -      -         ...3            3333----  *333 .3...33.33-s3.3,33.:
33*33-.3-3..33*3...3..3,333.
33          3 3       3    *33t   . *33  .34
-    -    -                                          .3333.3333
-. --- 3                                                           -,-33. 333:..3;3...3.33:33.C33
.        - 3*3                                    .333-3*3-.3333..
3..- 33. -------3 -3-3.333-- 3    --                            3 .3   333 3.333333333333333333 333.3
3- "--3 -3- -. 3333.33.3343                     --    3-333
.3-   *..3       33-3  3  3.  3.3.33  .3.3 -33   333.3  -333.3   333   -. 3. -333  333-
-33-3-   -3-                               3 3..- 3-"3--3r-...3-:-33.
33:.3..33433333*.          333.3.3..-333*33.333.333. 33333,333
3-3.34 -. 33-
*33 30V3 333. 33333 333333 --3 - - -- - -  333 - 334 t3
--3 - 33.33 -                                   5 3. - . 4-333.3 : 3333333* 3-333 9.333 -- 33-353-s 33
.3.3                             -           ---
333..--* .433 .,.-
.33 .443             -     =*33 - 33 333.3333 -. 33333                     . - -- -   .. .. 33 .3.-  3...    333  -
13-                             -.  -.          - .                                   33.3 333333333 3.33-3.3- 335.33.333 33 333
3.                               - 3.                                        33-* 3 :3. - 333  3-3333 333333  .3333 334.
.3-        33. 33                        --       33.333333333333.33333333-3333.333
.3.3-                                                              3333*333.3.333. 33 333333 33.33 33333 333.33.
-333;3*33.3- --                                                     3333. 3.33. 33- 3-3. .333. - 333 33.33 333
.3  33.33  33  -  33   3 3  --    3.
3333333333334 .33.3                        .3-3..                                                     3-
33.3 3 33.. 333 - 333 33..3 - 33 33 3...- .3.
3335-333.333333333.3 33333.3 33-...3.33333
.3. -3 33. 3........ S---33 -.
.5n-  3.33. -333.3333.33.3333333..3-53-33
33e.**333-33..3-3.33-'333. *3.3333333 3333.33333



ANNEX I
I'll    4 oE  6
SENEGALI ECONOMIC  INOICArORS                                             Feb,  9,  1966
.. _.. *.., ....._ . . . .
Population: 6262 (aid-1993, thous)
GNP per capitae 440 US$ (1983)
~~~~~~~~,,,,, ,,..,...,.,,,., ,.......................... ... ...._...,,.,,,........... ...... ......... ..... ......... .. ........... .. .......................... 
Amount                               Annual grouth rates 151 at constant  prices
(ma |Il Us 5 at^                   -------- ..           ........-..........-.--........
current prices)
1060             1971        1979        1909        1931        1902        1 9.1       1994                    1995        1990
-_--------------------------------  . ._. _.,_,,__. .. .....------------..... .. ..... _........._. ..
NAJ1  NAL ACCOUNIS
Gross Oomeotic Product                      2970        -6.3         9.6        -3.3         -0.0        14,4         4,2        -4.1                     5.2         3.0
Agricuiturr                               S69      -23,7        27.3       -10.3         -5.6        24.7         4.9       -20.6                    10,3         3.2
Industry                                  739        -9,0        11.0        -2.9          5.7        14,9         4,7         a,1                     3.5       S9,
Olher                                     1663         4.0         2.4         3,5        -1.9        166         3.7         0,4                     4,5         3.S
Consumption                                 2994          4,7        0,5          *.9        3D3          G,6         4.9       -1,3                      Ile         3.6
Gross  Investlant                             468       -4,9        12.9       -22,3          1.1         6.5         3.1       -7,9                    23.4          3.9
Exports of ONFS                               853      -30.4         12.1      -15,7          1.3        20O3         2.1        -3,1                     8.6         5.0
Imports of GNF5                             1327        -6.6        -5.0        -7.6        11,1        -2,4          3,7       -2.0                     3-1         3.3
Gross Domestic  Saving                     -13.7       -94,1       357,0       -92.0    -562.9                     -2.4        -55.4                   165.6         13,9
.....    .....   .....   ....  .....   .....   .....    ....  .....   .....   ....   ....      .....   .....   ....  .....   ....    .....   ....   .....   .....   ....
PRCES
UIJP OatlatorIl979*1iU)                                 93         100         112         120         132         142         159                     176         264
IAchange  rate  (UM-  )                                226         213         211         272         329         301         420                     495
------------ .,.--...-----------...--------.----.............................. ................... *.......... ............ ......... _
Share of GOP at Marlet Prices(S                                         Average  Anriual  Increase  (21
lat current pricasl                                            (at constant prices)
1970        197      6              191I5       1990                1970-75    1976-00   l9l-ORfi  1905-90
..... ....... . ............ .. .. . . .. ... .......                   ...... .. . ............ .......
Gross Domestic Product                                 l98.8       1080        106.8        108.8       1081.0                    1.9         0.6         3.9         4.1
Agriculture                                          24.1        30.2         IY.I        U0.5        ll,l                     a.0        -3.9         2.0        3J9
Industry                                             21.6        24,0        24.9         26.0        29.9                     3'.         2.2         r.n11        .5
Other                                                54.4         45.0       56.0         54.7        53.0                     *.a         1i9         3.5         3.5
Consumption                                             66,9        07.7       166.5         93.6        69.5                     1.9         2.9         2.1         3.6
Gross  Investment                                       15,7        17.0        15.5         16.9        16.3                     3.0        -2.4         4.7         3.,
EAports of GNF5                                         27.4        36.4        28.7         33,2        35.5                    Ie         -4.9         5,4         4,9
Imports of GNFS                                         32.6        41.9        44,7        43.7        41.3                      1.4       -6.2          2.6         3.3
PUIJLIC FINANCE                                        FY 79       FY 79       FY a        FY 01       FY 62       rY 93       FY 04
Current Reveriue                                        97.1       122.6       139.2        125.5       151,9       175,7       199.4
Current Expandliure                                     94,1       l69.6       144.9        151.3       165.4      196,6       2065.4
Current Dalance                                         3O6         17,1        -5,7       -25.        913.5      -10.9       -16.0
Capital  EApendttiuro  a/                                9.6        12.6        13-2         21.1         6.9         7.9         7.9
Surplus or Deficit 1-)                                  -6.6         6.1       -198.9      -46.9       -20.4       -98.0       -23.0
... ... .. .. . ...................................................... ...............................................................
at C:entral Governrienl only, etciltdeo peraslatals



ANNEX I
P'age 5 of 6
SENEGAL' EAIER6AL TRADE                                          Feb. f, 1905
Populationi  6202 (mid-1983, tious)
GNP per capital 440 USS (1903)
Amount                           Annual growth rates (X  at constant pricoa
(maIJ   US$    at at......    --            --   -    ---- --- --- --- -- --- --- --- --
current prices)
1900           1978      1979       losa       1981      1902       1983      f984                 1985       i990
EXTERNAL IRADE
Merchandise export                      481     -48.1       24.1      -24 3       7.2       26.4       8.I       -7.7                  9.9        5.0
primary                               263    -51.1        25.1    -29.1        -3, 4     73.0        95      -2 .7                   0BI       5,3
Petroleum                              so      42.0      -37.0     -16.1       92.5     -56.0       15.4        0.0                  4.1       3.5
Others                                120    -75.9       167.4     -14.6        1.4       5.5        3.4      46.7                  14.0       5.0
Merchandise lmports                    973    -12.4        -5.2      -13,0       17,3      -1'6        ..20     -4,9                  2.3        3.0
Food and Beverages                    210      12.6       16,4     -27.0       46.2    -10,9        -a.2       -6.4               -11.3        2.6
Petroleum                             276      19.0       -3.0        7.6      19.3    -14.0         5.5    -16.2                   20.6      -1.3
Machinary & Equipment                 ISO    -24.7        -7.5     -12.5      -14.0        9.9      659         1.4                  0.0       0.4
Others                               329      -23.1     -15.2      -16.0       15.7       89.        1.f       -0.7                  2.6       3.9
Prices
EAport Price Index                                94.2     100.0      115.7     140.10    143.4       152.9     170.5                193.4    297. 2"
Import Price Indeax                              08.7      100.0      124.2     147.6      160.9    171.7       186.9                261.2    297.1
Terms of Trade Index                            106.2      100.0       93.2      J4.9       89.7      89.1       95.5                 96.1     100.0
Composition of Merchandise rrdde(X,'                           Average Annual Increase IXI
(at current prices)                                       (at constant prices)
1975      1980       1986      1990                        1975-00    1900-05  1985-90
Merchandise eAport                               100.0     100.0      100.0     109.0                            -5,4        0.4       5,0
primary                                        70.5      55.2       57.2       54.8                            -7.!1      7.7        S.3
Petroleum                                       7.0       18.7       9.2        9.1                             7.3       1.0        3.5
Others                                         22.5       26.1      33.6       36.1                            -1.8      13.Z        5.0
Merchandise Imports                             190.0      100.0      1o10      100.0 o0.3                                   2.9       3.0
Food and Beverages                             23.2      21.S       19.7       17.1                             4.1       1,7        2.6
Petroleum                                      12.0      29.4       29.6       26.5                             9.4      57        -1.3
Machinary & Equipment                          19.4       16.2      14.7       14,9                            -3.1      a06         6,4
Others                                         46.4      33.9       37.1       41.5                            -5.0       5.3        3.9
Share of Trade with                            Shre of Trade with                   Share of Trade with oil
Industrial Countries (%I                     Developing Countries(%)                Exporting Oeveloping Countries(XI
_________-- -- -- -- --                       ....... ...... ...... ..           ___.__._____.__........ ..... .....
Direction of Trade a/                  1975       1990      1991                  1975      1980       1901                 1976      1960       1981
___________..__---               --  - - -  - - -  - - -  -  ----_i __ __ _     ..  .. .  .. ..  . ..  .. .                ........................___ w___
Exports                                66.4      50.4       47.5                  20.0      35.6       36.3                            2.5        2.16
Imports                               67.1       60.6       68.4                 11.5       19.0      15.0                  4.1       16o1       12.9
a/ Export5s, f.o.h Imports, c.l,1, (Sourcei IMFI
U.'                                                                                        J          I



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
9ENEoaL -  fA.LA6N:E UF PAYtIENTS .EXtERNAL CAPElTAL AND  Eilt                             Feb. b, 1905
(Millions nf USl * at current pricaul
4c t ua I                                     ~~~~~~~~~ProJected
I n   d    i c   a   t   eir        ------------------------------     ------------__-__------- --_--__-__--__-_-__-__--_        _-        -        --    -    --   ----      _    __  ..  _  __ ._..__.__.._..__.._  I_ __--_--__-
Indicator~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~rutlPtzttatt
19711      1979       1900        191n         1902        19113                         1905       1990
BALANCE nr PAYMCNTS
Cxports of Qac,ds 14 NrU                          607         oi5l       0s$         (3(5       rin0        777                               935       (1335
of whiCchiMarcflandlse(l.n.b                     402         547        4011        512        515         510                               625       1252
Imliarts of ilcinds 9& NFr                       I022        1 50 J      327        (365       I(94       1143                               1220       2133
of wlitchillarchandi(etf .on                     745         052        975        ()39        (196       1147                               U94       I520
Not factor intcome                                -77         -79       -100         -94         -111     -lOb                               -131       -1116
Net transfer%                                      2(l          2           0         31          38)        21                                3S1        46
Current Account Daetince                         -304        -356       -574        -1,13      -423        -442                              -393       -400
Private direct investment                          43          7l         06          70         55          47                                56         76
Official Grant Aid                                 93          tlh       120         122         107        113                               lie        (37
Not MLr LAntns(DRR1                               I60         (47        155         1717        21/9       320                              1J1         214
Du bur %ment                                    22h        272         272         224       2zn         33 7                              275         366
Repaymentis                                      66          75        117          46          9          17                                94        172
Ottier capit4l a                                    Ih        -20         96          79       - I3 7      -1I9                               -I9        -37
Decrrase in reserves                                72         no        5(7         (65        114          01                                57         -2
Net furwegn assetellnclItlFI                     171        -29(3      -413        -490       -521        -522
a lncludes errors and omassions
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                                                                                                                                     , 
OFFICIAL ORANTS                                92.6       72.4       1(9.7       122.2      I06.5      112.0                              117.5      157.3 S
CONCESfnONAL LOAN9                            5E..       62.5        63.3       (53.0      107.6      17902                             (97o3       276.2
DAC                                          12. t       11.5       (2.5       35.3       32.0        3.5                               560,9      00. 9
OPEC                                          0.0        6.7         0.0       55.6 rl.6              49,7                              7U,1U       93.4
IDA                                          9.7        I6.2       (2.1        47.5rf     2(.o       200                                32,1       46.3
OTHlER                                       31.5       21.1        37.9       (5.4       42.2        73.0}                             29.5        53.6
NON-CONCESuIONAL LOANS                        1h9.II     (59.3       2("o.o       70.1      (0'.?7    (57.4                               77.7       109.7
OFFICIAL EXPORT CREDI)16                    26.7        40.5       710.6       29.0       (36.5       92.1                              31.0       76.1
IDQD                                         6.6        11.0       IU.O        21.9        4.11       35,13                              7.6       5I4
EIlTlER MJLTILATERAL                          6.6        (.0         3,^6      1(.6         9.0       ;?0.3                             In56        54.0
PRIVATE                                     129.9      (16.0        Ioh.hI      7.h       29.         2n.2                              23.5        (7.5
EXTERNAL DEUT                                  1205.2      1357.7     (541.9      36/12.91  22130.5    2143,0                              3065.6    410JOth
DEBT OWJI5T. ' DIDUDLtRED                     607.7      791.1      I(95.2      965.4      1213.9    (492,7                             (031.0    2720.4
OFFICIAL                                    345.4      459.3      6011. 6     6915.      955.1    1204,9                              (635.9    2592.5
PRFIVATE                                   262.3       331.       2h6.6       267.3      250.0       207.0                             195,1      127.9
UNOISBURRED DEDT                              597.5      Shb.t6      640.7      707.5      91(.6       651. 1                           1234.6    1460.2
DEBT BERV ICE
TOTAL  IfiRVICE PAYMENTS 17/                   96.       117.6       172.2       07.1       46.3        55.7                             (64,5      271.3
INIERE6T                                    30.1        43.0       54.0        40.7       37.1       39,1                               90,3        M3
PAYHENT AB X Eo  EXPORtr                       (4.0        13.5       20,2        (0.7        5.6        7.2                               19.7       14.7
AVERAGE INTEREUT RATE UN NEW LOANS                                                                          4.7                               4,1        6.1
AVERAGE MATURITY OF NEW LOANSIYEARS1             12.0        20.5       21.4         9.6       22.0       24.0                               20.2       17.Y
AVERAGE ORACE PERIODVEARS)                                    s.7 .2                 5.3        6.0         f,3                               5.6        I1t
AVERAGE GRANT ELEMENT4%)                                                                                  32.0                               2399       24.0
-_--                           -       -       -- -                     ---- --                                                    .-._..._._._._.



- 28 -                                __ __
Page 1 of 2
S; IEOF WORD B&K (M MAIQE           SOL
A. Statmant of Bark  as and IDA Credits (as of Septaber 30. 1984) *
Pmmtfpl s)es
Nmher        Year   Borrowr    Parpose                            Bak      ~ 21tx1~xreBak Inks d 2t
Ter loans 11 and nineteen Credits fully didused                  50.78    115.74
530-SE       1975    eal        Fucation II                                15.0        0.52
1405-T-SE    1977   See         Dakar FE4urg POrt                 6.0                 0.4
1412-T-SE    1977   Seeg        Petite CeTorign                   8.0                   1.56
1413-SE      1977   S           Petite CRXe Tairig                5.6                  1.21
1518-SE      1978    CES         aiays                           11.0                  1.04
775-SE       1978   Se          Debipr tion                                20.0        2.67,
1665-SE      1979   Sen  l             Ar                         7.0                   1.14
S-23-SE      1979   S           Water S :pply g & T.A.                      2.5        0.36
908-SE       1979   Senegal        Oan                                     22.0        9.81
991--SE      1980               Small Foral qpentCioms                     11.0        6.71
993-5E       1980               Fourth I                                   28.0        4.06
1810M   15$0S Fburth                                             10.0                  10.0
S-26SE       1980      9bX iiErg. & t-A.                                    3.3         1.35
1061-SE      1980               T.A. for Plamig             5,3                        2.04
10931-SE     1981               Stnrwtura Adjti.t    13.8                              0.07
1973-SE      1981             Irvestment Prcxtion                 6.5                  4.97
116-SE       1981   Senl        Invesl tt PrLmotidx                         2.5        1.28
2025-SE      1981   SEFLIM      Rail Trasport                    19.3                   6.76
1103-SE      1981               Frestry                                     9.3        6.32
1176-SE      1982   Senegal       gritr   pseardh                          19.5       14.97
1310-SE      1983   Senegal     Ruzal Health                               15.0        12.94
1323-SE      1983   SPril       Petroleum Exlwration                        9.5        6.69
1360-SE      1983   Senegal     Phbs.     Dev. ID.                          7.7        6.98
1398-SE      1983   Senegal     Second T.AB-Paiatlic                       11.0        9.23
1406-SE      1983   Senegal     E.S. Rural Dew.31                          16.1       16.10
1448-SE      1984   Senegal      f th E4hay  -                            10.75      10.19
SF-I5-SE     1984                                                          10.75       10.19
1458-SE      1984   Senegal     T.AL for Urba1  tm. & Rdmb. 31              3.05       3.05
SF-13-SE     1984                                                           2.95       2.95
1459-SE      1984   Senegal     Dakar Cotainer Port 31                      2.65       2.65
SF-14-SE     1984                                   -                       4.85       4.85
Total                                                    137.98    348.44     163.11
of which repaid                                         20.05      3.62
Total nw outstaDding                                     117.93    344.82
AMxmt sold                0-
of which bas been repaid        3.24   0.82              0.19      0.06
Total now held by Bbnk and I1DI 4;                       117.74    344.76
Total undisb!rsed                                         27.19    139.92     163.11
1/ A loan of USS3.5 mlUion for agrictural crdit (584-SE) nade in 1969 uas anceled on
Is Fin  25, 1971.
2/           witlh Credit 1061-SE, credits have been deominated in Special Draainx Rights (SDR). The
-    c,    amotmts in these colums represent the dollar equivalents at the ti)= Or credit regotiatixc
for the IM amwnts and the USS equivalents as of Septeiber 30, 1984, for the undisbursed amunrts
(1 SDR = USS.99905).
3/ Not yet effective.
;i Prior to exrhange adjustents.
*  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report mn all BanktIlA
financial projects in executimi, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the T'.ecutive
Directors on April 30 nrd Octdber 31.



- 29 -                                    NA%x II
B. Statent of IC Tniesdnts (as of Septeuier 30, 1985)
AhM  -IWMU fliCID)
Fiscal Year                                 Type of Disiness        lMn        TnveStElt        Total
1967          Socidr Industriele         Fertilizr Plant         2.45         1.01            3.46
C                     d gd'fzais dui S&pl
1972)
1973)    '     D Smikpl S.A.             Vegetab1e 5Wrt           -           0.84            0.84
1.976)
1974           DFISED                    Develoett                -           0.2&,           0.24
F:inae Coy
1980          Ran d'-abitat              Mey and Capital          -           0.47            0.47
1980          SoRnt-e 1rteOie-re         Tourisa                 3.00          -              3.00
da Bamcrdis, S.A
1982    C      ry.istries Cdndqies       Fertilizer             25.00          -             25.00
Total Gross Qomitae=                              30.45         2.56          33.01
IACss CanceIL-laws, Temndnatins.
Repaynuits, Sales and l,osses                      2.62         1.05           3.67
Total Cztmwts rno held by IEC                     27.83         1.51          29.34
urxli~ursed Bale                                  24.00         0.00          24.00



- 30 -                     ANNEX III
Page ; of 2
SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken bv the country to prepare         4 years
the project:
(b)  Agencies which have prepared the project:    Ministry of
Hydraulics and
SONEES
(c)  Date of preappraisal mission:                November 1981
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:      February  1982
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:           October 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:               September 1985
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations, the following principal assurances were obtained:
From the Government:
(a)  to have the full responsibility for all assets and related debts of
the urban water supply and sewerage sectors and for initiation and
implementation of all new investment projects in those sectors
transferred to SONEES by January 1, 1989 (para. 40);
(b) until January 1, 1989, to carry out all provisions set forth in the
Contrat-Plan for a smooth transfer of rights and obligations from the
government to SONEES (para. 40);
(c)  review the recommendations of the urban sanitation sector study with
IDA (para. 52);
(d) starting with FY35186, to allocate in its national budget and in the
budgets of its Municipalities adequate and specific amounts to cover
payment for water supply consumption on the basis of estimates
furnished by SONEES for each year (para. 44);
(e) to pay its bills for water consumption and cause the Municipalities to
pay their bills for water consumption within four months of billing
(para. 44); and



- 31 -                    ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) to set-up a formal annual tariff review mechanism in conformitv with
SONEES's Regulations and Contrat-Plan (para. 46).
From SONEES:
(g) to reduce receivables from the parastatal and private sectors to below
four months of billings by end December 1985 (para. 44);
(h) to prepare annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and submit
them to IDA for review (para. 51);
(`!  to annually revalue its fixed assets in operation on a pro-forma
basis, starting with tbe December 31, 1985, balance sheet (para. 51);
and
(j) to generate a contribution to capital expenditures and working capital
of at least 15% of -ts total gross revenues (para. 46).
From the Government and SONEES:
(k)  to present a financing plan and consult with IDA before undertaking
anY capital expenditure project in the water supply and sewerage
sectors, the financing requirements of which would exceed USS1.O
million equivalent (para. 37).
Special conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a) execution of a Subsidiary Financing Agreement between the Republic of
Senegal and SONEES on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (para. 54); and
(b)  fulfillment of all conditions of effectiveness of the CCCE loan
(para. 54).
Special conditions of disbursement for the working capital component
to be financed under the Credit would be:  submission by SONEES of an
annual list of spare parts and chemicals to be purchased with the
method of procurement proposed (para. 64).
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



SENEGAL                                                                      M  A  U  R I T A
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY                                                                                 od_
PROJECT
A     EXISTING WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS                                          * Ridhod Toll
PROJECT CENTERS                                         Jo                -
REGIONAL SONEES SERVICE CENTERS                r                 Ac'
-        SONEES REGION BOUNDARIES                                N'gn,th0; 
EXISTING PAVED ROADS                       -           r  - <'           -
-         PAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTtON _
-   GRAVEL ROADS                                         C ;          'a--
- ---EARTH ROADS                                          )'
RAILROADS
-RIVERS L  <_-_
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                /
-- -   REGIOtIAL BOUNDARIES       TOmuglune        u
DEPARTMENTAL BOUNCARIES
p9; ff ~ r }-                    -            'r Vf  
I         %.   d4.-                             MIekeHdo   or.
Mbaro-s-Mor         w         h
Ndoorreu MOU5ie
N'>Ck   Cr  qouc            t   gBoba-Go;e                           D orou Bogo                              >
CAP-VERo-                                                                                                                           >
itS~~~~ ICOtfQ   -ho N                           -   'Jc  - 
Ke.~Alosso,  .ed                  Ves n
ANUL             G          A    Wei7 >.<B                     I          
{   -  _.      tODO               - 3I
n _~~--< -'_ 
be  OBvJ a_,j
J.b ~)Norno 1_ JD
_\~~~~~~ -K                                                        Koijil
pog ne-Oono F                            baro
J(             Sedh.ou    5 o r,cLe    *~  Tri,ng5&
0  10 2030  O 5060o70 8090100                     -                                       _     _ .       _                 _,,
I  I    1  I    I                                                                               I I    I    I    I  o d_  _Dcmw
crc,-si,c,~tuw    o- ~ -                                   ..G U I N E A-B                     SAeU
---         '                                                                  v



IBRD 16700R
' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IQ                           a bvo
T  A   NW I A                                         .w-_   SaSpnSb4r  r    Aig *r io     Lbro
T  A    N  I                           NJ
__or8      ~    o~y P   I          I                   rs,/a 
_e@__w   ~~~             ~ r--      ^-     "
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~no~mL~ ->                             - -'n- BurkI   n       ' 
_Qw_              t            j 6 
'' \~_rw ~ ~   l  *~ Niger
\ _\_ \              ^_v               S~~~~~~~ENEG-AL \nJ      _ 
'7~   Coai -      3hBukin I   --'o'eo
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ee '  *In
_.^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ser Len_. f, Coast r
,~~-                                              -. _  ,,                             a   zl7
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q Jure- J+   /
- _            -                                                             I \_ 
j- <   -,\  
'hi ~~          ~               -       \     )                     To N-oro
\                   o-~~~~~~~Tcutere3 ^a:             7'KosS?
ICoumpenfoIg                                                  1                   Aar  L
->' /~ '~   '''/L
\   . b   k                ,     - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e.b b
_-             f y   >                         : -,
5o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i N . xwo
KoijijoboO    7ougow,02t* _r.>_,0o0 
K    *      -       \u\ -    @ n            _ur  SlJ oto 
-SAU                    2  X                       ~
l4                           G U IN E > A'
FE8RUARY 1 985



