Document of
The World Bank
tF!LE lOY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4119-SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
February 1, 1985
Western Africa Projects Department
Water Supply Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            -       CFA Franc (CFAF)!/
US$1.00                  -       CFAF 435
CFAF 1.00                -      US$0.0023
CFAF 1,000               -      US$2.30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                             -      3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                        -      0.62 miles
1 liter (1)                             -      0.26 US gallons
1 cubic meter (m3)                      -      264 US gallons
1 cubic meter/second (m3/s)             -      31.5 million cubic meters
per year or 22.8 million
US gallons per day
1 liter per capita per day (lcd)        -      0.26 US gallons per capita
per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB     African Development Bank
BADEA    Banque Arabe de Developpement Economique de l'Afrique
BCEAO    Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BP       Brigade de Puits
CCCG     Cahier des Clauses et Conditions Generales
CEAO     Communaut6 Economique des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CGES     Compagnie Generale des Eaux du S6negal
CNA      Caisse Nationale d'Amortissement
DAS      Direction de l'Assainissement (MH)
DEH      Direction des Etudes Hydrauliques (MH)
DEM      Direction de l'Equipement et de la Maintenance (MH)
DER      Direction de l'Equipement Rural (MH)
DHPS     Direction de l'Hygikne Publique et de la Sante (Ministry of Health)
DHR      Direction de l'Hydraulique Rurale (MH)
DHUA     Direction de l'Hydraulique Urbaine et de l'Assainissement (MH)
DHUR     Direction de l'Hydraulique Urbaine et Rurale (MH)
EEC      European Economic Community
FAC      Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration, France
ICS      Industries Chimiques du Senegal
IGIP     Ingenieur-Gesellschaft fur Internationale Planungsaufgaben mbH
KfW      Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
MH       Ministere de l'Hydraulique
OCAM     Organisation Commune Africaine et Malgache
SMIG     Salaire Minimum Interprofessionel Garanti
SOMH     Service des Operations et de la Maintenance Hydraulique (MH)
SONAFOR  Societe Nationale de Forages
SONEES   Societe Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux du Senegal
SRHER    Service R6gional de l'Hydraulique et de l'Equipement Rural
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
SONEES: January 1 - December 31
1/   The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc at the ratio of 1 French
Franc to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



SENEGAL             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON THE
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL SECTOR ...................               1
A.  Country Background. ..................................               1
B.  Population ....... *................................ ................    1
C.  Water Resources.. ... ... . .. ...........................            1
D.  Sector Organizationg...               ...at            o.......       2
E.  Present Service Levels and Goals .....          .......... .          4
1.  Urban Water Supply - Dakar Arear.................             4
2.  Urban Water Supply - Secondary Centerst.......                 5
3.  Urban Sanitation.....*....  .... 0........., .....             5
4.  Rural Water Supply and Sanitation...............               6
5.  Government Objectives for Rural Water Supplies...              7
F.  Public Health ............ .......................                    7
II.   THE PROJECT AREA .....................................                       8
A.  Location ....0......    8
B.  Existing Water Supply Systems .........................               8
C.  Population Served and Standards of Service.............               9
D.  Population Projections and Demand for Service .........   10
III.  THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY...........       . .. .......... . ............   10
A.  Reponsibilities and Legal Aspects ......................   10
B.  Enterprise Contract ..........................#...........   11
C.  Organization and Management ............................    11
D.  Office Space ................. ....          ..    .... . . ......    12
E.  Operations, Staffing and Training ................ .....    12
F.  Meter Reading, Billing and Collection ..................   13
G.  Accounting ............................... ............    14
H.  Data Processing ................................    14
I.  Budgeting and Planning.....  ....           ..................   15
J.  Audits ... o............... .. O.. . ........ .*.......... 1 5
K.    Taxation ....................   .... O .0.. ea*..v** ... *¢e* @...  1 5
L.  Insurance .........O *..0.#.....................   15
M.  Monitoring Indicators............ *..a*.................   16
This report was prepared by Messrs. H. Nickel, Sr. Financial Analyst,
A. Locussol, Sanitary Engineer, and S. Katsu, Economist based on an appraisal
mission conducted in Senegal in February/March 1982. Mr. A. Vogel, Sanitary
Engineer of WHO, participated in the appraisal and the report under the
WHO/IBRD Cooperative Program. Miss E. Yan processed the successive drafts of
the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
A. Project Genesis...                   ........... ....    16
B.  Project Objectives....  .............. .... ... .. . . .... *..    16
C.  Description of Project Components.me.....                      t...       17
D.   Replenishment of SONEES' Working Capitalp...... a.......                 17
E.  Project Coss...                                      ..........  0.0 e....*  **¢    1 8
F.  Project Financing and Lending Arrangements ............                   19
G.  Project Preparation Facility ...........................   20
H.   Implementation ........ me ............   .............. ...    21
I.  Procurement ... ........meo............................    21
J.  Disbursemeits ..o*0.0.0.Oo*.*...... 4-00-0 O 0                            22
D. FINANCIAL AN AebS..                                                                  24
A.  I     ntroduction d ....orReme................. ........... 0   24
B.  SONEES' Past  and Present Financial Performance ....................    24
C.   Sector Fixed  Assets*..* .........    26
D.  Sector Debt S        i ....                  ................. .   26
E.  Tariffs and S           etor Revenues .........................   27
F.  SONEES' Future Financial Performance ..*...                      ................... o   29
G.  F     inancing Plane...ie... ... P..Ov..... ..r .............    32
VI.   ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS .....                              ....*..O ................. 3 . 4
A. G eneral .........C.                   .........................    34
B.  Least Cost Solutions. ..........                     ......o........    34
C.  Domestic Connections and Public Standpipes Policy ............................... 35
D.  Affordability           ..  ............ ........ .a.....     *00..    35
E.                Marginal Cost and  Rate  of Return .......... . .......... . ..    36
F.  Population Benefitted: Urban Poverty Group .......                 .     .................... 37
G.  Project Risks..,.. .........meo..... o....,                               37
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .*--s.....o.......................... 38
A.  Agreements ......0...  .................... l ...   38
Bo  Recommendationo..o ....................... seem                           40



- iii -
LIST OF ANNEXES
1-1   Total Population According to Size of Agglomeration
1-2   Ministry of Hydraulics - Present Organization Chart
2-1   Water Consumption and Production Forecasts for
the Eleven Centers
2-2   Service Levels in the Eleven Centers
3-1   SONEES - Present Organization Chart
3-2   SONEES - Proposed Organization Chart
3-3   SONEES - Operations, Staffing and Training
3-4   SONEES - Proposed Monitoring Indicators
4-1   Description of Proposed Project Components
4-2   Physical Project Components by Center
4-3   Technological Alternatives and Service Standards
4-4   Total Project Cost
4-5   Investment Ratios
4-6   Breakdown of Project Components into Contracts
and by Financing Sources
4-7   Implementation Schedule
4-8   Schedule of Disbursement
5-1   SONEES - Income Statements 1981-1993
5-2   SONEES - Sources and Applications of Funds 1981-1993
5-3   SONEES - Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1981-1993
5-4   SONEES - Ratio Statements 1981-1993
5-5   Assumptions for SONEES Financial Projections
5-6   Components of Water Tariff
6     Marginal Cost Calculations and ERR Analysis
Mak. Senegal - Eleven Centers Water Supply Project (IBRD Map No. 16700R)



- iv -
SENEGAL
Eleven Centers Water Supply Project
DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
File Code
1.   Water Supply in Eleven Secondary Centers of Senegal    ) 129.955 (A1-17)
Feasibility Study - IGIP - Darmstadt, Germany - 1981. )
2.   Sector Organization Study.                                ) 125.372 (D & G)
SONEES Organization Study.                                ) under CR.S;23-SE
Training Needs.                                           ) and 129.955 (B1-6)
IDET/CEGOS - Boulogne Billancourt, France - 1981.         )
3.   Evaluation of SONEES' Training Needs.                     ) 129.955 (C)
Fondation de l'Eau, Limoges, France - 1982.               )
4.   Water Tariff Study - SOPEA/ORGATEC, Paris, France -    ) 129.955 (D)
Dakar, Senegal - 1981.                                    )
5.   Financial Studies and Audits 1979 and 1980.               ) 129.955 (E1-2) and
Arthur Andersen and Gaye, Dakar, Senegal.                 ) SONEES Yearly
) Audit Reports
6.   Urban Sanitation in Senegal - Mr. Prigge - 1980.          ) 129.955 (F)
7.   Maintenance of Rural Water Supply Equipments,              ) 129.955 (G)
BRGM, Orleans, France - Dakar, Senegal - 1981.            )
8.   "Le Breviaire" (Operations and Financial Data) -           ) 129.955 (H1-3)
SONEES, 1978, 1979, 1980,                                 )
9.   Urgent Program for Rural Water Supply -                   ) 129.955 (I1-2)
Ministry of Hydraulics.
10.  Development Policies for the Senegalese Water Sector - ) 129.955 (J)
Ministry of Hydraulics, July 1982.                        )
11.  Legal Documents re. SONEES:                               ) 220.717 (A & B)
- Law 83-73 of July 5, 1983                             )
- Statuts                                               )
- Cahier des Clauses et Conditions G6nerales            )
12.  SONEES' Enterprise Contract ("Contrat-Plan")              ) 220.020 (Q)
) under CR.1398-SE
13.  Doubling of the Thies-Dakar transmission line
- Feasibility studies and preliminary                     ) 221.848 (1-3)
designs - Rhein Ruhr - Dortmund, Germany - 1981         ) 221.848 (4)
14.  Water Supply of the Cap Vert area - Canal alterna-        ) 221.849 (A1-2)
tive-DHUA, Ministry of Hydraulics - Dakar - 1984          )      (B, C & D)



v 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Senegal.
Beneficiary:         Societe Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux du Senegal
(SONEES); Ministare de l'Hydraulique (MH).
Amount:              IDA Credit of SDR 24.1 million (US$24 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:    US$9.5 million equivalent of the IDA Credit would be onlent
to SONEES on IBRD terms (20 years, including 5 years of
grace). SONEES would bear the risks related to exchange
rate and interest rate variations. US$9.5 million
equivalent would be passed on by the State as contribution
to SONEES' equity.
Proiect              In line with the Government's policy to redress and
Description:         restructure the parapublic sector, the objectives of the
proposed project would be to assist the Government in
strengthening the urban water and sanitation sector by
transforming SONEES into an entity with a capacity to
develop and operate the sector without recourse to
Government subsidies. The project would also aim at
assisting the Government in defining the best solution for
the expansion of the Dakar/Cap Vert water supply system, in
developing sound investment planning, maintenance and cost
recovery in the rural water supply sector, as well as in
promoting appropriate technologies in the urban sanitation
subsector. In support of these objectives, the project
would include: (i) a rehabilitation component for SONEES,
including technical assistance, consultancy services, office
space, training, as well as additional working capital;
(ii) construction and rehabilitation of boreholes, water
treatment, storage, transmission and distribution
facilities, house connections and standpipes in eleven
secondary centers; (iii) feasibility studies for the
Dakar/Cap Vert water supply system, (iv) rural water supply
technical assistance and institutional/policy studies; and
(v) urban sanitation studies.



- vi -
Project Benefits:   The proposed project would support the Government's
objective of enhancing the economic performance of the
sector through improved investment planning, programming,
project design and cost recovery. By 1991, it would benefit
an additional 280,000 people in the eleven centers covered
by the project (an increase of 66%) through domestic
connections or access to standpipes, half of the additional
population served belonging to the urban poor.
Project Risks:       Project risks relate to possible cost overruns caused by
delays in procurement and construction, to improper
operation and maintenance by SONEES, and to the general
ability of the latter to meet the demanding challenges of
institutional development. The risks relating to cost
overruns have been minimized by basing projections on actual
cost of similar works being undertaken in the country and by
using the regional profile for the project implementation
schedule and sufficient contingencies for foreign and local
currency expenditures. Operational and maintenance risks
are being reduced by technology which takes into account
local technical capabilities and by a substantial technical
assistance program to strengthen SONEES's operations. The
institutional development risk, while real, is mitigated by
the Government's determination to redress the parapublic
sector and its commitment to this investment; moreover,
SONEES's performance would be closely monitored.



- vii -
Estimated Cost:                                        Local      Foreign   Total
(Excluding Taxes)                                             US$ million -
Water Supply Systems in Eleven Centers                 4.0        6.5       10.5
Relhabilitation of SONEES' Operations                  1.0        8.3        9.3
Water Supply and Sanitation Studies                    0.3        1.3        1.6
Base Cost                                           5.3       16.1       21.4
Physical Contingencies                                 0.8        1.5        2.3
Price Contingencies                                    3.2        4.1        7.3
Project Cost                                        9.3       21.7       31.0
Refinancing of IDA Engineering Credit                  0.5        2.0        2.5
(CRoS-23-SE)
Initerest during Construction                          1.8        0.7        2.5
Total Financing Requirements                       11.6       24.4       36.0
Financing Plan:
IDA                                                    5.1       18.9       24.0
CCCE                                                   2.8        4.8        7.6
SONEES                                                 3.7        0.7        4.4
Total Financing                                    11.6       24.4       36.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                   FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93
----- US$ million ----------------
Annual                           8.5    3.4   2.5   2.6   2.4   2.0   1.4   1.2
Cumulative                       8.5   11.9  14.4  17.0  19.4  21.4  22.8  24.0
Internal Economic Rate of Return: 9%, using agreed water tariffs as a proxy
for benefits.
President's Report: No. P-3850-SE of February 8, 1985
Map: IBRD No. 16700R
WAPWS
February 1985






I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL SECTOR
A. Country Background
1.C)1     Senegal is situated at the extreme western part of the African
CorLtinent. It has an area of 196,772 km2 with an Atlantic coastline 550 km
long. It is a flat country, the altitude being generally less than 50 m
although some mountains in the south-east reach a height of 445 m. The
cli-mate is of a tropical sub-desert region with distinct wet summer and dry
winter seasons.  Annual rainfall increases steadily from the north (300 mm) to
the south (1,500 mm), and is approximately 600 mm at Dakar. Three-quarters of
Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel zone, characterized with low rainfall,
high temperatures and periodic droughts. Lower temperatures and greater
rainfall are found in the coastal zone, a relatively narrow strip of some
40 km width, and in the south eastern part of the country (Eastern Casamance).
1.02      Senegal is divided into eight administrative regions each of which is
headed by a governor. Regions in turn are divided into departments headed by
a prefect. Departments are further sub-divided into arrondissements with
ruural populations usually between 10,000 - 35,000 people. The number of
vil]lages per arrondissement varies from 100 to 600. Municipalities are
labeled Urban Centers and all regional and departmental capitals have this
status. Unless they form municipalities, villages of up to 5,000 inhabitants
are considered as rural.
B. Population
1.03      Projections of the 1976 census give a 1981 total population of
5.9 million of which approximately 3.75 million (64%) are classified as rural
living in some 13,000 villages having populations ranging from less than 200
to 5,000 inhabitants.  About 60% of the rural population is concentrated
wilthin some 150 kn of Dakar in the central groundnut basin where population
densities often exceed 100 per km . Dakar, the capital of Senegal has an
es timated 1981 population of approximately 1 million and is expected to have
1.5 million by 1990. The Cap Vert region, including Dakar, which forms one
me-tropolitan area, has about 1.2 million inhabitants. The remain1i7g 0.95
mi:Llion urban population live in some 36 secondary urban centers_ . Overall
po'pulation growth rate is estimated at 2.8% per annum. It is also estimated
that 44% of the population is less than 15 years old. Annex 1-1 presents a
summary grouping of the total population according to size of agglomeration.
C. Water Resources
1.04      Three major river systems cross the country in a general east to west
direction. All three have sluggish flow and, because of the flat topography,
are estuaries for a substantial distance inland. The Senegal River forms the
1/   All cities other than Dakar are being referred to as secondary
centers in this report.



-2-
northern boundary of the country in a flat shallow valley which is subject to
inundation at times of peak run-off, The Gambia River to the south is enclosed
by the Gambian nation along its lower hundred kilometers--its upper reaches
drain the high areas in the southeastern part of Senegal. The Casamance River
is a relatively small system in terms of the area it drains but is especially
important because of the high rainfall (1,200 - 1,500 mm/year) in its
catchment area. The Lao de Guiers, part of the Senegal River system and
draining an area to the south of the main river valley is important from the
point of view of water resources. It is the only Large, natural storage basin
in the country and part of its capacity is used to supply potable water to
Dakar, 250 km away as well as providing water to towns and villages en
route. The cities of Saint Louis, Richard Toll, Dagana, Podor, Matam, Bakel
and Kedougou also obtain their drinking water from surface sources. In
general, surface water sources are unevenly distributed and meager. Most of
the streams which are tributary to the main three rivers are intermittent and
are completely dry for as much as four months per year during the dry season,
March to June.
1.05     Groundwater constitutes the major source of water supply for human
and animal consumption in Senegal and is also a significant water source! for
the irrigation of vegetables and fruits grown on relatively small plots.
Senegal's groundwater resources have been investigated on an ad hoc basis and
a firm assessment of the capacity and potential yields of its known aquifers,
especially the maestrichtian, is still lacking. The maestrichtian aquifer
extends over 75% of the national territory and constitutes a major source of
water supply; however, its renewable and non-renewable resources are rela-
tively unknown. A study covering simulation models for exploitation of this
deep aquifer will be carried out by the Ministry of Hydraulics (MH) under a
French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) financing.
1.06     The best aquifers in terms of quality are the shallow ones found in
the areas around the Ferlo River sands of the "Continental Terminal" (eocene
limestones), the Niaye sands, the Diourbel area, and the area near the border
with The Gambia. Most of the exploited groundwater sources for both the urban
and rural population are derived from these and other shallow aquifers of
Senegal. The deep maestrichtian aquifer, is semi-artesian and often carries
high concentrations of salts, fluorides and iron oxides.
D. Sector Organization
1.07     Sector responsibilities have been redefined in order to endow Societe
Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux du Senegal (SONEES) with comprehensive
responsibilities for the water and sewerage sector (paras 1.11 and 3.01 seq.),
following a sector organization study financed under the IDA Water Supply
Engineering Credit S23-SE and several subsequent IDA missions to assist the
Senegalese authorities in the restructuring of the sector. Overall
responsibilities for urban and rural water supply as well as urban sanitation
and drainage are placed in MH. Responsibilities for operation and maintenance
of urban water supply, sewerage and piped drainage systems are entrusted to
SONEES. Preparation and implementation of projects is gradually being
transferred from MH to SONEES, starting with the proposed project.



Responsibility for maintenance of open drains is with the Municipalities. The
Ministry of Health through its Directorate of Hygiene and Sanitation (DHPS) is
responsible for rural sanitation. In addition there are a number of non-
governmental and mainly religious organizations which are active in the rural
water supply sub-sector.
1.08     The Ministry of Hydraulics has four directorates: Studies (DEH),
Urban and Rural Water Supply (DHUR), Sanitation (DAS) and Rural Infrastructure
(DER). In addition, there are eight regional offices located in the capital
cities of each region (Annex 1-2). Total MH staff was 522 in 1981. The
Division of Rural Water Supply (DHR), part of DHUR, has responsibility for
planning, project implementation and monitoring of operations in the rural
water supply subsector. Drilling of deep wells is subcontracted to a series
of drilling companies established in Dakar, some of which are foreign-owned.
The Subdivision for Mechanical and Hydraulic Equipment (SOMH), also part of
DHUR, is responsible for day-to-day operation and maintenance of all
mechanically driven pumps in rural areas. There are also well digging
brigades (BP), under the regional offices, which are responsible for all
aspects of construction, repair and maintenance of dug wells. The "Code de
l'Eau" (Law 81-13 of 1981) established the general legal framework for the use
of water, pollution control, priority uses, public and private rights and
obligations.
1.0'9    The rural water supply subsector is not operating effectively;
performance of SOMH and BP has been poor with high capital and recurrent cost
requirements as well as frequent breakdowns of installations. Due to the
absence of realistic sector policies and targets, there are inadequacies in
the planning and programming of installations as well as a lack of
appreciation of the importance of cost recovery.
1.10     The Ministry of Hydraulics is being reorganized with an objective to
streamline its operations.  The reorganization will shift more responsibility
to SONEES for urban water supply and sewerage and strengthen MH's role in the
rural water supply subsector, in line with the objectives of the proposed
project. The present functions of the DHUR and DAS will be reallocated among
two new directorates, namely Urban Water Supply and Sanitation (DHUA) and
Rurial Water Supply (DHR). In addition, a new Directorate of Operation and
Maintenance (DEM) will be created with the assistance cf a Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) financing, gradually replacing SOMH. Regarding the rural
water sub-sector, the proposed project would finance:
(i)    an expatriate technical assistant to MH for a three-year
period to help define realistic objectives and sector
policies as well as reorganize existing institutions
(Annex 4-1, 4); and
(ii)   studies to analyze possibilities of implementation of
alternative goals and appropriate technologies, and
reductions of unit costs and for preparation of specific
rural water supply projects (Annex 4-1, 4).



- 4 -
1.11     The Government has agreed to develop SONEES to become a national
enterprise with responsibility to prepare and implement all urban water supply
and sewerage projects and operate the systems. To implement this, NH has
transferred to SONEES the responsibility for execution of the proposed project
as well as other new urban water supply projects. A few smaller projects
started by MH before 1984, will be completed by MH. Sewerage projects also
will continue to be implemented by MH for the near future as SONEES will need
time to build up its own project implementing capacity. The proposed project
would provide adequate technical assistance and training for SONEES to enhance
its capacity to prepare, implement and operate appropriately the projects
entrusted to it (Annex 4-1, 2).  During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that by December 31, 1988 the Government will transfer project implementation
responsibility to SONEES for all urban water and sewerage projects that might
still be with MH at that date. Dispositions for the preceding 5-year
transitory period are included in SONEES' Contrat-Plan (para 3.03 seq.).
Existing water supply and sewerage installations have been transferred from
the State to SONEES by Law 83-73 of July 5, 1983 establishing SONEES as a
national enterprise.
E. Present Service Levels and Goals
1. Urban Water Supply - Dakar Area
1.12     Water for the Dakar area is supplied from 37 boreholes in five dif-
ferent groundwater zones in and outside the Cap Vert region (total capacity
108,000 m3/day) and from the N'Gnith treatment plant on the Lac de Guiers near
the Senegal River (capacity 50,000 m3/day). Chlorination is applied at four
of the five groundwater production zones while the surface water receives full
treatment. The distribution system comprises 20 reservoirs with a combined
capacity of 66,200 m3 and about 800 km of water mains. About 30% of the
population is served by private connections and an additional 50% have access
to the 766 public standpipes, the consumption of which is billed to the Muni-
cipalities. It is assumed that the remaining 20% obtain their water from
shallow wells and vendors. Domestic consumption accounts for about 45% of the
total consumption, with the rest being divided up by commercial establishments
(29%), industries (15%) and Government administration, including the army
(11%).  The total number of connections is about 40,000.
1.13     The quantity of water delivered to the Cap Vert area by the 250 km
Lac de Guiers transmission line has been reduced over the past years by en
route tapping for irrigation of small truck farming plots. Exploitation of
the aquifers in the Cap Vert region is being extended to the maximum safe
yield level. Feasibility studies, financed by the Federal Republic of Germany
(KfW) have recently been carried out to analyze the possibility of increasing
both the water production and transfer capacities of the Lac de Guiers
scheme. The first phase of the proposed expansion, which wrould be sufficient
to cover the water demand until 1990 only, is estimated to cost about
US$50 million; it would include extension of the G'nith treatment plant,
drilling of additional boreholes, installation of boosters on the transmission
line and replacement of old pipes in the Cap Vert area. The Federal Republic
of Germany has already shown interest in financing such a project and should



appraise it in 1985. For the medium and long terms, proposals made for
doubling, then tripling, the existing transmission line would lead to very
hig'h investment (US$250 to 300 million) which both the urban water sector and
the Senegalese economy would have difficulties to afford. The proposed
project will provide for additional feasibility studies to consider
alternatives, particularly a multipurpose canal to be built between the Lac de
Guiers, the only viable water resource for the long term, and the Cap Vert
area; this canal would also supply water to small irrigation schemes to be
developped en route, and recharge the over-exploited aquifers of the Cap Vert
area (Annex 4-1, 2). Furthermore, the proposed project will provide a
pre'liminary assessment of possibilities for re-use of the Dakar area sewage
effluent in order to limit the use of drinking water for irrigation
(Annex 4-1, 5).  A Bank mission, to which the other major donors already
involved in the sector will participate, is scheduled for FY85; its main
purposes will be to review the investment program for the urban and rural
water supply and urban sanitation sectors as well as to carry out a
preliminary assessment of the financial and economic viability of alternatives
for expansion of the Dakar area water supply.
2. Urban Water Supply - Secondary Centers
1.14     Piped water systems exist in 36 secondary centers (including the
Eleven Centers) with a total population of about 950,000 inhabitants in
1980. The average water production is about 37,000 m3/d of which 75% come
from groundwater resources. Estimated system efficiency is about 70%.
Installed storage capacity of 49 reservoirs is 34,000 m or 90% of average
daily production. Total length of the distribution networks is 610 km (of
which 470 km is in the Eleven Centers) and the total number of connections is
about 21,200 (of which 10,500 is in the Eleven Centers).
1.115    It is estimated that approximately two-thirds of the urban population
in secondary centers is served by the public water supply systems leaving a
significant part of the population to obtain their drinking water from
unprotected shallow wells. Further details are available in Annex 2-2 and in
the project file.
3. Urban Sanitation
1.115    Public sewerage systems exist only in the larger cities of Dakar,
St. Louis, Kaolack, Thies and Louga, but the services provided are restricted
to the central areas of these cities and to a relatively small part of the
population.  Tne remainder of the urban population has individual disposal
systems: latrines, privies and septic tanks. Several of the larger secondary
centers, especially in peripheral flat areas where shanty towns have been
built, suffer regularly from flooding during the rainy season, with grave
threats to public health. Where natural basins exist, they are often blocked
by dwellings due to disorganized urbanization. Existing open drains are not
properly maintained, being often used for dumping of solid wastes by the
population. The piped sewer systems, where they exist, often do not function
and are blocked by sand since most streets, except for downtown Dakar, are not
paved. Moreover, the maJority of inhabitants can neither afford the cost of



- 6 -
plumbing installations in their dwellings nor the cost of connection to the
public sewerage system which is about US$170.
1.17     Sewerage systems recently constructed in Kaolack and Louga have been
designed without adequate consideration of appropriate technology and do not
function effectively. So far there has been little interest to connect on the
part of potential customers in view of the high cost; in Kaolack for example
only 120 connections have been made although the network and the treatment
plant have been constructed, to meet requirements well beyond the year 2000.
Storm drainage systems in these cities are presently blocked by sand deposits
from roads without bitumen surface. Construction of a similarly overdesigned
and high cost system is nearing completion in Thies. Master plans along such
lines have also been prepared for the cities of Saint Louis, Diourbel,
Tambacounda and Ziguinchor. Such ambitious plans, if implemented, would
result again in very high investment costs out of context with economic
constraints and local needs. Collection and disposal of solid wastes are
grossly inadequate, especially in the larger centers and presents a threat to
public health.  Moreover organizational and institutional requirements have
not been dealt with as necessary, further aggravating system inefficiency.
The proposed project would include a study of the urban sewerage sector,
including feasibility of transferring sector debt as well as responsibility
for implementation of new projects to SONEES (Annex 4-1, 4). During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government will review the
recommendations of this study with IDA and give due consideration to their
implementation. SONEES' Contrat-Plan stipulates that during preparation of
this study no new sewerage projects would be undertaken. The project wculd
also include consultancy services for definition of action to be taken to put
piped sewerage systems existing in secondary centers into effective operation
and for proposals of alternative methods of collection and disposal with
emphasis on technology adapted to local urban and housing conditions
(Annex 4-1, 4).
4. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
1.18     Most of the rural population derive their water supply from tradi-
tional dug wells. There may be as many as 40,000 of them, mostly in an
advanced state of deterioration of which about 10,000 yield water only during
part of the wet season. Such wells are usually built by artisans unable to
dig lower than the water table;  due to the resulting insufficient water
depth, installation of handpumps is almost impossible even in the perennial
wells.  Extraction of water from most wells is by means of rope and bucket,
and most water from dug wells is contaminated.  In addition, there are about
750 modern dug wells and 367 operating drilled deep wells including 131
equipped with power pumps (serving primarily for stock watering), 102 equipped
with handpumps and 134 boreholes wells (forage-puits). It is estimated that
less than 20% of the rural population has reasonable access to safe water,  At
present, the provision of rural water supply from wells is free of charge.
1.19     Comprehensive planning for human waste disposal in rural areas has
not yet been made. Rural latrine construction is essentially the result of
technical assistance provided through sanitarians attached to primary health



care programs with all costs for ccnstruction borne by the householders. This
effort is mainly concentrated in the larger agglomerations and has not spread
to the smaller villages nor to the dispersed rural population. It is esti-
mated that less than 20% of the rural population have adequate means of
excreta disposal.
5. Government Objectives for Rural Water Supplies
1.20     The Government is presently committed to a sector objective with a
broad, long-term program of providing adequate rural water supply, based on
35 lcd, within a period of some 20 years. Levels of sarvice would vary from
perennial shallow wells where water would be extracted with rope and bucket
for the smaller villages (less than 200 inhabitants), to drilled wells with
powered pumps, elevated storage atid elementary distribution systems in the
larger ones (more than 2,000 inhabitants). In addition perennial supply for
the watering of animals every 10 kn of pastorage areas would be provided.
Total investment to meet the above objectives is estimated by Government at
CFAF 94 billion (US$216.0 million equivalent).
1.21     The Revised VIth Development Plan (1981/82 - 1984/85) for rural water
supply includes 43 projects amounting to CFAF 31.6 billion (US$72.6 million
equivalent) of which 35% were implemented during the first two years of the
Plan period. As a comparison, CFAF 7.1 billion had been included in the Vth
Plan (1977/78 - 1980/81) and CFAF 3.3 billion in the IVth Plan (1973/74 -
1976/77). For the VIth Plan expenditures, foreign financing of CFAF 21.7 billion
(US$49.9 million) has been secured, and CFAF 1.6 billion (US$3.7 million)
would come from the Government's capital expenditure budget. Financing of
about; CFAF 8.3 billion (US$19.1 million) has still to be identified.
1.22     Major rural water supply projects of the VIth Plan include a
Communaute Economique des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (CEAO) program of 250
water points (CFAF 5.25 billion; US$12.1 million equivalent) financed by
Kuwait and Banque Arabe de Developpement Economique de l'Afrique (BADEA) and
the "'Urgent Program for Rural Water" of CFAF 14.1 billion (US$32.4 million)
for '314 villages whose first phase is included in the VIth Plan with
CFAF 6.65 billion (US$15.3 million), to be cofinanced by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait,
Italy, and the Federal Republic of Germany.
F. P'ublic Health
1.23     There are few reliable statistics on specific waterborne and
sanitation associated diseases although morbidity due to common enteric and
parasitic diseases is shown to be high throughout the country. The more
commonly observed of the imaportant water-related diseases in Senegal are
malaria, various diarrhoeas, dysenteries and parasitic infections directly
attributable to environmental deficiencies. River blindness remains prevalent
in areas bordering the rivers of southern and eastern Senegal. Excess of
fluorides in wells in the Sine-Saloum Region causes mottled teeth.
1.24     Tne Bank is financing a first health project with the objective of
supporting Senegal's primary health care strategy by:



- 8 -
(i)    strengthening the Ministry of Health's central and
regional institutional capability in health sector
planning, budgeting, personnel management, health
education, maintenance, and the implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of projects;
(ii)   establishing a reliable, efficient, cost effective drug
procurement and distribution system aimed at the
provision of essential drugs at the village level; and
(iii)  improving the functions, performance and back-up
capability of the intermediate health facilities in
peripheral urban areas.
1.25     Under the proposed project, a program of public relations, consumer
information and product promotion is proposed to encourage a maximum number of
customers to be connected to the public water supply systems operated by
SONEES (Annex 4-3, B). This campaign will also include sanitary education in
order to increase the health benefits from improved water supply. It will
concentrate on the sanitary collection, transport, storage and proper use of
water. SONEES will be responsible for coordination with other concerned
authorities and institutions (para 4.12).
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location
2.01     The proposed project includes funds for the expansion and
rehabilitation of water supply systems in eleven urban centers including
capitals of six out of the country's eight administrative regions (Louga,
Thi6s, Diourbel, Kaolack, Tambacounda and Ziguinchor) plus five other centers
(Linguere, Bambey, Fatick, M'Backe and Kolda). As shown on the attached map,
all but three of the Eleven Centers are located within some 200 km from Dakar
and all but two in areas of low rainfall.
B. Existing Water Supply Systems
2.02     In principle, the water supply systems are similar in all Eleven
Centers, consisting of one or several wells in different areas, each well
pumping into a reservoir and thence to the distribution system. In some of
the centers, several recently constructed wells without individual reservoirs,
feed into already existing reservoirs. There are a total of 28 wells an,1 20
reservoirs with a total capacity of 12,320 m3 and total distribution system
length of 469 km. A detailed description and analysis of each of the existing
systems is contained in the report of the consultant IGIP (included in the
project file) and summarized in Annexes 2-1 and 2-2.



- 9 -
2.03     Of the Eleven Centers, Thies, Diourbel, M'Backe, Kaolack, Kolda,
Linguere, and Bambey obtain their water supply from the deep maestrichtian
aquifer through 16 wells ranging in depth from 238 m to 625 m. Fatick and
Tambacounda obtain their supply from the eocene limestone around 170 m deep
and Ziguinchor has four wells around 50 m deep in the sands of the continental
terminal and one well is 240 m in the oligocene limestone. Louga obtains most
of its supply from the Lac de Guiers transmission line.
2.04     Most of the existing installations are old and have become inadequate
for a number of reasons, namely: delays in distribution system extension to
new:Ly urbanized areas, poor spacing of standpipes, decreased well productivity
and poor location of reservoirs resulting in insufficient supply and low
pressures in certain zones. In the major centers with several wells, the
existing system is the result of piecemeal development without master planning
and. as a result, interconnections are sometimes complicated and not well-
knowfn. Excessive age and degradation of existing installations have resulted
in diminished system efficiency and interruptions of service and this has been
compounded by poor execution of a number of recently constructed wells and
reservoirs.  Existing chlorination installations have recently been upgraded
and new facilities installed where necessary. As a result disinfection has
greatly improved. It is also to be noted that for Louga, there has recently
been a major investment in network expansion. Special problems are caused by
high fluoride, iron and chloride contents as well as aggressivity due to high
C02 and low pH. As a result of objectionable taste, people often resort to
other water sources of even more questionable bacteriological quality such as
unprotected shallow wells and vendors, thus, further aggravating existing
pubLic health problems.
2.015    Urban master plans have been prepared for Louga, Bambey, Diourbel,
M'Back6, Fatick, Kolda and Ziguinchor. For Thies, such a plan is being
completed but for Linguere, Tambacounda and Kaolack such plans do not yet
exist. These master plans are however not being systematically implemented.
Almost all existing cadastral plans are incomplete and only partial plans
exist of recently built up areas. Growth of peripheral zones has been without
adequate provision of infrastructure and utilities, especially concerning
set-tlement areas of the urban poor in the larger centers.
C. Population Served and Standards of Service
2.06     In 1981, there was a total of 10,500 domestic connections and 600
pubLic standposts throughout the Eleven Centers. The estimated population
served of 421,000 people (75% of the total population) included 150,000
inhabitants or 27% on house connections and 271,000 or 48% on standposts. As
further detailed under Annex 2-2 total system coverage varied from a low of
35% for Kolda (10% on house connections) to a high of 90% for Linguere, Thies
and Kaolack (40%, 33% and 40% respectively on house connections). Bambey
(population 11,300, overall system coverage 85%), has the highest ratio of
population served by house connections; i.e. 46%. Domestic connections are
generally paid for by the consumers although, in several cities there is a
possibility to obtain municipal and/or Government subsidy toward the cost of
connection which averages around US$110. However, administration of these



- 10 -
subsidies is rather complex and depends on the availability of funds.
Therefore, overall density of connections per unit length of distribution
system is low, averaging only 22 per km. The project includes funds for
10,000 house connections representing the anticipated demand in the Eleven
Centers during the project implementation period, which would increase the
density to 28 connections per km on the average (Annex 4-1, 1).
2.07     Production meters are either non-existent or give faulty readings,
and it is estimated that about a quarter of domestic meters are not read on a
regular basis.  As a result, it is difficult to determine accurate production
and consumption figures. Unaccounted-for water is estimated to be about 30%,
which is not very high. While leakages do not appear to be excessive, the
unaccounted-for water mainly relates to inadequate metering. For 1980, total
production averaged 21,700 m3/day providing 39 lcd gross which resulted in an
average net consumption of 27 lcd. As further detailed under Annex 2-2,
production varied from a low of 12 lcd for Kolda to 53 lcd for Koalack.
D. Population Projections and Demand for Service
2.08     Population projections prepared by the consultant IGIP and based on
latest available 1976 census figures give an estimated population of 794,000
for the Eleven Centers by 1990, i.e., an average annual increase of 4%. The
project would meet a gross average daily demand of 39,750 m3/day in 1990) (83%
increase over present production) which would satisfy an average gross demand
of 50 lcd, ranging from a low of 36 lcd for Kolda to a high of 61 lcd for
Koalack. Expected system efficiency would improve to at least 78% mostly from
more comprehensive metering. Estimated overall system coverage would be 89%
serving 706,000 people including 302,000 or 38% by house connections, ranging
from a low of 30% for five centers to 40% for four centers and 45% for Bambey
and Koalack. The proposed project would therefore serve an additional 285,000
people including 152,000 by house connections. Standpipe consumption is
expected to stabilize at around 15% to 20% of total consumption while no
significant developments of commercial or industrial consumption are expected
except in Kaolack. Population and demand projections have been reviewed by
the mission and found to be reasonable.
III. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
A.  Responsibilities and Lel   es
3.01     SONEES' shares are held 100% by public entities, i.e. 97% by the
Government and 3% by eight municipalities. It was founded in 1973, replacing
the former Compagnie Generale des Eaux du Senegal (CGES). Following a sector
organization study carried out under Credit S23-SE, the Government has
accepted to restructure the responsibilities in the urban water supply and
sewerage sectors and to entrust the water authority SONEES with comprehensive
responsibilities for project preparation, implementation and operation



- 11 -
(para 1.11). SONEES' status as a "Societe Nationale" was confirmed by
Law 83-73 of July 5, 1983. Its rew statutes have become effective with the
Presidential Decree of August 1, 1983. Supervision of SONEES ("tutelle") is
,the responsibility of MH.
3.0:2    By an agreement (Convention Generale) with the Government, SONEES has
been entrusted with the operation of water supply and sewerage installations
in ,some 37 urban centers, including the capital city of Dakar. Its rights and
obligations, relations with customers, etc. were outlined in SONEES' "Cahier
des Charges" of 1975. SONEES' increased autonomy and responsibility is
reflected in the new "Cahier des Clauses et Conditions G&nerales (CCCG)"
replacing the mentioned "Cahier des Charges". The draft has been reviewed by
IDA and approved by Senegal's Supreme Court; signing of the new "CCCG" by the
Government and SONEES (which occurred on January, 1985) was a condition for
presentation of the proposed project to the Board.
B. Enterprise Contract
3.03     SONEES has prepared a draft enterprise contract ("Contrat-Plan"),
assisted by management consultants financed under a PPF of the Second
Parapublic Sector Project of FY84. This Contrat-Plan is to become an
agreement between the Government and SONEES to define targets and mutual
commitments. It covers the calendar years 1984 to 1988. SONEES' Contrat-Plan
is a pilot exercise for the Senegalese public sector and will probably be
replicated by other public enterprises. IDA has reviewed the draft Contrat-
Plan. The conclusion and signing of a Contrat-Plan satisfactory to IDA (which
occurred on January, 1985) was also a condition for Board presentation.
3.04     SONEES' Contrat-Plan indicates agreed targets in the areas of water
production and sales, service levels and quality, as well as billing and
collection. It stipulates periodical tariff increases to insure SONEES'
financial viability.  It includes targets for payment of public sector arrears
and current consumption (paras 3.13 to 3.14). It also includes detailed
provisions to insure a smooth transfer of implementation responsibility for
water supply and sewerage projects still with MH. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Government and SONEES will carry out such
transfer in accordance with the provisions of the Contrat-Plan.
C.  Organization and Manageent
3.05     SONEES consists of three headquarters' departments (technical,
financial and administrative) and four regional departments covering areas
outside of Dakar: Fleuve, Thies, Sine-Saloum and Casamance. (For SONEES'
present organization chart see Annex 3-1). There is no regional department
for the Dakar/Cap Vert operations, including the Lac de Guiers-Dakar scheme,
which represent about three-quarters of SONEES' operations; they are included
in the central technical department. This department also includes the
studies and new works division, laboratories, workshops and warehouses. The
main divisions of the finance department are general and cost accounting,
purchase of supplies, billing and collection, data processing and treasury. A
budgetary control division has recently been created. The administrative



- 12 -
department is rather small and consists essentially of the personnel and legal
divisions. The four regional departments and the "general control" division
report directly to the General Manager.
3.06     The main problem of SONEES' present set-up is excessive centrali-
zation. An organization study was carried out by the consultant IDET-CEGOS,
financed under the Engineering Credit S23-SE. Its main recommendation is
decentralization, especially of the Dakar/Cap Vert operations. It was
recommended that they should become a separate new regional department with
four divisions: production, including operation of the N'Gnith treatment
plant, the various groundwater production units and the 250 km pipeline from
N'Gnith to Dakar; two distribution divisions for Dakar South (center of the
city) and North (suburban Dakar/Cap Vert), and one sewerage division. The
proposed organization chart is in Annex 3-2. SONEES has requested assistance
by management consultants to implement this decentralization, and the proposed
project includes six months of such assistance in the form of several missions
spread over about three years (para 4.03 and Annex 4-1, 2).
D. Office Space
3.07     SONEES' headquarters departments are scattered over the downtown area
in several insufficient and expensively leased downtown quarters and separated
from its technical operations, creating serious organizational and managerial
problems. SONEES' responsibilities for urban water supply and sewerage have
increased significantly (paras 1.11 and 3.01 seq.). SONEES' office space
needs at headquarters, including the proposed training department, will
increase with these additional responsibilities, and therefore the issue of
office space should be solved during the early stage of project
implementation. It is proposed to finance an extension (3,500 m2) of the
existing buildings of the Hann technical center to relocate SONEES' headquarters
close to its technical operations (para 4.03 and Annex 4-1, 2).
E. Operations, Staffing and Training
3.08     The water supply facilities are operated in good conditions;
however, absence of preventive maintenance has caused operating problems and
premature deterioration of works. Efficiency of sewerage operations is rather
low. Certain departments (warehouses, water meters and other workshops) are
overstaffed and not sufficiently skilled. A Division of Studies and New Works
recently created within SONEES employs six Senegalese engineers and is headed
by a qualified expatriate engineer; his position will be extended and backed
up by an additional expatriate engineer under the proposed project (para 4.03
and Annex 4-1, 2). This division, assisted by consultants, would implement
the proposed project in the Eleven Centers as well as other urban w&ter supply
and sewerage projects, introduce a preventive maintenance program and train
the Senegalese engineers. Further details on SONEES' operations are given in
Annex 3-3.
3.09     SONEES employed 1,237 staff at the end of 1982, including 48 profes-
sionals and 204 intermediate level staff; at the end of 1983, total staff was
1,313. The general manager and department head positions are staffed with



- 13 -
competent Senegalese professionals, the foreign technical assistance currently
being limited to three positions (i.e. the heads of the technical department,
the Dakar water production division and the studies and new works division).
The proposed project would finance an expatriate advisor to the general
manager to assist adapting SONEES to the enlarged responsibilities and
reinforcing operational and financial control (para 4.03 and Annex 4-1, 2).
Further details on staffing are given in Annex 3-3.
3.10     To address the training needs at all levels an important three-year
training program would be financed through the proposed project. This program
would (i) create a training department within SONEES, (ii) improve skills of
high level staff, and (iii) especially focus on training technical
intearmediate level staff (para 4.03 and Annex 4-1, 2). Further details on the
training program are given in Annex 3-3.
F. Meter Reading, Billing and Collection
3.11     SONEES has retained the principle of general metering of water
consumption. There were about 72,700 subscribers at the end of 1983. Billing
is done on a bimonthly basis and computerized.
3.12     A major problem is the exceedingly high level of unpaid customer
receivables; they amounted to CFAF 10.1 billion (US$23.2 million) at
December 31, 1983 (water and works invoiced), representing about 12 months of
billings. Those most difficult to collect are owed by the Administration, the
Municipalities, and the parastatal authorities, totalling CFAF 6.3 billion
(US$14.5 million) at that date. In order to alleviate the resulting cash
shortage SONEES has been retaining the funds it has collected from customers
on behalf of, and which normally it would forward to, the National Debt
Amortization Fund (CNA) (see para 5.13 on tariff components). At the end of
Dece3mber 1983, the amount billed for but not passed on to the CNA was about
CFAF 5.3 billion (US$12.2 million), including CFAF 4.5 billion (US$10.3 million)
collected, and CFAF 0.8 billion (US$1.8 million) not yet collected by SONEES.
3.13     As part of the Contrat-Plan preparation (para 3.03) the Government
and SONEES have evaluated mutual arrears as of June, 30, 1984. These
estimates amount to CFAF 5.9 billion (US$13.6 million) that SONEES owed CNA
(CFAF 5.7 billion) and the municipalities (CFAF 0.2 billion), and
CFAF 6.6 billion (US$15.2 million) that Government (CFAF 3.2 billion) and
municipalities (CFAF 3.4 billion) owed SONEES. The parastatal authorities,
which owed SONEES CFAF 0.6 billion (US$1.4 million) as of June, 30, 1984 have
not been included in this estimate. The Government has agreed to offset the
amolnt owed by SONEES to CNA against public sector arrears in the same
amoant. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the balance of
about CFAF 0.7 billion (US$1.7 million) in favor of SONEES will be paid by the
Government within 30 days after the 1984/85 budget ("loi de finances 1984/85")
has been modified. Effective payment of the net arrears in favor of SONEES
(completed in January 1985) was a condition for presentation of the proposed
project to the Board.



- 14 -
3.14     Regarding current consumption, assurances were obtained during
project preparation that budgets of public sector entities including
municipalities will specify amounts for water consumption (instead of the
previous lumpsum amounts for all public utilities), that such budgets will be
based on consumption forecasts prepared by SONEES, and that invoices will be
paid within four months. This procedure is confirmed by the Contrat-Plan.
SONEES has provided Government with 1984/85 consumption estimates for all
departments. Modification of the 1984/85 budget which provided for an
insufficient water consumption allocation for the central Government aglencies
in the amount of OFAF 1.1 billion (US$2.5 million) was approved in January
1985. This was also a condition for Board presentation.
3.15     Water consumption billed to private domestic and commercial customers
and not collected represented about four to five months of billing at the end
of 1983. SONEES continues its efforts to reduce these arrears by
strengthening its billing and collection procedures, including disconnection
campaigns. Assurances would be sought that SONEES will reduce parapublic and
private sector receivables to below four months of billings by end December
1985.
G. Accounting
3.16     SONEES has a commercial double entry accounting system, based on
accrual accounting principles. It uses the OCAM chart of accounts which is
the official chart of accounts nationwide in most French-speaking West African
countries. Cost center accounting provides revenue and cost data for the
various centers and at the regional level. SONEES has one of the better
accounting systems among West African water authorities. However, short-
comings do exist regarding: (i) accounting for fixed assets previously owned
by the Government and now transferred to SONEES, and (ii) analysis and follow-
up on Government arrears. Work on the latter has started with the help of the
auditors. Improvement of records on the previously Government owned fixed
assets will need a physical inventory and evaluation. Preliminary studies and
planning for this major exercise have been included in the PPF (para 4.11).
H. Data Processing
3.17     SONEES has been using an IBM 3/12 computer for about ten major
applications in the areas of accounting, billing/customer accounts, stocks,
fixed assets, and cost center accounting. The financial studies financed by
the Engineering Credit 323-SE have highlighted major problems: the
applications are not integrated, control of data input is insufficient, many
calculations that could easily be performed by the systems are still done
manually (e.g. work under construction, disposal of fixed assets,
depreciation) or not performed at all (revaluation of fixed assets). Cost
center accounting and budgetary control are two separate and overly
complicated systems. A restructuring of SONEES' information system is urgent,
and preparation of a data processing master plan by consultants--included in
the PPF (paras 4.03 and 4.11 and Annex 4-1, 2) --would be the first step.
This master plan should cover about five years and design a new information
system, including specification of needed hardware and software, space, as



- 15 -
well as related cost. The master plan should also evaluate existing staff,
future staff needs, and the possible need for technical assistance to the data
processing department.
I. Budgeting and Planning
3.18     Annual operating and capital expenditure budgets are prepared for
SONEES' overall operations and the regions. However, medium-term financial
planning does not yet exist on a regular basis. Therefore, during
negotiations assurances were obtained from SONEES that it will prepare each
year, together with its annual budgets, financial projections at least for the
foLlowing three years (including income statements, funds flow statements and
balance sheets) and transmit them, together with the annual operating and
capital expenditure budgets for review to IDA, not later than one month before
the beginning of the fiscal year concerned.
J. Audits
3.19     SONEES' financial statements for FYs79-82, its accounting, budgeting
and internal control procedures as well as its data processing system have
been audited by Arthur Andersen, Gaye & Partners, Dakar. These audits were
partly financed by the Engineering Credit S23-SE and partly by the mentioned
PPF. In view of the shortcomings identified (paras 3.16 to 3.17), further
audits together with technical assistance to the improvement of accounting
systems and procedures, are included in the proposed project (para 4.03 and
Annex 4-1, 2). Terms of reference would request that each annual audit report
inc:Lude a detailed analysis of systems and procedures, progress achieved, and
recommendations for further action. Technical assistance would be provided as
necessary to implement the required improvements, it would also include
implementation of a system for revaluation of fixed assets, to be applied
annually, starting with the December 31, 1985 closing, i.e. once the fixed
assets transferred from the State to SONEES will have been inventorized and
evaluated. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (i) SONEES will
submit audited annual financial statements to IDA together with the audit
report, within eight months of the annual closing date, and (ii) that annual
revaluation of fixed assets in operation will be carried out on a pro forma
bas,is starting with the December 31, 1985 closing.  The required audits would
also cover the project expenditures to be effected by MH and for which MH will
keep accounts.
K. Taxation
3.20     SONEES' net income before taxes is subject to a 33 1/3% corporate
income tax.
L. Insurance
3.21     SONEES has insurance against all normal commercial risks, such as
third party liability, fire, other risks to SONEES' property and inventories,
and vehicle insurance.



- 16 -
M. Monitoring Indicators
3.22     During negotiations, assurances were obtained that SONEES will
periodically report to IDA on its operating and financial performance, using
the monitoring indicators shown in Annex 3-4.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Genesis
4.01     Following several years of difficult dialogue between the Senegalese
authorities and the Bank on the institutional set-up of the sector and alloca-
tion of responsibilities, it was agreed at first to commission consultant
studies to prepare a possibLe water supply project for 11 secondary centers.
An IDA Engineering Credit was approved by the Board in April 1979 and provided
financing for 15 reconnaissance wells in Louga, Diourbel, Kolda, Kaolack,
Ziguinchor and Tambacounda, feasibility studies and detailed designs for water
supply in the Eleven Centers, organization, financial and tariff studies, as
well as technical assistance. All components have been implemented, tender
documents for water supply facilities in the Eleven Centers are ready, and
some of the contracts have already been awarded.
B. Project Objectives
4.02     The objectives of the project can be summarized as follows:
(i)    help develop SONEES into a national enterprise
responsible for preparation and implementation of all
urban water supply and sewerage projects, as well as
operation of the systems;
(ii)   rehabilitate and expand water supply facilities in the
Eleven Centers where existing systems are operating at
design capacity and to provide for an increase in
population served from about 420,000 to 705,000;
(iii) strengthen SONEES' financial structure by replenishing
its working capital;
(iv)   assist Government define acceptable solutions for
expansion of the Dakar/Cap Vert water supply;
(v)    help Government formulate the policies as well as the
institutional arrangements for implementation and
maintenance of facilities in the rural water supply
subsector; and



- 17 -
(vi)   assist Government promote appropriate sewerage
technologies and investigate possibilities of sewage
effluent re-use in the Dakar area in order to limit the
use of drinking water for irrigation of small truck
farming plots.
C. Description of Project Components
4.03     The project would include the following components (for a detailed
description, see Annex 4-1):
(i)    expansion of water supply facilities in the Eleven Centers
including: drilling of 12 new wells and rehabilitation of
15 existing wells; supply and installation of 25
chlorination units, one neutralization plant, 13 km of PVC
transmission pipes, 6 reservoirs and 328 km of distribution
network, supplies for 10,000 small domestic connections
including the meters, and 186 standpipes;
(ii)   rehabilitation of SONEES' operations through: technical
assistance, expansion of office space, consultancy in the
fields of organization, accounting and consumer
information, technical training program and increase in
SONEES' working capital including supply of spare parts;
(iii)  consultants services for feasibility studies of the
Dakar/Cap Vert water supply expansion;
(iv)   technical assistance to MIT as well as institutional and
policy studies for rural water supply; and
(v)    consultants services for urban sewerage studies.
Annex 4-2 gives the physical project components by centers and Annex 4-3 gives
a description of the technological alternatives tihat were considered and the
service standards chosen.
D. Replenishment of SONEES' Working Capital
4.04     Due to slow payments for public sector water consumption as well as
past postponement of tariff increases, SONEES has accumulated important
arrears towards suppliers, first of all the power authority SENELEC, and has
used all its overdraft facilities with local banks. The proposed project
wou:Ld include a contribution to SONEES' working capital to be most likely
disbursed over the first year of project implementation. Part of this
component would replenish SONEES' stock of spare parts (US$3.00 million), and
the rest be disbursed against chemicals bills (US$3.00 million). These
figures include retroactive financing for spare parts and chemicals purchased
since January 1, 1984 in an amount not exceeding US$2.00 million. The
resulting improved cash position would help SONEES to pay off the mentioned
pasl; due supplier invoices and overdrafts with local banks while carrying the
public sector arrears.



- 18 -
E. Project Cost
4.05     The estimated cost of the project, excluding taxes and duties, and
financing requirements are summarized below and given in more detail in
Annex 4-4. The investment ratios for each of the Eleven Centers are shown in
Annex 4-5. Total project cost is estimated at CFAF 13,505 million
(US$31.00 million equivalent) with a foreign component of CFAF 9,445 million
(US$21.70 million) representing 70%. Total financing requirements including
refinancing of the IDA Engineering Credit and interest during construction are
estimated at CFAF 15,675 million (US$36.00 million equivalent) with a foreign
component of CFAF 10,625 million (US$24.40 million) representing 67.8%.
Components financed under the US$0.75 million PPF (para 4.11), of which
US$0.60 million in foreign exchange, have been integrated in the project cost.
SumXay Project Cost
% of
Foreign  Local  Total   Foreign  Local  Total.  Total
--- CFAF million --   --  U$ Million
Project Components
Water Supply in the Eleven Centers  2,805  1 ,750   4,555   6.45    4.02  10.47    33.8
Rehabilitation of SONES             3,625   430   4,055     8.34    .95   9.29   30.0
Dakar Water Supp1y Studies            320    70    390       .73     .16   .89      2.9
Rral Water Supply                     130    35    165       .30    .08    .38      1.2
Urban Sanitation Studies              135    35    170       .31    .XB    .39      1.3
Bse Cost as of end 193            7,015  2,320   9,335   16.13    5*29  21.42   69.2
Physical Contingencies                635   340    975      1.46    .78   2.24      7.2
Price Contingencies                 1,795  1,400   3,195    4.11    3.23   7.34   23.6
Total Project Cost                9,445  4,060  13,S5C5    21.70    9.30  31.00   100.0
Refinancing of IDA Thgineering Credit  870   215   1,085    2.00    .50   2.50
Interest during Construction          310   775   1,C85    0.70    1.80   2.50
Total nhiancing Requirements     10,625  5,050  15,675    24.40   11.60  36.00
% of Total                         67.8  32.2  100.0    67.8   32.2  100.0
4.06     The project cost is based on preliminary designs and on quotations
obtained for similar works tendered for in Senegal and other West African
countries during recent years. Estimates for consulting services and various
studies are based on available quotations for some of the proposed services as
well as proposals for similar studies in Senegal. All costs have been
adjusted to reflect unit prices as of end 1983. No taxes and duties on
imported goods as well as taxes on works are included in the project cost as
such taxes will not be applied to this project.
4.07     Allowances for physical contingencies on construction work at the
average rate of 15% are provided. For technical assistance, training and
studies, physical contingencies have been estimated at 10% of base cost,



- 19 -
except for the Dakar/Cap Vert Water Supply feasibility studies for which 15%
are provided. In addition allowance has been made for price contingencies at
the rates of 3.5% in 1984, 8% in 1985, 9% in 1986, 1987 and 1988, 7,5% in
1989 and 6% thereafter for foreign exchange components; and for local cost
components 12% in 1984, and 10% thereafter.
F. Project Finan-cing and Lending Arrangements
4.08     An IDA Credit of US$24.00 million is proposed.  Caisse Centrale de
Cocperation Economique (CCCE) of France would co-finance the proposed project
with an amount of CFAF 3.30 billion (US$7.60 million equivalent); the CCCE
loan, for which SONEES would be the borrower and which would be guaranteed by
Government, would be repayable over 16 years including 6 years of grace with
an interest of 5% and a commitment fee of 0.5%. The remaining US$4.40 million
equivalent would be financed by SONEES. The proposed financing plan is
summarized below and further detailed in Annex 4-6:
Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ million)
IDA     SONEES    CCCE        TOTAL
Project Components
Water Supply in the Eleven Centers           9.10     0.90       7.35   17.35
Rehabilitation of SONEES                     9.90     1.00        .25   11.15
SONEES Component                          19.00     1.90       7.60   28.50
Dakar Water Supply                           1.40       -           -    1.40
Rural Water Supply                            .55       -          -       .55
Urban Sanitation Studies                      .55       -          -       .55
MH Component                               2.50       -          -      2.50
Total Project Cost                       21.50      1.90       7.60   31.00
Refinancing of IDA Engineering Credit        2.50       -          -      2.50
Interest during Construction                   -      2.50         -      2.50
Total Financing Requirements                24.00     4.40       7.60   36.00
% of total                                 66.7     12.2       21.1   100.0
The IDA Credit and CCCE loan would cover 100% of the foreign component and
79.6% of the local component of the project cost, or 100% of the foreign
component or 62.1% of the local component of total financing requirements.
4.09     The Government of Senegal would be the borrower of the IDA Credit.
US$9.50 million of the IDA Credit would be passed on as a contribution by the
Government to SONEES' equity. US$9.50 million of the IDA Credit would be
onlent to SONEES on IBRD terms (20 years term, including 5 years grace,
interest rate about 10.0%). SONEES would assume the risks related to exchange
rate and interest rate variations. The remainder of the IDA Credit would



- 20 -
finance the Dakar/Cap Vert water supply, rural water supply and urban
sanitation components for which MH would be responsible (US$2.50 million) and
refinance the IDA Engineering Credit (US$2.50 million).
4.10     The IDA Credit wouLd finance:
(i)   for expansion of water supply facilities in the Eleven
Centers: drilling of boreholes, civil works, supply and
laying of pipes in 8 centers (Thies, Kaolack, Fatick,
Louga, Linguere, Bambey, Diourbel and M'Backe), and the
supervision of construction;
(ii) the component; for rehabilitation of SONEES' operations;
(iii) the Dakar/Cap Vert water supply feasibility studies;
(iv) the rural water supply component; and
(v)   the urban sanitation component.
CCCE would finance:
(i)   for expansion of the water supply facilities in the
Eleven Centers: all supply and works for Tambacounda,
Ziguinchor and Kolda except drilling of boreholes and
construction supervision; electrical and pumping
equipment for the other eight centers; and supply of
material for domestic connections, standpipes and
meters; and
(ii) the detailed designs and the construction supervision of
SONEES' building.
SONEES would bear the cost related to the construction of domestic connec-
tions, contribute the land for its building, participate in the financing of
the building and its equipment, and finance interest during construction.
G. Project Preparation Facility
4.11     In order to firm up data on underground water resources for three out
of the Eleven Centers, the first phase of the drilling program included in the
project will have to be carried out, consisting of four boreholes, one each in
Louga and Diourbel, and two in Ziguinchor (Annex 4-3). Also, evaluation of
sector fixed assets should be started (para 3.16), SONEES' 1982 accounts were
to be audited (para 3.19), the two expatriate engineers for SONEES' studies
and new works division should be in place prior to the beginning of works
(para 3.08) the data processing system master plan should be established as
soon as possible (para 3.17), bids for works in the Eleven Centers have to be
evaluated (para 4.13) and final designs for the SONEES building have to be
initiated (para 3.07). A PPF of US$0.75 million to cover the cost of the
above has been approved by the Regional Vice President. The PPF would be
refinanced from the proposed IDA Credit.



- 21 -
H. Implementation
4.12     SONEES will be responsible for implementing the works for the Eleven
Centers as well as the rehabilitation components. Its execution capacity will
be strengthened through the technical assistance and training components of
the project (paras 3.08 to 3.10, Annex 3-3). MH will be responsible for the
Dakar/Cap Vert water supply, rural water supply and urban sanitation
components.
4.13     Detailed designs and tender documents have been financed under the
Engineering Credit S23-SE; bids were called for in Summer 1984 and some of the
contracts have already been awarded. Minor modifications could occur once
pumping tests on boreholes to be drilled under PPF financing have been
completed. For supervision of construction and for implementation of SONEES
rehabilitation, SONEES would be assisted by consultants selected in accordance
with Bank Group procedures prior to Credit effectiveness. It is expected that
construction will start by mid-1985 and extend to mid-1990 with most
construction to be completed by mid-1989 (Annex 4-7).
I. Procurement
4.14     Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
Procurement Method
(US$ million)
Total
Project Element                          ICB     LCB    Other    N.A         Cost
Civil Works                            10.00       -      5.35       -       15.35
(9.25)    (-)       (-)     (-)       (9.25)
Equipment                                 _       .15     3.05       _        3.20
TA, training, consultant                  -       -       6.45       -        6.45
services                               (-)     (-)    (6.25)    (-)        (6.25)
Increase in Working Capital:
- Spare parts                           -       -       3.00      -         3.00
(-)     (-)    (3.00)    (-)        (3.00)
- Chemicals bills                       -       -       3.00      -         3.00
(-)     (-)    (3.00)    (-)        (3.00)
Total Project Cost                   10.00      .15    20.85      -        3100
(9.25)    (-)   (12.25)    (_)       (21.50)
Note: Figures in brackets are the amounts financed by IDA



- 22 -
4.15     A breakdown of the project into contracts is given in Annex 4-6.  The
component related to the expansion of water supply facilities in the Eleven
Centers will be divided into ten major contracts of which five would be
financed by the IDA Credit (para 4.10). These five contracts as well as the
one for construction of the office building will be awarded through ICB in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. All contracts are expected to be above
US$1.00 million each and prior review of bidding documents by Bank staff will
be required. No domestic preference will apply to contracts, even for locally
produced PVC pipes since they represent only a small part of the contracts
covering both supply and construction of networks and Senegal is not eligible
for domestic preference regarding civil works contracts. Spare parts and
chemicals will be provided either by international shopping, with the
quotation of at least three suppliers, or by direct negotiated purchase from
one manufacturer or supplier in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. SONEES
will establish an annual budget of spare parts and chemicals to be purchased,
with indication of procurement methods, and submit it to IDA for review not
later than one month before the beginning of each fiscal year. Approval of
these budgets by IDA is a condition of disbursements for the spare parts and
chemicals purchases.
4.16     Contracts financed by CCCE (parallel financing) would be awarded in
accordance with their own procedures. The construction of domestic
connections (US$.90 million equivalent financed by SONEES) would be carried
out by SONEES' own work force. Equipment for SONEES' building
(US$0.15 million equivalent financed by SONEES) would be purchased locally
(local shopping).
4.17     All engineering and technical assistance contracts would be awarded
in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for the use of Consultants.
J. Disbursements
4.18     The proposed Credit would be disbursed as follows:



- 23 -
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
% of
Amount     Expenditure
Category  US$ million   Financed
A. Components to be implemented by SONEES
(i)   Civil works
- Supply and Construction for
Expansion of Water Supply in the
Eleven Centers                       (la)      7.05             100
- Construction of Office Building   (lb)          1.10             64
(ii)  Technical Assistance, Training
Program, Engineering Studies and
Consultant Services                     (2)      3.05             100
(iii) Increase in Working Capital
- Supply of spare parts                 (3)      3.00             100
- Supply of chemicals                   (4)      3.00             100
(iv)  Refinancing of PPF                      (6)        .75    Amount due
Subtotal                                      17.95
B. Components to be implemented by MH
Technical Assistance, studies
and consultant services                 (5)       2.35            100
C. 'Refinancing of IDA Engineering Credit         (7)      2.50    Amount due
D. lJnallocated                                  (8)       1.20
Total                                                24.00
4.19     The estimated schedule of disbursements given in Annex 4-8 is based
on the average disbursement profile for water supply projects in West
Africa. The closing date of the Credit would be June 30, 1993.



- 24 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
5.01     Presently SONEES is in a transitional stage, from a mere operating
company to a utility owning all installations it operates, and being fully
responsible for all financial aspects of the sector including financing of new
projects and sector debt service. Until 1983 urban water supply and sewerage
installations were owned by the State, debt service was assumed by the
National Debt Amortization Fund (CNA) in the Ministry of Finance and
Economics.  Two funds at MH used to finance repairs, replacements, network
extensions and connections. The water and sewerage installations were
transferred from the State to SONEES by Law 83-73 of July 5, 1983 establishing
SONEES as a "soci6te nationale". Revenues previously transferred to CNA for
water sector debt service and to the two MH funds have started to accrue to
SONEES from January 1, 1984, and SONEES will assume from that date on the
water sector debt and debt service as well as expenditures previously effected
by the two NH funds. Sewerage sector debt will remain with CNA for the near
future until another solution (e.g., transfer to SONEES and coverage by an
additional water tariff component) can be implemented (para 1.17).
B. SONEES' Past and Present Financial Performance
5.02     SONEES' past financial statements and future financial forecasts are
given in Annexes 5-1 through 5-4 and the major assumptions made in the
financial projections are provided in Annex 5-5. The company's income
statements for the period 1979-83 are summarized below:
SONEES - Summary Income Statements
(CFAF million, if not otherwise stated)
Year ended Dec. 31         1979        1980     1981       1982       1983
Water Sold (million m3)    43.0        46.1       48.4      55.5        60.6
Average SONEES Revenue      72.4       75.1      79.6       77.9        88.0
(CFAF/m3)
Total Revenues             3,712      4,464      5,028     5,148       6,209
Operating Costs            3,740      4,387     4,877      5,563       6,299
Operating Income            (28)         77        151     (415)        (90)
Net Income                  (45)         21         35     (454)       (120)
Working Ratio i/(%)       93.4       90.6      94.0      105.0        98.0
Operating Ratio (%)      100.8       98.3      97.0      108.1       101.4
1/   Additional ratios are given in Annex 5-4.



- 25 -
Total revenue includes, in addition to water sales, works carried out by
SONEES as a contractor to the Government or to other customers. Normally such
works amount to some 10% to 20% of total revenue. The related expenses are
included in operating costs. Until 1983, operating costs include depreciation
for the fixed assets owned by SONEES (mainly tools, furniture and fittings,
and vehicles), but not for the Government owned fixed assets. They also
include provisions for doubtful customer accounts. SONEES' fiscal year is the
calendar year.
5.03     SONEES' earnings situation had been eroded by inflation;  cost
increases had not been offset by sufficient tariff raises until September 1983
when an important increase was granted (para 5.12 seq.).  1982 and. 1983
yielded substantial operating deficits. In the past, SONEES had neither been
expected to contribute to the expenditures for new water or sewerage
installations nor has it had to assume any related debt service. Actually, no
self'-financing had been expected from overall sector operations; investments
had been financed externally and with contributions from the Government's
Equipment Budget.
5.04     SONEES' assets and liabilities for the period 1979-83 are summarized
below:
SONEES - Summary Balance Sheets
(CFAF million, if not otherwise stated)
December 31                 1979       1980      1981      1982        1983
Assets
Net Fixed Assets              433        519       596       824        1,040
Current Assets              6,187     6,849      8,364     9,665       11,203
Total Assets              6,620     7,368      8,960    10,489       12,243
Equity & Liabilities
Equity                        755        776       833        379         259
Long-Term Debt                 --         -_        -_         __          __
Current Liabilities         5,865     6,592      8,127    10,110       11,984
Total Equity &
Liabilities               6,620     7,368      8,960    10,489       12,243
Debt Service Coverage       2.8        4.9       3.3      (3-1)       (1.9)
Current Ratio (%)          1.06      1.04       1.03      0.96          .94
5.05     Fixed assets referred to above are the ones owned by SONEES and do
not include the installations owned through 1983 by the State and operated by
SONEES; the latter are shown in para 5.06 below. Current assets include
mostly customer receivables (para 3.11 seq.).



- 26 -
C. Sector Fixed Assets
5.06     Water supply and sewerage installations owned through 1983 by the
State and operated by SONEES were transferred to SONEES by Law 83-73 of July
5, 1983. The Law provides that facilities of the State's "private domain" are
transferred to SONEES' property, while for facilities of the State's
untransferable "public domain" (mainly underground pipes) SONEES is entrusted
with full physical, accounting, and financial administration. These assets
have the historical book values summarized in the following table:
Previously State-Owned Water and Sewerage Installations
as of December 31, 1983
(CFAF million)
Water Supply    Sewerage   Total
Gross Fixed Assets in Operation              16,435         1,168     17,603
Accumulated Depreciation                      5,678           506       6,184
Net Fixed Assets in Operation              10,757           662     11,419
5.07     The Lac de Guiers treatment plant and 250 km pipeline supplying water
to Dakar and villages en route represent about 60% of the net value of water
supply assets in operation. The 1983 annual depreciation for the Government
owned fixed assets amounted to CFAF 433 million. There has been no
revaluation of sector fixed assets yet. Implementation of a system for
periodic revaluation of fixed assets would be part of the terms of reference
for the audits and technical assistance included in the proposed project
(para 3.19). The mentioned legal transfer from the State to SONEES makes a
physical inventory and evaluation of the sector installations necessary.
Initial steps for this will be financed under the PPF (para 4.11).
D. Sector Debt
5.08     Long-term debt of the urban water supply and sewerage sector outstanding
at the end of 1983 amounted to CFAF 18.1 billion (US$41.5 million). Main
characteristics of the long term debt are as follows:
Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Debt
(CFAF million)
Financing                                  Outstanding
Obtained     Disbursed    Reimbursed        12/31/83  a/
Urban Water Supply       15,047        12,570           797         12,067
Sewerage                  9,269         5,720            85          6,001
Total                  24,316        18,290           882         18,068
a/   Outstanding amount as of December 31, 1983 include capitalized
interests on rescheduled debt.



- 27 -
5.09     Debt service had stayed at a reasonable level in the past, as the
major part of the sector assets, namely the Lac de Guiers scheme, has been
financed on concessionary terms by the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW).
However, the sewerage installations recently built or under construction in
certain secondary centers (para 1.17) have been financed at very short terms
and their debt service inspite of several reschedulings will be a heavy burden
during the next few years. The debt service schedule related to the debt
contracted before end 1983 is as follows, after rescheduling:
Sector Debt Service on Debt Contracted
before December 31, 1983
(CFAF million)
1984      1986       1988      1990
UrbaLn Water Supply                924      1,258     1,298    1,110
Sewerage                           612        773       624       536
Total                          1,536     2,031      1,922    1,646
5.10C    The water tariff includes a special component as contribution to
covering the debt service related to water supply installations (para 5.12).
In 1983 the corresponding revenue was CFAF 778 million (US$1.8 million)
coveiring 89% of the sector debt service. Since January 1, 1984 this revenue
accrues to SONEES as the water sector debt has been transferred from CNA to
SONEES following the transfer of the water supply installations. SONEES is to
assume the debt service for all existing water supply installations as well as
futuLre projects, including the proposed Eleven Centers project.
5.11     The Contrat-Plan (para 3.03) stipulates that sewerage debt will
continue to be serviced by CNA for the near future as SONEES' tariff does not
yet provide for its coverage and that the Senegalese authorities will decide
on an appropriate solution, possibly an additional tariff component, before
the end of 1986. This would yield the necessary revenue so SOiiEES could take
over the sewerage sector debt and debt service from CNA, thereby charging the
water consumers for the sewerage services instead of relying on CNA to
subsidize such services by assuming the related debt service. The Contrat-
Plan. also requests that the Government will continue to assume major repairs
and renewals until an alternative solution will have been implemented. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government (and SONEES, see
para. 5.25) that no investments exceeding US$1.0 million equivalent would be
undertaken in the urban water supply and sewerage sectors without prior
consultation with IDA and the presentation of an acceptable financing plan.
E. Tariffs and Sector Revenues
5.12     The revenue source for the urban water and sewerage sector is a
charge on the quantity of water consumed. A new tariff structure has been
introduced, effective September 1, 1983, based on the tariff study carried out
under Engineering Credit S23-SE. The previous tariff had been in effect since
July 1, 1980. It represents an average increase of about 43% (13% in real
terms) while protecting the social tariff which has been raised by only 8%.



- 28 -
This tariff adjustment had been a condition for negotiations of the proposed
project.
5.13     The new tariff applicable in cities with sewerage systems is shown
below, the complete set of tariffs is shown in Annex 5-6:
Water Tariff for Cities with Sewerage Systems
(CFAF/m3)
Full Tariff
(Domestic,                                 Small
Industry,                                 Vegetable
Public Sector,                                Growers
Large Vegetable    Social  Public         (less than 1500 m
Components               Growers)        Tariff  Standpipes       per month)
(a)  SONEES                109.18         81.63      109.18           35.27
(b)  CNA                    47.95             -          -               _
(c)  Small Works Fund       14.75            -           -
(d)  Renewal Fund           29.50             -          _
(e) Social Connections
Fund                  7.65            -           -               -
Subtotal            209.03         81.63      109.18           35.27
Added-Value Tax         7.64          5.71        7.64            2.47
Municipal Tax           2.50            -           -               -
Total               219.17         87.34      116.82           37.74
5.14     The full tariff corresponds to US$0.50/m3.  The new tariff includes
satisfactory indexation formulas for each component, linking the tariff to the
variations of prices for major inputs such as salaries, energy, chemicals, and
pipes. SONEES' CCCG provides for semi annual indexation (theoretically
January 1 and July 1 of each year); the first indexation was effective on
September 1, 1984 i.e. after the CCCG has been approved.
5.15     With the reallocation of responsibilities in the water sector
(paras 1.11 and 3.01 seq.), funds from all components have started to accrue
to SONEES from January 1, 1984 onward. Revenue from the newly introduced
social connections component ((e) above) will finance small diameter
connections, free of charge to the customer (paras 6.05 and 6.08), so that
this policy can also be applied in towins other than the Eleven Centers (e.g.,
Dakar). In the Eleven Centers such connections would be financed by the
proposed project as a pilot undertaking.
5.16     The social tariff (second column of above table) is applied to the
first 10m3/month of all domestic 15 mm diameter connections. Standpipe
consumption is paid by the municipalities. The SONEES component includes
coverage of sewerage operating costs; for centers where no sewerage facilities
exist, the SONEES component of the full tariff is CFAF 14.61/m3 lower, i.e.
CFAF 94.57 instead of CFAF 109.18. Introduction of a surcharge to cover the
debt service related to sewerage installations has been postponed (para 5.11).



- 29 -
5.17'    Sector revenues for water consumption were as follows (added value
and municipal taxes excluded):
Total Sector Revenue from Water Consumption
(CFAF million, if not otherwise stated)
Revenue                  1979        1980        1981        1982        1983
Accruing to:
SONEES                   3,112       3,464       3,853       4,323        5,288
CNA                      1,196       1,171       1,375       1,577        1,663
Small Works Fund            173        241         259         340          434
Renewal Fund               270         294         386         455          773
Social Connections
Fund                       -          -           -           -           141
Total                  4,751       5,170       5,873       6,695       8,299
Average Revenue
(CFAF/m3)            110.5       112.1       121.3      120.6        136.9
As part of the financial s-;udies financed under the Engineering Credit S23-SE
the auditors have prepared in 1981 an estimate of revalued sector fixed
assets. Based on this information, the rate of return on net revalued fixed
assets in operation for the sector as a whole could be estimated at about
minus 0.5% for 1979 and 1980.  Following the tariff increase of
September 1, 1983, average revenue is estimated at about CFAF 169/m3
(excluding taxes). T"his substantial increase and the subsequent indexation of
the tariff should lead to a positive rate of return for 1984 and thereafter.
F. SONEES' Future Financial Performance
5.18     The following summarizes SONEES' projected earnings for the years
1984 to 1993 in current terms. Detailed financial projections which were
updated by Bank staff together with SONEES officials during negotiations are,
as noted previously, shown in Annex 5-1 through 5-4 and their major
assumptions in Annex 5-5.



- 30 -
SONEES - Forecast Income Stateaents
(CFAF million, if not otherwise stated)
FY (endL g December 31)   1983    1984    1985    1986    1983    1990    1993
actual
Water Sold             60.6    62.4   63.7    64.9   67.3    70.6    73.8
(millions of mn)
Average SONEES Revenue
from Water Sales     88.0    169    182    198    236    280    363
(CFAF/mJ)
Total Revenmes        6,209  11,599  13,054  14,464  17,8B4  22,252  30,161
Cperating Costs       6,299   9,721  10,768  11,996  14,945  18,494  25,248
Operating Income       (90)   1,878   2,286   2,468   2,939   3,758   4,913
Net Income            (120)    989   1,18w   1,386   1,568   1,769   2,621
Woridng Ratio, %      98.0   66.0   66.5   66.5   66.2   66.6   68.5
Operating Ratio, %   101.4   83.8   82.5    82.9   83.6   83.1    83.7
Contribution to Capital
Expenditures:           -     2,136   2,037   2,251   2,7C8   3,318   4,521
as % of Revemie       -      18.4   15.9   15.6   15.1   14.9   15.0
as % of Capital
xpenditures plus
Non Cash Wokding
Capital Incrase      -     102.3   41.7   41.9   45.9   99.4   116.4
5.19     The above revenue projections for SONEES take into account the tariff
increase of September 1, 1983 (para 5.12 seq.). After September 1, 1983,
tariff increases of 90% of inflation have been assumed as provided for by
SONEES' CCCG. Since January 1, 1984, the revenues previously accruing to the
Renewal and Small Works Funds and the revenues for servicing the water sector
debt accrue to SONEES.  Maintenance expenses and capital expenditures
previously effected by MH, and debt service for the water supply installations
transferred from the State to SONEES have been included from this date on3.
5.20     Based on these assumptions (Annex 5-5) SONEES would be able to cover
operating costs and debt service, and generate a contribution to capital
expenditures. This contribution expressed as a percentage of revenue is
expected to be about 18% for FY84 and 15% thereafter (Annex 5-4 - Ratios).
5.21     Although feasibility studies are underway on additional water
resources for the Dakar area, no financial information is yet available on
possible projects. Therefore the projections only include for the 1984/1993
period the proposed project (CFAF 9.80 billion or US$22.5 million), the Saint
Louis Water Supply project financed by the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW)
(CFAF 2.50 billion or US$5.7 million) and some limited extensions (CFAF 3.75
billion or US$8.6 million). This, and the assumed long implementation period



- 31 -
of the proposed project lead to the apparent high percentages for SONEES'
annual contributions to capital expenditures plus working capital needs.
5.22     Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations that
it will take actions, including tariff adjustments, which would permit SONEES
to generate a contribution (internally generated funds minus debt service) to
capital expenditures and working capital needs of at least 15% of SONEES'
total revenues from 1985 on. A cash generation covenant as a percentage of
reveinues is thought to be appropriate for assuring SONEES' financial viability
during the initial phase of project implementation. Reference to revenue
seems more feasible than to capital expenditures, as capital expenditure plans
are not well defined at present.  The covenant would be easy to monitor.
SONEES' debt service is fairly predictable, and subsidies from Government to
alleviate it are very unlikely.  A rate-of-return covenant would become
feasible for SONEES following inventory and revaluation of sector assets and
introduction of a periodical revaluation procedure for these assets
(para 3.19).
5.23     SONEES' projected assets and liabilities are summarized below.
Details are given in Annex 5-3:
SONEE! ~m=   Balance aeets
(CFAF million, if not otherwise stated)
December, 31:        1983    1984    1985    1986       19B      1990    1993
Actual
Assets
Net Fixed Assets     1,040   27,055   28,664   30,959   3B,119   36,984   32,114
Current Assets      11,203    5,346    6,019    7,930   10,240   14,507   21,889
Total Assets       12,243   32,451   34,683   38,889   48,359   51,491   54,003
Equity and Lblities
Equity                 259   16,581   18,684   21,130   25,829   29,603   36,640
long-Trm Debt           -    10,679   11 ,702   14,07   18,941   17,126   11,712
Current Liabilities    11,984    5,141    4,297    3,7(2    3,589    4,762   5,651
Total Equity and
Liabilities      12,243   32,401   34,683   38,889   48,359   51,491   54,003
Debt/Eluity Ratio     -     39:61    39:61    40:60   42:58   37:63    24:76
Debt Service
Coverage            -       3.3      2.5     2.5      2.4      2.3     2.7
Current Ratio        .93     1.04     1.40    2.14    2.85      3.C0    3.87
5.24      The increase of SONEES' fixed assets reflects (i) the capital
expenditures financed under the proposed project; and (ii) the transfer of



- 32 -
the already existing assets from the State to SONEES (para 5.06). The current
net value of these installations is not precisely known and will have to be
established during 1985. For forecasting purposes a value of CFAF 27.4 billion
(US$63.0 million) has been assumed. Annual depreciation has been included in
the financial projections on this basis. The debt related to these assets
estimated at CFAF 12.1 billion (US$27.8 million) will also be transferred to
SONEES. The transaction will increase the Government's equity share in SONEES
by an amount equal to the current value of the assets minus the mentioned
debt. This equity increase is estimated at about CFAF 15.3 billion
(US$35.2 million).
5.25      With no other than the proposed Eleven Centers and the Saint Louis
water supply projects identified, the debt/equity ratio would reach 42% in
1988 and decrease thereafter to about 25%, which is deemed acceptable. To
protect SONEES' debt/equity structure, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that SONEES would consult with IDA and present a financing plan
before undertaking any capital expenditure project whose financing
requirements would exceed US$1.0 million equivalent. SONEES debt service
coverage is projected to stay about 2.5 through 1993. As a safeguard against
excessive future debt or unfavorable debt terms assurances were also obtained
that the debt service coverage based on projected future net revenues would
not be lower than 1.5.
5.26      Current assets and liabilities should decrease from end 1983 to end
1984 because amounts owed by SONEES to CNA are to be set off against past due
water bills the public sector owes SONEES (para 3.13).
5.27      The current ratio would improve from 0.94 at the end of 1983 to 3.87
at the end of 1993, reflecting the much needed increase of SONEES' working
capital. This improvement is especially significant from 1984 to 1985, due to
the proposed working capital contribution of US$6 million (para 4.04).
G. Financing Plan
5.28      SONEES' capital investment requirements during the project
implementation period 1985 to 1991, along with the sources from which they
would be met, are summarized on the following page. Detailed funds flow
statements are given in Annex 5-2.



- 33 -
SONEES - Financing Plan 1984-1991
CFAF         US$
million      million      _%
Requirements
Capital Expenditures:
Proposed Project (excl. Working
Capital Increase)                         9,790          22.5        23.9
Interest during Construction              1.085           2.5         2.7
Other                                    15,767          36.2        38.4
Total Capital Expenditures             26,642         61.2         65.0
Increase in Non-Cash Working Capital    10,424           24.0        25.5
Cash Increase                             3,855          8.9          9.5
Total Requirements                     40,921          94.1       100.0
Sources
Internal Funds                             36,558          84.0        89.2
Less Debt Service                         (13,443)        (30-9)      (32.8)
Net Internal Funds                     23,115          53.1        56.4
Proposed IDA Credit                         8,280          19.0        20.2
Proposed CCCE Loan                          3,300           7.6         8.1
Other Loans                                 6,226          14.4        15.3
Total External Funds                   17,806          41.0        43.6
Total Sources                          40,921          94.1       100.0
5.30     This financing plan does not cover capital expenditures other than
the proposed project, the Saint Louis water supply project, the other small
extension projects listed in the Contrat-Plan and the renewal program
previously under MH responsibility (para 5.21); in particular, it does not
cover capital expenditures for expansion of the Dakar/Cap Vert water supply
system. Details of the financing for the proposed project are given in
para 4.08 seq.



- 34 -
VI. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
A. General
6.01     The primary benefits of the project would be improved water supply
for eleven interior centers in Senegal, both through rehabilitating old
existing installations and construction of additional facilities to meet
demands through the Decade. The project would be the vehicle for the Bank to
pursue the paramount institution building objective for SONEES to become a
competent national entity responsible for urban water supply and sewerage
facilities (para 1.11). In particular it would create project implementation
capacity within SONEES; additionally, the various technical assistance
components proposed would lead to improved operation and maintenance, and more
efficient management of SONEES to meet the increasing responsibilities. These
would be complemented by the! establishment of a manpower development policy to
be initiated through the training component, as well as the small pilot public
information service component (responsible for various campaigns to sensitize
the public) in order to assist in achieving the institution building objec-
tives. While these benefits would not be easily quantified, a measure of
their catalytic effects would be the increased efficiency of SONEES operations
documented through the decreasing percentages of unaccounted-for water.
6.02     Further, the proposed Dakar water supply feasibility studies, rural
water supply and urban sanitation sector studies would contribute to more
realistic sector planning which is a high priority.
B. Least-Cost Solutions
6.03     In designing the project, two principal constraints had to be dealt
with:
(i)   the small size of the centers with low densities, which
necessarily has led to somewhat expensive solutions in
the absence of benefits derived from economies of scale;
(ii) the location of aquifers in deep-lying zones, with partly
still unknown resources, which necessitates deep wells
and extensive trial drillings.
Against this background, solutions were sought to assure the most economic
results while meeting project objectives.
6.04     Thus the project proposes to seek groundwater resources on site
rather than risk high investmaent and pumping costs through long transmission
lines (Annex 4-3) which, as experience elsewhere in Senegal has shown, wculd
be vulnerable to tampering. Defluoridation will not be done for now, with no
additional negative effects;  however in any case disinfection would be
applied.



- 35 -
C. Domestic Connections and Public Standpipes Policy
6.05'    Presently, two main constraints limit the possibility of providing
domestic connections: firstly, the low density of the secondary distribution
system and secondly, the ability of the potential customer to pay for
connections (at least CFAF 27,000, i.e. US$62 and often considerably
higher).  One of the main goals of the project will be to promote domestic
connections and make them more affordable in order to:
(i)   improve the quality of service and especially the
sanitary conditions of water distribution;
(ii)  reduce the percentage of water consumed at public
standpipes, which cannot easily be paid for by the
Municipalities; and
(iii) increase the quantity of water billed and paid for by the
consumers which would improve the financial situation of
SONEES.
Within the framework of the present project, it is therefore proposed to
implement a connection policy which would consist of providing the new small
consumers with a 15 mm diameter connection largely free of charge. The new
customer would have to pay an advance of about CFAF 15,000 (US$35) repre-
senting about six to eight months of water consumption in order to protect
SONEES against possible unpaid bills.
6.06     However, in the near future, it will not be feasible to serve the
entire population of the Eleven Centers through domestic connections.  In
spite of implementation of the social connection policy, public standpipes
will be necessary in the presently urbanized part of the centers and in their
extensions as well. The project proposes however a better distribution of
public standpipes within the municipal limits, resulting in the provision of
new standpipes in poorly served areas and in the elimination of superfluous
standpipes in others.
D. Affordability
6.07     To provide affordable services especially to the poorer segments of
the urban population, a social tariff is in effect of OFAF 87.34/m3
(US$0.20/mr) for up to 10 m3 per month for all connections of 15 mm diameter
(para 5.16). Assuming a family size of seven (average family size in the
centers), the full use of the social block would allow for a per capita
consumption of up to 48 li ers/day.  Compared with the resulting charge, i.e.,
873 CFAF/month, the SMIG 1   is presently CFAF 24,480 (US$56.28) and thus a
family with only one revenue earner at the SMIG level would then spend about
3.6% of their monthly income, which would be judged affordable.
1/   Salaire Minimum Interprofessionel Garanti.  BCEAO data shows a SMIG
of CFAF 174.84/hour as of July 1, 1983. It is assumed that the SMIG
earner would work 140 hours a month.



- 36 -
6.08     However, as mentioned in para 6.06, the real constraint of making
water supply more affordable for the urban poor lies in the connection fees,
which would amount to more than 1.4 month's salary at SMIG level. It is
obvious that relatively few privileged people can afford to pay this amount in
a lumpsum installment. To alleviate this constraint, the project proposes to
include 10,000 of 15 mm diameter connections as part of the investment program
for the Eleven Centers. Cost recovery of this expenditure as well as funds
for social connections in other centers will be obtained through the new
social connections tariff component of CFAF 7.65/i3 (para 5.15). The new
social connections policy will substantially benefit wide parts of the
population without causing too much of an increased burden.
E. Marginal Cost and Rate of Return
6.09     The estimated long-run marginal costs for the incremental water
supply provided under the project range from CFAF 133/m3 (US$0.31/m3; for
Thies to CFAF 547/m3 (US$1.26/m3) for Fatick, and average CFAF 171/m)
(US$0.39/m3) for the Eleven Centers as a whole 1%. This compares to SONEES'
average estimated 1983 tarif'f of CFAF 170/m3 ._(US$0.39/m3). Annex 6 shows
the summary calculation of the Average Incremental Cost and the Internal Rate
of Return.
6.10     The long-term marginal cost of future sector-wide investments is
highly sensitive to the evolution of investments for the Cap Vert zone, and
the extension of the N'Gnith-Dakar scheme. At this point, no reliable
investment figures are available, nor has a realistic time frame for the major
investments been established. Thus, a meaningful marginal cost analysis of
sector investments is not possible at this time. However, the Bank is in a
continuous dialogue with Government and other donors to assist the Senegalese
authorities in arriving at optimum investment decisions, including proper
phasing (para 1.13).  A sector-wide investment review, to be carried out in
FY85 together with the other donors already involved in the sector (KfW, CCCE,
and Italy), will be a vehicle for this important aspect of sector dialogue.
6.11     The economic rate of return (ERR) has been calculated using agreed
water tariffs as proxy for benefits. On that basis the ERR is 9%. _/
However, this figure does not reflect full benefits which include improved
sanitary condition and health which are not quantifiable; also the consumers'
surplus are not captured. The actual expressed willingness to pay by some
1/   At an opportunity cost of capital of 10%, at constant end 1982
prices, with application of a Standard Conversion Factor of 0.95.
2/   This average SONEES tariff is shown after applying the Standard
Conversion Factor. The average tariff in domestic prices is CFAF 180/m3
including, and CFAF 172,/m3 excluding, taxes (para 5.17).
3/   Border pricing has not been incorporated here as appropriate
parameters/conversion factors are only now being studied by an ongoing
Bank exercise.



- 37 -
consumers (who pay up to the equivalent of CFAF 1,250/m3 (US$2.87/m3) for the
first 25 lcd for water provided by private vendors) gives an indication as to
the real value of incremental supplies and is far higher than the average
future tariff.
6.12     As for pricing considerations, it would be important to link the
future tariff structure to the major investments proposed for the Dakar water
supply system. Projects (e.g. extending treatment and transmission capacity
of the Lac de Guiers-Dakar scheme) have not yet been decided or studied in
detail; however, an active dialogue will be pursued with the Senegalese
Government during project execution in order to assure a tariff policy
compatible with the resource cost to the economy as a whole. Thus assurances
were obtained during negotiations that a formal tariff review mechanism for
both level and structure would be installed, which would periodicelly in line
with SONEES' Cahier des Clauses et Conditions G6nerales examine sector-wide
water tariffs taking into account the sector-wide investment programs, and
lead to tariff adjustments as necessary (para 5.22). The principles of
tarification to be retained would ensure as minimum the coverage of all
financial requirements, and adoption, over a transitional period, of marginal
cost pricing, whenever the economic cost per unit of cubic meter is higher.
F. Population Benefitted: Urban Poverty Group
6.13     The project would benefit an additional 285,000 people by 1990, the
assigned horizon of the project, providing 152,000 with domestic connections
and 133,000 with access to standpipes. While reliable income figures and
income distribution estimates are scarce, it has been estimated that around
55% of the population in the Eleven Centers would fall into the poverty
category if the SMIG is adopted as the benchmark figure for the urban poverty
threshold for Senegal. It is expected that by 1990 this group will consume
about 35% of total domestic consumption mainly through standpipes. Of the
portion of the project cost directly allocated to the Eleven Centers, about
US$6.5 million or 37% ie urban poverty lending of funds exclusively
benefitting the poor.
G. Project Risks
6.14     Potential project risks relate to the cost overruns which may be
caused by delays during the procurement process and the construction period
itself. Furthermore, some risks pertain to improper operation and mainte-
nance, and the general ability of SONEES to meet the demanding challenges of
institutional development.
6.15     Yet, the construction costs are not likely to exceed the projected
costs by a substantial amount since the projections are based on actual cost
of similar works being undertaken in the country; also enough safety margin
vis-a-vis possible delays has been included in the implementation schedule.
The project is of high priority to Government authorities and SONEES, who are
committed to its successful and timely implementation. The risks pertaining
to operation and maintenance should be decreasing, as the technology applied
takes into account local technical capabilities, and also as SONEES'



- 38 -
operations would be strengthened throughout the project through continued
technical assistance.
6.16     The tariff adjustments are very important, as they pertain directly
to the objectives of SONEES' financial viability as well as sound overall
sector development.
6.17     Project risks are not higher than those of other ongoing projects in
this sector in the Region; close supervision and monitoring should be able to
control these risks.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements
7.01     The water tariff adjustment put into effect as of September 1, 1983
had been a condition for invitation to negotiations (para 5.12).
7.02     Implementation of the following were conditions for Board presentation:
(i)     the signing of SONEES' "Cahier des Clauses et
Conditions Generales" by the Government and SONEES
(para 3.02);
(ii)    the conclusion and signing of the "Contrat-Plan"
between the Government and SONEES (para 3.03);
(iii)   the arrangement to offset Government and municipalities
arrears against amounts owed by SONEES to the CNA as of
June 30, 1984 (para 3.13); and
(iv)    the inscription in the FY 84/85 budgets of water
consumption allocation for the Government and the
municipalities based on forecasts prepared by SONEES
(para 3.14)
7.03     A condition of disbursement for spare parts and chemicals purchases
would be that IDA approves SONEES' spare parts and chemicals budgets (para 4.15).
7.04     During negotiations assurances have been obtained from the Government
and SONEES that:
(i)     the Government will transfer all urban water and
sewerage project implementation responsibility still
remaining with MH to SONEES by December 31, 1988 (para
1.11);



- 39 -
(ii)    the Government will review the recommendations of the
urban sewerage sector study with IDA and give due
consideration to their implementation (para 1.17);
(iii)   the Government and SONEES will carry out Contrat-Plan
provisions for the 5-year transitional period regarding
project implementation responsibilities (para 3.04);
(iv)    Government and municipalities budgets will specify
amounts for water consumption based on SONEES'
forecasts (para 3.14); current Government and
municipalities consumption will be paid within four
months (para 3.14);
(v)     SONEES will reduce parapublic and private sector
receivables to below four months of billings by end
December 1985 (para 3.15);
(vi)    SONEES will each year prepare operating and capital
expenditure budgets for the next fiscal year, as well
as financial projections covering at least three years,
and submit them for review to IDA not later than one
month before the beginning of the fiscal year concerned
(para 3.18);
(vii)   SONEES will submit audited financial statements and
audit reports to IDA within six months of the end of
each fiscal year. The audits will also cover project
expenditures effected by MH (para 3.19);
(viii)  SONEES will annually revalue its fixed assets in
operation on a pro forma basis, starting with its
December 31, 1985 closing (para 3.19);
(ix)    SONEES will periodically report its operational and
financial performance to IDA, using agreed monitoring
indicators (para 3.22);
(x)     SONEES will each year prepare a budget of spare parts
and chemicals to be purchased, with indication of
procurement methods and submit it for review to IDA not
later than one month before the beginning of each
fiscal year (para 4.15);
(xi)    the Government would present a financing plan and
consult with IDA before undertaking any capital
expenditure project in the urban water supply and
sewerage sector whose financing requirements would
exceed US$1 million equivalent (para 5.11);



- 40 -
(xii)   SONEES will generate a contribution to capital
expenditures and working capital of at least 15% of
SONEES' total gross revenue (para 5.22);
(xiii)  SONEES' debt service coverage, based on projected
future net revenues, will not be lower than 1.5
(para 5.25);
(xiv)   SONEES would present a financing plan and consult with
IDA before undertaking any capital expenditure project
in the water supply or sewerage sectors whose financing
requirements would exceed US$1.0 million equivalent
(para 5.25); and
(xv)    the Government will implement a periodical tariff
review mechanism in line with SONEES' Cahier des
Clauses et Conditions Generales (para 6.12).
B. Recommendation
7.06     On the basis of the above agreements, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA Credit of US$24.0 million equivalent.
WAPWS
February 1985



- 41 -
ANNEX 1-1
SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TOTAL POPULATION ACCORDING TO SIZE OF AGGLOMERATION
(1978 Estimate)
Population
Size of Agglomeration               Number            in million          %
1,000,000                        1               1.010            19
100,000 - 150,000                    2               0.250              5
50,000 - 100,000                    3               0.230              4
20,000 -  50,000                    4               0.140              2
10,000 -  20,000                   11               0.160              3
5,000 -  10,000                   25               0.190             4
1,000 -   5,000                  250               0.780            14
500 -   1,000                 650                0.490             9
200 -     500               2,250                0.750            14
200                      9,850                1.400            26
TOTAL                    13,046                5.400           100
WAPWS
September 1982



SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF HYDRAULICS
PRESENT ORGANIZATION CHART
Minister
Director of Cabinet
Technical Advisers
Directorate         Directorate           Directorate of          Directorate of
of Studies         of Sanitation          Urban and Rural         Rural
DEH                 DAS                   Water Supply            Infrastructure
-                         t DHUR                     DER
Division of                                                                                    8 Regional
Administration                                                                                 Offices
and Finance                                                                                    SRHERA
| Well Digging          I
Brigades
B.P.
WAPWS
June 1983



- 43 -
ANNEX 2-1
SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION FORECASTS FOR THE ELEVEN CENhTERS
AVERAGE                           AVERAGE
BASIC DATA                    I            AVERAGE CONSUMPTION                     CONSUMPTION                       PRODUCTION
I                  =3/d                                (TOTAL)                          (TOTAL)
Connec- .               Do-stic    Pblic                                                      Netuork                           Peak
Total Pop.    tion         Service    Conec-        Stand-    Indus-    Adminis-                             Effi-                             Ddaly
Year    103 Inhab.    Ratio         Ratio       tion         pipes      tries      tratiams       3            6        ecy                   6         P
mi%  = /d    10On /Y              m /d    103 /y         m /d
Louga           81          40.6         24          85           393         601         1S        238         1,250      0.46          .70      1,780      0.65        2,315
8 64          45.9         24          85           432         661         20        262         1,275      0.50          .70      1,965      0.72        2,555
90          58.8         40          92         1,010         250        232        289         2,080      0.76         .78       2,665      0.97        3,465
Linguere        81           9.5         40          90           136         145          1         58           340      0.12          .70        485      0.18          630
84          10.7         40          90           13O         160          1         64           375      0.14         .70         535      0.20          695
90          13.6         40          93           240         120         20        160           540      0.20         .78         690      0.23          900
Thiea           81         132.7         33          90         1,658       1,093        327      1,232         4,310      1.57          .70      6,160      2.25        8,000
84         149.0         33          90         1,824       1,202        360      1,354         4,740      1.73          .70      6,775      2.47        C,810
90         187.7         40          93         3,266       1,690      1,278      2,287         8,520      3.11          .78     10,925      3.99       14,205
Bambey         81           11.3         46          85           205          60         10         35           310      0.11          .70        440      0.16          570
84          12.4         46          85           225          65         10         40            340     0.12          .70        485      0.18          633
90          15.1         45          91           295         135         40         60           530      0.19          .78        680      0.25          885
Diootbel       81           62.5         19          80           433         544        211        352         1,540      0.56          .70      2,200      0.80        2,860
84          69.5         19          80           478         598        232        387         1,695      0.62          .70      2,420      0.88        3,145
90          85.9         30          90         1,116         896        370        398         2,780      1.01          .78      3,565      1.30        4.635
MNBacke        8!           34.9         12          60           137         152         15         81           385      0.14          .70        550      0.20          715
84          41.3         12          60            151        167         17         89           425      0.16          .70        605      0.22           785
90          57.9         30          34           730         520         90        330         1,670      0.61         .76       2,140      0.78        2,780
Fatick         81           11.1         22          85            90         170         -          60           320      0.12          .70        455      0.17          590
84          12.1         22          85            100        185         -          65            350     0.13          .70         500     0.18          650
90          14.5         30          94           192         156         25         68           440      0.16          .78        565      0.21           735
Kaolack        81          112.7         40          90         1.743       1,360        115        925         4,415      1.51          .70      5,920      2.16        7,700
(Iocludi.g  84           120.7         40          90         1,360       1,495        130      1,020         4,565      1.67         .70       6,520      2.38        8,475
Iodoatclal
Area)         90         150.1         45          94         2,960       1,295      1,915        970         7,140      2.61          .78      9,155      3.34       11,900
Tambacounda    81           30.8         11          50            115         75         65        335            590     0.22          .70        840      0.31        1,090
84          34.9         11          50            130         85          70       370            655     0.24          .70         935     9.34         1,215
90          45.0         80          80            570        405        190        3135        1.480      0.54          .78      1.900      0.69        2,470
Ziguinchor    81            86.3         21          50           715         170        405        490         1,780      0.65          .70      2,540      0.93        3,300
84          97.9          21          50           790        190        445        540          1,965     0.72          .70      2,810      1.03         3,655
90         126.1         40          83         2,170         975        570        750         4,465      1.63          .78      5,725      2.09        7,440
Kolda          S1           25.4         10          35      !      90         35          5         80           210      0.08          .70        300      0.11          390
84          29.6         10           35           100         40           5        90            235     0.09          .70         335     0.12           435
90          40.4         30           75           535        325         40        220         11120      0.41          .78      1,435      0.52        11865
Tot._l          81    __________                          _ 558.0  5,700     4,400     1,200      3,900        15,200      5.55          .70      1,700      7.92       28,200
81         5568.0                                52703       4,400     1,200      3,200       15,200        5.55         .70    12700         7.92      2 31
84         628.0                                 6,300      4,850      1,300      4,250         16,700      6.00          70     23,900      8.22       31,100
90         794.0                                13.050      7,100      4,800      5,850     -  30,800    11.23           .78     39,450    14.40        51,300
WAPWS
September 1982



SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SERVICE LEVELS IN THE ELEVEN CENTERS
PRESENT SITUATION  1981
Technical Data
Length                  Density    No. of        Average                           Average
Connected            Served            of           No. of      of          Stand-      Water             Network          Water
Total pop.       population           Population         Network    Connec.    Connec.    pipes           Production        Efficiency       Consumption
Units/km
10  Inhab.    10  Inhab.    %    103 Inhab.    2           km                  of Network                m3 /d    1/c/d        X              /d    l/c/d
Louga              40,6            9.7        24        34.5       85      53.0         675        12.7          55        1,780    44         70             1,250    31
Linguere             9.5           3.8        40         8.5       90      11.6         320        27.7          31          485    51         70               340    36
Thi's             132.7           43.8        33       119.4       90    120.6        3,110        25.8          63        6,160    46         70             4,310    32
Bambey             11.3            5.2        46         9.6       85      11.6         350        30.2          37          440    39         70               310    27
Diourbel           62.5           11.9        19        50.0       80      54.7         730        13.4          76        2,200    35         70             1,540    25
M'Backe       X    34.9            4.2        12        20.9       60      17.2         900        52.5          62          550    16         70               385    11
Fatick        I    11.1            2.4        22         9.4       85      20.2         190         9.4          24          455    41         70               320    29
Kaolack           112.7           45.1        40       101.4       90      85.1       2,875        33.8         195        5,920    53         70             4,140    37
Tambacounda        30.8            3.4        11        15.4       50      23.3         185         7.9          13          840    27         70               590    19
Ziguinchor         86.3           18.1        21        43.2       50      57.0         995        17.5          33        2,540    29         70             1,780    21
Kolda              25.4            2.5        10         8.9       35      15.2         160        10.5          12          300    12         70               210      8
FiT ue)d        558.0         150.0         27      421.0        75    469.0       10,500        22.4        600       21,700    39          70           15,200    27
(Continued)



SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SERVICE LEVELS IN THE ELEVEN CENTERS
FUTURE SITUATION (1991)
Technical Data
Length                 Density    No. of       Average                            Average
Connected           Served            of          No. of      of          Stand-      Water             Network          Water
Total pop.       Population          Population        Network    Connec.    Connec.    pipes          production         Efficiency      Consumption
3     3                  ~~~~~~3 Units/km                                                   3                 -3
103 Inhab.    103 Inhab.    %    10  Inhab.    %         km                  of Network               m /d    l/c/d/         %           m /d    l/c/d
Louga              58.8          23.5        40       53.5       92      58.0      1,625        28.0         35        2,665    45          78           2,080    35
Linguere           13.6           5.4        40       12.7       93      16.6        460        27.7         10          690    51          78             540    40
Thies             187.7          75.1        40      174.6       93    156.6       5,750        36.7         89       10,925    58          78           8,520    45
Bambey             15.1           6.8        45       13.8       91      19.6        520        26.5         11          680    45          78             530    35
Diourbel           35.9          25.8        30       77.3       90      81.7      1,580        19.3         48        3,565    42          78           2,780    32
M'Backe            57.9          17.4        30       48.6       84      55.2      1,740        31.5         37        2,140    37          78           1,670-   29
Fatick             14.5           4.4        30       13.6       94      34.2         360       10.5         18          565    39          78            440      30
Kaolack           150.1          67.5        45      141.1       94    125.1       4,310        34.5         82        9,155    61          78           7,140    48
Tambacounda        45.0          13.5        30       36.0       80      50.3         740       14.7         26        1,900    42          78           1,480    33
Ziguinchor        126.1          50.4       40       104.6       83      97.0      2,750        28.4         59        5,725    45          78           4,465    35
Kolda              40.4          12.1        30       30.3       75      46.2         765       16.6         27        1,435    36          78           1,120    28
Total (Round      794.0         302.0        38      706.0       89    740.0      20,600        27.8        440       39,450    50          78          30,800    39
figure)
WAPWS
September 1982
I'm
l'



SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEES - PRESENT ORGANIZATION CHART
General Manager
Secretary General.
General Control                                                      Public Relations
Management Control                                                   Adviser
Operation Control
Rgonal Departments|
,   j   ,  ,       |   _              l   .       | _          i      - Fl~~~~~~~~~~~~euve
Financial Department    |Administrative Department             Technical Departments
I  _  _    L_______ __  I   L___________                  -Sine Saloum
Accounting                 - Personnel                        Laboratory                    Casamance
D ata Processing            - Legal Affairs                     Designs and
Customers                  - Social and Medical                 Construction
-Treasury                  - Services                          Operations
-Purchase                                                    -Sewerage
Repair Shop,
Warehouse
Gnith Treatment
Plant
WAPWS
June 1983



SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEES - PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
LGeneral Manager
Legal Affairs
Internal Audit                   General Secretariat           Public Relations
. - G~~~~~~~~~~~~entral Secretariat
Technical Departmaent          Financial Department                           Administrative Department           Department
L_ab_oratoy                                                                                                     Human Resources
- Laboratory                 - Treasury                                       Data Processing                }      e -o-
-Maintenance policy              Planning and Budgeting                         Organization Method                 aersonal
-Central Warehouse              General Accounting                                                                  Social and
-Designs.                     - Cost Center Accounting                                                                medical Services
-Construction                   Management Control                                                                  Training
LGeneral Means                - Purchase                                                                                                       i
DAKAR      REGIONS
Cap Vert          Cap Vert              Cap Ver                Cap Vert         Fleuve       Thi es        Sine Saloum        Casamance
Production        Distribution 1        Distribution 2         Sewerage
- Gnith             Operation           - idem               idem
Boreholes         Maintenance
- Operation       - Warehouses                                                                            l
- Maintenance       Customers                                              - Operation (Production, distribution, sewerage)
- Warehouses      - Personnel                                              |- Maintenance (Production, distribution, sewerage)
- Accounting                                            F- Warehouses
- Customers
- Personnel
L Accounting
WAPWS
June 1983



- 48 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 1
SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEES OPERATIONS, STAFFING AND TRAINING NEEDS
A. Operations
1.       The water supply facilities in the Dakar area (production,
transmission as well as distribution) are operated in good conditions. The
professional staff is experienced and competent. However, lower level staff
needs training.
2.       The sewerage facilities in the Dakar area, including the waste water
network, pumping stations and two small treatment plants are also operated by
SONEES, but the efficiency of the division in charge of this task is rather
low. Within the framework of its new decentralized organization, which would
include a separate sewerage division as part of the new Dakar/Cap Vert
regional department, SONEES expects to improve sewerage operations by giving
more emphasis and autonomy to this activity and by providing adequate
equipment. On the other hand, responsibility for secondary centers sewerage
operations will be given to each regional department.
3.       The staff in charge of stock management, warehouses, various work-
shops as well as repair of water meters is too large and not sufficiently
competent, and many tasks (e.g., car repairs, mechanics, woodwork) could be
done by private subcontractors. On the other hand, the workshop of meter
repairs is not able to meet the demand. A reorganization of these services is
desirable.
4.       SONEES recently created the division of studies and new projects,
which employs six engineers. It is in charge of small water supply and
sewerage designs as well as construction supervision. This division, assisted
by consultants, would implement the proposed water supply project in the
Eleven Centers. It is headed by a qualified expatriate engineer, financed
under the engineering Credit S23-SE. The proposed project includes an
extension of this position, as well as an additional expatriate engineer's
position, each for three years.
5.       The four regional divisions are currently in charge of water supply
in 37 centers and sewerage in Saint Louis, Louga, Thies and Kaolack.
Operations are performed in reasonably good conditions. However, operating
the sewerage facilities of these four cities may lead to high recurrent costs
during the coming years as the installations are not well adapted to the
needs.
6.       Absence of a preventive maintenance program for the existing water
and sewerage facilities has caused operating problems and premature
deterioration of the works. The above-mentioned studies and New Works
Division would be in charge of introducing a preventive maintenance program.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2
B. Staffing
7.       SONEES employed 1,237 staff at the end of 1982, including 48
professionals and 204 intermediate level staff. SONEES had one employee per
53 connections, which is an acceptable ratio compared to other West African
countries (Ivory Coast 1:72, Togo 1:28; Cameroon 1:59). The general manager
and department head positions are staffed with competent Senegalese
professionals, except for the director of the technical department, who is an
expatriate engineer. SONEES' staff requirements by 1986 were estimated by the
consultant IDET-CEGOS at about 210 additional positions, of which 21 would be
for reinforcement of the higher level staff of the Financial Department (+ 6
positions), the Human Resources Department (+ 6 positions) as well as the 8
Operational Departments (+ 9 positions). Reinforcements are also required at
the intermediate and lower staff levels, especially in the Operational
DepELrtments where about 180 positions, mostly technical, should be created.
8.       SONEES' employees do not have civil servant status.  Their relations
with SONEES are governed by the common law regulating labor relations.
SONEES' salary level and structure are part of a "Convention Collective"
negotiated between the Ministry of Labor and the trade unions.
9.       The foreign technical assistants are currently limited to three
positions:
(i)    the director of the technical department;
(ii)   the technical responsible for the water production division;
and
(iii) the head of the Studies and New Works Division.
The first two positions are provided under a technical assistance contract
between SONEES and SAUR (Societe d'Amenagement Urbain et Rural, France).  The
third position is financed under the engineering Credit S23-SE and would be
extended under the proposed project which includes also a second expatriate
engineer for this Division (see para 3.08 of main report and para. 6 above).
I
10.      The proposed project would also finance an expatriate advisor to the
general manager for three years, who would have two tasks:
(i)    assist the general manager in adapting SONEES to the enlarged
responsibilities it will gradually take over from MH, namely,
the implementation of new projects; and
(ii)   reinforcing operational and financial controls at the general
manager's level. The way of doing this would be to vitalize
the "General Control" section responding directly to the
general manager.
C. Training Needs and Proposed Training Component
11.      The only training action taken in recent years was alphabetization of
illiterate workers, who represent close to half of SONEES' lower level



- 50 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 3
staff. Training needs of both existing and additional staff have been
appraised by a consultant from "Fondation de l'Eau" (Limoges, France) and
estimated at about 60 man-months of training and seminars for higher technical
level staff and at least 100 man-months of on-site training of intermediate
and lower level technical staff.
12.      To address the training needs at all levels, an important three-year
training program would be financed through the proposed project. To implement
it, SONEES would be assisted by a foreign entity, either a water supply
company or an institution specialized in training of water supply staff. The
program would:
(i)    create a training department within SONEES.  This would be
achieved through:
a) the assistance of a high level training expert (3
man/months spread over 3 years),
b) on-site technical assistance by a specialized instructor
(24 man/months),
c) training of 6 Senegalese instructors (20 man/months of
overseas training), and
d) the supply of technical and training equipment;
(ii)   improve training of high level staff through:
a) seminars at SONEES' headquarters and regional offices on
water treatment, transmission and distribution, including
preventive maintenance,
b) training in foreign water supply companies with emphasis
on management, and
c) training in Dakar for administrative staff.
(iii) train technical intermediate level staff in Dakar and in the
secondary centers; this would be the most important component
of the training program, as intermediate level staff would not
only be trained on technical aspects but also be taught how to
transfer their skills to lower level staff. On-site workshops
would focus cn operation and preventive maintenance of
treatment plants, pumping stations and distribution network
and would teach pipe laying and making connections. Two
"mobile training workshops," i.e., vans equipped with tools,
parts, etc., one for water production and quality control and
another for water distribution would be provided by the
project.
WAPWS
August 1983



- 51 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 1
SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEES - PROPOSED MONITORING INDICATORS
I.   Project Implementation                              Reporting Frequency
- Current Project Construction Schedule )
-  Current Project Cost Estimate          )         every 4 months
-  Report on Project Implementation       )
Covering Each Component              )
II. Operations
-  Water Volume Produced                  X
)        Total: every 4 months
-  Water Volume Billed                    )
-  New Distribution Pipes Layed           )
-  No. of Customer Connections            )
-  No. of Social Connections              )
-  No. of Service Connections             )        Total: every 4 months;
)        by center: anually
-  No. of Standpipes                      )
-  No. of Sewage Connections              )
-  Percentage of Population Served        )        annually
III. Staff
-  No. of Employees by category and       )
center                                 )
)        annually
-  No. of Connections per Employee,       )
total and per center                   )



- 52 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 2
IV. Financial
- Average Tariff, Billings, Customer )
Receivables, No. of Days Billings in  )          every 4 months
Receivables, by major customer          )
categories                              )
-  Income Statement, Funds Flow, Balance )           annually, not later
Sheet and Ratio Statement (similar to )          than 6 months after
Annex 5.04)                             )         closing date
-  Audit Report including detailed         )
analysis of fixed assets, accounts    )           annually not later
receivable and payable, debt, etc.    )           than 8 months after
and also revalued fixed assets as       )         closing date
suppl. information                      )
-  Operating and Capital Expenditure       )
Budget                                  )        annually, one month
)        before start of
-  3-year Financial Projections (Income  )           fiscal year
Statements, Funds 'Flow, Balance        )
Sheets, Ratio Statements)               )
V.   General
-  Current Tariff                          )         annually
-  Changes in Legislation, Tariffs,        )         every 4 months
Organization, Pay Scales, New Projects)
Under Consideration, Other Important )
Developments.                           )
WAPWS
January, 1985



- 53 -
Annex 4-1
Page 1
SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED PROJECT COMPONENTS
1.  Expansion of Water Supply Facilities in the Eleven Centers
(i) Drilling of 12 new boreholes and supply and installation of
corresponding pumping equipment; rehabilitation of 15 existing
boreholes and pumping facilities;
(ii)  Installation of 25 chlorination units able to produce an average
quantity of one gram of active chlorine per cubic meter of water
produced and one neutralization plant with a capacity of 320 m3/h;
(iii)  Supply and laying of 13 km of PVC transmission pipes (diameter 150
mm to 315 mm);
(iv)  Construction of 5 elevated reservoirs (with capacities from 100 m3
to 1,000 m3) and one ground level reservoir (700 m3);
(v) Supply and laying of 328 km of primary and secondary distribution
network (diameter 63 mm to 315 mm) of which about 58 km would
replace existing old pipes and about 270 km would be for
extensions;
(vi)  Supply of material for 10,000 domestic connections with a diameter
of 15 mm (of which 8,200 would be for new connections and 1,800 to
replace existing ones);
(vii)  Construction of 186 new standpipes and elimination of about 345
existing redundant standpipes;
(viii)  Supply of 10,000 water meters with a diameter of 15 mm.
For description of the physical project components by center, see Annex 4-2.
For details on technological alternatives and on service standards, see
Annex 4-3.
2. Rehabilitation of SONEES' Operations
(i)  Construction of about 3,500 m2 of office space at SONEES'
technical center in Hann to relocate SONEES' headquarters (para
3.07).
(ii)  Management consultant to assist the General Manager of SONEES in
implementing the recommendations of the organization study (6 man-
months, para 3.06);



:-54 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 2
(iii) Expatriate adviser to the General Manager of SONEES with high
qualifications in the area of budgetary control and performance
control in general (36 man-months, para 3.09);
(iv)  One expatriate Chief Engineer and one expatriate deputy Chief
Engineer for SONEES new works and studies division (72 man-months,
para 3.08);
(v) Assistance in improving SONEES' accounting systems and financial
management, including audits and overhaul of SONEES' data
processing (paras 3.17 to 3.19);
(vi)  Training program focussing essentially on SONEES' middle and lower
level technical management (para 3.10; Annex 3-3 C);
(vii) Consultancy services to SONEES for a consumer information and
health education campaign (para 1.25); and
(viii)  Working Capital Contribution including supply of spare parts (para
4.04).
3. Dakar/Cap Vert Water Supply Component
(i) Consultancy services for (a) a review of the Dakar/Cap Vert Water
demand, (b) a study of possibility of irrigation schemes
development between the Lac de Guiers and the Dakar/Cap Vert area
and (c) an analysis of truck farming products marketing;
(ii)  Consultancy services for feasibility studies of aquifer recharge
in the Dakar/Thi,as area, including geophysical surveys, drilling
of test boreholes, recharge tests and operation of mathematical
models;
(iii) Consultancy services for the finalization of the Dakar/Cap Vert
Water Supply feasibility studies including detailed analysis of
the canal alternative; and
(iv)  Consultancy services for the financial and economic analysis of
the proposed solutions including proposals for modifications of
the water tariff structare.
4.  Rural Water Supply Component
(i)  Expatriate advisor to M{ to define and implement realistic
objectives and institutional solutions in the rural water supply
sub-sector (para 1.10);. and
(ii)  Studies for analysis of alternative investment programs,
appropriate technologies, reduction of unit costs, cost recovery
mechanisms, and preparation of specific rural water supply
projects (para 1,,10).



- 55 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 3
5. Urban Sanitation Component
(i)  Consultancy services for an urban sewerage sector study, including
feasibility of transferring sector debt as well as responsibility
for implementing new projects to SONEES;
(ii)  Consultancy services for analysis of actions to be taken to put
existing piped sewerage networks in secondary centers into
operation and proposal of technical alternative solutions adapted
to local urban and housing conditions; and
(iii)  Consultancy services for preliminary investigations of sewage
effluent re-use in the Dakar area in order to limit the use of
drinking water for truck farming.
WAPNS
January, 1985



SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PHYSICAL PROJECT COMPONENTS BY CENTER
Transmission
Boreholes             Treatment Plants              Lines                Reservoirs                   Distribution                                Connections
Expec-                  Neutra-                                                                                                New
ted                     lization                         Groundlevel    Elevated                                    Connec-   Connec-       Stand-       Stand-
Capa-                         Capa-             Dia-           Capa-          Capa-   Repla-   Exten-   Dia-        tion to   tion to       pipes to    pipes to
Aqui-    city      Chlo-               city    Length   meter            city           city    cement   sion       meters   be Re-    be             be           be Elimi-  Water
No.   fer I/   m3/d      rinat         No.   m3/d       (km)    (mm)    No.   (m3)   _        (m3)      (km)    (km)       (mm)     placed    Built         Built        nated       Meters
LOUGA           1      Lut.    4,000        1           _      _         2.00    315      -      -       _     _        1.80    5.0       63/200         35          815        10          30         860
LINGUERE        -       -         -         1                             -       -                                     3.50    5.0       63/250         90           95         3          24         190
THIES           2     Maest.   5,200        5           -      _        0.20    200       -      -       -     -        6.65   36.0       63/315       285         1.935        47         21        2,270
BAMBEY          -       -         -         1           -      _        0.60    160       -      -       1      250    7.70    8.0        63/200       195          130         4          30          330
DIOURBEL        2     Eoc.      3,200       4           -      -        3.00  200/250   -        -       -      -       2.35   27.0       63/250        50           730       12          40          790
M'BACKE         I    Maest.   2,000         2           -      _        0.10    200      -       -       1    1,000    4.10   38.0        63/315        75          640        10          35          725
FATICK          1     Maest.   2,000        1           _     _         0.05    160      -       -      -       -        -     14.0       63/200         -          145         6          12          150   a
KAOLACK         2     Maest.   5,600        3           -     -         1.90    z0o      -       -      1       100   21.50   40.0        63/315       850         1.090       22         135        1,960
TAMBACOUNDA    1      Maest.   2,800        2           -     _         1.75  200/250   -        -      -       -      2.30   27.0        63/250        45          505        16           3          565
ZIGUII!ICHOR    2     Olig.    2,200        4           1   6,400       3.30  300/200   1       700     1       500    3.00   40.0        63/315       115        1,545        37          11       1,700
C.T.
KOLDA           -       -         -         1           -     _         0.20    250      -       -      1       600    4.10   31.0        63/250        40          550        19           4         610
TOTAL        12       -      27.000     25           1   6,400      13.10      -       1     700      5    2,450   57.00  271.0          -        1,780        8,180        186        345       10,150
1/  Lut. = Lutetian Limestones
Maest. = Maestrichtian
Paleoc. = Paleocene Limestone
Olig = Oligocene Limestones
CT = Continental Terminal
Eoc = Eocine Limestone
ts
WAPWS
August 1983



- 57 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 1
SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TECHNOLOGICAL ALTERNATIVES AND SERVICE STANDARDS
A. Water Resources
1.       Groundwater resources will be used to supply the Eleven Centers at
least up to the year 2000. In order to reduce the cost of transmission, the
new boreholes have been located in or near the centers. While no major
problems in terms of availability of water for most centers are expected,
investigations are still needed for 3 centers (Louga, Diourbel and Ziguinchor)
on well-siting in order to prepare the final designs. Therefore 4 out of the
12 proposed boreholes must be drilled before summer 1985; they will be
financed under a PPF (para 4.11). In 9 centers, water is presently or will be
obtained from the deep maestrichtian aquifer underlying most of Senegal. The
quantity of available water will be sufficient to supply these urban centers,
but the possible evolution of the water table has to be assessed (para 1.05).
2.       A delicate technical aspect is the reduction of the high content of
dissolved salts (NACl) in the water distributed in 5 centers (Bambey,
Diourbel, M'Back&, Fatick, and Kaolack). The poor taste of water from the
public system leads the population to buy polluted water from private vendors
obtained from shallow wells. Reduction of the high content of dissolved salt
to improve the taste of distributed water would require either anion exchange
trea'tment, which is a very sophisticated and costly technology, or mixing with
fresh water resources located far away from the cities (35 km in the case of
Kaolack and 17 km in the case of Bambey and Fatick), the transmission of which
would also result in high investment and operating costs. It therefore has
been decided for the medium-term to disregard these solutions; however, it is
expected that the proposed consumer information and health education campaign
(para 1.25 and Annex 4-1, 2 (vii)) will encourage the population to use the
potalble piped water, in spite of its taste, and avoid the polluted water from
shalLow wells for drinking and washing purposes. Another delicate technical
aspect of the project is the reduction of the fluoride content in the same 5
centers which is higher than the WHO standard (maximum 1.5 mg/l). Average
contents are:  Bambey, 2.5 mg/l;  Diourbel, 3.0 mg/l;  M'Backe, 2.5 mg/l;
Fatick, 5.0 mg/l and Kaolack, 3.5 mg/l. A result of this high fluoride
content is a significant incidence of mottled teeth. In order to reduce this
high content of fluoride, a solution consisting of filtration on locally
produced aluminium phosphate was tested in a pilot plant, during the
preparation of the project. This process proved unfeasible, thus the fluoride
content can not be reduced at low cost; however it may be noticed that its
effects are more of a cosmetic problema than a serious health hazard. It is
simply proposed to carry out, within the framework of the project, anion
exchange test runs in Kaolack to ascertain the feasibility of such a process
in t;he Senegalese conditions.



- 58 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 2
3.       Both neutralization and deferrization of water distributed in
Ziguinchor are required; the proposed treatment plant will be easy to operate
as it will consist of a filtration through locally produced limestone.
B. Domestic Connections and Public Standpipes Policies
4.       SONEES will implement a connection policy providing the small
domestic consumers with 15 mm diameter connections free of charge. This
should reduce water consumption at public standpipes--which is billed to the
municipalities but in most cases exceeds their financial capability--and
increase SONEES' water sales to private consumers. The proposed project
includes 10,000 domestic connections (para 6.05 and Annex 4-1, 1 (vi)).
5.       However, for a long time to come, it will not be feasible to serve
the entire population of the Eleven Centers through domestic connections, and
the public standpipes will continue to be necessary, (Annex 2-2).  On the
other hand, in certain town centers the distances between standpipes are very
short, encouraging high consumption. The project provides for both new
standpipes in poorly served areas, as well as elimination of redundant
standpipes in the over-equipped areas (para 6.06).
WAPWS
January 1985



- 59 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 1
ELMJEW   CRENES WATE SUPPLY PROJECT
TAL PROCJT COST
Foreign  -Local   Total    Foreig    Local   Total
-    - CFAF million    -    -        UE$ni  llion - -
A. E>xalsion of Water japp]y Facilities
i) Water Supply in Eleven Centers
Wells and Ponping Equipnents                    585       290      875      1.34        .67   2.01
Treatment Plants                                140        80      220      .32         .19    .51
Transoission Systems                            175        9D      265       .40       .21    .61
Reservoirs                                      245       185      430       .56       .43    .99
Distribution Networks                         1,195       795    1,990      2.76       1.81    4.57
Connections, Standpipes, Meters                 240       245     485        .55       .56   1.11
Base Cost as of end 1983                    2,583     1,685   4,265       5.93       3.87   9.80
Rhysical Contingencies                          385       250      635       .89        .56    1.45
Price Contingencies                           1,095     1,070    2,165      2.52       2.48    5.00
Total                                       4,060    3,0C5   7,065        9.34      6.91   16.25
ii) Supervi5ion of Construction
Consultant Services                             225        65      293      0.52        .15   0.67
Base Cost as of end 1983                      225        65      293     0.52         .15   0.67
Physical Contingencies                           35        15       50      0.08      0.04   0.12
Price Contingercies                              95        45      140      0.22      0.09   0.31
Total                                         355       125      480      0.82      0.28    1.10
B. Rehabilitation of SONEES
i) Technical Assistance
Adviser to the General Nuanager                  95        25      120      .22        .05    .27
Chief Ehgineer for Studies and New Worik         95        25      120      .22        .05    .27
aigineer for Studies and New Works               85        15      100      .20        .02      .22
lbse Cost as of end 1963                      275        65     340       .64        .12    .76
Physical Contingencies                           30         5       35      .07        .02    .09
Price Contingencies                             8e         30      110      .18        .08     .26
Total                                         355       103      485      .89        .22    1.11
ii) Constraction of Office Space
Land                                             -         60       60        -         .14    .14
Construction of Tailding                        360       150     510       .83        .34    1.17
Equipnent of Offices                             -         40       40        -         .09    .09
Detailed Design and Supervision                  45        20       65      .10        .05    .15
Base Cost as of end 1933                      4         270      675       .93       .62    1.55
Rrysical Contingencies                           65        40      105       .15       .10    .25
Price Contingencies                             175       130      305      .40        .29      .69
Total                                         645       440    1,035      1.48       1.01    2.49
iii) Consultancy Services
Consultancy for Mangesnt                         25         5       30      .06        .01    .07
Audit and Ovefiaul of Data Processing           120        35      155      .28        .07     .35
Consultancy for Consuner Information             15         5       20      .03        .02    .05
Bse Cost as of end 198                        160       45      205       .37        .10    .47
Physical Contingencies                           20         5       25      .05        .01    .06
Price Contingencies                              65        30       95      .15        .07    .22
Total                                         245        ao      325      .57        .18    .75



- 60 -
Annex 4-4
Page 2
SENEGAL
ELEVE CMTMS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TOTAL PROJECT COST
Foreige   Local   Total   Foreige   Local   Total
CFAF million  -     - U        m llion--
B. Rebabilitation of SONEES (contirmed)
iv) Trainin  Program                                175       50     225       .40        .11    .51
ase Cost as of end 19S3                     175       50      225       .40       .11    .51
Physical Contingencies                         20        5       25       .05       .01    .06
Price Contingencies                            70       30      100       .16       .07    .23
Total                                       265       85      350       .61       .19   0.8O
v) Increase in SONEES' oikng Capital
Supply of spare parts                       1,305      -      1,305     3.00)       -     3.0D
Chemjcals bills                             1,305      -      1,305     3.00        -     3.00
Total                                     2,610      -      2,610     6.0o        -      6.00
C. Dakar Water Supply Studies
Aquifer recharge surveys                      110       20      130       .25       .05    .30
Water dernnd and agricultural surveys,
Feasibility of schemes                        210       50      260       .48       .11    .59
Base Cost as of end 1933                    320       70      390       .73       .16    .89
Physical Contingencies                         5D        10      60       .11       .02    .13
Price Contingencies                           130       40      170       .29       .09    .38
Totsl                                       50X       120     620      1.13       .27   1.40
D. Sure]l Water Supply
Rural Water Supply Technical Assistant           95       25      120      .22        .06    .28
Rurel Water Supply Studies                       35       10       45      .03        .02    .10
Base Cost as of end 1933                      130       35      165       .30       .08    .38
Physical Contingencies                           15        5       20       .03       .01    .04
Price Contingencies                              4C       15       55      .09        .04    .13
Total                                         185       55      240      .42       .13    .55
E. Urban Sanitation Studies
Base cost as of end 1983                      135       35      170       .31      .OS    .39
Physical Contingencies                           15        5       ZD      .03       .01    .04
Price Contingencies                              45       10       55       .10       .02    .12
Total                                         195       50      245       .44       .11    .55
F. Total Project Cost
Water Supply in Eleven Centers                2,805    1,750   4,555      6.45       4.02   10.47
Rehabilitation of SOIEES                      3,625      430   4,055      8.34        .95   9.29
Dakr Water Supply Studies                       320       70      390      .73        .16    .89
ural Water Supply                               130       35      165      .30        .CS    .38
Urban Sanitation Studies                        135       35      170      .31       .08    .39
Bse Cost as of end 1983                     7,015    2,320)  9,335     16.13       5.29   21.42
Physical Contingencies                          635      340      975     1.46        .78   2.24
Price Contingencies                           1,795    1,400   3,195      4.11       3.23   7.34
Total                                       9,445    4,060   13,505    21.70       9.30  31.0D
G. Refinancing of IDA Engineering Credit               870       215   1,085      2.00       .50   2.50
H. Interest during Construction                        310       775   1 ,0c5      .70      1.80   2.50
I. TOTAL FIMNCING RMU   EIS 10,625    5,050  15,675    24.40                               11.60  36.0)0
WAPWS
December, 19S4



- 61 -
ANNED 4-5
SEDAL
ELEB CMFEh WATER SUPPLY HROJBT
DNVEM       RATIOS
Served Ppulation ('ooo inhab.)                 Unit Cost per Additional
Investeaent        Served Population
in 1981  in 1991  Additional   CFAF mi.Lon!/  CFAF/Inab.    US$/IhAmb.
ICugEL          34.5      53.5      19.0         220              11,600         26.6
LinigLere        8.5      12.7       4.2         100             23,800          54.7
Thies          119.4    174.6       55.2         575              10,400         23.9
BRmbey           9.6      13.8       4.2         180             42,900          98.5
Diourbel        50.0      77.3      Z7.3         445              16,300         37.5
M'Bakc          20.9      48.6      27.7         515              18,600         42.7
Fatick           9.4      13.6       4.2         135              32t100         73.9
KaoT]h3ck      101.4    141.1       39.7         715             18,COO          41.4
Tambacournda    15.4      36.0      20.6         300              14,60C         33.5
Ziguinchor      43.2    104.7       61.5       1,020             16,60X          38.1
Kolda            8.9      30.3      21.4         350              16,400         37.6
TOMAL       421.0    706.0      285.0       4,555              16,0O0         36.7
(Round fie)                         -         _
1/ BSe costs as of end 1983;
Btysical Works and Construction Sapervision
WANiS
DecEnber 1984
*1



- 62 ^
AM  4-6
ELEf2I C5t2 WATER SUPPll EOJECT
I1EAKWRI OF PROMBT OJIF     T  ID ODM  l'RACTS AND
RI FfACf  8WRCE
HWsical  Price                     Pisical  Price
Base   Contin-   Conn-             Base   Contirn    Contin-
Cost  gens          enies  Total   Cost   geneies   gencies  Total        IA"'   S      NEES   CCCE
-    CFAF million    -           -   US millon                          - U$ million -
A. WATER SUPPZ IN ELEV8  CENTERS
1 . Expansion of facilities
Execution. of 4 borehole,              110     15        -        125    .26    .03         -         .29     .29  (.29)
Drecution of 8 boreholes              285      45       175       505    .65      .10      .40      1.15     1.15  ( _ )
Zlectrioal and Psaping Bqulpoant:
(a) Tanb., Ziguinchor, Kolda         165     25        65       275    .38    .06        .20       .64       -   (-)         -      .64
(b) 8 other centes                  390      55       200       645    .90    .13        .46      1.49       -   (-)         -     1.49
Civil Works:
(a) Tamba., Zigainchor, Kol.da       4C0     60       20        660    .92    .14        .46      1.52       -   ( - )       _     1.52
(b) 8 other oenters                 265      35       150       450    .61      .08      .34      1.03     1.03  (-)         -       -
Supply and laying of pipes:
(a) TIaba., Ziguinchor, Kolda        750    115       355     1,220    1.72    .26       .82      2.80       -   ( - )             2.80
(b) Toils, Kaolaek, Fatick          705    105        405     1,215    1.62    .24       .94      2.80     2.80     )  -             -
(c) 5 other centers                  685    105       390    1,180    1.57    .24        .91      2.72     2.72  ( - )-
Supply of naterial for connections    305      40        55       400    .70    .09        .13       .92       -   ( - )       -    0.92
Construction of connectiors            205     35       150       390    .47    .08        .34       .89       -   (-)        .89      -
Sub-total                          4,265        635     2,165    7,065    9.8)    1.45   5.0     16.25     7.99 T297        .89    7.37
2. Super-ision of Corstruction             290     50       t40       480    .67    .12        .31       1.10    1.10  (.02)       -       -
T_AL                               4,555    655    2,305    7,545   10.47    1.57        5.31     17.35    9.09  (.31)      .89    7.37
B. RBEABILITATION OF SWEE
1. Technical Assistance
Adviser to the Gen. Mnager             120      12       33       165    .27    .03        .08       .38      .38  (      -      )
Chief nsineer for Studies
and N1ew Woici                       120      12       33       165    .27    .03         .08      .38      .38  (.17)       -       _
Bag. for Studies and New Wods          100     11        44       155    .22    .03        .10       .35      .35  ( -      )
Sub-total                            340      35      110       485      76    .09        .26      1.11    1-11  (.17)
2. Construction of Office Spaew
Land                                    60     -         -         60    .14       -         -        .14      -   (-)        .14
Construction                          510      85       270       865    1.17     .20      .61       1.99    1.25  (.02)      .73
Office equigpnt                         40       5       15        60    .09    .01         .04      .14       -   (- 1) .14
Dstailel desigr. snd eupervision        65     15        20       100    .15    .04        .04       .23       -   (-)         -      .23
Sub-total                            675    105       305     1,759    1.55    .25        .69      2.49     1.25  (.02)    1.01     .23
3. Consultants Services
Conwltancy for mnagent                  30      3        17        50    .07    .01        .03       .11      .11    -   -       )
Aiudit and overhsul of data processing   155   20        70       245    .35    .05        .16       .56      .56  (.25)
Consultancy for consnir infonotion      20      2         8        30    .05        -       .03      .03      .08  (      -      )
Sab-total                            2(5     25        95       325    .47    .06         .22      .75      *75  (  .25
4. T-ing Pro                               225     25       10)       350    .51    .06         .23       30      .80  (      -      )
6. Increase in Working C3pital
Supply of ssre parts                 1,305      -        -      1,305    3.00      -         -      3.00    3.0)  ( - )        -       -
hi.cal bills                        1,305     -         -      1,305   3.0)       -         -      3.00    3.0-    ( - )      _       _
Sub-total                          2,610      -        -      2, 6.10    60      -         -       6.-0) r   C  T--
TOTAL                              4,055     190      610    4,855    9.29    .46        1.40     11.15    9.91  (.44)     1.01     .23
C. DAKAR WATER SUPPL   TDIES                   390     60       170       620    .89    .13        .38       1.40    1.40  (-)          -       _
D. REUAL WATER SUPPL SCDIES
R  Tedhnical Assistant                 120      15       30       165    .28    .03         .07      .38      .38  (      -      )
RWS Stuiies                             45      5,       25        75    .10    .01         .06      .17      .17  (      -      )
TOI'AL                               165      20       55       240    .38    .04         .13       .55     .55 T-                   -
E. UBAN SANrLTION AT1  DI                      170     20        55       245    .39    .04        .12        .55     .55  (-)        _     (-)
F. TOTAL PROJECT OSr                        9,335    975,   3,195    13,505   21.42    2.24      7.34    31.00    21.50  (.75)      1.90   7.60
G.  FMA CMG OF mDA E8Gt. CREDIT                 -      -         -      1,085      -       _         _      2.50     2.50  ( - )       -       _
H. 21TREST 2Ef l      1CI                       -      _         _      1.085      -       _         -       2.50      - -    -)     2.50      -
I. 'TAL R      ACII10 REQUIREMNS_                                      15,675                              36.0)   24.00  (.75)    4.40   7.60
a/ Figures between brackets indicate the amount financed under the PPF.
WAPWS
December, 1984



_ 63 -
ARNMF 4-7
E  C WATER S  PE
Caldar Yesa                     t                1984           t985             t1986            1987            t99B            1999             t99
Water  i          in 1 1  enters
- Drill2ig of 4 wells (P1F)         ////C,n ..... I
- Drilling of 8 wll                  ///////                ............3       -
- Mectrical  andt p8Ti  n                           00             r ............ s
squipn1t
- Civil Works         /          /         /          /        .         S ............. a
- 8applZr and laying of pipes       //CC///.//.    .                   ........  ,
- aipp4r aed execution of            ///////                  ............. 
onnections
- Work tRupervrisim                 IIHIIIII  tm.li////// DOO...........'   s .._ 
Canstruct..on of Offioe Spam
- Studi*e arA supervisic                                   ..                                 
- Oonst]niotion                                                      ...../I/ OOx    ....... s         __
DeohiicElI Assistawcs
- Advisar to the General  bnegr
of 3ES
- Chief Engineer for stuties and                 i                   -_                               -
r. works
- FSineer for studies and
now wDrks
Consultants Services
- Consultancy for menegs nt                                    ;                        _-_
- Adit and overhaul of data                                         (YEF)
processing
- Consultancy for o     r.st ri.
inforirtion
TrainigPrg                                                                                            __                                                _
Sapply of' Spere Purts endF
DaIkr Water 8opp3y Studies                                                                                                 __
hial Water Supply Studies
- ME- 9bolbnioal Assistant
- RWS  tudies_                                                                              _
Urban Sanitation Studies                          . .                                                                 _                                .
I//I   PRlepation of tender documents
OXO   Rsview of draft tander donmnnts
x ender Period
.    Contract sigtng
- Construction or execution
*     Credit effectiveness
WAPWS
January 1985



- 64                                                                 ANNEX 4-8
Page 1
I   d
4  C T..
*u .~
T'; I                                       I,
PI .- _7 . .
'~~~~~ -T          r4'                -
i ~.  i    n;     
r7
'' '- F                 C           - -    - - - -
4~~  ~~~         n   i                        r t 5  c    S   
WAP W S
- T; i si ..... C W ! , -. . i;



-65                                             ANNEX  4-8
Page 2
22fs-                                                                  wrJd ,~4
24~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
22  t1                                                                        F Y '
o                                                 0 
14 14
12
ii       80 -/i          
i q?,6    1 9..87    1988    1 9389    1939.0    199 1    l iJ 9 I7    1 <.J9 I'    1994
Ba,]n k flDA fY
10- EFrlM.AftnE 7       U  llI ..
s  JkL Or   ,                 I.-C..   -.n .                   VC  t     :I1F          -     r.  ,,;  a- i '2
'.'u14  ''    'I-! -;~r   T ie.1  i-ec   c         i3 r rTJ  it   F:     em Pte.  s;-
Ey   ;:.     3  6 7-i  '         't .   - . ;e   ero    ;. '1i o':p   r:   4t>';m
- ' + : '; ';~~~~ -1 : T ;r    ;-h-X'. .  I  ea, n        -                     ri  3  e C.'7.- 
a   a-             / ; '
WAPWS
4 ee.e />  -



- 66 -
ANNEX 5-1
SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEES - INCOME STATEMENTS
(CFAF million)
1981      1982        191s3      1984       1985       1986       1987       ISA8       1989        1990       1991       1992       1993
ACTUAL    ACTUAL    ACTUAL ESTIMATE FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST
WATCR PROD.  1000 CUBOMTRS         65,804    72,005    76,800    79,760    82,840    84,260    85,790    07,430    89,170    90,490    91,840    93,210    94,600
ErFICIENCY %                            74         77         79         78          77         77         77         77         77         78         78         78          78
WATER COLD, 0000 CUsOMTRS          48,432    55,514    60,60C    6I,400    63,787    64,880    66,05a    67,321    68,661    70,582    71,635    72.704    73,78e
SONEES TARIFF, CFAF(M3                  80         73         87        169         182        198        216        23t        257       Z20         305        333        363
RIV EN JtCS
WATER SALES                          3,853      4,323      5,288    10,546    111 06 9      2,846    14,269    15,8I 8      17,646    19,763    21 ,849    24,210    26,785
WORKS INVOICED                       1,143        761        853      1,008      1,391      1,541      1,713      1,906      2,11a       2,371      2,622      2,905      3,214
0711ER                                  32          64         68         45         70         77         86         95        106        119        150         145        161
TOTAL REVENUES                   5,021      5,148      6,209    11,599    13,070    14,464    06,068    17,889    19,870    00,253    24,60Z    27,260    30,16A
EXPENSES
surPLIES                             2,547      2,906      3,117      3,626      4,061      4,540      5,085      5,700      6,396       7,140      7,972      8,c90      9,936
T7IANSPORT                              47          45         57         66         75         84         94        106        119        133        148         165        185
OTCER SERVICES                         523        509        602      1,322      1,467      1,62a8     1a,8       2,006      2,242       2,507      2ao03      3,133      3,49a
MISCELLANEOUS                           38        1i9        152         177        196        218        242        269        298        331        367        408         453
rERSONNEL                            1,559      1,761      I,060      2,396      2,659      2,952      3,276      3,637      4.066       4,546      5,082      5,682      6,352
TAXES                                    11        63          68         79         90        101        113        127        142        159        177         198        2Zl
CASH OPER  EXP.                      4,725      5,403      6,05S      7,666      8,549      9,523    10,619    11,845    13,263    14,815    16,549    18,486    20,645
RECCIVASLCS PROVISION                  (32)       148)        'l)       316         348        385        428        477        529        593        655        726         804
DEPRECIATION                           184        208        244      1,739      1,870      2,086      2,347       2,623      2,863      3,084      3,304      3,541      3,797
TOTAL OPERATING EXP              4,877      5,563      6,29')     9,721    10,767    11,994    13,393             14,945    16,655    18,492    20,509    22,753    25,245
OPERATING  INCOME                      151       1415)        (91)   1,878       0,303      2,470      2,674      2,944       3,215      3,761      4,292      4,507      4,915
GAIN  (LOSS) ON ASSETS                   3           4          6          8          9         10         11         13         Is         16          19        21          24
OTHER EXPENSES                         (281       (171       (391         45         53         59         66         74         83         93        104        116         129
INCOMC BCFORE  INTEREST                182       (394)       (40)   1,841        2,259      2,421      2,619      2,885      3,147      3,604       4,007      4,412      4,810
INTEREST                                97         60         74        365        585        614        779         939     1,008      1,041         989        982        896
INTEREST - CONSTRUCTION                  -          -          -           -       116        264         369        39a        221
INTEREST - OPERATIONS                   97         60         74        365        469        350         410        541        787     1,041         989        982        896
INCOMC BLFORE TAXES                     85       (4541      (119)    1,476       1,790      2,071      2,209      2,342      2,359      2.643       3,018      3,430      3,914
INCOME TAXES                            50                      1       487        597        690         736        781        786        881      1,0a6      1,143      1,305
NET INCOME                           35      (4541       (120        989      1 ,194     1,381      1,473      1,561      1,573      1,762    20012        2.287      2,610
RETAINED EARNINGS STATEMENT
RET CARN.BEGINNING YEAR                 13         47       (4C07      (5071        439     1,574      2,885      4,3403       ,904      7,477      9,239    10,I25      153,55
NET INCOME                              35       (4541      (120       989      1,194      1,381      1,473       1,561      1,573      1,762      2,012      ,2087      2,610
OPEDAT SUBSIDIES RECEiVED                 -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -
DIVIDENDS                                 -          -          -          -          -                                -
TRANSrERED TO RESERVES                    I          -          -         23         59         69         15          -          -           -          -          -          -
RCTAINLD EARNINGS                       47       (407)      (527)       439      1,574      z,885      4,343      5,904       7,477      9,239    11,251    13,538    16,148
WAPWS
Updated January 29, 1985



- 67 -
ANNEX 5-2
SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEES - SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(CFAF million)
1981      1982      1983       1984       1985      1986       1987      19B8       19t9      1990       1991      199Z       19;3
ACTUAL   ACTUAL   ACTUAL ESTIMATE FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST
GENERATION OF INTERNAL FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST               182      1394)       (45)   1,841      2,259      2,421      2,619     2,883      3,147     3,684      4,007     4,412      4,810
DEPRECIATION                         184       208        189     1,716      1,844     2,057      2,314     2,586      Z,821     3,037      3,251     3,481      3,729
MINUS INCOME TAX                  50         a          1       487        597       690        736       781        786       881     1,006      1,143     1,305
TOTAL INTERNAL FUNDS              316      (186)       143     3,070     3,506      3,787     4,197      4,689     5,181      5,840      6,253     6,749      7,234
NOV OF FIXED ASSETS SOLD                                              26        29         33        38         42        48         54         di        69         78
NON-CASH WORK.CAP.INCREASE           (65)      (663)     (405)   1,730       1,641     1,238        956        950     1,172      1,660     1,071        992     1,493
DC3T SERVICE
TOTAL DEBT AtCRTIZATION              0          0         0       559        829       928        924     1,045        988     1,488      1,742     1,847      1,829
TOTAL INTEREST - LOANS               0          0         0       365        585       614        779       939      1,008     1,041        989       982        896
OTHER INTERESI                      97        60         74        -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -          -         -
TOTAL DEST SEFIVICE                 97        60         74       924      1,414     1,542      1,703     1,984      1,996     2,529      2,731     2,829      2,725
NET AVAILABLE FFiOM OPER.            284        417       474        442       480     1,040      1,575     1,797      2,061      1,704     2,512     2,997      3 ,094
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
ELEVEN CENTERS                                -          -         -         780     1,375     3,060      2,490     1,445        435        205                   -
OTHER FINANCING                     -         -          -         -           1,602   1,935    2,250       360         -          -         -          -         -
OTHER SONEtS                       261       431        405       357        904       811      1,098     2,111      1,472     1,244      1,579     1,626      2,389
TOTAL CAP EXPENDITURE            261       421        405       357     3,366      4,121     6,408      4,961     2,917      1,679     1,784      1,626     2,389
TO BE FINANCED                   123)       14        691       (55)   2,886       3,081     4,833      3,164        856       125)      (72a)  (1,371)       (705;
LOANS
TOTAL LOANS                          0          a         0          0    1,951      3,279     4,057      2,860      1,385       330        105          0         0
EOUITY                                 -          -         -          -       915     1,060        905        740       380         40       100          -         -
CASH iNCREASE (DECREASE)              23        (14)       69         85       (20)   1,28s         129        436       609        395       933     1,371        705
CASlt BCEINNING sF YEAR              104        127       113        182       247        247     1,505     1,635      2,070     2,679      3,075     4,007      5,379
CASH END OF YEAR                     127        113       182        267       247     1,505      1,635     2,170      7,679     3.075      4,007     5,379      6,084
WAPWS
Updated January 29, 1985



- 68 -
ANNEX 5-3
SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEES - BALANCE SHEETS AS OF DEC. 31
(WFY  -1tii)
1981      1982       1983      1984       1985      IS86       1987      1988       1989      1990       1991      1992       1993
ACTUAL   ACTUAL   ACTUAL ESTIMATE FORECAkST  ORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST iORECAST FORECAST FORECAST
ASSETS
GROSS FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.    1,35          1,6Z5      2,100   29,474    29,594    30,182    33,879    38,355    44,936    49,843    52,699    54,309    56,013
ACCUM. DEPRECIATION                  750        904     1,093     2,809      4,653     6,709      9,023    11,609    14,430    17,467    20,718    Z4,199   27,927
NET FIXED ASSETS IN OP             565       721      1,00'   26,665    24,S41    23,473    24,855    26,746    30,506    32,376    31,981    30,110    28,088
rIXED ASSETS UNDER CONSTR.            31        103        33       390      3,723     7,487    10,529   11,369        7,878     4,596      3,463      3,410     4,015
TOTAL riXED ASSETS                 396       B24     1,041J   27,055    28,664    30,960    35,384    38,115    38,384    36,972    35,444    33,520    32,103
CURRENT ASSETS
INVENTORY                            453       776        B55       995      1,156     1,294      1,591     1,775      2,123     2,735      3,072     3,337      3,032
CUSTOnER RECEIVABLES               7,041     8,517      9,981     3,066      4,357     4,821      5,356     5,963      6,823     7,410      8,201     9,007    10,053
RESERVE roR CUST. RECEIV.            371        34S       36;        406       436        482       536        396       662        742       820        909     1,005
SHAREHOLDERS                           O
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                 314       608        552       624        705        796       900     1,017      1,449     1,999      2,267      2,458     2,874
CASH AND BANKS                       127        113       182       267        243     1,500      1,630     2,066      2,675     3,070      4,003     5,374      6,079
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS            8,364      9,665    11,203      5,346     6,025      7,929      8,949    10,225    12,208    14,480    16,723    19,347    21,033
TOTAL ASSETS                    8,960    10,489    t2,Z43    32,401    34,680    38,8S9   44,334    48,340    50,592    51,452   52,166    52,067    53,936
EOUITY S LIABILITIES
CAi iTAL                             750       750        750    16,083    16,998   18,058    18,963    19,703    20.083    20,123    20,223    20,223    20,223
RESERVES                              36         36        36         59       118        187       202        202       202        202       202        202       202
RETAINED EARNINGS                     47       (4071     15271       439     1,574     2,885      4,343     5,904      7,477     9,239    II,Z51    13,538    16,148
TOTAL EGUITY                       033       379        259    16,531    10,690   2,130    23,308    25,809    27,762    29,564    31 ,676    33,963   36,573
DONG TERM DEBT
IDA                                                                       920     1,775      2,875     3,615      3,714      3,483     3,312      3,036     2,760
CCCE                                                                      19        6805     1,670      2,485     3,015      3,038     2,763      2,474     2,170
OTIIER                                                                    841      2,650     4,742      6,047     3,914      3,601     5,288      4,975     4,662
DEBT TRANSFERED                                             10,679      9,731     8.827      7,78      6,794     5,895     5,004      4,021      3,070     2,119
TOTAL LONC TERM DEBT                 0         0          0   10,679   11,702    14,057    17,069    lB,941    18,530    17,126    15,384    13,355    11,712
TOTAL EiUITY S L.T.DEBT            833       379        259    27,260    30,392   35,187    40,577   44,750    46,300    46,690    47,060    47,538   48,285
CURRENT LIABILITIES
SUPPLIERS                          1,513     2,088      2,864     2,227      1,634     1,563      1,456     1,302      1,459     1,630      1,821     2,033      2,270
COSTUMER DEPOSITS                    358       408        451       468        487       506        356       547        569        592       616        640       666
SHORT TERM PART OF L.T.                                           1,388        928       924      1,045       988      1,488     1,742      1,847     1,829      1,843
BANKS                                375       459        394       390        559
OTHER                              3,881     7,155    8,275         668        689       709        730        752       775        798       822        847       872
TOTAL CURRENT LIAB.             8,127    10,110    11,984       5,141     4,297      3,70Z     3,757      3,589     4,Z91      4.762     5,106      5,340      5,631
TOTAL EQUITY & LIA2.            8,960    10,4b9    12,243    32,401    34,689   38,889    44,334    48,339   50,591    51,452    52,166    52,867    53,936
a         0         0          0          0        101         5         a          0         0          a         0          0
WAPWS
Updated January 29, 1985



SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEES - RATIO STATEMENTS
1961      [982      1983      I984       1985      1986      1987       I988      1989      1990       1991      1992       1993
ACTUAL   ACTUAL   ACTUAL ESTIMATE FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST
EFFICIENCY RATIO                      74         77        79        78         77        77        77        77         77        78         78        78         78
AVER.SONEES TARIF (CFAFIM3)           80         78        87       169       182        198       216       236        257       280        305       333        363
WORKING RATIO                       0 94      1.05       0.98      0.66      0.65       0. 66     0 66      0 66       0 67      0.67       0. 67     0. 68     0. 68
OPERATING RATIO                     0.97      1.08       1.01      0. 84     0.82       0.83      0.83         8 4     0. 84     0 83      0.83       0.83      0.84
TOTAL INTERNAL FUNDS  11             316      (186)       143    3I070      3,506     3,787      4,197     4.689     5,181      5,840     6,253      6,749     7,234
(cash cont to cap expend.)
MINUS DEBT'SERVICE  It               (97)       e60)      (74)    (924)   (1,414)   (1,542)  (1,703)   (0,984)   (1,996)   (2,529)  (2,731)  (2,829)  (2,725)
CAC) ICONTRODIUTION  1I              219      (246)        69    2,146      2,092     2,245      2,494     2,705     3,185      3,311     3,522      3,920     4,509
% OF IREVENUS                       4.36     (4.78)      2. 1     18.50     16.00     15.52      15.52     05.12     16.03      14.88     14 32      14.38     14.95
% - CAF.EXP.+WORK.CAP.INCR.    l1l.73    106.03            -    102.83      41.79     41 89    33 86    45.76        77 89    99.14    123.35    149.74   116.15
DEBT SERVICES.COVERAGE              3.26    (3 10)       1 93      3.32      2 48       2.46      2.46      2.36      2. 60      2.31      2.29       2.39      2.65
DEET/EGUITY & LONG TERM DEBT        0.0       0.o00      0 o0    39 17    38.50       39.95    42.07       4233      40 04      36 .68    32.69      28.53     24 26
CURnENT RATIO                       1 03      0.96       0.93      1.04      1.40      2.14       2.38      2.85      2.84       3.04      3 28       3.62      3.86
It   CFAF MILLION
WAPWS
UPDATED 01/3011985
I'4
131



- 70 -
ANNEX 5-5
Page 1
SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR SONEES FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
General
1.       The financial projections shown in Annexes 5-1 to 5-4 were updeLted
during negotiations by Bank staff together with SONEES officials.  They are
based on SONEES latest projections (October 1984).
Income Statements
2.       Water quantities produced for the Dakar/Cap Vert area assumed to
increase through 1984 by about 4% p.a., the additional quantities coming from
the new Pout Nord and Pout Kirene wells; thereafter production is assumed to
level off as no major projects to develop additional water resources for Dakar
have yet been decided upon. The Dakar area represents 70% to 75% of total
volume. Tne Eleven Centers production will increase by the additional
capacity generated by the proposed project, i.e. an average 7.3% over the
1983-1993 period. Quantities produced in the remaining smaller secondary
centers are projected to increase by 5% p.a. The overall efficiency ratio
(quantities sold/quantities produced) should improve from 75% in 1983 to 78%
in 1993, partly due to more comprehensive metering, but also following
campaign for detection of leaks and illegal connections.
3.       SONEES' tariff includes the September 1, 1983 increase (para 5.12 of
main report). The revenues of the Renewal Fund and the Small Works Fund
previously administered by MH accrue to SONEES starting January 1, 1984, and
also the revenues that previously had to be transferred to CNA for servicing
the sector debt. The water supply installations previously owned by the State
were transferred to SONEES by Law 83-73 of July 5, 1983 and should be
accounted for by SONEES starting January 1, 1984. SONEES will depreciate the
transferred assets from this date on and assume the debt service. Following
the September 1, 1983 restructuring, the tariff is assumed to increase by 90%
of inflation as provided for by SONEES' "Cahier des Clauses et Conditions
G6nerales".
4.       Cash operating costs are assumed to increase proportionally with the
volume of produced water; they also include an inflation rate of 10% from
1984 on, which is the rate assumed for the local costs of the proposed
project. Maintenance costs include the charges previously covered by the MH
administered funds. An annual provision for doubtful customer accounts of 3%
of water sales has been included in operating expenses. Depreciation charges
are assumed to decrease from 15.7% of gross fixed assets in operation for 1981



- 71 -
ANNEX 5-5
Page 2
to 6.9% in 1993 because previously fixed asseuz consisted essentially of
furnitures and fixtures, vehicles, tools etc., i.e. assets with relatively
short useful lives, while at the end of the forecacting period they include
the Eleven Centers water supply installations to b'e financed under the
proposed project, the water supply installations of Saint Louis to be financed
by KfW, as well as installations transferred from the State to SONEES.
Interest during construction has been capitalized with fixed assetc.
Funds Flow Statements
5.       SONEES' capital expenditures include the proposed project, the Saint
Louis water supply project, the other small extension projects listed in the
Contrat-Plan, the renewal program previously under'the responsibility of MH,
and some small expenditures for building improvemefnts, tools, vehicles, etc.
No other major projects to be implemented by SONEES, particularly in the
Dakar/Cap Vert area, are identified at present. IbA and CCCE financings and
debts are based on the terms outlined in para 4.08 of the main report. KfW
loans conditions are as follows: repayment over a 40 year period including 10
years of grace, interest rate: 3.4%, commission on non-disbursed amounts:
1.4%.  For other projects to be debt-financed, the following conditions have
been taken in account: repayment over a 16 year period including 4 years of
grace, average interest rate: 5%.
Balance Sheets
6.       SONEES' fixed assets are stated at historical values.  Transfer of
existing water supply installations from the State to SONEES as of
January 1, 1984 has been assumed at a current value of CFAF 27.4 billion
(US$63.0 million).
7.       Annual increases in inventories, other current assets and cash
reflect the growth of SONEES' operations and inflation. Gross customer
receivables, expressed as number of months of billing should decrease to about
4 months by the end of 1985 and for the time thereafter, due to the
compensation of Government arrears with amounts SONEES owes the Government,
reduction of the still remaining arrears through periodic Government payments
(para 3.13), and generally improving collection performance.
8.       SONEES' equity would be increased by (i) the mentioned transfer of
the State owned water supply installations (para 6 'above), and (ii) the
passing on of half of the IDA funds as Government equity contribution.
9.       Short term liabilities (suppliers, customer deposits, other) reflect
the growth of SONEES' operations and price escalation. The balance due to the
CNA is assumed to be set off in 1984 with Government arrears mentioned in
pareL 7 above and para 3.13 of the main report. The'decreasing short term
borrowing reflects the improving working capital situation of SONEES.
WAPWS
January 1985



SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEES - COMPONENTS OF WATER TARIFF
I. CITIES WITH SEWERAGE SYSTEMS
Added              Small  Social          Tax on         Debt Service
Customer Type                   SONEES       Value   Renewal   Works   Connections   Excessive        Component       Municipal   TOTAL
Component   Tax      Fund      Fund    Fund           Consumption   (CNA)            Tax
Private Customers with Meters of 15mm:
- Up to 10 m3/month                          81.63     5.71                           -                 -                            -        87.34
- Exceeding 10 m3/month                     109.18     7.64      29.50    14.75       7.65              -            47-95         2.50      219.17
Other Private, Commercial, Adminis-           109.18     7.64      29.50    14.75       7.65              -            47.95         2.50       219.17
tration Consumption
Consumption exceeding normal limit2/          109.18     7.64      29 50    14.75       7.65           32.88           47.95         2.50       252.05
Public Standpipes                             109.18     7.64         -         -         -               -               -            -        116.82
Vegetable Growers:
- 0-1,500 m3/month                           35.27     2.47         -         -         -               -               -            -         37-74
- 1,500-10,000 m3/month                      50-05     3.50              -         -            -                       -            -         53.55
- Exceeding 10,000 m3/month                 109.18     7.64      29.50    14.75       7.65              -            47.95         2.50       219.17
1/ Defined for each connection diameter.
WAPWS
September 1983



SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONEES - COMPONENTS OF WATER TARIFF
II. CITIES WITHOUT SEWERAGE SYSTEMS
Added              Small   Social          Tax on          Debt Service
Customer Type                    SONEES       Value   Renewal   Works   Connections   Excessive           Component       Municipal    TOTAL
Component   Tax      Fund       Fund    Fund            Consumption   (CNA)              Tax
Private Customers with Meters of 15mm:
- Up to 10 m3/month                           81.63       5.71         -        -          -                -                -            -         87.34
- Exceeding 10 m3/month                       94.57      6.62      29.50    14.75        7.65               -            47.95          2.50      203.54
Other Private, Commercial, Adminis-              94.57      6.62     29.50    14.75        7.65               -            47.95          2.50       203.54
tration Consumption
Consumption exceeding normal limit.l/           94.57      6.62      29.50    14.75        7.65          30-53             47.95          2.50       234.07
Public Standpipes                               94.57      6.62          -         -         -                -                -            -        101.19
Vegetable Growers:
- 0-1,500 m3/month                            35.27      2.47          -        -          -                -                -            -         37.74
- 1,500-10,000 m3/month                       50.05      3.50          -        -          -                -                -            -         53.55
- Exceeding 10,000 m3/month                   94.57      6.62      29.50    14.75        7.65               -            47.95          2.50       203.54
m m
x
1/ Defined for each connection diameter.
WAPWS
September 1983



- 74 -
ANNEX 5-6
Page 3
Connections
Expenditures for new connections are charged to customers. The price
for the smallest connection, called social connection (15 mm diameter, not
exceeding a length of 5 meters) was CFAF 27,000 (US$62) in 1982. There is no
charge for the water meter which is part of the state-owned fixed assets. In
addition to a one time charge for the connection, a new customer has to make a
deposit corresponding to about 2 months of consumption. For a 15 mm
connection the deposit would be CFAF 3,822 (US$8.8).
WAPWS
September 1983



- 75
ANNEX 6
Page 1
SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MARGINAL COST CALCULATIONS AND ERR ANALYSIS
(million CFAF)
YEAR                  TOTAL   1983   1984   1995   1906   1997   1t8    1999   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   2022   2023
INCRERENTAL: (C000 CU N)
PRODUCTION                                       547   1204   2012   2943   4170   5583   6343   6851   7379   7928   S494   8494
SALES                                            501   1098   1826   2671   3770   5052   5645   6103   6581   7080   7597   7.5Q7
CAPITAL INVESTMENTS (10 6 CFA.F) (PROJECT ONLY)
------------_-------------------------------------
CIVIL WORKS.PlPES
FOREIGN COST           2403             100    207    848    723    446         78
LOCAL COST             1258              53    108    444    379    234         41
SUB--TOTAL              3661             153    315   1292   1102    680    119
BOREHOLES.CONNECTIONS
FOREIGN COST            539      49      64      97    113      70      64      82
LOCAL COST              390      36      46      71     81      51      46      59
SUB--TOTAL               929      S5    110    168    194    121    110    141
MACHINERY & EOUIPMENT
FOREIGN COST            269              23      93    123      30                                                     23
LOCAL COST             11                '     39      51      12                                                      9
SUB-TOTAL                380              32    132    174       42                                                     32
SUBGERSIBLE PUMPS
FOREIGN COST            11M              24     84      11                            YOe      11
LOCAL COST               41               8      29      4                             37       4
SUB-TOTAL                160             .32    113       15                            145      15
SUHN/ARY CAPITAL INVESTMENT
FOREIGN CoST           3330      49    211    482   1095    82.3   510    160    108           11                      23
LOCAL COST             ISOO      36    116    246    580    442    280    100          37       4                       9
TOTAL                   5130      85    327    728   1675   1265    790    260    145            15                     32
7N$TALLED VALUE                   85    412   1140   2815   4080   4870   51.30   5130   5130   5130   5130   5130    5130   5130
INCREI£ENTAL RECURRENT COST (UNTIL CAPACITY EXHAUSTED)
ENEROL
FOREIGN COST                                     15     25      36      49      65      86     92      98    104    Ill       1IS    118
LOCAL COST                                        2      3       4       5       7       9     10      11      12      12      13      13
SUB-TOTAL                                         17     28      40      55      72      96    102    109    116    124         131    131
CH£E11CALS
FOREIGN COST                                      2      4       b       9      13      17     19      21      22      24      25      25
LOCAL COST                                        0      1       2       2       3       4      5       5       t       6       6       b
SUB-TOTAL                                          2       5      8      11      16      22     24      26      28      30      32       32
PERSONNEL
LOCAL COS7                                       15     33      55      82    116    158    174    IS    203    219          235    235
OVERHEAD
FOREIGN COST                                      4      9      15      22      31      42     48      51      55      59     eb4      64
LOCAL COST7                                       4      9      15      22      31      42     48      51      55      59      64      64
SUB-TOTAL                                          8      IS     30      44      63      84     95    103    111    119         127    127
MAINTENANCE'
FOREIGN COST (LI         e5                       7      18     27      32      33      33     33      33      33      33       33     33
LOCAL COST (V.)          35                       4     10      14      17      18      IS     18      IS      IS      IS      IS      IS
SUB-TOTAL                                         11     28      41      49      51      51     51      51      51      51       51      51
SUNM. RECURRENT COSTS
FOREIGN CoST                                     29     56      84    112    143    179    192    203    215    228           241    241
LOCAL COST                                      25      56      90    129    175    231    254    274    294    315           337    337
TOTAL                                             54    III    174    241    318    411    446    477    509    543            577    577
SUMBI. COSTS
FOREIGN COST                     49    211    510   1151    907    622    303    287    203    203    215    250               241    241
LOCAL COST                       36    116    271    b36    532    409    275    269    258    274    294    324               337    337
TOTAL                             85    327    782   1786   1439   1031    578    556    461    477    509    575               577    577
WAPWS
September 1983



SENEGAL
ELEVEN CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MARGINAL COST CALCULATIONS AND ERR ANALYSIS
(million CFAF)
YEAR                           1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994    2022   2023
STANDARD CONVERSION FACTOR :   0.95
PROJECT COST IN BORDERPRICES:
FOREIGN COST                     49    211    510   1151    907    622    303    287    203    203    215    250                 241    241
LOCAL COST                       34    110    258    604    505    388    262    255    245    260    279    308                 320    320
TOTAL                             83    321    76S   1755   1412   1011    564    542    448    463    494    558                 561    561
DISCOUNT RATE                                             0.10
PV OF TOTAL COST                                          6852
PV OF INCREMENTAL
HATER SOLD                                        40050
A I C (CFA.F/CU H)                                      171.08
BENEFIT STREAM
AT TARIFFS(CFA.FICU Jof
A)     163.40 a,             o       0     82    179    298    436    616    826    922    997   1075   1157              1241   1241
NET STREAH fBEN. - COST):
A)                         -85   -327   -700  -1607  -1140   -595          38    270    462    520    566    582           664    664
RATE OF RETURN:
A)                                       8.65 Z
a/ Average end 1983 tariff level for the 11 centers.
WAPWS
September 1983
1JQ
oa 



BIRD 36700
I                                                                                 I                       The -ap has been prep-rd by the          om 
SENEGAL                                                                                  M M    A     U     R     I   T    A         N   ' I    A               th.W---Rn ht  exon. ...oely fOPaniSh $  are                     F \       Algr.
P    L'  N.-k6oft                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The de---ne-en  ueed end the.K 
b done-re e-e, on th,n -ap                                                  '
ELEVEN  CENTERS  WATER  SUPPLY                                                                                                                                                            do`ot-. -ply, -o h.ne5ofrb- 0                       Ihn    !
PROJECT                                                                                                                                                          judg-ent  .o th eC egta Otut of
A     EXISTING WATER SUPPLY SY'SEMS
PROJECT CENTERSGoraI 
_ REGIONA 5ONEES SEfRVI CENTERS                                 9                                                                                                                                                         Gdn.,B, te    A         >           ynIro r/
SOREES REGION BOUND~ARIESGue                                                                                                                                                                                                                -r
f6,e        EXlSTINi PAVED ROADS                                                                                                                                                      6-                                      Sierra                   'Ih                I
- -      PAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                     f o                                                                                                                                                                                       <              oLrr---.       A
-   GRAVEL ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                      A92    K,- Cernioo
- ---EARTH ROADS                                                                                   __ _                                                                                                                                                                    Eq. 0-ii         L
r  RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E-. Guinea   2
INTERNATIONAL EOUNDARIES                                                               Ze T   _
OREGIONAL BOUNDARIES                        nmEnL- I         pogrene
DEPARTMENTAL BOUNDAR ES                              Dbhrr            - - -.- 
Mbeyeck-M4 hoynht 'I  'uo      -  ~ oo7Jse                NdinafQ          ,ao  Saga                           ',_pSgo
Cm~~~~~~~~~~~~~D-  'M, 'o 'T 
CAP            DET.peCMo                      ~        '                                  oe
-,.lAS     ofSqRu                N                                                                                                                                  N                                                                                                        o O 
A Tir  ANTIC                                                                                     Dd4-dIW, \~
;__Korang~~~~~~~~~                         HK. 'D Srtow                                                                                                                                        m   e     S mcud     t       -  )r,
BJ C                                                        GN   B  SAU
! J )aNoya    S;-/    Kow   Tougow,aO   t   %/<,  _>  _  SSorar(Or
O   KO 20  0 40  50  O  70 eouo loo  / (t   M   A           SdhFoQ        r                  e Ag        _V    C          ou FPworu                          LVSeont>  
Kllorers               \                          <                                                    r <7                                \  ~~~~~~~d   )          7    ~~~\_ e d o ugdo uN _. K 
CCp Skirrijw                                                                .  G     U    I  N    E  A    -    S    A    U                                                                    . ..........¢ 
d ~ ~~~ ~~ -7                                                                                                                                                                                  I iD            - f- G       I  I _E a,A 17  SETF 17



