RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-685a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SENEGAL
December 24, 1968
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00             = CFA francs 246.85
CFA franc 1          = US$ 0.oo4
CFA francs 1 billion = US$ 4 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASTJRES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BCEAO:   Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest, the
Central Bank of the West African Monetary Union.
BNDS:    Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal, the
national development bank.
CCCE:    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique, a French
Government financing agency.
OCAS:    Office de Commercialisation Agricole du Senegal, the
groundnut bulk marketing and expcrt institution.
ONCAD:   Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au
Developpement, the cooperatives' supply and marketing
institution.
SATEC:   Societe d'Aide Technique et de Cooperation, a French
Government technical assistance agency.
SIES:    Societe Industrielle d'Engrais du Senegal, the local
fertilizer factory.
SIBCOMA: Societe Industrielle Senegalaise de Constructions
Mecaniques et de Materiels Agricoles, the local agricul-
tural machinery factory.
SODEVA: Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agricole,
the institution providing the extension service to
farmers and some technical assistance to cooperatives.



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
S lW/d\IRY                                                   ..............  o 
I. IINTRODUCTION ..............................            ............
II.    BACKGROUND .....................                 .............        2
The Economny .................      * ...................... .        2
Agriculture   .. . .  . . . . .   o * . . . . . .*......O......       2
Production Improvement Program ..........................
III.   THE PROJECT ........................................  ........        5
A.   General Description .*...........*..* ... .*..                   5
Project Area ..................*..*......         ..           5
Institutional Aspects ....... . ...... .. ..       .........   6
Cooperatives .........            ...... 009... 0, ...*.O...v  7
Credit Procedures    .............     .....          ....     7
Provision of Farm Inputs ...................       . .         8
B.  Detailed Features ..*..to.....     .....                         11
The Credit Program .....        ........    ........          11
Management and Extension Services ................            11
Project Cost Estimates ......         ......................  13
Project Finance ............          ........ ..... .....    14
Procurement and Disbursement          .....   ............    15
IV.    ORGANIZATIOJ A1ND KANAGEIMENT ..............................        16
Project Coordination ........... . .. . . . .. . . .. . .. . .  ........ .  16
BNDS ......**..................                                      16
Extension Services        .     .....          ..........            17
ONCAD  ...........  ...*....... 9.  . ..                             19
OCAS ................................... o....................       20
(Continued)
This report is based on the findings of two appraisal missions
to Senegal; in July/August 1967 (Messrs. A.H. Stoneham, J. Willems,
R. Rossi and D. Dunn); in December 1967 (Messrs. A.H. Stoneham and
J. 1W1illems); and a follow-up mission in Hay 1968 (Messrs. W. Wapenhans,
J. Dumoulin and A.H. Stoneham).     This report was prepared by Mr. Stoneham.



- 2-
Table of Contents Cont'd.                                      Page No.
V.    PRODUCTION, 111AEL'TS AND FART\ERS' BENTEFITS ..............  20
Production .....*......................***..... .......     20
Markets and Marketing . ........               .......      20
Farmer Incentives .......... ........a. .... .......        21
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .............. ......... 6....   22
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMuPETMATIONS   ................  ....    23
A,\P1EXES
1.    Agricultural Background
2.    Extension Services
3.    OITCAD Reorganization
4.    Credit and BNDS
5.    Miarketing and OChS
6.    Farm Inputs and Outputs
7.    Project Coordinating Committee
8.    Economic Rate of Return
TAFS
1.    Senegal: Rainfall, Cultivation and Project Boundaries
2.    Project Area, showing Zones



SENEGAL
AGRICUITURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUI4NMARY
i.        In 1967 the Government of Senegal requested an IDA credit to help
finance the continuation of the groundnut/millet production improvement pro-
gram in the important "groundnut basin" of Senegal, started in 1964 with
financial help from the EEC (European Economic Community). As presented,
the project was not suitable for Bank/IDA support, but after further consul-
tation and in agreement with the Government, it was substantially revised.
The main emphasis would now be on the cooperative agricultural credit pro-
gram, and on improving the functioning and efficiency of the institution
responsible for procurement of farm inputs and for the primary marketing of
groundnuts from the cooperatives. Owing to shortage of IDA funds it is now
proposed that Bank Group participation be partly by Bank loan and partly by
IDA credit.
ii.       The project would directly affect about one million of the rural
inhabitants, over one-quarter of the total population of Senegal.   It would
cover the three-year period 1969/70 through 1971/72, and would provide credit
to the cooperatives through the national development bank for the purchase of
increasing numbers of simple animal-draw.i farm implements, for some of the
draft animals required, and for increasing amounts of fertilizer each year.
It would also provide funds to enable an international firm of management
consultants to assist in the management of the cooperatives' supply and mar-
keting institution for a three-year period, so that at the end of that time
the institution would be able to operate efficiently with trained Senegalese
staff and with the minimum of assistance from specialist expatriate staff.
In addition, the project would provide funds to enable the extension service
to continue to perform some technical services (in particular the preparation
of farmers' annual farm input requirements) on behalf of the cooperatives,
and provide funds for overseas fellowships for training staff of the coopera-
tives' institnltion.
iii.      The main benefit would be the sustained increase in production of
groundnuts and millet by increasing areas under cultivation and improving
yields. This would lead to steady increases in farmers' incomes and in
Government revenue during a period of loss of privileged markets and declin-
ing price support from EEC for groundnuts.
iv.       The estimated total cost would be US$ 24 million.   The proposed
Bank loan of US$ 3.5 million and IDA credit of US$ 6.0 million (total US$ 9.5
million) to the Government would cover almost three-quarters of the cost of
farm implements, the foreign exchange cost of the management and technical
services for the cooperatives, and the cos' of overseas fellowships for staff
training. About three-quarters of the loan/credit (US$ 6.92 million) would
be on-lent to the development bank for financing credit for farm implements.
Bank/IDA contribution to the total cost would be about 39%, farmers' about
16%, and the balance (4j5%) would be provided by the Government, both directly
and through the development bank.
v.        The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 3.5 million and an
IDA credit of US"! 6.0 million (total US$ 9.5 million).



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. IMTRODUCTION
1.01      In April 1967 the Government of Senegal applied to IDA for a cred-
it to help finance the continuation of the groundnut/millet production
improvement program, started in 1964 with financial help from the EEC (Euro-
pean Economic Community). Total cost was estimated at CFAF 11 billion
(US, 44 million) over the three-year period 1968/69 through 1970/71. IDA
finance was sought for up to US$ 13 million, while the balance would come
from FED (Fond Europeen de Developpement), CCCE (Caisse Centrale de Coopera-
tion Economique, a French Governmenit financing agency), BNDS (Banque Nation-
ale de Developpement du Senegal, the development bank of Senegal), farmers
in the project area, and the Government of Senegal.
1.02      The application for credit followed a Bank/IDA identification
mission to Senegal in March 1966, an IDA project preparation mission in
November 1966, consisting of Messrs. P.C. Goffin, K.H.S. Haasjes and
C. Brochu (FAO), and a short follow-up mission in March 1967 by Mr. A.H.
Stoneham. An appraisal mission, consisting of Messrs. A.H. Stoneham,
J. Willems, R. Rossi and D. Dunn, visited Senegal in July/August 1967. The
appraisal could not be completed, particularly on the institutional side,
because the Government, after making the credit application, had appointed
an interministerial committee to reconsider policy aspects of the project
and to reorganize the institutions concerned with the production and market-
ing of groundnuts, and it had not completed its work.  Messrs. A.H. Stoneham
and J. Willems returned to Senegal in December 1967 to continue the apprais-
al, but completion was again held up pending further details of the institu-
tional reorganization from the Government. A follow-up appraisal mission,
consisting of Messrs. WH. Wapenhans, J. Dumoulin and A.H. Stoneham, returned
to Senegal in play 1968 to discuss substantial revisions and to complete the
appraisal, while the data obtained on the two previous missions were updated.
This report is based on the findings of the various missions, and on mater-
ial supplied by the Government and the various institutions concerned with
the project. Messrs. E. Wessels and J.M. Payen also contributed to the work
of the missions.
1.03      The project as originally presented was not suitable for Bank/IDA
support. Some of the organizational and managerial aspects were found to be
unsatisfactory, and no proposals were made to meet the mosti immediate prob-
lem, the weak management of ONCAD (Office National de Cooperation et
d'Assistance au Developpement), the Government institution now responsible
for assisting the cooperatives by providing farm inputs, marketing and tech-
nical services. The project also relied upon uneconomically high rates of
fertilizer application to achieve the desired increase in millet production.



1.04      In an effort to produce a program which could be considered suitable
for Bank/IDA support, the original project has been substantially revised,
after consultation and in agreement with the Government of Senegal. The main
emphasis is nrow on the agricultural credit program, and on improvement in the
operation of OINCAD. W4hereas the original request was for an IDA credit to
help finance the project, it is now proposed funds be provided by a blend of
Bank loan and IDA credit.
II. BACKGROUND
The Economy
2.01      Senegal's agricultural sector employs over 85% of the 3.6 million
population, and is the main source of economic activity. Agriculture is
predominantly subsistence farming (millet) with groundnuts as the one impor-
tant commercial cash crop. Since achieving independence in 1960, Senegal has
had to face economic problems caused by the loss of her position as the focal
point of the former French West Africa, and by the loss of privileged markets
and prices for groundnuts due to the entry of France into the Common Market.
The industrial sector is advanced, though small in size. The rail and road
networks are fairly well developed. There are four ports, of which Dakar is
the most important. Agriculture, however, remains and is likely to continue
for a long time as the mainstay of the econorm.   Industry and transport rely
heavily on the handling, processing and marketing of groundnuts and groundnut
products for their prosperity. Past Bank/IDA financing of rail and port
facilities has been oriented towards more efficient evacuation of the ground-
nut crop.i/
Agriculture
2.02      The background to agriculture is given in more detail in Annex 1.
Rainfall is the greatest single factor affecting agricultural development.
Average annual precipitation varies from 400 mm in the north to 1,500 mm in
thle south (Map 1), with sharply defined wet and dry seasons. A drought occurs
fairly regularly about once every four years, affecting the north more than
the south, and the last was in 1966. About 11% of the total land area is
cultivated, and probably a further 18% could be brought under economic culti-
vation.  In an average year groundnuts nowJ represent about one-half of total
agricultural production by weight, millet one-quarter and rice and cassava
one-eighth between them. Over four-fifths of the groundnut crop comes from
the three contiguous regions of Thies, Diourbel and Sine Saloum (Map 2), which
are known collectively as the "groundnut basin".   In this area the soils are
generally sandy, while there are some rich fertile alluvial soils in the
basins of the four rivers (Senegal, Saloum, Gambia and Casamance).
1/  (a):  IDA Credit 96-SE, September 1966, US$, 9 million for the railway:
improvement of track and purchase of rolling stock;
(b):  Bank Loan 493-SE, May 1967, US$ 4 million for the port of Dakar:
improvement of harbor facilities and dredging.



-3-
2.03      Groundnuts and millet are grown in rotation, being planted in
June and harvested in November. The total area cultivated for groundnuts
has increased by about 605) over the past 15 years, and is now over 1.1
million ha. Average yields have increased by about 12% over the same per-
iod, and are now about 950 kg/ha, compared with an average of about
850 kg/ha for the whole of Africa, and 1,800 kg/ha in the USA. Total aver-
age annual production has increased by about 80% over the same 15-year per-
iod, and is now just over one million tons. Senegal is the fourth largest
groundnut producer in the world (after India, Mainland China and Nigeria)
and accounts for one-fifth of total African production. Average annual
production of millet now totals 500,000 tons on an area of about one million
ha. Millet is grown mainly for consumption by the farmers themselves, but
increasing quantities are finding their way into local markets. The demand
in the larger towns is relatively small owing to the availability of more
sophisticated alternatives, particularly rice and wheat.
2.04      Long-term development plans are centered on diversification of
crops, in particular rice, sugar, cotton, tobacco and edible groundnuts,
but significant increases in their production depend upon further research
and experimentation, and on the development of irrigation. The Casamance
and Oriental provinces have the greatest development potential for rainfed
crops, and the Senegal River for irrigated crops.
2.05      The only large-scale extension service in the country is in the
groundnut basin, and was until recently provided by the Societe d'Aide
Technique et de Cooperation (SATEC) (Annex 2), a French Government technical
assistance agency.  It is now provided through a new Senegalese institution,
Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agricole (SODEVA), which is
managed by SATEC (para 4.08). The extension effort is intensive, and has
been mounted as part of the production improvement program (para 2.08).
The service also provides important assistance to the cooperatives at farm
level. Land titles in the accepted sense do not exist, but a recent land
law (1964) has helped to improve land tenure.  Although rural land belongs
to the State, at village level it is allocated to cultivators through the
elders, who can also reallocate it when mismanaged or not cultivated.
2.06      The cooperative movement has long been active in agriculture, and
there are some 1,500 societies throughout the country. Groundnut coopera-
tives, which are the most important, play an effective role in the supply
of farm inputs, and in the marketing of the crop. ONCAD (Annex 3) is
responsible for assisting the cooperatives by providing farm inputs, market-
ing and technical services. Seeds are produced locally and a national seed
stockpile for groundnuts is maintained by ONCAD. The National Agricultural
Research Center is responsible for research on groundnuts and some other
crops, and maintains demonstration plots in most of the regions.
2.07      Most of the demand for farm machinery comes from the groundnut
basin, and is for light animal-drawn implements and carts, which are manu-
factured locally. Imports of mineral fertilizer have increased rapidly over
the past few years, and are now over 60,000 tons annually. A new factory,
SIES (Societe Industrielle d'Lngrais du Senegal), which is partly financed



by TFC,I/ started production in March 1966 and is expected in future years
to supply the w.hole of the country's requirements of mixed fertilizers
(para 3.12).         Credit for agricultural inputs (implements, draft ani-
mals and fertilizer) is supplied through D1U1DS (Annex 4) to the cooperatives.
There is a local trade in produce, livestock and vegetables, but commercial
marketing is mainly confined to a government institution, OCAS (Office de
Commercialisation Agricole du Senegal) (Annex 5), wqhich is responsible for
the bullk marketing and export of groundnuts and for imports of rice.
Production Improvement Program
2.08      The current Development Plan (1965-69) stresses that increased
agricultural production for import substitution as well as increased ground-
nut production is essential for a healthy development of the economy. This
is of vital importance in view of the loss of export revenues which Senegal
is facing as a result of the 1964 Yaounde Convention between EEC and asso-
ciated countries. The Convention provides that groundnut exports from
Senegal urill no longer enjoy a privileged market in France after 1969.  In
order to cushion the impact of the resulting loss in income, EEC has been
financing, through FED, a five-year (1965-69) production improvement program
(Annex 1, para 10). The main objectives of the program are to minimize the
losses in foreign exchange earnings arising from the elimination of the
privileged market, and also to minimize the reduction in income to farmers
arising from the necessity to lower the groundnut buying price. The aim is
to bring about a 25/ overall increase in production of groundnuts over the
five-year period, by increasing both acreages and yields, particularly in
the groundnut basin. Simultaneously, production of subsistence ard other
crops is being expanded to accelerate import substitution, and efforts are
being made to diversify the types of crops cultivated. The program directly
affects about one million of the rural inhabitants, over one-quarter of the
tctal population of Senegal.
2.09      Funds have been provided for the extension service, a fertilizer
subsidy, processing and storage facilities, soil and seed improvement, and
facilities for training draft oxen. Total cost over the period 1965 through
1969 is expected to be a maximum of CFAF 4.9 billion (US$ 19.6 million), of
which 29% is for financing the extension service (originally to October 1967
but since extended to June 30, 1968), and 34% for fertilizer subsidy to the
end of 1969. Farm implements have been supplied through credits to the
cooperatives by BNDS.  Funds for such credits were not included in the FED
finance for the program, and have been provided to date by BEDS with aid
from CCCE.
2.10      It is difficult to evaluate the impact of the program to date.
Fluctuations in total annual production have always been substantial, due
mainly to the influence of the weather on yields. Furthermore, the cyclical
drought wzhich generally occurs about every four years tends to make evalua-
tion over a short period misleading. Groundnut production in 1967/68
1/  Investment Agreement No. ll-SE, dated August 19, 1966.    IFC
investment US$ 3.46 million approximately.



(1.06 million tons, provisional) was about the same as in 1964/65 (1.02
million tons), with one of the intermediate years showing a record crop for
Senegal, and the other a low crop due to drought conditions (Annex 1,
Table 1). In spite of the irconclusive data, there is evidence that the
long-term impact of the program will be beneficial, particularly in famil-
iarizing farmers with the use of fertilizers and better cultural practices.
Average annual production for the four years 1969/70 through 1972/73 should
reach 1.20 million tons, which would be a 25% increase over the annual
average for the four years 1962/63 through 1965/66, and in line with the
program's target.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
Definition
3.01      The project would seek to provide sustained increases in farmers'
incomes and in government revenues during a period of declining export
prices due to loss of privileged markets and decreasing support prices for
groundnuts. Its main objective would be to ensure that the rate of produc-
tion of groundnuts and millet in the project area continues to increase,
both by bringing additional land under cultivation and by increasing yields.
Improved seeds and more efficient services to the cooperatives would play
their part in bringing this about, but increasing yields would be mainly
due to increasing rates of fertilizer application. The project would con-
tinue some of the more effective services provided by the current production
improvement program in the groundnut basin, and would improve some of the
organizational weaknesses revealed through the operation of the program to
date.  It would cover the three-year period 1969/70 through 1971/72.   It
would provide, through BNDS and the cooperatives, further credit for the
purchase by farmers of farm implements, draft animals and fertilizer. It
would improve the functioning and efficiency of the supply, marketing and
technical assistance services of ONCAD by meeting the cost of qualified
management services, which would be responsible for reorganizing and assist-
ing in the management of ONCAD for the three-year period. It would also
provide funds for overseas fellowships for ONCAD staff. Finally, by meeting
their cost, it would ensure that the services to cooperatives at present
being provided through the extension services would be continued until more
suitable alternative arrangements could be worked out.
Project Area
3.02      The project.would be confined to that area of the groundnut basin
in which an extension service is provided under the production improvement
program (see Map 2). This covers about 85% of the groundnut basin, and
excludes the very marginal areas. The project area comprises three specific
zones (North, Center and South), within each of which the conditions of
climate, pedology and demography are relatively homogeneous.   There are,
hmoever, substantial variations between them. Yields increase progressively
from the North to the South Zone, due mainly to higher rainfall and better
soil fertility. Area cultivated would increase by one-quarter, from



- 6 -
2.0 million ha to 2.5 million ha over the three-year period. This increase
wiould be partly due to an increase in the area under fallow which would rise
from the present 12% to about 18% over the project period. Most of the
increase would be in the South Zone, where the total area under cultivation
would increase by about one-third, compared with about one-fifth in the
other two zones. Except in parts of the densely cultivated area around
Diourbel, groups of farms are separated from their neighbors by belts of
idle land covered with natural vegetation. In the past there has been some
reluctance to use any part of these belts for cultivation, mainly owing to
doubts about ownership and possible disputes with adjacent groups of farms.
The demand to farm more land which arises from the increasing use of draft
implements has led to increasing cultivation of these belts, and the recent
law to improve land tenure has eased problems of oiwmership and disputes.
The increase in the area cultivated under the project would be met by addi-
tional cultivation in these belts. land clearance would be done by the
farmers themselves.
3.03      Total rural population in the project area is at present almost
one million, of which about half is in the Center Zone, one-third in the
South, and the balance in the North. The overall increase in population
over the project period would be about 5%; 3% each ir. the North and Center
Zones by natural growth, and 9% in the South Zone, of which 6% (2% per year)
would be due to immigration from other areas of Senegal. Total number of
farmers is 166,000, which would rise to about 176,000 at the end of the
period. The average size of a farming family is six persons, of whom four
are active. The average size of a farm is at present 11 ha, which would
rise to a little over 13 ha at the end of the period. Under farming condi-
tions in Senegal, this is a satisfactory size.
Institutional Aspects
3.04      The three institutions directly concerned with the project are
ONCAD, BNDS, and SODEVA. ONCAD would continue to be responsible for dis-
tributing farm inputs to the cooperatives, and fcr collecting their ground-
nut crops for bulk sale to OCAS, as well as for managing the groundnut seed
stockpile.  BNDS would continue to finance through the cooperatives fertil-
izer by short-term credits, and implements and some draft animals by medium-
term credits.  It would also be responsible for payment to the cooperatives
for the crops, after making deductions for farm input advances (in kind for
the seed stockpile, and in cash for the other inputs). SODEVA would con-
tinue, for the time being, to spend about half its time on providing exten-
sion services proper, and the other half on services to the farmers on behalf
of the cooperatives (para 3.22). The future provision of these latter serv-
ices would be the subject of a special study as part of the improvement in
the services provided by ONCAD.
3.05      In order to provide the necessary coordination, a Project Coordin-
ating Committee would be set up, consisting of a senior official of the
Ministry of Planning and Industry as Chairman, together with representatives
of the ministries and institutions concerned with the project as members.
Details are given in para 4.01.



-7-
Cooperatives
3.o6      Of the farmers in the project area, 55% are presently members of
cooperatives.  Although this level of membership may appear small, the
credit program is avai'lable to almost every farmer in the area, since under
the extended family system one membership covers the needs of other near
relatives. There are 876 cooperatives in the project area with an average
membership of 102 each. Each member contributes CFAF 1,000 to its share
capital, which is held by BNDS and used as a guarantee fund against credits
advanced. Credit is granted by BIDS to each cooperative as an institution,
which is responsible for repayment. The two most important officeholders
are the president and peseur ('"weighmaster"). The latter is the financial
agent responsible for weighing in the farmers' produce, and in due course
paying them for it. Some abuse of the office of peseur has been observed
in the past, and the present position is not wholly satisfactory. A solu-
tion to the problems of the office would be sought as part of the improve-
ments to be made in the services provided by ONCAD.
3.07      Proper books of account are not at present being maintained within
the cooperatives, and until improvements in the organization of ONCAD are
underway the position is unlikely to get better. However, the present
system of receiving groundnuts and paying for them through the cooperatives
has been working for many years. The collective responsibility of the
cooperative for the debts of its individual members is in keeping with the
concept of the traditional Senegalese extended family, even if individual
men,bers may at times receive unfair treatment. Although there are indica-
tions that some members are becoming increasingly dissatisfied at the lack
of financial information, particularly as to their personal indebtedness,
the project should not be held up pending the introduction of satisfactory
accounting methods and procedures. Assurances have been obtained from
Government that it will take appropriate steps to introduce, through ONCAD,
uniform accounting procedures acceptable to Bank/IDA not later than the end
of 1973. An earlier date would be impracticable in view of the many prob-
lerns involved.
Credit Procedures
3.08      BNDS imposes a credit limit on each farmer of 25%o of his last
year's sales of groundnuts through the cooperative to ONCAD. Requests for
credit are developed during the preceding summer by the extension workers
in consultation with each individual farmer, and include financing for
fertilizer, farm implements and some animals. The forms covering the de-
mands of each farmer within each cooperative are made out in quintuplicate,
and individual copies are forwarded to BNDS, ONCAD, SODEVA and the Govern-
ment. By this means, all concerned have full information on the total
requirements for the coming year. After consideration and approval of the
proposed lending program at various regional levels and subsequent Govern-
ment approval of the total at cabinet level, ONCAD places the necessary
orders for fertilizers and implements, and BNDS calculates its total credit
requirements. IJhen the goods arrive at local ONCAD storehouses, they are
distributed to farmers who arrange their own transportation to their farms.
At harvest time members bring their groundnuts to the cooperative's own
storage area and are given receipts for the quantities delivered. ONCAD



- 8 -
duly takes delivery and advises BMDS of the quantities for marketing, after
deducting the seed stockpile requirements. BNDS calculates the deductions
for repayments due on credits advanced, after which payment is made through
MCAhD and the cooperatives to the farmers. A small part of the payment
(about 3%) is retained and paid later in the season, when the farmers' food
and cash reserves are at their miniraumn. By this means the requirements for
the seed stoclkmile and repayments of credit are made a first charge on the
proceeds of the harvest, and the risk of bad debts to BIDS is thereby mini-
mized. These procedures would be continued under the project, except that
the regional representatives of BIHS would make payments direct to the coop-
eratives instead of through OIJCAD, and the necessary coordination would be
ensured through the Project Coordinating Committee (para 4.01).
Provision of Farm Inputs
3.09      Seeds and pesticides.  Full details of farm inputs are given in
Annex 6. ONICAD maintains the groundnut seed stockpile which supplies over
80% of the country's total annual requirement of seed, which at present is
almost 110,000 tons. Before they can sell the balance of their production,
farmers receiving credit hand in at harvest time 125 kg of unshelled nuts
for every hectare they intend to farm in the following year. At sowing time
they are supplied with 100 kg of unshelled seed nuts for every 125 kg handed
in, the extra 25 kg being eventually sold to pay for the running of the stock-
pile. ONCAD's management of the seed stockpile has been unsatisfactory.
Inappropriate storage, handling and distribution have led to adulteration,
spoilage and waste. The provision of satisfactory technical control and
commercial management of the stoclpile would be included as part of the
improvements to be made in the services provided by ONCAD.  The use of pesti-
cides is almost exclusively confined to groundnuts, and about 80 tons per
annum are used in the proJect area. Farmers pay cash for pesticides when
collecting their groundnut seeds for sowing.
3.10      Compared with the research effort on groundnut seeds, little is
being done to improve the varieties of millet, but one promising variety has
been developed, although its impact at farm level has so far been negligible.
Government is conscious of the importance of high quality millet seed and is
increasing its efforts to get these improvements down to farm level.
3.11      Fertilizer.  For groundnuts three different fertilizer formulae are
in use (Annex 6, para 12), one in each of the zones.   That in the North in-
cludes a small quantity of molybdenum to compensate for trace element defi-
ciency. The composition of the fertilizer currently used includes a high
percentage of potash.  Experimental trials in progress do not indicate that
the application of this level of potash to groundnut crops has much, if any,
effect on groundnut yields in the project area. These trials are being vig-
orously pursued, and if the results so warrant, the fertilizer formulae will
be suitably modified. If the potash component could be reduced or eliminated,
fertilizer costs would be substantially reduced. Present cultural practices
do not include inoculation of the soil with nitrogen-fixing bacteria. While
this has not been tested in Senegal, experience elsewhere indicates that in
the long run the requirements for nitrogen fertilizer might be reduced if
inoculation was introduced. Government intends to start inoculation tests
as early as practicable. One fertilizer formula for millet is used through-
out the three zones (Annex 6, para 12).



- 9 -
3.12      Credit for fertilizer would be supplied to farmers through the
project. At present about 85% of all fertilizer used in the country is
applied to groundnut crops, most of it in the project area. Total consump-
tion in the project area for groundnuts and millet would be expected to rise
from 59,000 tons of mixed fertilizer in 1968/69 to 89,ooo in 1971/72, an
increase of about 50%. The bulk of this increase would be used for ground-
nut production, since fertilizer consumption for millet, at present around
15,000 tons per annum, would not be expected to rise more than 10% during
the period. Supplies from 1969/70 onwards would come from the local factory,
SIES (para 2.07).1/  Cost of fertilizer delivered to the farmer is
CFAF 23,000 per ton, and is not expected to rise now that fertilizer is pro-
duced locally.
3-13      Fertilizer is presently subsidized to the farmer on a differen-
tial   scale (Annex 6, Table 1), the subsidy being about 30% for groundnuts
and almost 50' for millet. These subsidies would be reduced progressively
and would be eliminated for groundnuts around 1972/73 and for millet about
two years later. Although different fertilizer prices to farmers for ground-
nut and millet production could lead to some misapplication cf fertilizer,
in practice they appear to work reasonably well? anal no serious abuse has
been noted.  1Jhile subsidies at the same rate for bcth groundnut and millet
production would have obvious advantages, any change at the present time
would be likely to confuse the farmers and disa-apt consumptlon. The most
important consideration for the next few years is to ensure that farmers
apply the fertilizer at the appropriate rates. Accordingly, no change in
the present system of subsidies is envisaged.
3.14      At the rates proposed, estimated total cost of fertilizer to the
farmer under the project would be CFAF 4.21 billion.  Estimated total cost
of' the subsidy would be CPAF 1.24 billion (US$ 5.0 million), of which
CFAFT 0.51 billion is available through 1969/70 from existing FED financing.
The Government anticipates that FED would consider financing part of the
subsidy in 1970/71 and subsequent years, until it is eliminated. The farm
budget estimates demonstrate that on the diminishing subsidies proposed, farm
incomes would continue to increase (Aniex 6, Table 7).
3.15      Implements.  All implements and carts required would be supplied
through the project on credit to the farmers. At the present time about 75%
of the project farmers own seeders, 50C0 cultivators, and 20% harvesters.  At
the end of the project period these percentages would be expected to increase
substantially, with well over 90% of farmers owning seeders.   Carts would be
supplied as replacement for existing units, but no increase in their numbers
is colntemplated. Total project requirements would be about 213,000 imple-
ments and 11,000 carts, with a total value of about CFAF 2.h billion (US$ 9.8
million). Of this, about CFAF 1.1 billion (45%) would be for replacement of
existing implements and carts.
1/ For the 1968/69 season SIES supplied 11,000 tons in the project area.



- 10 -
3.16      Kost of the implements at present in use arxd some of the carts have
been manufactured by a local factory, SISCOHiA (Societe Industrielle Senegal-
aise de Constructions Hiecaniques et de Niateriels Agricoles), which was set up
in 1963 to fabricate agricultural and other machinery. BNDS holds 45% of its
share capital, and the balance is held by private enterprise. SISCOMA is
well managed and its financial position is satisfactory. It is well able to
meet the project requirements for implements. It fixes its own selling
prices, and so far these have always been below the cif prices of equivalent
imported equipment. There is no formal understanding between it and the
Government as to its selling prices to meet project requirements. Since,
however, part of the loan/credit would be used to finance 75% of the total
cost of implements under the project, assurances have been given by the
Government that OMCAD would procure implements for the project on the basis
of local competitive bidding, extended to local agents of overseas manufac-
turers as well as SISCO.HA. A survey made of such agents shows that a suffi-
cient number would be interested to make local bidding meaningful, provided
that each consignment was not too small. Assurances have also been given
that bids could be made on part or the whole of the requirements for imple-
ments, that each consignment would be large enough to obtain favorable ship-
ping rates from port of loading, that if a contract was awarded to an import-
er the necessary import licenses and foreign exchange would be made avail-
able, and that OHCAD would retain the right to award the whole or part of
any invitation to bid to the best qualified bidder.
3.17      Draft animals. At present almost 70p of farmers in the project
area own draft animals, and at the end of the project period the percentage
wou?Ld be expected to rise to over 80. Horses, the most numerous and the
most expensive of the draft animals, would be held at their present level.
The biggest numerical increase would be in donkeys. However, part of the
resources of the extension services would be concentrated on increasing the
pairs of oxen in use. At present only 1% of the farmers own oxen. This
concentration would be mainly in the South Zone, where rainfall is higher
and the prospects for the use of oxen are encouraging. About 10% more farm-
ers own seeders, the most extensively used implement, than own draft animals,
and this imbalance is expected to remain at the end of the project period.
This is not considered a problem, since draft animals are frequently borrowed
by neighboring farmers to work their own implements, and without any deleter-
ious effect on overall production.
3.18      Animals financed under the project through credit would be confined
to all the oxen required. Farmers would make their own arrangements for buy-
ing horses and donkeys. No difficulty is anticipated in meeting the project
requirements for animals from within the country. Total requirements for
draft animals for the project would be about 48,000 donkeys, 28,500 horses,
and over 11,000 pairs of oxen, at a cost of about CFAF 1.48 billion (US$ 5.9
million). Of this total about CFAF 1.00 billion (two-thirds) would be for
replacement of existing animals. Cost of oxen supplied on credit would be
about CFhF 0.51 billion.  It is proposed that ONCAD would pay the sellers of
the oxen. The precise method of payment has yet to be worked out, but would
be included in the ONCAD reorganization proposals.



- 11 -
B. Detailed Features
The Credit Progpram
3.19      Total cost of farm inputsi/ for the three project years would be
about CFAF 10.0 billion (US$ 40.0 million) and detailed estimates are at
Annex 6, Table 6. Credit requirements would be about two-thirds of the
total, as follows:
CFAF billions             1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   Total     (%)
Implements                 0.77      0.77      0.82       2.36   ( 33)
Draft animals              0.12      0.18       0.21      0.51   ( 7)
Total medium-term          0.89      0.95       1.03      2.87   ( o0)
Fertilizer (short-term)    1.07      1.39       1.74      4.20   ( 60)
Total credit            1.96       2.34      2.77      7.07   (100)
The fertilizer credit is seasonal, and would, therefore, be completely repaid
before advances were made for the next season. Thus, BNDS incremental cap-
ital requirements to finance the fertilizer program would be about CFAF 0.86
billion, being the difference between the 1968/69 advances of CFAF 0.88
billion and the 1971/72 figure. The total sum required to finance the pro-
ject credit program would thus be about CFAF 3.73 billion, of which CFAF 2.87
billion (77%) medium-term and CFAF 0.86 billion (23%) short-term.
3.20      Credits to cooperatives for fertilizer would be advanced an an
annual interest rate of 5%, and be repayable at the end of the season. Cred-
its for farm implements and draft o::en would be advanced at a rate of 5.5%,
repayable over a period of five years without any grace period. The credit
procedure outlined in para 3.08 would be followed. Individual farmers would
receive credit only in kind, and they would repay their loans through the
cooperatives by deductions from crop proceeds.  The cooperatives would be
recouped for any additional costs and/or losses which they incurred by making
further deductions from the farmers' crop proceeds. Actual interest rates to
farmers could thus be expected to exceed 5.5%, though they are likely to
remain somewhat below the commercial bank rate of 8%.
Management and Extension Services
3.21      In the past the main restraints on production have included the
untimely availability of farm inputs and the poor quality of the seeds sup-
plied from the stockpile. This has been to a large extent due to the very
poor management of ONCAD and its predecessor institutions (para 4.10). Gov-
ernment is fully aware of the need to reorganize ONCAD, and in October 1968
invited suitably qualified consultants to review the current operations, and
1/ Pesticides, fertilizer, implements (cost and maintenance), and
draft animals (cost and upkeep).



- 12 -
subsequently to supply such management and other services as would be neces-
sary to implement the recommendations made for operational improvement. A
copy of the letter of invitation and terms of reference is attached as
Annex 3.  Evaluation of the replies received would be made by the Government,
and negotiation of the contrac-t with the successful consultant would be made
in cooperation with Bank/IDA, probably in January/February 1969. The prin-
cipal objective would be to reorganize ONCAD over three years, so that at
the end of that period it would be able to operate efficiently with trained
Senegalese staff with the minimum assistance from specialist expatriate
staff. The contract would be in two phases, the initial phase covering 60
days, at the end of which the consultant would submit a comprehensive report
covering reorganization over a further period of three years. The subsequent
plhase would cover the agreed management services for the three years. The
total cost cannot be evaluated precisely until the consultant has been selec-
ted. TIeanwhile, it has been tentatively estimated at US' 2.75 million, made
up of US$ 2.50 million to co-ver the cost of supplying the management serv-
ices, plus US1. 0.25 million for counterpart training. The estimate for
management services includes 50 man-years of senior experts (20 in the first
and 15 in each subsequent year) and the essential overhead ex=penses. The
estimate for counterpart training covers the total cost of overseas fellow-
ships for key Senegalese management personnel. The cost of management serv-
ices and counterpart training would be included in the project.
3.22      About half the time of the SODEVA extension workers in the field
is spent on providing services to the farmers on behalf of the cooperatives.
Services include preparation of annual individual farm input requirements,
help with the weighing in of the harvest, with payments for crops, and with
the semi-annual meetings of the cooperatives. These latter services are
partly occasioned by the lack of proper cooperative accounts. Nominally the
provision of cooperative services is the responsibility of ONCAD, and the
contract of the management consultants would include a review of the serv-
ices required by the cooperatives, both those currently being performed by
the extension service and those not at present covered (cooperative accounts).
This would take the form of a report, one year after the second phase of the
contract commences, advising whether ONCAD, Government, or some other organ-
ization should provide these services, what should be their function and
scope, and to what extent ONCAD would be able to contribute to their imple-
mentation. In the interim the contract between the Government and SODEVA
(para 4.08) would ensure that the extension service continues to give its
current services to farmers on behalf of the cooperatives. The cost of the
services provided by SODEVA to the cooperatives, estimated at US$ 2.52
million, would be included in the project.



- 13 -
Project Cost Estimates
3.23      The estimated total cost of the project is CFAF 6 billion (US$ 24
million), as follows:
Total project cost        Foreign exchange
CFAF     US$             CFAF     US$
Expressed in          billion million    %I'   billion  million   %2/
I.   Farm inputs
Implements            2.36     9.44   40       o.64     2.56   27
Animals               1.50     6.00   25        --       --    --
Fertilizer            o.86     3.44   14       0.50     2.00   58
Total               4.72    i8.88   79       1.14     4.56   23
II. Technical services
ONCAD management      0.69     2.75   11       0.44     1.75   64
SODEVA cooperative
services            o.63     2.52   10       0.18     0.70   28
Total               1.32     5.27   21       0.62     2.45   46
III. Grand total             6.04    24.15  100       1.76     7.01   29
_/   Percent of total project cost.
2/   Percent of item cost.
(a)  Costs for implements and draft animals are based on prices
prevailing in Senegal at the end of May 1968.3/ The
foreign exchange component of the implements assumes they
would be procured from SISCOIKA;
(b)  Cost of fertilizer covers the i-ncremental requirements of
BNDS to finance fertilizer distributed under the project
(para 3.19);
(c)  Cost of ONCAD management services is in accordance with
para 3.21;
(d)  Cost of SODEVA cooperative services covers one-half of the
cost of the extension service in the project area, exclusive
of counterpart training (paras 3.22 and 4.09).
In late June the Government decided to raise legal minimum salaries
in the private sector by 25%. This is expected to have some impact
on the costs of industrial production within Senegal, including
farm implements and fertilizer supplied for this project. It is
too early yet to determine the precise effect of this on the project.



- 14 -
Project Finance
3.24      Sources of funds to finance the project would be as follows:
CFhF        US$
Expressed in             billion    million      %
Farmers' contribution     0.97        3.88       16
BMDS resources            2.00        8.00      34
Government funds          0.69         2.77     11
Bank/IDA loan/credit      2.36        9.50      39
Total                   6.04       24.15     100
(a)  Farmers' contribution would cover the cost of the draft
horses and donkeys;
(b) BMDS resources of CFAF 2.00 billion would cover 25% of the
cost of the implements, the full cost of the oxen, and the
incremental fertilizer credit. The proposed financing of
BNDS is discussed in para 4.04;
(c) Funds for which Government would be directly responsible
for providing, CFAF 0.69 billion, are for the balance of
the cost of ONCAD management, and the SODEVA cooperative
services not provided through the loan/credit.
CCC' has indicated that it is prepared to contribute about CFAF 0.45 billion
(US,: 1.8 million) by way of long-term loan towards the total cost of the
extension service in the project area, presently estimated at about
CFAF 1.47 billion (Annex 2, para 12), so that with CFAF 0.18 billion from
the loan/credit, Government would be responsible for providing the balance
of about CFAF 0.84 billion. Government would also be responsible for pro-
viding finance for part of BNDS resources and for the fertilizer subsidy,
towards which FED has agreed to contribute CFAF 0.51 billion in 1969/70 and
indicated it may consider contributing in subsequent years, until the subsidy
is phased out.
3.25      The Bank/IDA loan/credit of CFAF 2.38 billion (Us$ 9.5 million)
would be made up as follows:
CFAF        US$
ExDressed in                   billion    million      %
Implements                      1.73        6.92      73
ONCAD management services       0.38        1.50      16
ONCAD counterpart training      0.06         0.25      3
SODEVA cooperative services     0.18         0.70      7
Unallocated                     0.03         0.13      1
Total                          2.38        9.50    100



- 15 -
(a) The allocation for implements would cover 75% of their cost
up to a maximum of US$ 6.92 million, aind would be on-lent
by Government to BI\DS at 3.5% for 14 years, including a
grace period of four years (para 4.03);
(b)  The US. 1.50 million for O0NCAD management services would
cover the actual foreign exchange component of the cost of
these services, which has been tentatively estimated at 60%
of their total cost (para 3.21);
(c)  The sum of USp 0.25 million for counterpart training within
ONCAD would cover the total cost of such training;
(d)  The US$ 0.70 million for SODEVA cooperative services would
cover the foreign exchange component of these services,
estimated at 60% of half the total cost of expatriate
personnel employed by SODEVA (Annex 2, para 12).
Procurement and Disbursement
3.26      Procurement of the implements required under the project would be
on the basis of local competitive bidding, as set out in para 3.16. Disburse-
ment of loan/credit funds for implements would be on the basis of 75% of sums
advanced by BMDS to ONCAD for implements purchased, up to a total of US$ 6.92
million. Due to planning requirements, ONCAD had to place orders for some
of the implements and carts needed for the 1969/70 planting season before it
was clear that Bank/IDA financing could be forthcoming. Some of these were
placed with SISCOMA, without competitive bidding. They amount to about
USr, 760,000, and during negotiations it was agreed that this sum would be
met out of the Bank/IDA loan/credit.
3.27      Disbursement of loan/credit funds for ONCAD management services
would be limited to the actual foreign exchange cost of these services. Dis-
bursement would be in accordance with procedures to be established during
negotiation of the managemenrt contract. Disbursement procedures for Bank/IDA
funds for ONChD counterpart training would also be agreed during negotiation
of the contract.
3.28      Disbursement of loan/credit funds for SODEVA cooperative services
would be on the basis of 30% of the total cost of expatriate personnel second-
ed to, or working directly for, SODEVA. The estimate of their total cost is
CFAF 628 million (USq 2.5 million) (Annex 2, para 12).
3.29      In view of the protracted period between first appraisal and nego-
tiation of the loan/credit, Government asked for some retroactive financing
to be considered. During negotiations, it was agreed that retroactive financ-
ing back to October 1, 1968 would be accepted.  The total sum is not expected
to exceed US$ 1 million, and would consist of the US$ 760,000 for implements
ordered from SISCOMIA (para 3.26), about US$ 150,000 for carts already ordered
for the 1968/69 planting season from SISCOIA under Government bidding pro-
cedures, and about US$ 50,000 for SODEVA expatriate staff to the end of 1968.



- 16 -
3.30      On the basis of the above, disbursement of project funds over
the project period would be approximately as follows:
US$ million               1969/70    1970/71    1971/72    Total
Farmers' contribution       1.40       1.28       1.20      3.88
BNDS resources              2.40       2.75        2.85      8.00
Governm.ent funds           1.04       0.92       0.81       2.77
Bank/IDA funds              3.36       3.14       3.00       9.50
Total                     8.20        8.09       7.86     24.15
The TDA credit would be disbursed before the Bank loan, and would be ex-
hausted sometime late in 1970/71.
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND 1ANAGEYENT
Project Coordination
4.01      The successful execution of the project depends to a very large
extent upon close cooperation between BNDS, ONCAD, SODEVA and the Govern-
ment, and upon a high standard of management of the three institutions.
Cooperaticn between ENDS, SODEVA and the Government is at present very good,
but has no formal basis. During negotiations, Government agreed that a
Pi-oject Coordinating Committee would be set up by Presidential Decree with
the Secretary of the Groundnut Committee, the Directors General of BNDS,
ONCAD, SODEVA, a representative each of the Ministries of Finance, of
Planning and Industry, and of Rural Development as members, and with a
senior official nominated by the Nfinister of Planning and Industry as
Chairman.  The Committee would ensure the close coordination and coopera-
tion of the member organizations and Government in the execution of the
project through procedures which would be laid down in the Decree. The
precise method of procuring and financing farm implements would be set out
in an addendum to the Decree. A summary of the main provisions of the
Decree is at Annex 7.
BN_DS
4.02      BNDS (Annex 3) was formed in 1964 by the fusion of two existing
credit institutions, and is responsible for providing financial and tech-
nical help for all projects concerned with the social and economic develop-
ment of Senegal. In practice it has concentrated on agricultural and
industrial development, and the high level of other credit it inherited has
been steadily reduced. Its fixed capital is CFAF 1.36 billion, of which
Government owns 56%, CCCE 28%, and BCEA0!/ 7%. Its total assets are now
of the order of CFAF 12 billion. Since its inception it has followed a
prudent financial policy. It has consistently been profitable, and has
built up adequate reserves, which at September 30, 1967 were equivalent to
1/ Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest, the Central Bank
of the West African Monetary Union.



- 17 -
more than one and a half times its bad and douibtful debts. It is competent-
ly directed, and its staff, all of whom are Senegalese, are generally well
trained and efficient. Based on its past per-ormance, BNDS is considered
to be a suitable institution to administer the credits to cooperatives under
the project.
4.03      BITS makes credit and loans available for most purposes at 5% per
annum short-term and 5.5% medium and long-term. Most of its long-term and
rnedium-term loan capital (mainly from BCEAO and CCCE) is borrowed at 3.5%,
which gives it a margin of 1.5 to 2.0%. Its accounts demonstrate that on
this margin it has in the past been able to meet its administrative expen-
ses and accumulate adequate reserves. Accordingly, it is proposed that the
Bank/IDA loan/credit for implements would be on-lent by Governmrent to BNDS
at 3.5% (para 3.25), and that for the time being BNDS would continue to
make loans at its current interest rates. It would be a condition of
effectiveness of the loan/credit that an agreement covering the terms and
conditions of on-lending by Government to BNDS, and satisfactory to Bank/
IDA, had been signed.
4.04      The CFAF 1.73 billion (US$ 6.92 million) of the loan/credit on-
lent to BNDS would cover BI\IS financial requirements for medium-term agri-
cultural credit during the project period (Annex 4, para 26). BNDS would
be able to meet the balance of the total project short-term financial re-
quirements for fertilizer in the project area through its present discount-
ing facilities with BCEAO and the Treasury. However, it has other financial
conmitments, including provision of funds for the marketing of the groundnut
crop each year, and for long-term investment in industry. Accordingly,
during negottations assurances were obtained that Government would undertake
that BNDS was provided with adequate resources for all purposes on terms and
conditions satisfactory to Bank/IDA, and that its constitution would not be
altered without prior Bank/IDA approval. BNDS in its turn would undertake
to continue to charge interest on all its loans and credits such as to
enable it to cover all its operating expenses, to maintain adequate provi-
sions for bad and doubtful debts and to maintain adequate reserves.
4.05      Auditing is at present carried out by one appointee each of Gov-
ernment and CCCi. This arrangement is not acceptable to Bank/IDA, and pro-
vision for independent annual audits from 1968 onwards was confirmed during
negotiations. Arrangements are in hand for a French accounting firm,
Fiduciaire France-Afrique-Senegal, with offices in Dakar, to make the audit
for fiscal 1967 and 1968. No other suitably qualified firms operate in
Senegal.
Extension Services
4.06      Until July 1968, SATEC provided the extension service in the pro-
ject area under a 1964 agreement with the Government. Its operations are
described in more detail in Annex 2. It has been responsible for training
a cadre of competent extension workers, together with some of the necessary
supporting staff of senior officers. Total cost of the service for the
three-year period 1965 through 1967 was CFAF 1.2 billion (US$ 4.8 million).



- 18 -
Extension workers in the field now number 700, witli a further 85 seniors, of
whom 36 are expatriates. The numbers of expatriates have been declining, but
some difficulty has been experienced in finding suitable Senegalese to take
over the top positions. The extension workers are recruited from litexates
in the villages, and given training in simple techniques which they pass on
to the farmers. Each worker is responsible for an average of about 230 farm-
ers. They now enjoy the confidence of the farmers and have contributed to
the improvement in farming techniques achieved to date. The SATEC operation
has been well organized and managed. The simplicity of its technical program
has enabled inexperienced villagers to be readily trained into field workers
and to carry out their clearly defined part of the operation. A very good
esprit de corps has already been built up.
4.07      Under its agreement with the Government, SATEC undertook to provide
an extension service in the project area with the objectives of increasing
groundnut production, diversifying production (particularly by promoting in-
creased millet production), promoting more intensive cultivation by the intro-
duction of draft animals and more modern farming methods, and forming an
extension service outside of the existing public service capable of contin-
uing the work after it leaves. Its impact on increased groundnut production
has not been as great as was hoped, partly because the prospects of a sig-
nificant increase in production are limited in about half the area by natural
conditions of soil and rainfall. Furthermore, the ready availability of
additional land for cultivation and the limitations on the timely availabilit:r
of farm inputs have reduced the potentialities of this relatively intensive
extension service (para 3.21). Additionally, about half the time of its
staff has been spent on providing a service for the cooperatives (para 3.22),
a role not usually associated with an extension service.
4.08      In order to transform the extension service into a wholly Senegal-
ese institution, SODEVA was set up to take over the SATEC operations in July
1968 (Annex 2, part C). All the Senegalese staff have been transferred to
SODEVA on the same terms and conditions of employment. SATEC, under an agree-
ment with SODEVA, will provide management services and expatriate personnel
during the first three years of SODEVA's existence. The SATEC mission chief
has been appointed Director General of SODEVA up to June 30, 1969, when a
Senegalese will take over. The number of expatriates will be reduced from
42 in 1968/69 to eight in 1970/71. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that the constitution of SODEVA would not be amended without prior
Bank/IDA approval.
4.09      Combined cost of the whole of the SATEC/SODEVA operation in the
project area is estimated to be of the order of CFAF 1.47 billion (uts 5.9
million) over the project period, including counterpart training (CFAF 0.21
billion, or US.$ 0.85 million). The cost of expatriates would average 43% of
this total, but would diminish rapidly from 52% of the cost in the first year
to 27% in the third and would be expected to decline further in subsequent
years. The cost to the project of the SATEC/SODEVA services on behalf of the
cooperatives (CFAF 0.63 billion, or US$ 2.52 million) covers half the cost of
staff (Senegalese and expatriate) and overhead expenses. Of this, expatriate
staff accounts for CFAF 0.31 billion (US$ 1.24 million).



- 19 -
ONCAD
4.10      ONCAD's main duties in the project area are to provide a service
to cooperatives, including the provision of farm inputs, the primary mar-
keting of their groundnuts, management of the seed stockpile, and technical
services. ONCAD was formed in October 1966 to succeed regional farmers'
organizations, but the responsibility for farm inputs and for primary mar-
keting was not added until a year later. It was clear from the start that
a drastic reorganization was necessary before ONCAD could operate efficient-
ly. As a prerequisite to reorganization, Government appointed SATEC to
report on its organization and functioning. The main findings of the report
are:
(a) help to cooperatives is minimal;
(b) management of the seed stockpile is unsatisfactory;
(c) it is overstaffed and inefficiently organized;
(d) accounts are unsatisfactory and in arrears; and
(e)  as a result, operating costs are abnormally high.
4.11      The reorganization proposals of SATEC are in three parts, con-
cerned with overall policy, internal organization and operation, and staf-
fing policy. As to overall policy, ONCAD should be prepared to divest
itself of those operations which could be done more efficiently by private
enterprise, in particular by selling off its transport fleet, thereby re-
ducing its staff from the present level of about 1,600 to below 1,000, and
eliminating the greatest single loss element in its operations. As to
or,,anization and operation, management should be in two parts, one concerned
with the commercial aspects of providing farm inputs and marketing services,
and the other with providing technical services to cooperatives (instruction
in cooperative methods, bookkeeping, etc.). The commercial services should
be reorganized with some 20 commercial centers in the groundnut basin con-
trolling the many village depots. A small transportation bureau in Dakar
should be set up to control the movement of transport and to use it effi-
ciently. Of great importance to the project, the seed stockpile should be
reorganized to include technical supervision by a technical authority.
Revision of the whole of the administrative, accounting and executive serv-
ices is also recommended. As to staffing policy, the more qualified of
the remaining staff should be retrained and the rest dismissed, which would
leave no more than 500 to 600 personnel on completion of the retraining
program. Government is in general agreement with the main findings of the
SAThC review but has reservations on the advisability of transferring the
transport fleet to private enterprise.
4.12      The Bank and IDA are cooperating with the Government to find a
suitable  firm to help     manage ONCAD, and participation in the project
would be conditional on the Government appointing a firm acceptable to,
and on terms and conditions approved by, Bank/IDA. It would be a condition
of effectiveness of the loan/credit that the chosen firm had been engaged.
Invitations to study the problems and make proposals have been sent out to
selected firms, and it is anticipated that the choice of consultants will
be made in January/February 1969 (para 3.21). The financing of ONCAD would
be one of the subjects to be considered and reported upon by the consul-
tants. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that ONCAD's con-
stitution would not be altered or amended during the disbursement period
without prior Bank/IDA approval.



- 20 -
OCA_
14.13     ONC0D. has the monopoly for buyring groundnuts from the cooperatives
and is responsible for their bul' sale to OCAS.  OCAS (Annex 5), which was
formed on October 1, 1967, is responsible for the bulk marketing of ground-
nuts, as well as the importation of white rice for consumption.   Its pred-
ecessor had the additional responsibility of providing farm inputs, now
transferred to ONCAD. However, it has relatively greater responsibilities
for marketing groundnuts, having now to sell in world markets instead of in
the protected French market. As newly constituted and with two advisors to
advise the Director General on financial and commercial affairs, it is cap-
able of marketing the crop satisfactorily.
V. PRODUCTION, NARn-TS AMB FARMERS' BENEFITS
Production
5.01      Total production of groundnuts in the project area is estimated to
rise from 0.82 million tons in 1968/69 to 1.21 million in 1971/72, an in-
crease of almost 50, over the project period, which would be accounted for
by approximately equal increases in area and in average yield. After allow-
ing for seed requirements, local consumption and losses in storage, about
0.99 million tons would be available for marketing in 1971/72 compared with
an estimated 0.67 million tons in 1968/S9, an increase of over 40%. Total
production of millet is estimated to rise from 0.40 million tons in 1968/69
to 0049 million in 1971/72, an increase of almost one-quarter over the pro-
ject period. This would be accounted for by an increase in area of about
16% and an increase in average yield of 55.
iMarkets and Marketing
5.02      The prospects of the international groundnut market are discussed
in Annex 5 in more detail.  The projections indicate a general increase in
the grotAh rate of output in both developing and developed countries, and a
very moderate growth in imports. The possible increase in consumption in
developing countries would, in the next few years, mainly come from domestic
and subsistence production and would thus have little impact on the world
market. In the short term prices are not likely to be affected substantially
and present forecasts indicate a cif (European ports) export price by 1970/71
of about CFAF 40,300 per ton, as compared wzith an average of CFAF 43,500 for
1967 and CFAF 40,500 for the first half of 1968. The 1967 average masks a
year of declining prices, from CFAF 46,ooo per ton at the beginning, to
CFAF 37,500 at the end.
5.03      Past policy for the producer price for groundnuts in Senegal has
been dependent on the preferential market price in France, the size of the
fertilizer subsi&-r and the requirements for Government revenue. Although
the preferential market price has been abolished, EEC is giving some price
support through 1969/70 (Alxnnex 5, para 10), but for 1970/71 onwards Senegal
will be entirely dependent upon world market prices for its earnings from
groundnuts. Government declares the price at which ONCAD will buy ground-
nuts from the cooperatives before the harvest each year, and reduced the



- 21 -
average producer price (which had been constant since 196L) by 15% to
C'FAf 17.8 per kg for '967/68.  This reduction was not sufficient to cover
the entire fall in export earnings, and consequently there was some reduc-
tion in Goverinment income during that 7year. For the project years such
income wgould, however, show a steady improvement, from an estimated CFAF 4.1
billion in 1968/69 to CFAF 5.1 billion in 1971/72. In the project estimates
a reduction in the average producer price in the project area from CFAF 17.7
per kg in 1968/69 to about OFAF 16.5 in 1971/72 has been anticipated, at
which prices the incentive to the farmers would remain adequate. Govern-
ment revenue would rise (as above), while the cif export price would de-
cline from CFAF 41.9 per kg to 40.3.
5.04      A little over half the groundnuts marketed is processed locally
by the four oil millers. A recent agreement has been signed between them
and the Government setting out the method for the annual bidding for ton-
nages to be processed and the prices to be paid. The price is related to
the world market price over each ten-day period in which deliveries are
made. After a few initial difficulties it is now working satisfactorily.
GCAS sells the balance of the crop on world markets, the bulk going to
Europe. An office in Paris is maintained to ensure adequate liaison in the
European markhets.
5.05      Surplus millet is marketed locally by the farmers themselves.
The amount available for markceting would rise from 0.15 million tons in
1968/69 to 0.23 million in 1971/72.  In the project estimates, consunption
per head of the rural population has been assessed at 250 kg per annum,
and incomes calculated after making this deduction.
Farmer Incentives
5.06      The agricultural and financial estimates at farm level have been
made on thle basis of the totals for each of the three zones. It is not
practicable to work on the basis of an average individual farm unit, since
in none of the zones does the number of implements or draft animals reach
unity per farmer, and there are no reliable data available to show the
difference between farms using hand methods of cultivation and farms using
draft animals and implements in the various zones.
5.07      Total cost of farm inputs and farm incomes has been estimated for
the three zones ard for the project as a whole (Annex 6, Tables 2 through 5)
and average farmers' incomes have been summarized (Annex 6, Table 7).
These include net income per farmer after deducting cost of farm inputs,
and the figures bring out the great difference in incomes between the South
Zone and the other two, incomes in the former being about twice those in
the latter.  In terms of suitabilityfr groundnut production, the North and
Center Zones are relatively marginal when compared with the South Zone and
with Senegal Oriental and the Casamance (Annex 1, para 9). 68% of the pro-
ject farmers live in these marginal areas.  However, annual net incomes in
each of the three zones would show a steady increase over the project per-
iod in spite of the decline in groundnut buying prices, the overall average
being from CFAF 75,COO in 1968/69 to CFAF 92,000 in 1971/72. Annual incre-
mental increases in gross income and in farm inputs are included in the
tables, and show that at the fertilizer density rates and subsidies



- 22 -
proposed, the incentives to farmers to continue to use fertilizer would be
quite adequate in the Center and South 7ones, and just adequate in the North.
The tables do not show incentives for millet separately, but from calcula-
tions made these w.ould be adequate.  In accordance with these estimates,
average overall increase in net incomes to farmers wolild be over 20% over
the project period. lTlis is expected to provide sufficient incentives to
farmers to participate actively in the project.
VI. BTLTE'ITS Al) JUSTIFICATIONT
6.01      As in most agricultural projects which rely for a large part of
their success upon credit to and participation by small farmers, a quantita-
tive assessment of the overall benefits cannot be made with accuracy, but
the main benefit would be the sustained increase in production of groundnuts
and millet during the project period. This would produce increases in farm-
ers' incomes and in Government revenue during a period of loss of privileged
markets and declining price support for groundnuts. Other important benefits
would be the continued increase in the number of draft farm implements in
use, the continued improvement in farming techniques, and an overdue improve-
ment in the quality of service given to cooperatives by ONCAD, which should
in due course lead to a strengthening of the cooperatives themselves. The
anticipated improvement in thle management of the groundnut seed stockpile
should ultimately contribute to higher yields through improved seeds.
k6.02     The increase in output of groundnuts from the project should offset
the decrease in export earnings arising from the declining support of the
export price by EEC.  The increase in the amount of millet marketed locally
should strengthen its availabili-ty in the rural areas, where most of the
demand arises, and may avoid increases in imports of wheat and rice.
6.03      Thatever method is used to calculate the economic rate of return
on the project, the rate itself is bound to be high, since at the present
stage of development of farming techniques in the project area the simple
additional inputs involved produce incremental outputs of relatively high
value. The economic rate of return, based on the cost of the extension serv-
ice, management services, other capital costs of the production improvement
program, incremental cost of farm inputs for the three project years and the
incremental benefit of the increased production arising therefrom, would be
very high, since a net benefit would be shown for each year except the first.
A more realistic method would be to consider the overall impact of the pro-
duction improvement program from 1964 onwards and to include the full known
costs up to 1971/72, including those of this project. On this basis, taking
incremental groundnut production at fob prices, including the costs of trans-
portation, marketing and the extension and management services, deducting
the millet consumed by the rural population as being the opportunity cost of
labor, and calculating over a life of 10 years, the economic rate of return
would be about 25% (Annex 8). Assuming the incremental value of output for
the years 1969/70 through 1974/75 was reduced by 10%, the rate of return
would be about 20%/. Assuming this reduction in value of output was coupled
with an increase in cost of inputs of 10%o over the same years, the rate of
return would be about 14h.



- 23 -
VII. COITCLUSIONS ANt RECOTENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations the followlng agreements, assurances and
understandings were arrived at between the Bank, IDA and the Government:
(a) Uniform accounting procedures for the cooperatives acceptable
to Bank/IDA would be introduced, through ONCAD, before the
end of 1973 (para 3.07);
(b)  ONCAD would procure farm implements through local competitive
bidding procedures, and Government would make available any
necessary import licenses and foreign exchange permits
(para 3.16);
(c) A Project Coordinating Committee would be set up by Presiden-
tial Decree (para 4.01);
(d) BNDS would be provided with adequate financial resources for
all purposes on terms and conditions satisfactory to Bank/IDA,
and its constitution would not be altered without prior
Bank/IDA approval (para 4.04);
(e) BEDS would undertake to continue to charge interest on all
its loans and credits such as to enable it to cover all its
operating expenses, to maintain adequate provisions for bad
and doubtful debts and to maintain adequate reserves
(para 4.04);
(f)  Annual audits of EIDS' accounts would be made by an inde-
pendent firm of auditors (para 4.05); and
(g) The constitutions of SODEVA and ONCAD would not be altered
without prior Bank/IDA; approval (paras 4.08 and 4.12).
7.02      It would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan/credit that:
(a) an agreement between the Government and BNDS covering the
on-lend ing of the loan/credit, on terms and conditions satis-
factory to Bank/IDA, had been signed (para 4.03); and
(b)  the firm of consultants to assist in the management of ONCAD
had been engaged, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
LIank/IDA (para 4.12).
7.03      The project is technically sound and economically justified.  It
wou' d be suitable for a Bank loan o. US$ 3.5 million and an IDA credit of
USC 6.0 million.
December 24, 1968



AIMEX 1
AGRICULTURAL BACKGROU1
Main Crops
1.        Agriculture is principally a two-crop culture. Groundnuts are
grown as a cash crop in rotation with millet as a subsistence cereal. The
only other crops of any importance are rice and cassava, although small
quantities of maize, cowpeas, sweet potatoes and other vegetables are also
grown. Table 1(C) gives details of production, area and yields of the
principal crops (other than groundnuts) from 1963/64 to 1966/67.
Groundnuts
2.        Details of the production of groundnuts, including areas under
cultivation, production, quantity marketed and yields, are given in Table
1(A). Annual averages over four-year periods have been used for 1947
through 1963 ao minimize the effect of the cyclical drought, and are shown
also for the period 1963-1967. These figures show that the area under cul-
tivation is now over one million ha, and has increased by over 60% since
1947-1951. Annual production reached one million tons in 1965/66, and has
almost doubled since 1947-195i. The lower figures for 1966/67 reflect the
effect of the drought during that year. Table 1(B) gives a breakdown of
groundnut production by administrative regions for the year 1965/66 and
shows that over four-fifths of the crop comes from the three contiguous
regions of Sine Saloum, Thies and Diourbel, which are known collectively as
the "'groundnut basin". In these regions soil preparation for groundnut
planiting usually starts after the second rains in June; sowing and fertil-
izing is done at the end of June; two or three weedings are made in July
and August; and the crop is harvested in November. Harvesting is done
after the last rain of the season, if possible, because of the susceptibil-
ity of the crop to a fungus which produces toxins harmful to humans and
animals.
Millet
3.        Estimates of recent annual production of mlillet are given in
Table 1(C). Although accurate figures are not available, annual producticn
is now over half a million metric tons, and average yields are now about
500 kg/ha. This crop is grown mainly for consumption by the farmers them-
selves, but increasing quantities are finding their way into the local mar-
kets. The demand in the larger towns is relatively small owing to the
availability of more sophisticated alternatives, particularly rice and
wjhe at.
Land Tenure
h.        In 1964 a Law was enacted to improve land tenure.   Land was di-
vided into public and registered land (mainly in the towns) and national
land (mainly in the rural areas). National land was further subdivided
into various zones for specific purposes, and the balance, by far the larg-
est in area (called "zones des terroirs"), was classified for exploitation
by the rural population through rural councils, but under the ultimate



A'1:JEX 1
Page 2
control of the State. Land titles in thie accepted sense do not exist, but
each village has a committee of elders which allocates the land and has the
right to reallocate any which is not being farmed or is being mismanaged.
The traditional farm unit is the "carre" which is a group of farms worked by
members of the same family, but its significance is diminishing and the
individual farm is now the more important unit. Except in the most thickly
populated area in Diourbel (Map 1), most carres are separated from their
neighbors by belts of idle land covered with natural vegetation. In the
past there has been some reluctance to use any part of these belts for agri-
cultural purposes, mainly owing to doubts about ownership and possible dis-
putes with adjacent carres, but there is evidence that the 1964 Law has
improved the position. The increasing use of farm implements and the demand
to farm more land which arises therefrom necessitates the use of further
areas from these belts for agricultural production.
Cooperatives
5.        The cooperative movement has for some time past played a signifi-
cant role in the development of agriculture. Cooperatives were first organ-
ized by the colonial administration at the beginning of the century. Since
independence the Government has attempted to strengthen their influence among
the rural poopulation, particularly by increasing their marketing responsibil-
ities and by the expansion of rural credit through them. .VJhen first formed
a cooperative is given a trial period of two years during which it is eligi-
ble for short-term credit only; thereafter it can also obtain medium-term
credit, up to five years. Five functional types of cooperatives are in
existence, including fishing and livestock, but the only type of major im-
portance is the groundnut cooperative which was primarily organized to handle
the marketing of the crop, but whlch now has an equally important role as
the channel for agricultural credit. There are at present some 1,500 socie-
ties throughout the country.
6.        A study is at present under way to consider the possibilities of
rehabilitating and regrouping the cooperative movement so that it can play a
more active part in the agricultural development program. The major obstacle
to any regrouping is that individual cooperatives would then tend to lose
their village and family character, which is at present their main strength,
particularly over security for credit.
Fesearch
7.        Agricultural research is carried out by several institutions, of
which the most important is the Institut cis Recherches Agronomiques Tropi-
cales et des Cultures Vivrieres (IPAT), which deals mainly with genetics and
cultural improvement of crops (soil and water management, fertilizers, crop
protection, etc.). It does not in general concern itself with crops covered
by the four other more specialized French research institutes, which deal
with oil producing crops, animal protection and veterinary medicine, cotton,
sisal and tropical fruits. IRAT is a French institute, whose work in Senegal
is carried out through the National Agricultural Research Center at Bambey,
where groundnut research is concentrated. The Center has six regional re-
search stations, where work on specific problems is done and where demonstra-
tion fields have been developed.



ANIEX 1
Page 3
Development
8.        The first four-year Development Plan (1961-65) aimed at a growth
rate of 8' per year, 6% in agricultural production and 13% in industry and
mining. In practice the rate was just over 2%, although agriculture in-
creased by just over 4%. Under the Plan agriculture was to receive 13% of
the total expenditure. One of its major aims was to enlarge the Govern-
ment's role in the economy, by changing the structure of the rural market-
ing system for traditional agriculture through displacement of private
enterprise. This has largely been achieved, but with very little net gain
in output, and the difficulties which arose in the early stages have not
yet all been overcome. These include problems of management of the organi-
zations set up to put the Plan into effect.
9.        Under the Second Plan (1965-69) 24% of the total expenditure has
been allocated to agriculture. The main effort is towards diversifying
production so as to lessen as far as possible the present dependence on
groundnuts for most of Senegal's foreign exchange earnings. Diversifica-
tion plans already under way cover both subsistence and cash crops, includ-
ing rice, sugar, cotton, tobacco, and edible groundnuts. However, signifi-
cant increases in production of these crops depend upon further research,
experimentation and the development of irrigation, so that there are no
short-term prospects of a useful impact on the econoiy from them.   Crop
diversification must, therefore, be considered as a longer-term measure.
In the short-term, an expansion of agricultural production must largely
depend upon increased production of groundnuts and subsistence crops, par-
ticularly millet. The Casamance and certain parts of Senegal Oriental
wouid appear to offer the best prospects for further expansion in the near
future, and the basin of the Senegal River (which is contiguous with
Miauritania and Mali) in the longer term.  The Casamance and Oriental togeth-
er produce at present about 15% of total groundnut crops, with yields equal
to those in Sine Saloum and Thies, but with greater potential for develop-
ment.
Production Inprovement Program
10.       Since 1965 EEC has been financing a five-year production improve-
ment program through a grant from FED. The program's basic objectives are
to minimize losses in foreign exchange earnings arising from the elimina-
tion of the privileged market in France for groundnuts, and to minimize
losses in income of the farmers due to the lowered buying price for ground-
nuts necessitated by the loss of that privileged market. It was proposed
to achieve this by increasing production of groundnuts by 25% by 1970/71,
by increasing the output of millet and by diversifying production. The
main effort has been concentrated in the groundnut basin, with the emphasis
on providing an efficient and intensive extension service and on providing
fertilizer on credit at subsidized prices, both to encourage its use and
to familiarize the farmers with its potentialities in increasing yields.
In practice the extension service has also continued to encourage the use
of implements drawn by draft animals to replace the traditional hand meth-
ods of farming. These have been provided on credit, although funds for
this purpose were not included in the program.  The program also covered



hNIC, X 1
Page 4
improvements to the processing facilities at village and district levels,
and the Drovision of further storage facilities. Funds were also allocated
for seed improvement, soil conservation, to the rural expansion centers (in
the first two years of the program), and to centers for training draft oxen.
The program has been reasonably successful in that there has been an increase
in the use of fertilizer and implements as well as some improvement in farm-
ing techniques, but it is unlikely that production in 1970/71 will reach the
target of a 255% increase over 1965/66, which would amount to 1.46 million
tons.  It might, howzever, reach 1.20 million tons, which would be a 25% in-
crease over the annual average production for the four years 1962/63 through
1965/66.
11.       Funds allocated for the program total CFAF 4.9 billion (US$ 19.6
million) as follows:
CF1111 rr:.L1,ion            1965   1966   1967   1963   1969    Total
Extens%von serv1:ie           376    392    446    235     -     1.)49
Fertilizer subsidy            217    300    350    307    509    1,683
Processing facilities          --     --      7    945     --       952
Stcrage facilities             --     --     67     69     _       136
Seed improvemenaC             50     47     85     52     42       276
Sri  ccistrvatIcn                            14     4 5    70       129
RhUral expEasioi1 centers      --     --    200     --     --       200
Training c.enters              --     12     36     10     20       78
Tcte,                   603    751  1,205  1,663   601     4?-9O3
Finance for the extension service was due to finish at the end of October
1967, but was extende-. to Ju1ne 30, 1968 by using savi:?gs from other parts of
tha  -gmam.   O1 'lle ;botal su-m provided, 29% is for the extmension service
ai, 3751 for fertiH?'z-r subsi6y.



ANNE: 1
Table 1
(A) GROUNDNUT PRODUCTION
Area          Production         Yield               Marie ted
Year            ('000 ha)       (2000 tons)       (ke/ha)        ('000 tona)   (%) (1)
1947 - 1951 (Av)         672             561             835              414s     74
1951 - 1955 (Av)         687             552             804              458      83
1955 - 1959 (Av)         815             759             931              675      89
1959 - 1963 (Av)         981             908             926              787      87
1963/64                1,084)            952)            878)             782      82
1964/65                1,055)1,088(Av) 1,019)l,022(Av)   966)940 (Av)     839      82
1965/66                1,114)          1,168)          1,048              984      84
1966/67                1,100)            950)            864              760      80
1967/68 (2)            1,150           1,060             953              870      82
(1):  Percent of total production narketed
(2):  Estimated and provisiosl.
Source:  IBRD and Ministry of Rural Development
(B) GROUNDNUT PRODUCTION BY AI2NISTRATIVE REGIONS
1965/66
Area          Production         Yield               Marie tad
Region           ('000 ha)       ('000 tons)        (kg/ha)       ('000 tons)   (%) (2)
Sine Saloum (1)          499             555           1,112              467      47
Thies (1)                146             150           1,027              128      13
Diourbel (1)             285             277             972              242      25
Subtotal              930             982           1,056              837      85
River                     27              16             589                4        -
Oriental                  35              36           1,051               34       4
Casamance                118             132           1,116              108      11
Cap-Vert                   4               2             500                1       -
Total              1,114           1,168           1,048              984     100
(1): Areas in which the extension service covers 00,000 ha approximately
(2): Percent of total nnrketed
Sources: BCUO and Ministry a Rural Development
(C) MLIN AGRICULTURAL CROPS
(other than groundnuta)
1963/64        1964/65        1965/66        1966/67
(i)   Production ('000 tons)
Millst                       478            532            554            423
Rice (piLddy)                106            110            122            125
Cowpeas                       14             17             14             16
Cassava                      152            156            150            241
Maize                         27             37             40             40
Market gardening              31             32             32             32
Total                    808            884            912            877
(ii) Cultivated area ('000 ha)
Millet                       959          1,010          1,069             -
Rice (paddy)                  75             86             82             -
Cowpeas                       51             56             53             -
Cassava                       34             33             38             -
Maize                         33             47             54             -
Marie t gardening              3              3              3             -
Total                  1,155          1,235          1,299             -
(iii ) Yielda (kg/ha)
millet                       490            530            520             -
Rice (paddy)               1,410          1,280          1,490             -
Covweas                      270            300            260             -
Cassava                    4,4701 4,730                  3,950             -
Maize                        820            790            740             -
Source:  IBRD and Ministry of Rural Development



ANNEX 2
EXTENSION SERVICES
A. Background
1.        The provision of extension services is nominally the responsibil-
ity of the Ministry of Rural Development, but the only effective services
are those provided until recently by SATEC in the groundnut basin, and by
CFDT in Senegal Oriental on a very small scale for cotton producers. The
"Centers of Rural Expansion" operated by Government, which nominally pro-
vide extension services in agriculture, medicine, veterinary and other rural
social work are relatively ineffective. In 1963, when investigating the
introduction of the production improvement program, Government considered
that nothing effective could be done without the provision of an extension
service capable of meeting the needs of the rural population in the ground-
nut basin. This required the building up of an effective organization in
the shortest possible time, and SATEC was entrusted with this work. As
from July 1968, a new Senegalese organization, Societe de Developpement et
de Vulgarisation Agricole (SODEVA), has taken over responsibility from
SATEC for this service in the groundnut basin (para 10 below).
B. SATEC
Constitution and Organization
2.        The Societe d'Aide Technique et de Cooperation (SATEC) was formed
in France in 1956 as a state organization responsible to the French Minis-
tries of Finance and of Overseas Departments and Territories. Its objec-
tives are to give assistance (both in France and overseas) for the develop-
ment of production, in particular for the small-scale farmers and fishermen
and for small-scale industries. Assistance is generally in the form of
technical aid, particularly by supporting specialist organizations such as
cooperative societies formed for the production and marketing of agricul-
tural produce. It is also empowered to make social and economic studies.
SATEC was set up with a capital of 12 million French francs (US$ 2.4 mil-
lion). Its head office is in Paris. It is required to conform to the
French laws for private enterprises. It is administered by an Administra-
tive Council of 22 members, representing the various ministries and organi-
zations concerned with home and overseas development. Most of the duties
of the Council have been delegated to two executive committees of nine
members each, one responsible for activities within France and the other
for activities overseas.
3.        In the field of agriculture SATEC has three projects in France,
has projects in five territories outside Africa, and is also working in
Senegal and five other African countries. Projects include rural land re-
form, improvement of smallholder groundnuts, bananas, sugar beet and rice,
and a number of agricultural studies. In the industrial field it is working
in five overseas countries. Its total permanent staff is about 4OO, of
which about three-fifths are overseas. Local staff overseas number over



A10EX 2
Page 2
1,600, of which about one-sixth are expatriates under contract. Total ex-
penditure by SATEC in 1967 was of the order of 46 million French francs
(US' 9.3 million), of which a little over half came from public funds in
France, one-quarter from FED, alnost 5,% from national budgets in the coun-
tries in which it operates, and the balance from other sources.
Senegal Agreement
4.        The terms and conditions under which SATEC has been operating in
Senegal were covered by an agreem,ent between it and the Government dated
September 1964, under which SATEC agreed to provide an extension service
with the following objectives:
(a) to increase the production of groundnuts in the areas in
which it operates by 25% over a three-year period;
(b) to help diversify production, particularly by promoting
increased production of millet;
(c) to promote more intensive cultivation by the introduction
of more modern methods and by integration of livestock
with agriculture where possible; and
(d) to form, outside of the existing public service, an
extension service capable of continuing the work after
it leaves.
5.        The three main regions in which SATEC has been operating are Thies,
Diourbel and Kaolak. The precise demarcation of this area is shown in Map 2
as the project area. In order to provide the extension service SATEC agreed
that, in collaboration with the existing government services, it would re-
cruit the necessary cadre of Senegalese extension officers, support the work
of the Centers of Rural Expansion, and give technical assistance to the
cooperatives, particularly by determining their production needs and prepar-
ing their annual agricultural program. In accordance with the agreement
SATEC opened a head office in Dakar working under the direction of the
Ministry of Rural Development in liaison with the Ministry of Planning and
Industry,    and a regional office in each of the three regions, working
under the authority of the regional governor. Government provided furnished
quarters for six officers in Dakar, and for two in each of the regions, and
provided offices for the regional engineers.
6.        Under the agreement SATEC was responsible for all the financial
operations of its organization, including payment of staff and the trans-
portation of expatriates. Government nominally paid all expenses of SATEC,
by agreeing an annual program and its financing prior to the beginning of
each year. SATEC received 45, of the total when the program was agreed, 25%
on July 1, 25% on October 1, and the balance (5%) on December 1. Since the
funds for SATW-C were provided from FED and French Government sources, the
method of payment was regulated by an agreement between them and the Senegal
Government. SATEC was required to submit an annual report to the latter.
7.        Its work has been supervised at national level by a Working Commit-
tee consisting of the Minister of Rural Development as Chairman, and nine
members representing Government departments and organizations, together with
the SATEC representative in Dakar. The current agreement was valid to



A11\HEX 2
Page 3
October 31, 1967, and was later extended to June 30, 1968. SATEC is also
responsible for technical assistance for an irrigated rice project of about
6,000 ha in the delta of the Senegal River, under a separate agreement with
the Government.
Staff
8.        SATEC was started in a small way in April 1964, and during the
1965/66 season its service was extended to cover the whole of the non-
marginal area of the groundnut basin. As at the end of 1967 total technical
staff was as follows:
Expatriate  Senegalese   Total
Head Office                        7           1           8
Regional Engineers                 3           --          3
Assistant Regional Engineers       3            2          5
Regional Extension Techni-
cians                            8           h         12
Technical Assistants              15           42         57
Extension Workers                 --          700        700
Total                     36          749        785
At the start of the program the expatriate staff numbered over 50 and most
of the reduction since has been at Technical Assistant level. A small office
staff is maintained at the Head Office and the three regional offices.
Annual cost of the wihole of the SATEC operation in 1967/68 was about CFAF 60o
million.
C. SODEVA
Constitution
9.        SODEVA was set up in 1968.  Its main object is to provide, within
the framework of the national development plan, technical assistance to
increase agricultural productivity, in particular by popularizing techniques
for the development of agriculture, with special emphasis on the improvement
of production technioues, land improvement, and the combination of agricul-
ture with livestock. It can enter into agreements with Government to provide
extension services in specific areas, similar to those entered into in the
past between SATEC and the Government. Its fixed capital is CFAF 10 million,
with the Govermnent as principal shareholder, and SATEC holding some shares.
It is governed by a Board of between three and twelve members.
10.       SODEVA has entered into an agreement with Government to provide
extension and cooperative services in the project area on very similar terms
to those between SATEC and the Government, and outlined in paras 4 to 7
above.



ANEX 2
Page 4
lianagement
11.       On the formation of SODEVA, all the Senegalese staff of SATEC were
transferred to SODEVA, on the same terms and conditions of employment.  At
the same time SODEVA entered into an agreement with SATEC under which the
latter will provide management services and expatriate personnel to SODEVA
during the first three years of its existence. The agreement provides for
the appointment of the SATEC mission chief to act as Director General of
SODEVA for the first year ending June 30, 1969, after which a Senegalese
Director General would be appointed. The number of expatriates would be
reduced from h2 in the first year to eight in the last year, as follows:
Year                   1968      1969      1970      1971
Semester                 2      1     2   1     2      1
Senior Cadres           19     19    14  13     8      8
Regional Extension
Technicians           11     11     8   8     -      -
Technical Assistants    12     12     8   8     -      -
Total              42     42    30  29     8      8
Cost
12.       The combined cost of the project extension service through SATEC/
SODEVA is estimated to be as follows for the three years (July 1 to June 30):
CFA,F million          1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   Total
Expatriates              280       233       115       628
Senegalese               l4j.      152       160       456
Buildings and staff
services                61        59        55       175
Counterpart training      LI9       7i.       90       213
Total               534       213       420     1,472
Of the above cost, half i2 ^d culated t; be due to services rendered by the
extension service on behaif cl tie (cooperatives (para 13), after deducting
the cost of counterpart tracing.
D.  Project Extension Service
13.       The foundations of the extension service in the project area are
the extension workers workin,g at village level. They are recruited from
within the villages from among those who can read ane write, and are chosen
for their moral qualities and their capacity to communicate with others.
There are 700 of them in direct contact with the mass of rural farmers, giv-
ing an average of about 230 farmers per worker. Their distribution among
the zones is as follows:



AITNEX 2
Page 5
North   Center   South   Total
Extension workers           107      323      270     700
Average number of farmers
per extension worker      270      254     193      233
Their main purpose is to be the principal activator of agricultural improve-
ments, by disseminating information, giving demonstrations, and explaining
techniques and objectives. In practice, about half their time is spent in
giving technical services on behalf of the cooperatives, which are nominally
the responsibility of ONCAD. These services include the preparation of
annual farm input requirements for each farmer, help with the weighing in at
harvest time and with payments to farmers for crops at the end of each sea-
son, and much assistance at the bi-annual meetings of each cooperative soc7-
ty. These services are occasioned partly by the lack of proper cooperative
accounts (para 3.07 of the report). Through their close contact with the
farmers the extension workers get to know them individually very well, and
are encouraged to record as many details as possible about each farm, for
which they are supplied with special record books. In general, they enjoy
the confidence of the farmers, and are always available for consultation and
advice.
14.       Each worker is given training at regional level on simple and
definite techniques by his immediate superior, the Technical Assistant
(para 15). This consists mainly of simple operating instructions which the
workers pass on to the individual farmers. Extension manuals have been pre-
pared in simple language and picture form and are easily understood. The
training program and the manuals are designed to improve the techniques of
land preparation, sowing, weeding and harvesting, and to introduce fertilizer
and animal-drawn implements. The workers are periodically sent back for
further training, and although no systematic attempt is made to give them a
technical background, they do progressively acquire the ability to understand
technical innovations of greater complexity and to pass the information on
to the farmers. By recording as many details as possible of each farm the
extension workers are gradually building up a census of the farmers' needs.
This work is beginning to be of value in estimating future requirements.
15.       The extension workers are supervised by the Technical Assistants,
of wzhich there are at present over 40 in the field, an average of about one
per 17 extension workers. They are responsible for the work of all the
workers under them. They participate in the recruitment and training of
extension workers, are responsible for arranging periodic meetings for them.
and for getting information to and from them. In the first instance most on1
the Technical Assistants were expatriates but they have now been largely d-s-
placed by Senegalese, many of whom are graduates from agricultural colleges,
Supervising the work of the Technical Officers are the Regional Engineers,
who are responsible for the work of the whole of their region and for liaison
with the regional representatives of ONCAD, BMDS and the Government.   The
SODEVA head office in Dakar is responsible for the direction and management
of the whole program, and for liaison with the head offices of ONCAD and
BMDS, and with the Government.



ANNEX 3
ONCAD REORGANIZATION
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
MITITSTE  OF PLAlNING AND INDUSTRY
SUBJECT: Invitation for the study of the problems of management and
operation of a public institution and for proposals for the implementa-
tion of improvements thereto.
1.        The Government of Senegal is seeking management advice and manage-
ment services from suitably qualified consultants, firms or groups of firms
specializing in problems of institutional organization and management, to
review the current operations of a public institution, the Office National
de Cooperation et d'Assistance pour le Developpement (ONCAD), and subse-
quently, as agreed with the Government, to supply the services necessary
to implement the recommendations made for their inprovement.
2.        OTCAD is the government agency responsible for the supply of farm
inputs to the coopieratives, for the primary collection and marketing of
their output of groundnuts, for the managemenit of the stockpile of ground-
nut seeds, and for the provision of certain teclnical services to the
cooperatives. It is described in more detail in Addendum 2. ONCAD was
formed in October 1966, and since then has taken over, at various times,
its current responsibilities from other governmient agencies.  Arising from
this, its main problems include the assimilation and retrainirg of the
staff it took over, the evolution of an accounting system appropriate to
its responsibilities, the efficient use of its omn transportation fleet and
of ether transportation on hire, an improvement in the technical and com-
mercial- management of the groundnut seed stockpile, and the introduction of
an effective system for maintaining the accounts of the cooperatives.
3.        The purpose of this letter is to invite you to send representa-
tives to Dakar to make a preliminary review of the organization and working
of ONCAD and to present to the Minister of Planning and Industry (Building
du Gouvernement, Dakar, Senegal), under confidential cover, within sixty
days of receipt of this letter, your proposals for bringing in a suitably
qulalified management team for improving the management of ONCAD, in accord-
ance with the attached Terms of Reference (Addendum 1). The Government's
main objective in seeking yoxr assistance is to ensure that at the end of
a three-year period ONCAD would be able to operate efficiently wlith trained
Seregalese staff and with the minimum of assistance from expatriate staff.
Every assistance will be given to your representatives to enable them to
make the preliminary rev-iew, including full access to the officials and
files of ONCSD and to the reports and studies already made on its operation.
Those Goverrzrent officials with moiowledge of ONCAD will also be available
for discussion.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        It is stressed that in the first instance your proposals should
not include any financial estimates of their cost. Your proposals will be
evaluated together with those from other suitably qualified consultants,
after which the selected consultants will be invited to negotiate a suitable
contract and submit financial estimates, as set out in the Terms of Refer-
ence.
5.        The Governme7 is seeking finance from the International Develop-
ment Association (IDA)_,an affiliate of the IBRD, to cover part of the cost
of a project designed to increase production of groundnuts and millet in
the groundnut basin of Senegal.  Improvement of the efficiency of ONCAD is
part of this project and IDA finance is also sought for part of the cost
of the necessary management study and the provision of management services,
including implementation of the recommendations contained in the study.
Negotiation of the contract for such study and subsequent action would,
should IDA finance be forthcoming, be made by the Government in cooperation
with IDA.
1/ This invitation was distributed before it was known the project
would be financed partly by Bank loan.



Addendum 1
TULFIS OF REFERENCE
Prncipal objective
1.       The principal objective is to introduce a suitably qualified man-
agement team to assist to the fullest possible extent and at the highest
levels in the management of ONCAD for a period of three years, so that at
the end of that period OiECAD would be able to operate efficiently with
trained Senegalese staff with the minimum of assistance from specialist
expatriate staff.
Preliminary review and proposals
2.       In acccrdance with the letter of invitation, a preliminary review
of the organization and working of ONCAD wou'ld be made, and the MIinister of
Planning and Industry 1w7ould be presented, within 60 days of the date of the
invitation, with proposals fcr meeting the principal objective above.
These proposals would cover in broad outline the consultants' practical
experience in similar problems, the staff which would be assigned to ONCAD
including curriculum vitae on the principal members, an organizational
diagram, and the way in which the main organizational and management prob-
lems would be approached. They would include details of what counterpart
staff would be required for training, and what facilities and other help
would be required fron the Government.  They would be presented in the first
instance without any consideration of their cost.
Contract
3.       The preliminary proposals would then be evaluated by the Govern-
ment in consultation with IDA, and the selected consultants would be in-
vited to submit tentative financial estimates. After broad agreement on
the costs of the proposals, a contract would be negotiated covering two
phases:
(i)   Initial phase: This would cover a period of 60 days at the
end of which the selected consultants' firm proposals for
the reorganization and management of ONCAD for a further
period of three years would be submitted in the form of a
comprehensive report. Proposals would include the precise
role of the consultants in their implementation, details on
Senegalese counterpart personnel, and detailed financial
estimates of OINCAD operation and of the cost of the addi-
tional service of the consultants;
(ii)  Subsequent phase:  The scope of the proposals in the com-
prehensive report would be considered by the Government
and IDA, and any necessary changes in the contract would be
re-negotiated as appropriate with the consultants who would
then provide the agreed management services for the three-
year reorganization period.



Addendum 1
Page 2
Main considerations
4.        The consultants would be free to malke proposals on every aspect of
the organization and management of OIICAD and to carry them out, but the
Government would expect the proposals to include the following, which are
considered to be of major impcrtance:
(i)   Staff and training:
(a) any reduction in staff considered necessary, including
a phased redundancy program;
(b) the training of counterpart staff at higher levels of
management, including the necessary basic qualifica-
tions of such staff, the period of training (Govern-
ment would undertake to make available the necessary
suitably qualified counterpart staff) and how much
should be done locally and abroad (through fellow-
ships and specialized courses);
(c) the training of staff at all other levels of manage-
ment;
(d) the introduction of a staff manual containing the
terms and conditions of appointment of staff at all
levels.
(ii) Finance and accounting:
(a)  the opening balance sheet of OMCAD as at October 1,
1967 is expected to be available shortly. Consultants
would be required to comment on the suitability of
the financial structure revealed therein, and if con-
sidered necessary, to make recommendations as to its
improvement;
(b) the study and introduction of an accounting system,
under the ultimate control of the Public Institutions
Accounting Center, which provides for adequate day-to-
day flexibility of operation, financial analyses, cost
accounting data, and internal operating data, and
which reflects the commercial nature of much of ONCAD's
responsibilities;
(c) the possibility of using computer time for part of the
accounts, and a recommendation as to which of the
available computers in Dakar would be most suitable;
(d) before the end of the second year of the main contract,
a critical examination of ONCAD's sources of income
and proposals for any amendment, to ensure that ONCIA
is able in the future to operate without loss and to
build up adequate reserves;
(e) the introduction of an accounting manual for staff
guidance, to cover every aspect of the accounting
procedures.



Addendum 1
Page 3
(iii) Transportation:
(a) a study of the past operations of this sector, and
previous proposals for its future operations, and
recommendations as to its retention, reduction, or,
if found absolutely essential, its transfer to other
operators, together with arrangements considered
necessary to provide an efficient and economical
transport service to meet ONC.4D's responsibilities
for providing farm inputs and marketing services;
(b)  consideration of the possibilities of shelling grotnd-
nuts at coopera-tive level to reduce transportation
costs.
(iv)  Seed stockpile:
(a) its technical and commercial management, including
details of the numbers and qualifications of senior
staff required;
(b) selection, handling, grading, storage and testing of
the seeds, including the introduction of a staff
manual covering these points;
(c)  a review of the present inducements to selected
farmers to produce the seeds, and proposals for the
future.
(v)   Cooperative services:
(a) a review of the present services to cooperatives,
including the preparation of estimates of farm input
requirements (at present being performed by SCDEVAJ)
and those requirements of the cooperatives not at
present being met (in particular the maintenance of
accounts of the cooperatives and their individual
members), so as to produce, one year after the second
phase of the contract comnences, a full report which
would advise whether ONCAD, Government, or some other
organization should be responsible for the provision
of these services, what should be their function and
scope, and to what extent OMCAD would be able to
contribute to their implementation.
1/ SODEVA: The organization providing agricultural extension services
in the groundnut basin.



Addendum 1
Page 4
(vi) Organization and management:
(a) apart from the considerations above, any other changes
in the organization and management considered neces-
sary for the efficient operation of ONCAD;
(b) changes in the Decree setting up ONCAD, and any other
changes in the law which would be necessary for the
implementation of any of the proposals above;
(c) the introduction of a manual covering standard oper-
ating procedures not specified above.
Feporting requirements
5.        The following reports would be submitted by the consultants during
the second phase of the contract:
(i)   quarterly reports giving routine information, constraints,
bottlenecks and problems on staffing, farm inputs, marketing,
transportation, seed stockpile, and cooperatives, all in a
form to be agreed later, together with quarterly accounts
within one month of the end of each quarter;
(ii) annual reports, on the lines of the above, but including
audited annual accounts-
(iii) a final report at the end of the contract period showing
progress made over the contract period, and including pro-
jections for the next five years of staff requirements,
financial data, transport and other relevant data.



Addendum 2
OFFICE NATIONAL DE COOPERATION ET D'ASSISTANCE FOUR IE
DEVELOPPEMENT (ONCAD)
Background
1.        Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance pour le Developpe-
ment (ONCAD) was formed in October 1966 to succeed regional farmers' organ-
izations, the Centres Regionaux d'Assistance au Developpement (CRAD), and
was given the responsibility of providing services to cooperatives. Follow-
ing a redistribution of functions among government agencies concerned with
the production and marketing of groundnuts in September 1967, ONCAD was
given the additional responsibilities of procurement and supply of farm
inputs for the cooperatives (fertilizer, implements, draft animals and
seeds) and of the primary marketing of their groundnut c7'ops (over 800,000
tons in 1968), previously carried out by other organizations. Its objec-
tives are now: to provide a technical service for cooperatives; to market
groundnuts collected by the cooperatives; to assist and coordinate all
activities related to cooperatives carried out by the Government, SODEVA,
BNDSI/ and OCAS/; to manage and supervise the production and distribution
of groundnut seed; to ensure the supply, distribution and transportation
of farm inputs to the cooperatives, and the delivery of the groundnuts
collected by the cooperatives to OCAS. Staff at present -cotal about 1,500,
of which 650 are in the transportation department.
Administr ation
2.        ONCAD is governed by an Administrative Council which includes a
representative of the President, the seven regional Governors, the National
Assembly, the Ministries of Rural Development, of Finance, and of Planning,
OCAS, BNDS, BCEAO_/' and four members representing cooperatives, making 19
members in all.
Management
3.        As indicated in the letter of invitation, the Government is eager
to improve the management of ONCAD. The main problems which have arisen
are given in para 2 of the letter. The Government commissioned an enquiry
into the working of ONCAD and the report will be made available to the
invited consultants. The report contains a number of proposals for re-
organization, particularly concerning overall policy, internal organiza-
tion and operation, and staffing policy. Wthile the Government is in
general agreement with the main proposals, it has reservations on the
practicability of selling off the transport fleet to private enterprise,
and provision has been made in para 4 (iii) (a) of the Terms of Reference
for the advice of the selected consultants on this point.
1/ BIDS: The Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal.
2/ OCAS: The marketing organization responsible for export and local
processing of groundnuts.
3/ BCEAO: The Central Bank of the West African Monetary Union.



Addendum 2
Page 2
Finance
4.        A provisional balance sheet as at September 30, 1967 is available,
but this reflects the financial position immediately before ONCAD took over
its responsibilities for the supply of farm inputs and for the transporta-
tion fleet on Octcber 1, 1967. An opening balance sheet on that day, show-
ing the further assets taken over, and the new capital structure, is under
preparation and will be available shortly.
5.        The provisional accounts for the year ending September 30, 1967
show a loss on the year's working of CFAF 190 million for a total expendi-
ture of CFAF 965 million, of which cost of personnel accounted for 50%;
amortization and provisions 12%; office expenses and transportation 18%.
The balance sheet shows capital (in the form of grants) and provisions of
CFAF 2.87 billion, current assets CFAF 1.78 billion and current liabilities
CFAF 1.50 billion.
6.        A document giving a provisional budget and other details for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 1968 is available for perusal. The budget
is considerably larger than the previous year, because of the additional
responsibilities for farm inputs and primary marketing. A small profit on
the year's working of CFAF 19 million is estimated, on a total expenditure
of CFAF 29.0 billion, of which CFAF 24.9 billion is for the marketing of
groundnuts. Total cost of providing a technical service to the coopera-
tives is estimated to be CFAF 231 million, which, less income, would give
a deficit on this service of 190 million. ONCAD's main income for the
year comes from a charge of CFAF 271 per ton of groundnuts handled, sale
of the surplus from the seed stockpile, a tax on local oil millers yielding
CFAF 210 million, and some regional taxes.
7.        At the present time ONCAD does not have full accounting autonomy,
being controlled by the Public Institutions Accounting Center. It is
authorized to deal direct with the banks for financing the agricultural
program and groundnut marketing, but all receipts go direct to the Center,
and for all current expenditures funds are obtained through the Center.
It is the Government's intention that, while maintaining control by the
Center, ONCAD should have as soon as practicable a revised, complete and
efficient accounting system which is adapted to the commercial principles
under which ONCAD is required to operate.



A1NEX h
CREDIT AND BNDS
A. Background
1.        Senegal is a member of the West African Monetary Union, wqhich be-
came effective in its present form in 1962. It shares with the six other
members a common currency, the CFA1E franc, and a common Central Bank, the
Banque Gentrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO). Under an agree-
ment between France and the Union, the former guarantees unlimited conversion
of CFA francs into French francs. From Serlegal's point of view, pressures
vhich would normally be brought to bear on its foreign exchange reserves if
it had its own currency are cushioned through the 7Union. In times of short-
age of foreign exchange these pressures usually manifest themselves in due
course as restrictions on domestic credit throughout the Union. A complemen-
tary aspect of the monetary system is the very close commercial and financial
ties linking the Senegalese economy with that of France. In the past imports
have corme essentially from France regardless of competitiveness, while ex-
ports have had a guaranteed market in France at preferential prices.
2.        At independence in 1960 Senegal became an associate mnemer of the
EEC. Under the terms of the Yaounde Convention signed with EEC in 1964,
Senegal will lose, by the end of 1969, the preferential treatment in France
for its groundnuts and groundnut oil. The producticn     improvem.ent program
(Annex 1, para 10) has the principal objective of minimizing the losses in
foreign exchange earnings of Senegal, and the loss of income to the farmers
as a result of the Convention. It is being financed from 1965 through 1969
byr FED. This finance does not include the direct provision of medium-term
credit to finance imple.ments and draft animals for emall farms, which has
been made available for the program by BIDS from resources mainly provided
by CCCE.
3.        Commercial banking services are provided by four banks, formerly
branches of French banks which have adapted their organization and ownersh4r
to the conditions of independence. A large proportion of their business is
short-term financing of the marketing of the groundnut crop in a consortium
with BENS. They are also involved in financing the local processing of the
crop, and in other importing and exporting operations.
B. BIDS: Operations To Date.?/
Objectives
4.        The Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal (ED3S) was formed
by the fusion of two existing credit institutions under Law No. 64-33 of
May 26, 1964, and commenced operations on July 1, 1964. The two former
institutions were concerned with the provision of social credit and develop-
ment credit in the public sector. One of the main objectives of BDMS weas to
1/ Franc of the Communaute Financiere Africaine.
2/ As at the end of fiscal 1967 (September 30). All the data on BIDS
in this annex refer, to the position up to that date.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
simplify and improve the cumbersome procedures then existing for obtaining
credit for both social and development purposes. It took over all the
staff, together with the assets and liabilities of both institutions, neither
of which was operating efficiently or profitably. BIUS is responsible for
providing financial and technical help for all projects concerned with the
social and economic development of Senegal, including aid to industry, com-
merce, agriculture, livestock, fisheries, the cooperative movement and
artisans. On its own behalf it can provide finance through loans, discount-
ing procedures, guaranteen, and equity participation, and can provide a
commercial banking service by receiving deposits. On behalf of Government
or public institutions it can study any question or project of general in-
terest provided it is adequately reimbursed, and can also manage any public
funds entrusted to it.
Constitution
5.        Fixed capital is CFAF 1,360 million, in 136,000 shares of
CFAF 10,000 each, all of wfhich have been fully paid up (para 14). Duration
of BUDS is 99 years from July 1, 1964. It is administered by an Administra-
tive Council of not more than 12 and not less than seven members, represent-
ing shareholders in approximate proportion to their shareholdings. I,1eetings
of the Council are governed by normal rules, except that the President and
Vice President are elected on a three-fourths majority and their appointment
is subject to approval by the President of Senegal. The Council meets at
least once a month and has the usual powers to carry out its objectives,
including the nomination of the Director General and the fixing of his
salary, and can delegate all or any of its work to committees formed for
specific purposes. It is required to approve all rules and regulations for
the conduct of BNDS affairs. The Shareholders' Assembly General nominates
two "commissioners of accounts" (auditors) to audit the accounts, and is
required to meet once a year to approve the annual report and accounts.
Under its powers it can alter the duration of BUDS, and can also alter its
characteristics, notably by extending or restricting its social objectives.
6.        B.'iIDS financial year is from October 1 to September 30, and the
accounts are required to be kept in accordance with good commercial prac-
tice. The Council is responsible for making the annual inventory of stocks
and equipment. There are legal requirements for the disposal of annual
profits, calculated after due allowance for amortization and bad debts. 5%
of such profits has to be placed to a legal reserve all the while the legal
reserve is less than 10% of the fixed capital, or whenever the reserve falls
below this amount. The balance of profits may be placed in a special or
general reserve account, or may be paid out to shareholders, subject to a
maximum of 4.5% of the nominal value of' any preference shares which may be
created (but wihich shall be non-cumulative), and 3% of the nominal value of
ordinary shares. Any balance remaining after any payments to shareholders
has to be placed in an extraordinary reserve account.
Administration and MIanagement
7.        The Administrative Council is at present composed of 10 members,
six representing the Government, two the CCCE, one the BCEAO and one the
other three shareholders. The President is M. Rene N'Diaye, Chief of the



ANNEX h
Page 3
Treasury, and the Vice President is ex officio the Director of the CCCE in
Senegal.
8.        The two auditors at present nominated by the Shareholders'
Assembly General are M. Alioune Diagre, Director of Exterior Finance at the
Ministry of Finance, and M. Meda, an Inspector at CCCE, who is a profes-
sional accountant, and who is also the Director of the training center for
banking staff (para 11).
9.        An organization diagram is attached. The Director General is
directly responsible to the Administrative Council. Under him there are
three separate Directors responsible for credit, finance and administration,
together with the Inspector General. The Credit Director is responsible
for four sections: agricultural; social; industrial and investment; and
commercial credit. The Financial Director is responsible for three sections:
the central accounting section, which includes an IBM mechanized accounting
system with some 20 workers; the banking section, which provides a commer-
cial banking service to the public; and the control section, which is
responsible for the six regional cffices. The credit and financial divi-
sions cover most of the work of EiDS, but the7e is also an Administrative
Director, responsible for personnel and legal matters (including recovery
of debts) as well as general administration0 The Inspector General is
responsible for the internal audit, and occasionally makes special studies
on behalf of the Director General. There are six regional offices, one in
the capitals of each of the regions of Senegal: Thies, Diourbel, Ziguin-
chor, Tambacounda, Kaolak and St. Louis. They are closely associated with
the problerms of investment and development in the regions they serve, and
also provide a local commercial banking service, as well as being respon-
sible for payments to cooperatives for the groundnut crop.
Staff
10.       Prior to the formation of BEDS and during its early months it
received technical assistance from CCCE, but its staff is now entirely
composed of Senegalese. The senior staff, from the Director General down-
wards, are qualified, well trained and generally competent. Salaries are
comparable with those in commercial banks and BCEAO. There are five cadres
for permanent staff and one for temporary and contract staff. Staff as at
September 30, 1967 was as follows:
Cadre        Designation           Head Office   Regional Offices    Total
I         Senior professional          16                 -            16
II        Junior professional          17                10            27
III       Skilled office workers       33                 8            41
IV        Unskilled office workers     55                26            81
V         Manual workers                23               18            41
VI        Temporary and contract        55               22            77
Total                              199                84           283



AINMEX 4
Page 4
Included in the above are some 25 persons under training. Total staff at
283 represent an increase of 64 over the figure for the previous year, most
of it being in Cadre VI.
11.       There is a training center for banking staff in Dakar (the Centre
d'Enseignments Techniques des Banques) which caters to the needs of BiDS,
BCEAO and the commercial banks, mostly in Cadre III. The Director is
II. iMeda of CCCE, who is also one of BNDS's auditors. There are at present
about 150 persons under training, of which 15 are temporary employees of
KMDS.
Accounting Controls
12.       Accounting and financial controls are both internal and external.
Internal controls include the work of the Inspector General and the three
internal auditors who make inspections throughout the head office depart-
ments and regional offices, and are responsible for adherence to all account-
ing and financial procedures. External controls cover three separate aspectS
Tle Government has appointed a Commissioner (under the laws covering the
conduct of all public institutions) who attends meetings of the Council of
Administration, and BJDS is generally under the supervision of the MIinister
of Finance. Under the banking laws BCEAO and the Commission of Supervision
of Banks receive monthly financial and liquidity statements, as well as
annual reports and accounts.  CCCE is a shareholder, and has the right to
appoint one of the two auditors. These controls, both internal and external,
are considered adequate to ensure full accountability in accordance with the
financial procedures which have been laid down under the existing regulations
Subject to satisfactory completion of the current independent audit of the
accounts for the years ending September 30, 1967 and 1968 by the external
auditors (para 4.05 of the report), the present financial practices and pro-
cedures would be acceptable to Bank/DA.
13.       The present IBIr mechanized accounting system, which is well organ-
ized, is becoming overloaded and BTDS has arranged to hire a small IBMI com-
puter for installation in October 1968.  IJhen installed, surplus capacity
will be hired out to other organizations. Two young Senegalese graduates
are being trained by IBM as programmers, and the existing 20 operators will
be retrained, 12 for computer work and the balance for other duties within
BIDS.
Balance Sheets
1Lh.      Comparative and forecast balance sheets of BNDS as at September 3C,
1965 through 1971 are shown in Table 1.  The long and medium-term loans port-
folio is discussed more fully in para 19. Investments in equities of indus-
trial and banking enterprises now number over 20, and include SIES and
SISCONA, both of which are concerned with this project, as well as CFAF 224
million in two local commercial banks. The relatively high figure for
accounts receivable in 1967 was of a temporary nature and has since been
reduced. Share capital is fully paid up and held as follows:



Al,TET TLY
Page 5
Million CFPF      %
Government                     760         56
CCCI                           375         28
BCEAO                          100          7
Three other shareholders
(one bank and two
Government funds)            125          9
Total                      1,360        100
15.       The deposit on Government's behalf is consistently greater than
the loans and advances made against it.  lo fee is charged for this service
to Government, but BNIDS has the use of the excess funds.  76% of long-term
debts (1967) was owing to  CCcr,, and was borrowed mainly to finance indus-
trial de-velopment. Repayment is over a 10 to 15-year period and the inter-
est rate averages 3.5%. The balance of the long-term debt was advanced by
the Government over 10 to 15 years at 3.5,%O. About half the medium-term
debt (1967) was owing to CCCE, the balance to BCEAO, and has been advanced
mainly to cover agricultural implements and draft animals under the produc-
tioni improvement program. Interest rate is 3.5%, and period of loan three
to five years. Most of the short-term debt (1967) was owing to BCEAO,
obtained under rediscounting procedures, with interest also at 3.5%,.
Income and Ependiture
1o.       Income and expenditure statements from the time of inception up
to September 30, 1967 are given in Table 2.  Interest, fees and commissions
have remained the same over the last two years, although as a percentage of
average capital employed they have decreased. Interest charges paid out
have also remained the same, although as a percentage of average capital
employed they have declined. Administration costs, as a percentage of aver-
age capital employed, have shown a steady decline but this is entirely due
to interest charges. Without this item the percentage is the same for both
years (2.68), and can be considered satisfactory. The amo1nts appropriated
to pro-visions and reserves are also high.  These include the relatively
small amounts required for the legal and statutory reserves (para 6), the
balance being mainly provisions against bad debts and depreciation of equity
investments (para 23).
Loan Regulations
17.       The loan regulations include rules for five categories of loans,
as follows:
(a) Agricultural and rural: Loans under this category can be
made for agricultural, livestock and fishing purposes.
They are in general given for equipment, basic needs during
the planting to harvest season, marketing of crops, rural
consumption and small fishing equipment. Loans are in
principle given only to cooperatives or friendly societies
(mutuelles), but in special circLrmstances loans to isolated



ANNEX 4
Page 6
communities may also be considered. These latter are
usually covered by personal securities and collective
guarantees from within each community. Loans for rural
consumption are made to cooperatives only, for a maximum
period of 45 days to cover the consumption requirements
of their members from a very limited list of goods.
Loans for fishing equipment are also made to fishing
cooperatives only, mainly for outboard motors, lines and
nets for use with dug-out canoes.
(b) Social: Loans under this category can be made to borrow-
ers who do not make their living from agriculture, live-
stock or fishing, and are mainly urban in character.
They are given to salaried workers, artisans, clerks,
and professional workers, and repayments are made through
deductions from their salaries. They are made for hous-
ing over a 10-year period, for construction material,
water and electrical installations, furniture, part-time
education and bicycles over a 12-month period, and were
formerly also given for automobiles.
(c)  Artisans and professional workers: Loans under this
category can be made to artisans to buy tools, and to
professional workers to purchase professional equipment.
Each case is considered on its individual merits.
(d) Industrial and public: Credit for industrial purpose
can be given to industrial enterprises for buildings,
machinery and installations on medium or long-term.
Repayment depends upon the return from the enterprise but
is limited to 15 years for buildings, 10 for machinery
and installations, and three for vehicles. Adequate
security is required, the sponsor being expected to con-
tribute at least 20% of the total capital cost, and loans
are limited to a further 65%. Short-term loans for stocks
and working capital can be made where they are complemen-
tary to longer-term loans. Loans for public purposes may
be made to finance projects of social or economic importance,
excluding the cost of administrative equipment. Each pro-
ject is considered on its individual merits.
(e) Retail commerce: Loans in this category are reserved
exclusively for small retailers who must be Senegalese
nationals, mainly for purchase of stock and equipment.
BITS gives advice on management and development whenever
possible. Loans are short-term for stock, medium-term for
equipment. Preference is given where the borrower is
sponsored by a cooperative or friendly society prepared to
provide a guarantee. Each case is considered on its merits.



AJNiHX 4
Page 7
18.       Short-term loans are defined as being for a period of up to two
years. In practice, most of them are seasonal. PlMedium-term loans are for
over two years up to five years, and long-term for more than five years to
a normal maximum of 10, except for some industrial loans. Interest rates
are 5%0 per annum for sliort-term and 5.541 for medium and long.  In practice,
loans for agricultural purposes represent a large part of BKDS investments
and are increasing annually. Short-term loans (the largest part) are rela-
tively seasonal and mainly cover the cost of fertilizer and the marketing
of the crop (Annex 2). A large part of medium-term loans are advances for
agricultural implements and draft animals. Loans for artisans and profes-
sional workers are largely short-term, but because of the bad debts situa-
tion are now only made very cautiously. Loans to public bodies are mainly
long-terml, and most were made by BNDS's predecessor. They are for water and
electricity installations in Dakar and other principal tovms.  1;ost -nvest-
ment of this nature is now done through the separate fund which BIDS adminis-
ters on behalf of Government. Loans for retail conmmerce are usually given
for a period of one or two years, the amount advanced for equipment being
renewable if the borrowers' operations have been satisfactory during the
rzevious year.
Loan Portfolio
19.       i.n analysis of the loan portfolio is given in Table 3. This shows
bad and doubtful debts as a separate item, and almost all of them are medium
or long-term. The figures showqn include interest outstanding at the date of
being declared bad or doubtful. Long-term loans for agriculture are negligi-
ble, while medium-term loans have increased steadily, and consist mainly of
loans fCor implements and draft animals.  Under this heading is included the
balance of an original debt of CFAF 262 million owed by a predecessor organi-
zation to ONCAD, which BI.S took over on formation. This debt has been
gradually liquidated and is expected to be fully paid off during the current
yrear. Short-term agricultural debt at the date of the balance sheet includes
the advances for fertilizer. Bad and doubtful debts represent only 1 of
the total agricultural portfolio, but since they are mainly medium-term,
they represent almost 4% of the total agricultural medium-term loans. They
have increased slightly in the last year, but in view of the large sums dis-
bursed each year for agricultural purposes, the position is considered to be
satisfactory.
20.       The bad debts position in respect of fisheries loans deteriorated
considerably during fiscal 1967.  Host of these loans were made to coopera-
tives for outboard motors, lines and nets. Plain cause of the difficulties
has been exploitation by the intermediaries. Loans for fishing purposes
were stopped early last year, pending regrouping of the cooperatives. Gov-
ernment is actively pursuing alternative arrangements for marketing the
catches, and BIDS considers that if these are successful, there are good
prospects of recovering some of the outstanding loans.
21.       Loans for social purposes have been reducing steadily, and recovery
of doubtful debts has kept pace w-ith this reduction. Included in the bad
debts is the sum of CFNF 12 million for advances for automobiles, taken over
by BiMS on formation, which is not recoverable. No loans for automobiles



ANNEX 4
Page 8
are now made. Loans for industry and commerce show a steady increase in
long-term, wjhile medium-term have declined over the past year. This trend
is likely to continue in the future.
22.       In considering annual totals by types of loan (Table 3 (6)), it is
stressed that over 95% of short-term loans are for agriculture, and that
this figure varies throughout the year, reaching its peak at the height of
the marketing season, in February. The figures in the table represent the
position as at September 30 in each year, although short-term loans for
agriculture are higher in February, the peak of the groundnut marketing sea-
son (para 28). The amounts of medium and long-term loans have increased
progressively during the last two years, their percentages remaining the
same. The table showing annual totals by purpose of loans (Table 3 (7))
also shows the high proportion of BNDS resources devoted to agriculture, and
underlines the decline in importance of social loans. Loans for industry,
commerce and public institutions have increased in totals but remain propor-
tionately the same.
23.       The CFAF 387 million in the category of bad and doubtful debts as
at September 30, 1967 represents 4% of the total loan portfolio at that
date. Since it is mostly medium and long-term loans that are in default, it
is more directly comparable with the total of these two categories, of which
it is 81', compared with 10'; as at September 30, 1965.  The most serious of
those outstanding in 1967 are the fisheries loans, some of which may be re-
coverable (para 20). Against provisions for all purposes of CFAF 751 mil-
lion as at September 30, 1967, a sum of CFAF 664 million has been set aside
against risks of bad and doubtful debts, which is more than twice the amount
shoi,m in this category at that date. The loan portfolio, the bad debts
position, and the provisions made to cover it are considered to be very
satisfactory.
Conclusion
24.       Considering the situation it inherited in 1964, BNDS has done very
well in achieving its present position in under four years.  Its policies
are prudent, its management is competent, and it enjoys a good reputation in
local banking circles.
C. Project Credit
Credit Requirements
25.       Total credit requirements for the three project years (Annex 6,
Table 6) would   be  CFAF 7.08 billion, made up of CFAF 2.87 billion medium-
term (implements and animals) and CFAF 4.21 billion short-term for fertil-
izer. Since the fertilizer credit would be completely repaid before advanccs
were made for the following season, BNDS incremental capital requirements to
finance the fertilizer credit would be CFAF 0.86 billion. Thus the total
capital required to finance the credit for the project would be of the order
of CFAF 3.7 billion (US$ 14.8 million) over the three-year period.



mr  4
Page 9
D. BICDS: Financial IProjections
Capital Requirements
26.       Total increase in long-term investment by BINS in both agriculture
and industry over the project period is estimated to be of the order of
COAF 5 billion, of which about CFP2 0.75 billion would be met by a reduction
in BIDS's portfolio in other categories (mainly social), leaving about
CFAF 14.25 billion to be found from other sources. Of this, at least CFAF
3.50 biaion wculdbe required as long-term funds, approximately half each for
agriculture and industry. The loan/credit of CFAF 1.73 billion would thus
mieet BI\DS requirements for agriculture during the project period, leaving
it to find a similar amount from other sources for industrial financing.
27.       The short-term capital position as at September 30 each year
(Table 1) does not bring out the peak short-term capital requirements, which
arise at the end of February each year, when advances to finance the market-
ing of the groundnut crop are at a maximumn.  A study of the varying require-
ments throughout the year shows that BiDS access to rediscounting facilities
at UCrLO would enable it to meet the incremental requirements for the pro-
ject fertilizer credit from its own resources. Furthermore, the study also
shows that no difficulty is anticipated in financing the marketing of the
future groundnut crop.  Rediscounting facilities at BCAA0 are for up to
65$ of BIDS advances for marlketing the crop, and the right to drawr from the
Treasury u-p to CFYAF 2.0 billion for the same purpose.  Also at the end of
February deposits are at their maximun m. However, BIDS's present drawing
rights at the Treasury have not been formalized into a long-term agreement,
consequently approval of the loan/credit would be subject to an undertaking
by the Government that it wrould ensure that BMTS was provided with adeouate
resources at all times to meet its connitments.



K                                        BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SENEGAL
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD
7 TO 12 MEMBERS
DIRECTOR GENERAL
|INSPECTOR GENERAL
DIRECTOR                                                   DIRECTOR                                DIRECTOR
[   CRE DIT    l                                 l       FINAN ICIAL      l                GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
LEGAL SERVICES
STATISTICS
DEBT RECOVERY
SOCIAL CREDIT                             ~~~~~~~~CENTRAL FINANCIA                              PERSONNEL
AGRICULTURAL                        CONTROL                  FINANCIAL              PUBLIC RELATIONS, ETC.
CREDIT FOR ARTISANS,          CREDIT                         ACCOUNTING AND         BANINGSERVICAND
HOUSING, ETC.                                                     !8M
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT           COMMERCIAL                                  FINANCIAL CONTROL
AND INVESTMENT                CREDIT                                          OF
.__._.I. _      _..._                _   _       _____
REINLOFFICES
REGIONAL
OFFICES
March, 1968                                                                                                                                                    (2RIIBRD-3763



8ANQ<UE NATIONALE DE DEVELO0PEIET DU SENEGAL
COMPARATIVE AND FORECAST BALANCE SHEETS
(in CFAF millions)
As at September 30        1965     1966     1967     1968     1969     1970     1971
....... Actual ........   ............. Projected .
ASSETS
Loan portfolio, long and medium-term
Agriculture                                     1,059    1,256    1,691    2,600    3,350    3,920    4,310
Fishing                                            77       58      101      100      160      270      410
Social                                          1,85L    1,622    1,150    1,000      750      500      250
Industry and commerce                             546      657    1,036    1,700    2,250    2,850    3,500
Public institutions                               456      683      686      700      650      600      550
Total portfolio                                 3,992    1,276    4,667    6,100    7,160    8,140    9,020
Loans, short-term (A)                               2,377    4,531    1,731    4,800    5,000    5,200    5,400
Fquity investments and guarantors (B)                 432      493      581      650      750      850      900
Land, buildings and equipment (C)                      73      232      236      260      230      200      190
Cash in hand and at banks                             311      493      614      650      650      65o      650
Accounts receivable and miscellaneous (net)           126      154    1,313      300      300      300      300
Loans and advances on Government behalf               921      797      631      570      500      430      360
8,235   10,976   12,779   13,330   11,590   15,770   16,810
LIABILI TIES
Capital and reserves
Share capital                                   1,360    1,360    1,360    1,36n    1,360    1,360    1,360
Grants, subsidies and reserves                    323      361     410       450      500      550      600
Provisions (D)                                    492      553      751      800      800      8on      800
Accumulated profit                                 38       41       71      100      130      165      205
Total                                           2,213    2,318    2,586    2,710    2,790    2,875    2,965
Denosits, cooDeratives (E)                            180      366      263      25r      250      250      250
Deposits, public (F)                                1,353    1,730    1,653    1,9o0    1,90o    2,000    2,100
Deoosit on Government behalf                        1,001      931      785      720      60)o     500      1o0
Long-term debt                                      1,556    2,137    2,012    2,100    3,600n   1,9r     1,350
Medium-term debt                                       25      215      951    1,250     1,500   1,795    1,905
Short-term debt                                       755    2,862    3,239    1,00"    3,150m   3,760    3,810
Accounts payable                                      318      361    1,260      5no      500      500      Soo
8,235   10,976   12,779   13,330   11,590   15,77n   16,310
A:   In 1967, over 95 percent for agriculture
3:   In 1967, 95 percent of total is investment in commercial (mainly industrial) and hanking enterorises
C:   Head office building purchased in 1966
D:   In 1967, CFAF 661 million against bad and doubtful debts
E:   Includes share canital of cooDerative societies
F:   Represents normal commercial banking deoosits by individuals and companies



ANNEX 4
TABLE 2
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEIMENT DU SENEGAL
INCOM4E ANTD EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS
(in CFAF millions)
15 months          12 months          12 months
to                 to                 to       (A)
Sept  30 1965      Sept  30 1966      Sept   30 1967
Average capital employed        7,500   (100)     9,600    (100)     11,900   (100)
Income
Tnterest, fees, commissions     696  (9.28)       809   (8.t42)       806  (6.77)
Other income                     15  (0.20)        18   (0.19)         20  (0.17)
Total                           711  (9.L8)       827   (8.61)        826  (6.94)
Expenditure
Interest charges                16L, (2.19)       230   (2.b0)        233  (1.95)
Salaries and allowiances        173  (2.31)       151   (1.57)        188  (1.58)
Office exoenses                  67  (0.89)        51   (0.53)         32  (0.27)
Depreciation                     30  (0.40)        3I   (0.35)         58  (0.49)
Transoortation                   15  (0.20)        13   (0.1L1)        18  (0.15)
Other e-.xpenses                  8  (0.11)         9   (0.09)         13  (0.11)
457  (6.09)       488   (5.08)        551  (h.63)
e2-t proit. before tax         25L  (3.39)       339  (3.53)         275  (2.31)
711  (9J48)       827   (8.61)        826  (6.9k)
Appropriation
Provisioas and reserves         185  (2.h7)       283  (2.95)         20L  (1.71)
Taxation                         31  (0.h4)        53   (0.55)         h1  (0.3!i)
fialance                         38  (0.51)         3  (0.03)          30  (0.25)
254  (3.39)        339  (3.53)        275  (2.31)
(A): Provis,ional



ANNEX 4
TABLE 3
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SENEGAL
ANALYSIS OF LOAN PORTFOLIO
(in CFAF millions)
As at September 30           1965              1966               196
(1) AGRICULTURE
Long-term                6   (-)           7   (-)            8   (-.)
Medilum-tern           992   (31)      1,201   (21)       1,622   (26)
Short-term           2,165   (67)      4,390   (78)       4,580   (73)
Bad and doubtful        61   ( 2)         b7   ( 1)          63   ( 1)
Total                3,22b   (100)     5,6-5   (100)      6,273   (100)
(2) FISHERIES
Medium-term             71   (92)         54   (83)          30   (28)
Short-term               6   ( 8)          7   (11)           6   ( 6)
Bad and doubtful        -    ( -)          4   ( 6)          70   (66)
Total                   77   (100)        65   (100)        106   (100)
(3) SOCIAL
Long-term              605   (30)        51,8  (35)         486   (38)
Medium-term            972   (b9)        684   (bit)        -82   (37)
Short-term             143   ( 7)        117   ( 7)         136   (11)
Bad and doubtful       280   (14)        223   (14)         183   (1b)
Total                2,000   (100)     1,572   (100)      1,287   (100)
(L)  INDUETRY AND COMMERCE
Long-term              185   (30)        318   (38)         570   (5b)
Medium-term            291   (48)        b7b   (56)         396   (38)
Short-term              62   (10)         24   ( 3)          12   ( 1)
Bad and doubtful        70   (12)         27   ( 3)          71   ( 7)
Total                  608   (100)       843   (100)      1,049   (100)
(5) PUBLIC INSTITl'lTIONS
Long-term              456   (100)       635   (93)         650   (95)
Medium-term             -    ( - )        b8   ( 7)          36   ( 5)
Total                  456   (100)       683   (100)        686   (1CC))
(6)  ALL CATEGORIES (by type of loan)
Long-term            1,252   (20)      1,508   (17)       1,714   (18)
1Medium-term         2,326   (37)      2,J61   (28)       2,566   (27)
Short-term           2,376   (37)      4,538   (52)       h,73b   (51)
Bad and doubtful       4ll   ( 6)        301   ( 3)         387   ( 4)
Total                6,365   (100)     8,808   (100)      9,bOl   (100)
(7) ALL CATEGORIFS (by purpose of loan)
Agriculture          3,22b   (51)      -,,615  (6it)      6,273   (67)
Fisheries               77   ( 1)         65   ( 1)         106   ( 1)
Social               2,000   (31)      1,572   (18)       1,287   (14)
Industry and commerce  608   (10)        803   (10)       1,049   (11)
Public institutions    456   ( 7)        683   ( 7)         686   ( 7)
Total                6,365   (100)     8,808   (100)      9J401   (1(X)



AISEX 5
MARKETIiZG AND OCAS
A. Marketing
Background
1.        This Annex deals with the marketing of groundnuts after completion
of the domestic collection from farmers by ONCAD and the transference of
them to OCAS, for selling either to local oil millers for processing or on
world markcets. Prior to redistribution of functions in September 1967 among
government agencies concerned with the project, the wshole of the marketing
of the groundnut crop was the responsibility of OCA (Office de Commercial-
isation Agricole), which was also responsible for the distribution of farm
inputs (fertilizers and implemerts). At the redistribution, the latter
responsibility and the primary r,urketing of the groundnut crop were trans-
ferred to ONCAD, and OCA was renamed OCAS (Office de Commercialisation
Agricole du Senegal). At the same time the opportunity was taken to bring
its statutes up to date.
Oil Ilillers
2.        Part of the groundnut crop is processed by the existing four oil
millers within the country. Tonnage of unshelled nuts processed locally
has increased steadily from 205,000 in 1950/51 to over 500,000 in 1967/68,
the latter representing over 55% of the total groundnut crop marketed that
year. Late in 1967, Government concluded an agreement with the oil millers
which ensures that the latter pay the equivalent of world market prices for
their purchases. In September each year each miller notifies OCAS of the
total tonnage he proposes to process during the year, divided into equal
monthly amounrts over the season, and has the right to increase or decrease
these amounts by 15% prior to the beginning of each month. The monthly
amounts are divided into three 10-day tranches, and the price paid for each
tranche is agreed betwseen OCAS and the millers through a local quotation
committee on which both sides are represented, and which agrees the "world
price" for the period, after considering quotations from the various world
markets. After a few initial disagreements the quotation committee has
settled dowm. The duration of the agreement was originally for the season
to September 30, 1968, but has since been renewed. The millers can purchase
tonnages outside the above by direct negotiation with OCAS, but prices are
usually higher. A shortage of storage facilities by the millers (about 2.5
months' supply at current processing rates) places at times a burden on
OCAS' owm facilities, but unused funds from the FED production program may
be used to alleviate this problem. The millers make their own arrangements
for selling their oil and oil cake.
B. OCAS
Constitution
3.        OCAS was formed with effect from October 1, 1967 under Law No.
67-47.  It is responsible for the bulk marketing of groundnuts, and for the
monopoly importation of white rice for consumption, including transportation
as necessary. It can also import other consumption goods in the national



AI'INEX 5
Page 2
interest, but none are immediately contemplated. It is responsible for
marketing, on behalf of ONICAD, the surplus from the seed stockpile. It can
import groundnuts for the local oil milling industry in case of necessity.
It comes under the joint responsibility of the Ministries of Finance and of
Commerce and Industry. It has an Administrative Council of nine members,
which includes representativeqof BES, ONCAD and BCEAO as well as the Gov-
ernment. It is charged with conducting OCAS' affairs in a commercial manner
Its financial year ends September 30. Accounts are audited by two persons
appointed by the Council.
Organization and Management
4.        Two Advisors give advice to the Director General, one on corner-
cial and the other on financial affairs. There are four directorates, one
each for commercial, financial, administrative and technical affairs.
Three Inspectors General act as internal auditors. There is a European
Office in Paris responsible for maintaining relations with ELC, the French
Government, oilseed importers and agents, and for passing marketing ard
other relevant information back to the head office in Dakar. The Commercial
Director is responsible for the marketing of groundnuts. There are four
regional offices, one each in Thies, Diourbel, Kaolak and Ziguinchor. There
are 54 reception points throughout the country, of which 30 are in the pro-
ject area.
Finance
5.        The provisional budget for fiscal 1968 shows an estimated profit
of CFAF 35 million on a total expenditure of CFAF 7.05 billion, of wqhich
245% is for exporting costs and 1h1% taxation for Government revenue (para 10).
Management costs are estimated at CFAF 516 million (including interest
charges and amortization), or 7% of the total. An income of CFAF 2.78 bil-
lion is expected from profit on the sale of groundnuts and imported rice,
the balance coming from various Government grants.
Conclusion
6.        OCAS has relatively less responsibilities than its predecessor,
OCA, since it is only concerned with bulk export of groundnuts and imports
of rice, whereas OCA was also responsible for distribution of farm inputs
and primary marketing of groundnuts. At the same time OCAS has a greater
responsibility in connection with exporting groundnuts, since this will now
have to be done in competitive world markets instead of in the protected
French market. The management of OCAS and the Government appreciate the
problem. The two newly appointed Advisors, who are experts in their fields,
should be adequate to ensure OCAS meets its new responsibilities.



ANIEX 5
Page 3
C. World Groundnut Prices
Supply and Demand
7.        Discussions on the prospects for world groundnut prices have been
held with oil and oilseecb experts. The Bank economic i/ission, which visited
Senegal in November 1967, also surveyed this problem.l The wzorld market
for oils and fats in general shows an increase in the growth rate of output
in both developing and developed countries (if current expansion plans are
realized) and a very moderate rate of growth in imports by major buyers in
the developed countries. The possible increase in consumption in developing
countries would, for the next few years, largely come from domestic and
subsistence production and would thus have little impact on world markets.
Furthermore, there are uncertainties regarding production and supplies from
Eastern Europe, the USSR and China. For the medium-term, up to 1970 a
slight price decline can be expected, which might continue further in the
seventies as output rises.
8.        The position of groundnut oils in this market is not very strong
at present. Groundnut oil is mainly a higher priced quality product, but
recent technical developments in other oils are reducing this advantage, and
substitution by other oilseeds (such as sunflower from Eastern Europe and
the UJSSR, and soya bean from the USA) is occurring, and can be expected to
increase. Also, consumers' behavior regarding quality preferences is a
factor of uncertainty, particularly if the price differential should remain
high or become even higher.  Present medium-term prospects for groundnuts
and oil (as evaluated by the Commodity Division of the Economics Department)
for Nigerian groundnuts as quoted in London to European ports (cif) are:
CFAF per ton
Groundnuts (shelled)  40,000 to 43,500
Groundnut oil         63,710 to 67,000
9.        As to short-term prospects, prices in 1967 dropped from CFAF 43,800
per ton (cif) in May to CFAF 37,500 in mid-November, although Senegal has
sold a sizeable part of its 1967/68 crop by forward contracts at CFAF 41,000
per ton. January 1968 quotations for Nigerian groundnuts were still low,
equivalent to CFAF 35,800 per ton cif, reflecting the expected record world
crop in 1968, estimated to be over lWia above the previous year's large out-
put, and almost one-fourth above the 1960-64 average.   Senegalese groundnuts
are usually quoted at a slight premium because of higher oil content and
lower acidity. Based on the foregoing a cif export price of CFAF 39,000 per
ton has been assumed for 1967/68 and 1968/69, increasing to CFAF 40,300 in
1969/70 through 1971/72.
1/ Current Economic Position and Prospects of Senegal: Confidential
Report No. AF-73, February 1968, Annex 1.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
D. Groundnut Prices Within Senegal
Background
10.       Past policy on fixing the producer price to the farmers for ground-
nuts has depended upon a number of factors, including the special market
price for groundnuts in France, the amount of EEC subsidy for fertilizers,
and the amount required by the Senegal Treasury for revenve,,rftik,p s.  Based
on the prices guaranteed by France, Senegal was able, until 1966/67, to
export the bulk of its groundnuts (processed and unprocessed) at prices con-
siderably above world market prices and thus was able to pay relatively high
producer prices. As a result of EEC regulatio.ns France had to reduce grad-
ually its guaranteed price, with EEC covering part of the reductions. The
guaranteed price was abolished in 1967, after which Senegal had to sell at
world prices. However, up to 1969 EEC agreed to reimburse Senegal for 80%o
of the price difference should the world market price fall below CFAF 46,000
per ton. This support was subject to a limit covering all overseas terri-
tories associated with EEC. When world prices fell sharply to CFAF 39,000
per ton in late 1967, the EEC limit was insufficient to cover 80% of the
price difference, and the amount received for support in 1967/68 and 1968/69
is expected to be equivalent to CFAF 2,900 per ton. This prospect forced
the Government to reduLce the average producer price by 15% to CFAF 17.77 per
kg for the year 1967/68. The export and producer prices for groundnuts from
1964/65 and estimates to 1972/73 are as follows:
CFAF '000 per ton
shelled         64/65  65/66  66/67  67/68  68/69  69/70   70/71  71/72
French guaranteed
price               49.5   48.5   48.5     -       -      -      -      -
World market price       -      -      -   39.0    39.0   40.3   40.3   40.3
EEC price support      3.0    1.0    0.5     2.9   2.9     1.1'/  -      -
Cif export price      52.5   49,5   49.0   41.9   41.9    41.3  40.3    40.3
Government revenue     8.6    6.7     6.2    4.5    4.8    4.5    4.5    5.1
Flarketing and
processing          14.1   13.0   13.0   12.0    11.7   11.7   11.6   11.5
Producer price        29.8   29.8   29.8    25.4   25.4   24.8   24.2   23.7
Producer price
(unshelled)         20.9   20.9   20.9   17.8   17.8   17.4   17.0    16.6
Government revenue
(CFAF billion)       7.2    6.8    4.5    4.1    4.5    4.8    4.7     5.1
1/  Estimated.
Government Revenue
11.       The reduction in producer price in 1967/68 was not sufficient to
absorb the entire fall in export prices, and there was some reduction in
Government revenue for that year. However, with the anticipated EEC price
support, revenue can be expected to rise in subsequent years. Government
revenue from the total Senegalese crop marketed each year is estimated to
rise from CFAF 4.5 billion in 1968/69 to CFAF 5.1 billion in 1971/72, as
against CFAF 7.2 billior in 1964/65.



ANINEX 5
Page 5
Producer Prices
12.       The producer prices shown in Annex 2, Table 1(4) for the year
1968/69 are based on an average producer price of CFAF 17.77 per kg for the
whole of Senegal. Producer prices have been grouped into five regions, at
differential rates, depending on the cost of transport to Dakar. These
regions do not correspond with the project zones, but zone averages have
been calculated.



ANNEX 6
FARM INPUTS AID OUTPUTS
Groundnut Basin
1.        The groundnut basin extends over a large part of the regions of
Thies, Diourbel and Sine Saloum. It is characterized by a predominancy of
brown and reddish-brown sandy soils, supporting as native vegetation short-
lived plants (mainly graminaes and legumes) and scattered trees of which
baobab is characteristic. This vegetation has been beneficial, preventing
heavy insolation and wind erosion. The bulk of the soil is low in organic
matter, phosphorus and potash, and high in iron. The area receives between
500 and 1,000 mm of rainfall per annum, distributed in some 4o to 60 days of
rain from June to October.  Along the northern border uncertain and low
rainifall, together with relatively short duration of daylight during the
growing period, make the return from groundnut productio:i very marginal.  In
the northwest corner a lack of trace elements, mainly molybdenum, reduces
yields, while along the strip parallel to the coastline and adjacent to the
rivers Sine and Saloua, the presence of hydromorphic soils with poor drain-
age and high salinLity also makes production very marginal.
Project ALrea
2.        The project area would be confined exclusively to those areas in
the groundnut basin in which an extension service is provided, and would
virtually exclude the very marginal areas. It has been divided into three
specific zones, within each of which the conditions of climate, pedology and
demography are relatively homogeneous, although there are sufficiently large
variations between them to make it essential to consider each one separately.
These zones are shown on Map 2 and have been called North, Center and South
in accordance with their relative location. The Center Zone includes the
area around Diourbel which is the most densely cultivated in Senegal. Many
of the differences in these zones are brought out below. The most important
is the increase in yields from North to South due to higher rainfall and
better soil fertility the further one goes south and east.
3.        Total land under cultivation in the project area would increase
from 1.98 million ha in 1968/69 to 2.46 million ha in 1971/72, an increase
of 2450 over the three-year period. Most of this increase would occur in the
South 'Zone, as is shown in the following table:



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Percent
Million ha             1968/69   1971/72   increase
North:  groundnuts       0.14      0.16       14
millet          0.14       0.15        7
Center: groundnuts      0.37       0.40        8
millet          0.36       0.42       17
South:  groundnuts      0.34       0.43       26
millet          0.23       0.28       22
Total:  groundrnuts     o.85       0.99       16
millet          0.73       0.85       16
other crops     0.16      0.18        13
fallow          0.24      0.44        83
Grand total              1.98      2.46       24
Area under other crops has been estimated at 10% of the combined area under
groundnuts and millet. Fallow areas would increase from 12% of total cul-
tivated land to 18% in 1971/72 (para 7).
4.        The effect of the increase in total area under cultivation on the
total available area for cultivation in the three zones would be as follows
(figures in brackets being percentages of total available area):
Total            Cultivated
Flillion ha    available      168/69     1971/72
North             o.60       0.35 (58)   0.40 (67)
Center            1.70       0.91 (54)   1.11 (65)
South              1.60      0.72 (45)   0.95 (59)
Total           3.90       1.98 (51)   2.46 (63)



AN12TEX 6
Page 3
Rural Population
5.        The variations between the rural population in the three zones
are shown in the following table:
Unit    North    Center    South    Total
Rural population
1968/69                    '000     166       524      307        997
1971/72                    c000     172       539      335      1,046
Increase over period         %        3         3        9         5
Farmers
1968/69                    '000      29        83       54        166
1971/72                     ooo      30        66       60        176
Increase over period         %        4         4       12          6
Cultivated land per farmer(average)
1968/69                     ha       11        10       12         11
1971/72                     ha       13        12       15         13
In the North and Center Zones there would be a natural increase in the
population of 1% per annum. In the South Zone the increase would be 3%0
annually, made up of a 15J natural increase and a 2% increase due to immigra-
tion.
Yield and Price Assumptions
6.        Assumptions as to yields and prices over a five-year period by
zones are given in Table 1. Assumed groundnut yields vary considerably
between the three zones (Table 1(1)). Increase in yields at the end of
1971/72 over the base year 1968/69 is estimated to average 30% for the whole
of the project area. To achieve these yields average fertilizer density
over the same period would increase by about 40%. In the South Zone the
increase would be 17% only. This is due to the better natural soil condi-
tions in the Zone, to the higher rainfall, to the heavier quantities of fer-
tilizer used for millet during the crop rotation cycle, and also to the in-
crease in the use of draft oxen (para 29), which would increase the avail-
ability of natural manure. Millet yields also vary considerably between
the three zones (Table 1(5)), and would increase from an average of 475 kg/ha
in 1968W69 to 575 kg/ha in 1971/72, with a modest increase in average fertil-
izer density from 16 kg/ha to 19 kg/ha.
7.        Of importance to the achievement of the assumed yields for both
groundnuts and millet is the advisability of increasing the proportion of
ground under fallow each year. The theoretical proportion for optimum pro-
ductivity is of the order of 25%, but at the present time only about 12% is
under fallow. The table in para 3 above shows an increase to 18% in the
year 1971/72, which should be achieved without difficulty.



ANETX  6
Page 4
Seeds
8.        The areas planted to groundnuts are calculated on the basis of
100 kg of unshelled seeds per hectare. Of each 100 kg of unshelled seeds,
about 70 kg of grains is produced, but of this only about 50 kg is suitable
for planting.  Stocks are of very mixed quality, there being no effective
supervision of the quality of seeds handed in or of their handling and
treatment during storage, since OIICAD has not the necessary technical
specialists for this work. Once the relatively low cultural value of these
stocks can be improved, yields will rise accordingly. The reorganization
proposals for ONCAD (Annex 3) include provisions for technical control of
the stockpile. It is also intended that the Centers of Rural Expansion
would be relieved of their present responsibility of selecting fields to
be used to produce seed stocks, which is being done in a very unsatisfac-
tory manner.
9.        Of the four selected varieties of groundnut seeds developed at
the experimental stations only one (variety No. 28-206 of 125 days vegeta-
tive period) enjoys the general acceptance of farmers in the south of the
project area. This variety when pure gives yields of about 30% higher than
traditional varieties. The other three have shorter vegetative periods
(90 to 120 days), and were developed to meet specific problems of soils,
photo-periodism and drought which prevail in the north and northwest of the
area. As yet they do not enjoy general acceptance by the bulk of farmers
in these districts, who still prefer to use the traditional varieties
which, although less productive, have a natural resista-ice to drought con-
ditions.
Pesticides
10.       After being threshed and selected, groundnut seeds are treated
with pesticides before sowing.  Each 50 kg of seeds receives 100 grams of
a mixture of Thirame (fungicide) and Dieldrine (insecticide) in equal pro-
portions by weight. This is the only treatment used in the country. The
mixture is distributed to farmers by ON-CAD at the same time as the seeds,
and the farmers pay in cash CFAF 50 for each 100 grams of the mixture.  The
total volume of pesticides used in the project area is at present 80 tons
annually, which would rise to 94 tons in 1971/72. The use of pesticides
is almost exclusively confined to groundnuts, although small quantities
are beginning to be used for cotton crops.
11.       Groundnuts sown late are susceptible to attack by a virus called
"Poseta".  Those sown too early and harvested when immature, or those ex-
posed to late rains, are liable to be attacked by a fungus disease of the
fruits (aspergillus flavius) wJhich produces toxins dangerous to human and
animal health.  The only recommended method of control is to sow and harvest
crops at the proper times.



AiaX 6
Page 5
Fertilizer
12.       For groundnuts three differeint formulae for fert-lizer have been
recomm.ended by the research station and are in use, cne for each of the
zones, as follmos:
North:    12-10-10, equivalent, at a rate of 100 kg/ha, to
12 kg N2, 10 kg P205 and 10 kg K20 per ha; plus
2 kg of molybdenum compound ('lNutramine") per ha.
Center:   10-0-30, equivalent, at a rate of 100 kg/ha, to
6 kg N2 and 30 kg K20 per ha.
South:    6-20-10, equivalent, at a rate of 100 kg/ha, to
6 kg N2, 20 kg P205 and 10 kg K20 per ha.
For millet only one formula is recommended and used throughout the project
area: 14-7-7, equivalent, at a rate of 100 kg/ha, to 14 kg N2, 7 kg P205
and 7 kg '20 per ha.
13.       On a not very well defined area in the South Zone having soils with
a loW level of phosphorus, a corrective dressing of about 50 kg of P205 per
ha is beginning to be applied, once every three to four years, in conjunc-
tion with deep plowing.  At the present moment the practical results are not
well determined, although some research work shows that when phosphorus
deficiency is corrected there is a better response to nitrogenous fertilizer,
with significant rises in the yields of groundnuts and millet,
Although benefits are likely to be of a long-term nature, this dressing
program is being continued until the results can be more accurately deter-
mined.  Elsewhere in the South Zone it is possible in some demons-tration
fields to identify benefits resulting from the application of green manures
in new scherres of crop rotation. These show tangi1ble improvements in yield
and quality of the harvests. Among selected groups of farmers the use of
locally made organic manures ard composts is beginning to grow, although as
yet the benefits are not well quantified. This work is also being continued
until the results become more apparent.
14.       About 85' of all fertilizer in Senegal is applied to groundnut
crops, almost all of this being in the groundnut basin.  The rest is used
mainly for millet, although consumption for the cotton crop is expected to
increase in the future. In the project area total consumption for ground-
nuts and millet was about 59,000 tons in 1968/69. Estimated consumption
during the project years would be:
Thousand tons       69/70   70/71    71/72  Total
Groundnuts           53.7    63.6    72.3   189.6
Millet               14.9    15.7    16.5    47.1
Total              68.6    79.3    88.8   236.7



A OEIEX 6
Page 6
15.       As part of the production improvement prcgram (Annex 1, para 10),
the Government operates a subsidy scheme for fertilizer used for groundnuts
and millet. Details are given in Table 1. Government's general policy in
regard to the subsidy is to reduce it gradually in such a way as to ensure
that tihe farmers appreciate the benefits of fertilizer and are not thereby
discouraged from using it. Goverrnment is prepared to subsidize fertilizer
for millet as much as is necessary to ensure adequate harvests to meet the
country's food requirements. The subsidies are expected to disappear in
the mid-1970's.
16.       Cost of fertilizer to the Government and to the farmers for the
project years would be as follows:
CFAF million              1969/70   1970/71   1971/72    Total
Groundnuts. Government       377       318        218       913
Farmers         859     1,143      1,445     3,447
Iillet:      Government      134       110         82       326
Farmers         209       252        298       759
Total:       Government      511        428       300     1,239
Farmers       1,068     1,395     1,743     4,206
Grand total:               1,579     1,823      2,043     5,445
The total sums allocated for fertilizer subsidy under the production im-
provement program financed by FED and the resulting shortfall would be as
follows:
CFAF million              1969/70   1970/71   1971/72    Total
Total project subsidy       511       428       300       1,239
Program allocation          509        -         -          509
Shortfall                     2       428        300        730
Government would meet any shortfall in the first year from its own funds
but hopes to obtain at least part of the shortfall in the other two years
through international aid.
17.       A local deposit of phosphate rock (mineral calcium phosphate)
with an average of 38% P205 is being worked at Taiba, 70 miles from Dakar,
and a deposit of phosphal with an average of 34% P20< at Thies, producing
calcined and crushed aluminum phosphate. These supply all the local demand
for raw materials for phosphate fertilizer. In the past the balance of
requirements for all types of fertilizer has been imported from EEC coun-
tries. Although the Government buys almost the whole of the country's
requirements there has been no competitive bidding for supplies. The bulk
of the nitrogenous fertilizer has been in the form of ammonium sulphate,
one of the most expensive forms available.



AlflNEX 6
Page 7
18.       ITith the help of IFC a new company, Societe Industrielle d'Engrais
du cenegal (SIES) has been under construction since 1966 and started produc-
tion in IThrchl 1968. Output to June 30, 1968 was 25,000 tons,i/ and is ex-
pected to reach 90,000 tons per annum within two years. It has a planned
capacity of 125,000 tons per annum.  The factory is expected to meet the
whole of Senegal's fertilizer requirements from the 1969/70 production year
ornards. The plant has been designed to produce the various grades and
formulae required for domestic consumption and to be sufficiently flexible
to meet export orders. It will use local phosphate rock and import the
balance of its raw materials.  Capital cost is of the order of CFAF 3,100
million (US$ 12.4 million). IFC is investing CFAF 200 million in equity
(18%) and CFAF 665 million in loan, a total of CFAF 865 million (US$ 3.46
million). BNDS holds CFAF 140 million (10/%o) of the equity. Technical
assistance and management are provided by the Potasses d'Alsace Group. The
Government has granted SIES various concessions and investment incentives,
and has guaranteed to purchase a minimum of 60,000 tons annually at an
agreed price of CFAF 18 per kilo ex factory, which should enable SIES to
earn 6" on its share capital. W-Jith economical use of transport this price
would enable distribution to the farmers, through ONCAD and the cooperatives,
at an overall delivered price of CFAF 23 per kg. The foreign exchange
element of local production by SIES is estimated at 74% ex factory, which is
equivalent to 58% of the cost to farmers.  It is not yet certain that the
cost of fertilizers to farmers can be stabilized at CFAF 23 per kg because
of the rising price of raw materials (notably sulfur), but in due course
SIES' costs of production are expected to decrease, which it is hoped would
offzet any increase in costs due to raw materials.
Imolements
19.       The movement towards the use of imnlenents drawn by draft animals
has been under way for some years, and by the end of the last season (1967/
68) 75ro` of prolect farmers owned seeders and 49% cul.ivators, although only
1, owned harvesters.  At the end of the three project years more than 90%
would oatm seeders, 80% cultivators and 40% harvesters. The ultimate objec-
tive is for almost every farmer to own a seeder and cultivator, and about
8/o% to own harvesters.  Total number required for the whole of the period
would be about 213,000 implements and 11,000 carts, with a total value of
about CFAF 2.4 billion (US$ 9.8 million). Of this, CFAF 1.1 billion (45%0)
would be for replacement of existing implements and carts. Over the last
few years there has  oeen considerable rationalization and standardization
in the design and manlufacture of the implements now in use, and some of the
requirements for replacement implements would be due to obsolescence and to
the non-availability of spare parts for some of the models formerly imported.
Assuming the carts as well as the implements were all made locally at the
SISCOMA factory (para 24), the foreign exchange component (at 27%) would be
about CFAF 640 million (USa 2.6 million).
1/ of mixed fertilizer



A1liD( 6
Page 8
20.       Only one basic design of seeder is used, having interchangeable
plates for groundnuts and millet. This implement plows at the same time
as it seeds. Total number required during the period would be about 78,000,
valued at CFAF 1.02 billion. All seeders would be supplied on credit.
Cost to the farmer delivered through the cooperative would be CFATF 13,COO
each, advanced by a loan from BNDS repayable over five years at 5.5% per
annum. SISCOMA has kept careful records of maintenance for all imolements,
and calculates the average to be CFAF 40C per annum per seeder, which sum
would be found by the farmer from his own resources.
21.       Two types of cultivators are in general use, although experience
in operating has brought out a preference for one of them. Total number
required during the period would be about 52,000, valued at COAF 0.67
billion. A13 cultivators would be supplied on credit on the same terms as
for seeders.  Cost to the farmer delivered through the cooperative would
average CFAF 8,200 each. Maintenance is estimated to average CFAF 200 per
annum per cultivator, which sum would be found by the farmer from his own
resources.
22.       During the l965/66 planting season fork harvesters were intro-
duced into the project area for the first time, and have enabled farmers to
increase their harvesting efficiency (in terms of crop recovered) from
around 80% by hand to nearly 100%. Total number required during the pro-
ject period would be about 53,000, valued at CFAF 0.39 billion. All har-
vesters would be supplied on credit on the same terms as for seeders, the
cost to the farmer being CFAF 7,300 each. Annual cost of maintenance is
estimated to average CFAF 200 cer harvester which sum would be found by
the farmer from his ow-n resources.
23.       A variety of designs of farm carts is in use, depending on the
draft animals used. There are at present some 36,oco carts throughout the
project area. It is not intended to increase their total number, but a
further 11,000 approximately would be purchased during the project period,
based on an annual replacement ci about 10%, and would be available to the
farmers on the same credit terms as for implements, their cost averaging
CFAF 27,000 each. Total cost would be CFAF 0.29 billion. SISCOMA supplies
abolat half the carts at present being sold. The balance is made by small
firms which import wheels, tires and axles, and build a variety of bodies
to suit individual requirements. Maintenance has been calculated at
CFAF 675 per cart per annum, which sum would be found by the farmer from
his own resources.
SISCOMA
24.       All the implements and about half the carts supplied during the
last three years have been manufactured at the SISCOMA (Societe Industrielle
Senegalaise de Constructions Mecaniques et de Materiels Agricoles) factory
near Dakar. SISCOMA was set up by Government in 1963 to fabricate agricul-
tural and other machinery. It has a capital of CFAF 110 million, of which
BIDS holds 45%, the balance being held by seven French firms.   One of
these, Etts. Mouzon, with 10% of the capital, supplies the technical know-
how. The companry is run entirely on cormercial lines, its only concession



ANINEX, o
Page 9
from the Government being a waiver of income tax for the first eight years.
It pays import duties on its raw materials.  About 170 persons are employed,
of which seven are expatriates. To date rm-ianufacture has been confined to
agricultural implements, including carts. At first it manufactured numerous
types of each implement, but more recently it has standardized mainly on
the types required for the project, thereby reducing costs of manufacture
by about 5%. Apart from supplying the requirements in the groundnut basin,
SISCOMA has made a few local private sales, and exports to neighboring
territories (Mali and Niger) reached 5% of total production last year. It
maintains an improving spare parts service throughout the project area, and
operates a small training center at the factory, where farmers are given
instruction in handling, operating and maintaining their implements. It also
publishes diagrams of implements, including part numbers and names, which
are freely distributed among farmers, and has recently started a mobile
service unit to provide maintenance in the field. Farmers pay cash for
spare parts.
25.       Financially SISCO1iA is in a satisfactory position. Average capi-
tal employed at present is around CFAF 450 million. Reserves as at July 31,
1967 were CFAF 7h million.  At the same date current assets were 30% more
than current liabilities. Met profit for the year was CFAF 31 million as
agaLnst CFAT 42 million the year before, and stocks were up from CFAF 47 to
77 million, due to anticipated increased output during the present financial
year and irregularity of shipments of raw materials. Turnover has increased
steadily, from CFAF 404 million in 1965/66 to CFAF 675 million in 1967/68,
and is expected to be of the order of CFAF 750 to 800 million in 1968/69.
The company imports its steel requirements, nuts, bolts, castings and some
specialist parts from overseas, but does the maximum possible machining and
fabrication on the premises.  Consequently, the foreign exchange component
of the total cost of its output is relatively low, at 30%. This figure is
reasonably constant, and is not expected to vary significpntly over the next
tlhree years, and has been used in tlhe project estimates.-'  The price of
implements ex factory averages 10% below the price at which they are sold to
farmners, so that the foreign exchange component is 27% of the cost to farmers.
Draft Animals
26.       To date 27% of the project farmers own donkeys, 41% horses, and 1%
pairs of oxen, making a total of 699% owning draft animals. At the end of
the period the percentages would be about 35, h0, and 7 respectively, making
a total of over 80. Total cost of draft animals to the farmers over the
project period would be about CFAF 1.48 billion, of which CFAF 0.51 billion
(34L%) would be by credit.
27.       There are at present about 35,000 donkeys in the project area,
one-fifth of which would be replaced each year. Total number (including
replacements) required during the project period would be 48,000, an annual
requirement of 16,000, of which some 5,000 to 6,000 could be expected by
1/ On the assumption that project requirements would be purchased from
SISCOKA, although procurement would be by local competitive bidding
(para 3.16 of the report).



ANNEX 6
Page 10
natural reproduction from among the farmers' existing animals, while the
balance would be obtained from within the country. The total number of
donkeys in the country is estimated to be about 100,000, so that about one-
third is in the project area. A large semi-wild herd in the Dahra area in
the north of Diourbel Province is being increasingly exploited, the donkeys
being captured and broken in before being sold. A price of CFAF 5,000 per
head has been used in the project estimates, which is a little above current
market prices. Total cost over the project period would be CFAF 240 mil-
lion, of which CFAF 105 million (4Ii%) would be for replacement of existing
donkeys. All donkeys would be bought by the farmers from their own re-
sources. No allowance has been made in the project estimates for anjy cost
of medicines and veterinary services for donkeys.
28.       There are at present 66,600 horses being used by farmers in the
project area, with a gradual lessening in density from north to south.
Horses cost six times as much as donkeys, whereas the amount of farm work
they are capable of doing per farm is about the same. They are much prized
for their prestige value. It is not expected their numbers would increase
during the project period, but that existing animals would be replaced at
a rate of one-seventh of the total each year. Requirements during the pro-
ject period would thus be 9,500 per annum, most of which could be expected
by natural reproduction, leaving a swell balance which could be expec'ed to
come from outside the project area. The total number of horses in the
country is over 1303000, of which about half is in the project area.   It is
anticipated that most of the shortfall in the project area would come from
the Fleuve Province, as has been the pattern for aome years. The average
price of a horse is about CFAF 30,000 in the project area which gives re-
placement cost over the project period of abou-t CFAF 855 million. All
horses would be bought by the farmers from their own reasources. Annual
cost of upkeep of a horse for medicines and veterinary treatment has been
estimated at CJAFJ 1,000, wlhich would continue to be paid by the farmer from
his own resources.
29.       There are at present 1,700 pairs of oxen in the -project area.  In
terms of total number of farmers, those owning pairs of oxen would rise from
the present 1% to 7% at the end of the project period. There are well over
2 million head of cattle in Senegal, and there would be no difficulty in
obtaining the required numbers for the project. The-bottleneck is likely
to be the rate at which they can be trainfd, but the extension service has
established training centers, and would make a special effort to train them,
The total number required during the project period (including replacePent
at 250 pairs annually) would be 11,300 pairs. A price of CFAF 34,000 per
pair has been used in the project estimates. In nrder to encourage their
greater use, a loan covering the full cost of all oxen used on the pro ject
would be advanced to the farmers through the cooperative by BNDS, on the
same terms as for implements. Total cost over the project period would be
CFAF 384 million. Annual cost of upkeep of a pair of oxen for medicines
and veterinary treatment has been estimated at CFAF 1,000, which would con-
tinue to be paid by the farmer from his own resources.



AhINEX 6
Page 11
Cost of Farm InDuts
30.       Total cost of farm inputs for the three project years is given
in Table 6. The grand total for the period would be CFAF 10.0 billion
(US$ 40.0 million). Of this total the farmers' cash contribution would be
17%. Total credit advanced to the farmers would be CFAF 7.1 billion
(US$ 28.4 million), or 71%, of which over one-half would be short-term for
fertilizer; the balance medium-term for implements and draft animals.
Total foreign exchange component would be CFAF 3.9 billion (Us$ 15.6 mil-
lion), or 39ZJ of the total cost, of which almost four-fifths would be for
fertilizer.
Groundnut Production
31.       Estimated total production of groundnuts for the three project
years compared with the base year would be as follows:
Unit       68/69  69/70  70/71  71/72  Increase  (A)
North              '000 tons      99    113    128    144      45     (45)
Center               "   "       326    363    402    442     116     (36)
South                ,   t       398    4L68   552    624     226     (57)
Total                "           823    944 1,082   1,210     387     (47)
Seed reserve, etc.   "   "       149    169    194    218      69     (46)
Marketed             U           674    775    888    992     318     (47)
Income to farmers  Frs billion 11.9    13.4   15.0   16.4     4.5     (35)
W: Increase between 68/69 and 71/72; figures in brackets being
percentages of the 68/69 production.
Millet Production
32.       Estimated total production of millet for the three project years
compared with the base year would be as follows:
Unit       68/69  69/70  70/71  71/72  Increase  (A)
IJorth             '000 tons      54     57     59     66      12     (22)
Center                  'l       181    191    200    219      38     (21)
South                "   "       164    175    186    203      39      (24)
Total                "   "       399    423    445    488      89     (22)
Consumed              if         249    254    258    262      13     ( 5)
1larketed                it      150    169    187    226      76     (51)
Income to farmers Frs billion    2.7    2.9    3.0    3.4     0.7     (26)
(A):  Increase between 66/69 and 71/72; figures in brackets being
percentages of the 68/69 production.



AIN'IIEX 6
Page 12
The amount consumed locally has been calculated on the basis of 250 kg per
annum per head of the rural poDulation. There is no evidence to suggest
that with millet becoming more freely available the consumption per head
would rise in the project area. On the contrary, increases in farmers'
incomes may stimulate the present small demand among them for the more
sophisticated cereals, particularly rice and wheat. Total production of
millet would rise by one-third in the project area over the three-year per-
iod. The quantities coming on to the local market would increase by 50%
over the same period, which would mean a reduction in the local market price
(Table 1(8)).  These quantities should, however, be readily absorbed in
rural areas outside the project, which could be expected to continue to
produce less than they consume. Gross income to farmers from millet produc-
tion would increase by one-fourth over the period.
Farmers' Incomes
33.       Farmers' incomes are set out in Table 7, which brings out the
disparity between incomes in the South Zone and the other two zones
(para 5.07 of the report). Cost of farm inputs as a percentage of farmers'
gross income would be about the same in the three zones, and would increase
steadily due mainly to the increase in the cost of fertilizer, caused by
the reducing subsidy and by heavier application. Farmers' incentives,
measured by incremental farm expenditure expressed as a percentage of in-
cremental income, would show considerable variations between the regions.
As might be expected, in the relatively marginal Wqorth Zone, the incentives
would be just adequate, whereas in the South Zone they would be very
attractive.
34.       The overall picture does not bring out the question of adequate
incentives for planting millet. The only variable farm input directly
attributable to millet is the fertilizer used on the crop. On this basis,
the ratio bettieen the annual incremental income from millet accruing to the
farrner and his incremental expenditure on fertilizer for the crop would be
adequate on the acreages, yields, fertilizer density, and farmers' fertil-
izer prices set out in these estimates.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
YIELD AND PRICE ASSUMPTIONS
(Groundnuts, millet and fertilizer)
Unit        67/68    68/69   69/70   70/71   71/72   72/73
(1)  Groundnut yields                    Kg/ha
North                                             700     700     775     850      925     975
Center                                            875     875     950   1,025    1,100   1,175
South                                           1,175   1,175   1,250   1,350  1450     1,500
Overall average                                   950     950   1,050   1,125    1,225   1,275
(2)  Groundnut fertilizer density        Kg/ha
North                                              28      28      35      42       49      55
Center                                             35      35      43      51       58      64
South                                              82      82      86      91       96     100
Overall average                                    52      52      60      67       73      78
(3)  Groundnut fertilizer price           CFAF/kg
Cost to farmer                                     14      16      16      18       20      22
Government subsidy                                  9       7       7       5        3       1
Total cost                                         23      23      23      23       23      23
(b) Groundnut selling price (farmers)     CFAF/kg
North                                            17.9    17.9    17.5    17.1    16.7     16.1
Center                                           17.9    17.9    17.5    17.1    16.7     16.14
South                                            17.5    17.5    17.1    16.7    16.3     16.0
Overall average                                  17.7    17.7    17.3    16.9    16.5     16.2
(5) 1Millet yields                       Kg/ha
North                                             350     b0      400      400    1425     1425
Center                                            150     500     500     500     525      525
South                                             600     700     700     700      725     725
Overall average                                   475     550     550     550      575     575
(6)  Millet fertilizer density            Kg/ha
North                                              11      13      13      13      13       13
Center                                             10     114     14      1       1b4     11
South                                              26      31      31      31      31       31
Overall average                                    16      19      19      19      19       19
(7;,  Rillet fertilizer price            CFPF/kg
Cost to farmer                                     10      12      12      14      16       18
Government subsidy                                 13      11      11       9        7       5
Total cost                                         23      23      23      23      23       23
(e)  i'illet, selling price (farmers)    CFAPAg
All zones                                          20      18      17      16      15       114



r A ./-1<] 3U?F  K3TiKArI5s;  ''0RTc , 
To-. CL Zone Inc-ome and 3x eniliture
TTinC?A   mfrillions,
.- :              1967/68   19(                  7TS 1962Z?O  197iq.  972  1972/73
I NCOME
Groi-I:ndnuts                              1,396      1,.-     1,62.     1,796      1,971     2,116
iillet                                        83        22<       247       26L        335       3i3
Gross inr.ome (A)                           ,79       1,        1,87      2,060      2,306     2,59
FARI4 EXPENDITURE
Pesticides                                     7          7         7         7          8         8
Fertilizer cost                               68         8L       108       150        189       236
Fertilizer interest                                       3         L         6          8         9
Implements repay loan capital                 6L         80        93       106        116       125
Implements loan interest                      16         18        20        20         21        22
Implements maintenance                        15         17        19         20        22        24
Draft animals cash purchase                   61         63        65        66         69        72
Draft animals repay loan capital              -           1         2          3         5         7
Draft animals loan interest                   -          -          1         1          1         2
DrIaft animals upkeep                         1 lb                14        13         13        13
Total expenditure (B)                        248        287       333       392        452       518
NET INCOME                                   1,231      1,388     1,5h2      1,668     1,854     1,941l
ITNCRErENTAL            5-year total
Gross income (C)            980                -        196       200        1B5       2L6       153
Farm expenditure (D)        710                -        157       158       126        186        87
(D) as % (C)                 72                -                   77        69         76        57
(B) as % (A)                                    17         17        18        19         20        21
AVEMPGE NET ING0CE PER FAR!'EEA ('000 frs)      L         L8        52         56        61         6b



FAIRM BUDGET ESTIMATES: CENTER ZONE
T,otal Zone Income and Exaenditure
(in CFAF millions)
Year             1967/68   1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73
I1NCOIIE
Groundnuts                                4,654     L ,779    5,215     5,6h3     6,045      6,511
Millet                                      497       901       988     1,054     1,265      1,298
Gross income (A)                          5,151     5,680     6,203     6,697      7,310     7,809
FARM EXPENDITURE
Pesticides                                   18        19        19         20        20        21
Fertilizer cost                             211       269       337        449       572       702
Fertilizer interest                           8        11        13        18         23        28
Implements repay loan capital               177       224        265       305       337       361
Implements loan interest                     42        50         55        58        61        66
Implements maintenance                       42        48         53        59        65        70
Draft animals cash purchase                 169       174        178       173       187       185
Draft animals repay loan capital              1          4       10         20        36        59
Draft animals loan interest                   1         1          2         4         5         6
Draft animals upkeep                         36        37         37        38        38        39
Total expenditure (B)                       705       837        969     1,11th    1,344     1,537
NET INCOME                                  4,446    4h,843      5,234     5,553     5,966     6,272
INCRE4ENTAL            5-year total
Gross income (C)         2,658                -        529       523       494       613       499
Farm expenditure (D)       832                -       132        132       175       200       193
(D) as % (C)                31                         25        25         35        33        39
(B) as - (A)                                   14        15        16         17        18        20
AVERAGE NET INCOME PER FARMER ('000 frs)       54         58        62        65        69        73



.-tr', " !' .  _5' 711RAT7S:  S  UT , '1T'.
e...!? Incomie anc  r.oend .re
(in IFAF 1mil o n S
ar            1967/68   196'/69   190'9/70   1 ?70/71  1971/72   1972/73
'Irouidnuts                                5,128     5,705      6,566     7,565     8,3Lc3.   8,86b
;ille;                        lll;5    ~~~~~~~~~~~~1,575  _1L629  1,663  l,9l    1,799
Gross income (A)                           6 273     7,280      8,1?5     0,228    10,lO     10,66
FA,Rl EXPEITDITUR7E
Pesticides                                    15        17         19        21        22         22
Fe-tilizer cost                              h08       532        623       801       98,2     1,174
Fertilizer interest                           16        21         25        32        39         )47
Implements repay loan Capital                .li        180       213       2)4       268        287
Implements loan interest                      35         40                 )46        b8         52
Implements maintenance                        34         39        L3        47        52         56
Draft animals cash purchase                  157        130       104        77         50        21
Draft animals repay loan capital               1          3        14        32        57         89
Draft animals loan interest                    1          b         8        13        19         26
Draft animals upkeep                          18         20        23        25        28         30
Total expenditure (B)                        829        986     1,116     1,338     1,565      1,804
-L1ST 1SUOME                        5,U4)4     6,29)4    7,079     7,890      8,575     8,859
INICRE1MNTAL           5-year total
Gross income (C)         4,390                -      1,007        915     1,033        912       523
Farm expenditure (D)       975                -        157        130       222       227        239
(D) as % (C)                22                -         16         1)4       21         25        46
(3) as :" (A)                                   13         1)              i,            15         17
AVfRAGE NET INCOMI-T P-ER FAWC' 13. ('00 frs)  104        117       127       137       1)!1       1)'
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  12_3             1



FARM BUDGET ESTIMATES:   PROJECT ARFA
Total Income and Expenditure
(in CFAF millions)
Year                  1967/68   1968/69   1969/70   1970/71    1971/72   1972/73
INCOME
Groundnuts                                11,178    11,934    13,409     15,004    16,362    17,h91
Millet                                     1,725     2,701      2,864    _ 2,981    3,394     3,440
Gross income (A)                          12,903    14,635    16,273     17,985    19,756    20,931
FARM EXPENDITURE
Pesticides                    -40                       43         45        48        50        51
Fertilizer cost                              688       886     1,068      1,395     1,743     2,112
Fertilizer interest                           28        35         43        56        70        85
Implements repay loan capital                385       484        571       655       721        773
Implements loan interest                      93       108        119       124       130        140
Implements maintenance                        91       104        115       126       139        150
Draft animals cash purchase                  387       367        347       316       306        278
Draft animals repay loan capital               2         8         26        55        98        155
Draft animals loan interest                    2          5        11        18        25         34
Draft animals upkeep                          68         71        74        76        79         82
Total expenditure (B)                      1,784     2,111      2,g19     2,869     3,361      3,860
NET INCOME                                  11,119    12,524     13,854    15,116    16,215     17,062
INCREMENTAL             5-year total
Gross income (C)          8,028              -       1,732      1,638     1,712     1,591      1,355
Farm expenditure (D)      2,076              _          327       308       450       492        499
(D) as % (C)                 26              -          19         19        26        31         37
(B) as % (A)                                    14        15         15        16        17         19      C x
A'JERAGE NET INCOIME PER FARPEUR ('300 frs)     68         75        80        88         92        96      4i ,



ANIr;x 6
Table 6
TOTAL COST OF FARM INPUTo
(in CFAF millions)
Year        69/70     70/71     71/72    Total     (Percent)
Pesticides                      45        48        49      142          1)
Fertilizer                   1,579     1,823     2,041     5,443       ( 54)
Implements cost                768       771       824     2,363      ( 24)
Implements maintenance         115       126       139      380       ( 4)
Draft animals cost             465       494       520     1,479       ( 15)
Draft animals upkeep            74        76        79       229     _    2)
Total cost                   3,046     3,338     3,652    10,036       (100)
of which:
Farmers' cash
Pesticides                    45        48        49       142
Implements maintenance       115       126       139       380
Draft animals purchase       347       316       306       969
Draft animals upkeep           74       76        79       229
-l'otal farmers' cash          581       566       573     1,720       ( 17)
Credit
Implements (medium-term)     768       771       824     2,363
Draft animals (medium-term)   118      178       214       510
Total medium-term             886      949     1,038     2,873       ( 29)
Fertilizer (short-term)     1,068    1,395     1,743     4,206       ( 42)
Total credit                  1,954    2,344     2,781     7,079       ( 71)
Subsidy (fertilizer)           511       428       298     1,237       ( 12)
Total cost                    3,046    3,338     3,652    10,036       (100)
Foreign exchange component
Pesticides                    41        43        44       128       ( 1)
Fertilizer                    916    1,057     1,184     3,157       ( 32)
Implements                   207       208       223       638       ( 6)
Total                         1,164    1,308     1,451     3,923       C 39)



ANNEX 6
Table 7
FARMERS' INCOTES
(derived from Tables 2 through 5)
Year     67/68   68/69    69/70   70/71   71/72   72/73    Average-/
(1)  Average net income per farmer (CFAF thousands)
North                   43      48      52      56      61       6b      56
Center                  5       58      62      65      69       73      65
South                 104      117     127     137     1b1      144     131
Overall average        68       75      80      88      92       96      86
(2)  Cost of farm inputs as % farmers' gross income
North                   17      17      18      19      20       21      19
Center                  lh      15      16      17      18       20      17
South                   13      lb      1l      15      15      17       15
Overall average         11      15      15      16      17       19      16
(3)  Incentives:  Incremental farm expenditure as % incremental income
North                   -       80      77      68      76      57       72
Center                  -       25      25      35      33      39       31
South                   -       16      14      21      25      4        22
Overail average         -       19      19      26      31       37      26
1/  Five-year average 1968/69 through 1972/73



AMNNEX 7
PROJECT COCRDIMATIN COMMITTEE
The following summarizes the main provisions of the draft Presi
dential Decree to set up the above Committee to ensure the satisfactory
execution of the project (para 4.O1 of the report):
Decree
(1) The Committee will be composed of the following members:
The Secretary of the Groundnut Committee
Representatives of the following:
Minister of Planning and Industry
MAinister of Finance
Minister of Rural Development
Director General of BNDS
Director General of ONCAD
Director General of SODEVA
(2) The Committee will meet when convened by the Chairman, at
least once per month, and will keep minutes of each
meeting.
(3) The Chairman will be a senior official nominated by the
Minister of I'lanning and Industry.
(4) The Committee will be responsible for the proper execution
of the project, and for the detailed operations as described
in the addendum, including the annual program for farm
equipment, the extension program and all necessary docu-
mentation relating to the progress of the project.
(5) The Committee will also be responsible for collecting and
collating all the information required by Bank/IDA and
for forwarding it to Washington.
(6) The Committee will be responsible for the qualifications
of technical assistance personnel and their replacements,
the rate of increase of production, improvements in the
marketing of groundnuts, the progress of the reorganization
of ONCAD and the functioning of SODEVA.
(7) The Ministers of Planning and Industry and of Rural Devel-
oprment, and the Secretary General of the Presidency, in
accordance with their specific legal responsibilities,
will ensure that the duties set out in the addendum are
carried out by the various organizations concerned.



ANM; 7
Fage 2
Addendum
The Committee will be responsible for the control and coordina-
tion of the annual buying programs by ONCAD on behalf of the cooperatives
for implements, fertilizer, insecticides and other farm inputs financed by
credits agreed for the cooperatives by BMDS, in accordance with the
following:
(1) For each planting season SODEVA will discuss with the
individual cooperators their needs for farm inputs, and
in agreement with the cooperatives, submit to ONICAD, BNDS
and the Committee the consolidated credit demands of the
cooperatives.
(2) BENDS will determine the credit it will grant to each
cooperative, and ONCAD will prepare the consolidated
orders for farm inputs.
(3) The Committee will examine the credit demands from the
cooperatives, BMDS' proposals for granting credits, and
ONCAD's proposals for ordering farm inputs, and will then
establish the program to be followed for the planting
season and submit it for approval of the President of the
Republic. ONCAD and BMDS will subsequently agree with
each cooperative its buying and financing program.
(4) In accordance with the approved program, ONCIAD will order
the farm inputs, pay for them and deliver them to the
cooperatives.
(5) BNDS will give each cooperative a credit for the amount
of approved farm inputs under the program, and pay ONCAD
accordingly. Cooperatives will repay the credits from
the proceeds of the sale of their groundnut crops in
accordance with the agreed credit repayment schedules.
(6) The whole of the marketable groundnut crop of the coopera-
tives will be sold to ONCAD, which will ensure that BNDS
receives repayment for credits, and the balance of the
proceeds will be paid in cash to the cooperatives.



PHDUCT ION   IMPRVEKENT PROGRAM
Econmaic Rate of Return
*NIT         1964/65    1965/66     1966/67     1967/68     1968/69     1969/70     1970/71    1971/72     1972/73     1973/74     1974/75
OUTPUT
Estimated production without program
Groundnuts marketed                   '000 ts65                      5           62          65                                             796     _    36         878         922
value (1)                  CFAF miilion    15,820      5,385      15,97k      13,493      13,396     l,709       1b,781      lk,0oE      13,627      13,170      12,724
Millet marketed value                                     50         100         200         350         500        600         700         800         900       1.000       1,000
Total value                                           15.870      15.,485     16.174      13.843     13,896     l.679       15,481      14.810      1,.527      14.170      13,724
Estimated production with program
(2)     (2)         (2)
Groundnuts marketed                   '000 tcns           565        69?(7       562         631         674         775        888         992       1.o80       1.13,       1,191
value (1)                  CFAF million    15,820      18,10k      14,387      12,999      13,1 3      15,113     17,316      17,459      17,604      17,010      16,436
Millet marketed value                                      50         69          35       1.540       2.790       3,060      3,26k       3.915       4.ooo       4.ooo       4,000
Total value                               n           15.870      18.173      144.22      1L,539      15.933     18,173      20,580      21,374      21,604      21,010      20,h36
Incremental value from program
Actual frcm above                         n                        2,688      (1,752)        696       2,037       3,149s      5,099      6,564       7,077       6,840       6,712
AdJusted for weather variations           n                          150         500       1.000
INPUT
Fertilizer increasnt                                                 161         621       1,039       1,193       1,4i8      1,662       1,880       2,083       2,239       2,439
Implementa exclwiing replacaent                                      367         392         b12         424         b30         h32        k37         450         150         150
Animals                   "                                          105         115         127         135         ILL         153        161         170         125          50
Pesticides & maintenance incre mt                   n                 20          40          69          88         1014       120         138         152         168         175
Extension services                                                   376         392         446         569         522         41b        o00         350         300         300
Management services ONCAD                                                                                230         213         213          50         50
Other program costs:
Processing facilities                  "                                                    7         945
Storage improvement                                                                        67          69
Seed improvement                                                   50          47          85          52          L2          50          50          50
Soil conaervation                     1n                                                               45          70
Rural expansion centers                                                                   200
Training centers                       n                                       12          36          10          20          20         10          10
Total cost output                                                  1 1.07Q     1.619       2,50?       3.760       2,963       3.064       3,126       3,265      2,982       3,1114
NET COST                                     "                          929       1,119       1.502       1.723
NET BENEFIT                                                                                                             531       2.o35       3,438       3,812       3,858       3,598
(1)   fob value less transportation and marketing costs   (2)   Actual
RATE OF RETURN - 25 percent approx.



-                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SENEGAL
O  2 5  5 0  75  100.                t   -^SE                                 GA
RAINFALL
AND CULTIVATION
PERCENTAGE OF CULTIVATED LAND
1                       +  ;T  ,oU  X  Hi :; X C *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  ESS THAN  En
A O (                               .                         6  --.3 04
5.l.5.
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r0                 ANALI ILMTR
JJLY 1068~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TTA  ASO   AilPRYA



OUGA
SENEGAL
PROJECT AREA
POU L
OAHRA                 North area
r~J~Z~Central area
~~ ~South area
Paved roads
Earth roads
H----*-4--Railway
CAYAR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-- International boundary
Provincial boundaries
Airport
Phosphate mines
POPENGUI,~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~<~\\\~\V\KK'                ' 
C'N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x\N            NQ'
~~'~~NNN  NN\N  N  N~,  N
G  A  M    I  A         '
JULY  1968                                                                         IBRD-2242R



