CREDIT NUMBER 140 -SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 10, 1969


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 140 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 10, 1969


﻿Brodlapment (lubit Agrutmrnt
AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 1969, between RE-
PUBLIC OF SENEGAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOcIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association
to make a credit to it in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000) to assist the
Borrower in financing Part I of the Project described in
Schedule 1 to this Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS the Borrower has also requested the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Development (herein-
after called the Bank) to provide additional assistance
towards financing the Project;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Borrower (hereinafter referred to as
the Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to provide a
Loan in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to three
million five hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis of
the foregoing, to make a Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of Development Credit
Regulations No. 1 of the Association dated June 1, 1961
as amended February 9, 1967 (said Development Credit


﻿4
Regulations No. 1 being hereinafter called the Credit Regu-
lations), with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein.
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms, wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement have the following meanings:
(a) " BNDS" means the Ban.que Nationale de DIeveloppe-
ment du Senegal established under Law No. 64-33 of the
Borrower dated May 26, 1964.
(b) "ONCAD" means the Office National de Coopcra-
tion et d'Assistance pour le Developpement established
under Law No. 66-60 of the Borrower, dated June 30, 1966,
as amended by Law No. 67-46 of the Borrower, dated
October 12, 1967.
(c) "SODEVA" means the Societc de Diveloppement
et de Vulgarisation Agricole, a soci'td ano'nye established
and operating under the laws of the Borrower.
(d) "SATEC" means the Societe d'Aide Technique et
de Cooperation, an instrumentality of the Government of
the Republic of France established in 1956 under the laws
of the Republic of France which has been engaged in pro-
viding agricultural extension services in the territories of
the Borrower pursuant to an agreement dated September
1964 between the Borrower and the Societe.
(e) "Project area" means the area within the Regions
of Thies, Diourbel and Sine Saloum within which SODEVA
is providing extension services.
(f) "Project period" means the period during which the
proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed.
(g) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
BNDS referred to in Section 5.02(b) of the Loan Agree-
ment.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Devel-
op-ment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a devel-
opment credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to six million dollars ($6,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and the Credit Regulations and
in accordance with the Allocation of the Proceeds of the
Credit and the Loan set forth in Schedule 2 to this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, as such allocation shall be modi-
fied from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods required for the Project and to be financed
under this Development Credit Agreement:
(i) Such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, as shall be required to
meet payments to be made) for expenditures in-
curred outside the territory of the Borrower for
services and fellowships under Category 1 of the
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit and the
Loan set forth in Schedule 2 to this Development
Credit Agreement;
(ii) The equivalent of thirty per cent (30%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, as shall be required to meet


﻿6
payments to be made) for expenditures incurred
outside the territory of the Borrower for services
under Category 2 of said Schedule 2; and
(iii) The equivalent of seventy-five per cent (75%) of
such amounts as shall have been disbursed by BNDS
for expenditures under Category 3 of said Sched-
ule 2;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the
estimate of expenditures for Categories 2 or 3 of said
Schedule 2, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the above percentages in order that withdrawals of
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Categories
and not withdrawn may continue pro rata with the expendi-
tures remaining to be made under such Categories.
(b) Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Borrower and the Association, no withdrawals shall be
made on account of : (i) expenditures made prior to Octo-
ber 1, 1968, or (ii) expenditures made in the territories of
any country which is not a member of the Bank (except
Switzerland) or for goods produced in (including services
supplied from) such territories.
SECTION 2.04. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for purposes of Section 3.02
of the Credit Regulations.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (34 of 1%/) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable
on each January 1 and July 1 commencing January 1, 1979


﻿7
and ending July 1, 2018, each installment to and including
the installment payable on July 1, 1988 to be one-half
of one per cent (1 of 1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(11 %) of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds
of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this
Development Credit Agreement to expenditures on the
Project, described in Schedule 1 to this Development Credit
Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree (i) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Development Credit Agreement, or as
shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
and (ii) contracts for the procurement of such goods shall
be subject to the approval of the Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively in carrying
out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) Sections 5.01, 5.02, 5.03, 5.04, 5.05,
5.09 and 5.10 of the Loan Agreement are hereby incorpo-
rated into this Development Credit Agreement with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein;
provided, however, that (i) all references to the Bank in
such Sections or in any one of them shall be deemed to be
references to the Association, and (ii) all references in


﻿8
such Sections or in any one of them to the Loan Agreement
and the Bonds shall be deemed to be references to the
Development Credit Agreement and all references there-
under to the Loan shall be deemed to be references to the
Credit.
(b) So long as any part of the Loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement or the Bonds executed and delivered
pursuant to the provisions of Article IV of such Loan
Agreement shall remain outstanding and unpaid, all action
taken, including approvals given, by the Bank pursuant to
the Sections of the Loan Agreement enumerated in the
foregoing paragraph shall be deemed to be taken or given
in the name and on behalf of both the Bank and the Asso-
ciation; and all information furnished by the Borrower
to the Bank pvrsuant to the provisions of such Sections
shall be deemed to be furnished to both the Bank and the
Association.
SECTIOiq 4.02. The provisions of the Sections of the Loan
Agreement enumerated in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01
of this Development Credit Agreement, except Section 5.04,
and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall terminate
on a date thirty years after the date of this Development
Credit Agreement, or on the date when the Loan Agreement
and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall termi-
nate, whichever is the later.
SECTION 4.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall use the pro-
ceeds of payments which it receives from BNDS under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and which are not cur-
rently required to ser.,Yce the Credit, for the purpose of
agricultural development. The Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall consult from time to time as to the procedure
for ensuring effective use of such proceeds.
SECTION 4.04. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free


﻿9
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.05. This Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Credit Regu-
lations shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty
days, or (ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of
Section 5.02 of the Credit Regulations or in Section 5.02
of this Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower,
then at any subsequent time during the continuance thereof,
the Association, at its option, may declare the principal of
the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable imme-
diately, and upon any such declaration such principal shall
become due and payable immediately, anything in this
Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwith-
standing.
SECTIoN 5.02. For the purposes of Section 5.02(k) of the
Credit Regulations, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) A default shall have occurred in the performance of
any covenant or agreement under the Loan Agreement
other than in respect of the payment of principal or service
charge or any other payment required thereunder.
(b) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Loan shall have been suspended in whole or in part.


﻿10
(c) The outstading principal of the Loan provided for
in the Loan Agreement shall have 17zen deelared, or become
due and payable in advance ei the agreed maturity theeeof.
(d) The Borrower shall Aave cancelled any part of the
Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement without
cancelling a corresponding amount of the Credit.
(e) The Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestab-
lishment of BNDS, ONCAD or SODEVA or for the sus-
pension of their operations without the prior approval of
the Association.
(f) Any provision of the Borrower's Law No. 64-33 of
May 26, 1964, or Law No. 66-60 of June 30, 1966 as
amended by Law No. 67-46 of October 12, 1967 or of Decree
No. 68-1253/PR/MPI of December 6, 1968, shall have been
amended, suspended, terminated or repealed so as to affect
adversely the performance by the Borrower of its obliga-
tions under this Development Credit Agreement.
(g) The Agreement between SOPEVA and SATEC
dated December 12, 1968, shall have ieen amended, modi-
fied or terminated without the prior approval of the
Association.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an ad-
ditional condition to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 8.01 (b)
of the Credit Regulations: The conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement shall have been ful-
filled, subject only to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement.
SECTION 6.02. If this Development Credit Agreement
shall not have come into force and effect by May 12, 1969


﻿11
this Development Credit Agreement and all obligations of
the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Associa-
tion, after consideration of the reasons for the delay,
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.
The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1972, or such later date as may be agreed by the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Credit Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Rue Charles Laine
Dakar B. P. 4017
Senegal
Alternative address for cables:
-1inistere des Finances
Dakar, Senegal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿12
SECTION 7.03. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated for the purposes of Section 7.03 of the Credit
Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in Dakar, Republic
of Senegal, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ LEOPOLD SEDAR SENGHOR
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ ROBERT S. MCNAMARA
President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project is the implementation over three years of
an integrated series of measures to increase the production
of groundnuts and millet in the Project area, and consists
of the following:
Part I. The provision of agricultural inputs of fertilizer,
draft oxen and animal-drawn agricultural implements and
carts to agricultural cooperatives in the Project area for
use by farmers, to be procured by ONCAD on the basis of
applications by farmers prepared with the assistance of
SODEVA and approved by the Project Coordination Com-
mittee and to be financed through credits extended by
BNDS to such cooperatives, repayable by the cooperatives
from the proceeds of the sale through ONCAD of the crops
of the cooperatives.
Part II. (a) Improvements to ONCAD, through the as-
sistance of qualified management consultan+s, of the organ-
ization and management, finance and accounting methods,
transportation and administering of the groundnut seed
stockpile including a review by such consultants of the
present services available to the cooperatives.
(b) Provision of overseas fellowships for selected mem-
bers of the staff of ONCAD.
Part III. The provision of adequate technical services to
the cooperatives by ensuring their continuation through the
extension services provided by SATEC/SODEVA. This
includes:
(a) the preparation of annual individual cooperative re-
quirements for farm input;
(b) help with the weighing-in of the harvest, payment
for crops and the semi-annual meetings of cooperatives.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1972.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Allocation of Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
Amounts Expressed In
Category                               U. S. $ Equivalent
1. (a) ONCAD: Management Services         1,500,000
(b) ONCAD: Counterpart Training          250,000
2. SATEC/SODEVA Cooperative Services        700,000
3. Animal drawn agricultural
implements and carts                    6,920,000
4. Unallocated                              130,000
Total:        9,500,000
Allocation of Proceeds of the Credit
1. The amount of the Credit shall be withdrawn from the
Credit Account as provided under Article II of this
Development Credit Agreement, and shall be applied to
expenditures under any of the Categories of this Sched-
ule, until the total of withdrawals and commitments
shall have reached the equivalent of $6,000,000.
Allocation of Proceeds of the Loan
2. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account as provided under Article II of the Loan
Agreement and shall be applied to expenditures under
any of the Categories of this Schedule incurred after
the amount of the Credit shall have been exhausted.
Reallocation upon Changes in Cost Estimate
3. If the estimates of the cost of the items included in
Categories 1, 2 or 3 shall decrease, the amount of the


﻿15
Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated to Category 4 by the
Association and by the Bank.
4. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in Cate-
gories 1, 2 or 3 shall increase, an amount equal to the
portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan (or, in the case of Category 3 an
amount equal to 75% of such increase and in the case
of Category 2 an amount equal to 30% of the foreign
exchange component of such increase) will be allocated
by the Bank or by the Association, as the case may be,
at the request of the Borrower, to such Category from
Category 4, subject, however, to the requirements for
contingencies, as determined by the Bank and by the
Association, in respect of the cost of the items in the
other Categories.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
The following procedures will apply to contracts to be
financed under Category 3 of the allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit as set out in Schedule 2 to this Development
Credit Agreement other than contracts entered into prior
to October 1, 1968 (in an amount equivalent to approxi-
mately $760,000):
1. All contracts for animal drawn agricultural implements,
including carts, will be awarded on the basis of local com-
petitive bidding in accordance with the general principles
and procedures set forth in the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, dated Febru-
ary 1968, as modified by paragraph 2 of this Schedule.
2. (a) "Local competitive bidding" in paragraph 1 above
means inviting the local factory (SISCOMA) and all inter-
ested agents of overseas firms producing suitable imple-
ments with similar specifications, represented in the terri-
tories of the Borrower, to make bids. This will be accom-
plished by publication of suitable advertisements in the
local press and government publications. The time interval
between advertising and the opening of bids will be a mini-
mum of thirty (30) days and the time interval for delivery
of goods will be not less than sixty (60) days from the
effective date of contract award.
(b) Before inviting tenders, copies of proposed standard
bid invitation documents and description of tendering pro-
cedures will be submitted to the Association for its ap-
proval. Procurement of these items will be grouped so that
each consignment is large enough to obtain favorable ship-
ping rates from the port of loading in case the contract is
awarded to a local agent of an overseas supplier.


﻿17
(c) A sununary of the bids received, an analysis report
and recommendations, and a justification of the proposal
for awarding the contract, together with a copy of the
proces-verbal of the public opening of the tenders will be
submitted to the Association for its approval.
(d) If any contract is awarded to the local agent of an
overseas supplier, the necessary import licenses and foreign
exchange authorizations shall be granted promptly upon
application.
(e) When evaluating bids, the following factors shall be
considered for the purposes of comparing the prices of
imported goods with those of goods produced or assembled
in the territories of the Borrower: (i) the price of imported
goods shall consist exclusively of (A) the cif cost of such
goods, (B) a margin of up to 15 per cent of such cif cost,
(C) the cost of transportation and handling from the point
of entry into the territories of the Borrower to the area
where the goods are to be delivered, and (D) the dealer's
commission; and (ii) the price of goods produced or assem-
bled in the territories of the Borrower shall consist exclu-
sively of (A) the ex-factory price of such goods after
deduction of the taxes and duties, if any, levied on the
importation into the territories of the Borrower of the
component parts of such goods, (B) the cost of transporta-
tion and handling from the factory to the area where the
goods are to be delivered, and (C) the dealer's commission.


