Document of
FILE COPY    The World Bank
FORt OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2 285-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
GUJARAT IRRIGATION PROJECT
May 10, 1978
This documnt hs a restrdeted dstribatl  and may be ued by recipients only In the performnee of
their oUdal dudes. Its contents may not otberwtse be disclosed without World Dlank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 4, 1978)
Rs 1.00            = Paise 100
US$1.00             = Rs 8.59
Rs 1.00            = US$ 0.1164
Rs 1 million        = US$ 116,400
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a 'basket' of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange
rate is subject to change. Conversions in the Staff App-
raisal Report were made at US$1 to Rs 8.60, which represents
the projected exchange rate over the disbursement period.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
-IP   -  Medium Irrigation Project
GOG   -  Government of Gujarat
CCA   -  Cultivable Command Area
AC    -  Appraisal Committee
CWC   -  Central Water Commission
PWD   -  Public Works Department
O&M   -  Operation and Maintenance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
GUJARAT IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:        State of Gujarat
Amount:             US$85 million.
Terms:              Standard
Relending
Terms:            As part of Central Assistance to States for develop-
ment projects on terms and conditions applicable at
the time.
Project
Description:      The purpose of the project is to use for irrigation
the numerous small rivers located throughout the State
where large scale irrigation or groundwater development
is not possible, and to modernize existing medium irri-
gation projects in Gujarat. The project would also
improve the data base for planning future irrigation
projects in the State.
The project consists of:
(a) construction, over a five year period, of medium
irrigation projects, covering about 63,000 ha
throughout the State;
(b)  modernization of existing medium irrigation
projects, covering about 55,000 ha, in order
to bring them up to the technical standards
agreed for new projects;
(c) establishment of a network of automatic discharge
measuring stations;
(d) carrying out of monitoring and evaluation studies.
The project would increase food and cash crop production
and thereby improve farmer income, provide additional
employment opportunities, especially for landless laborers
and small farmers, and reduce the danger of drought and
famine in low rainfall areas. It would reduce the
This document has a restricted disiribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii1 -
percentage of farm households below the average
national per capita income (US$150) in the area
from 94% to 35% and those below the poverty line
(US$70) from 69% to 13%. The project carries the
usual risks associated with irrigation projects in
India. Additional risks are related to the proce-
dures for preparation, appraisal and progress
review of medium irrigation projects. These pro-
cedures are similar to those introduced under the
Orissa Irrigation Project (Cr. 740-IN of September
1977), where they have so far been working well.
Estimated                                                       (US$ million)
Cost:                                                    Local  Foreign  Total
Construction of MIPs                   67.4    15.7      83.1
Modernization of MIPs                  15.8      3.2     19.0
River Gauging Network                   0.5      0.2      0.7
Monitoring and Evaluation               0.2       -       0.2
Design and Management                  14.4       -      14.4
Base Cost                        98.3    19.1    117.4
Physical Contingencies                 15.8      3.6     19.4
Expected Price Increases               28.1      5.6     33.7
Total Cost                      142.2    28.3    170.5
Financing                                                       (US$ million)
Plan:                                                    Local  Foreign  Total
IDA                                    56.7      28.3   85.0
Local Financing:  GOG                  85.5       -     85.5
142.2     28.3  170.5
Estimated
Disbursements:                                      (US$ millions)
FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84
Annual:           3.0   13.0   17.0   19.5   20.0   12.5
Cummulative:      3.0   16.0   33.0   52.5   72.5   85.0
Rate of Return:    20%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 1943-IN, dated May 18, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA FOR THE
GUJARAT IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$85 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance the implementation of the Government of
Gujarat's (GOG's) investment program for medium-scale irrigation projects
over the next five years throughout Gujarat. The proceeds of the credit
would be channelled to GOG in accordance with the Government of India's
(GOI's) standard terms and arrangements for the financing of State devel-
opment projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2008-IN dated April 17, 1978), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 18, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a vast, continental country with over twenty States divided
on linguistic and ethnic grounds with a population of over 620 million people,
almost as many as live in Africa and Latin America combined. It has a dual
economy. While 79% of its population lives in rural areas their productivity
is low. Agriculture's share in value added declined only gradually from about
50% to 43% over the last twenty years. The share of manufacturing has in-
creased slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant
at about 16%. Industry has a highly diversified structure with import substi-
tution and self-sufficiency pushed to the point where India has the capacity
to produce virtually every type of consumer and capital good required for a
modern economy. As in the case of many other large economies, the foreign
sector plays a relatively minor role; both exports and imports represent about
7% of GDP; foreign saving has supplied only about 5% of gross investment in
the recent past.
4.        Even though growth has been slow in the past, the economy enjoys many
of the prerequisites for sustaining faster growth and development. Although
literacy is far from universal, India has large resources of well trained
administrative, scientific and technical manpower and a dynamic entrepreneural
class. Per capita consumption of commercial energy is low by international
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture
Project (Report No. P-2251-IN), dated May 4, 1978.



-2-
comparison and power shortages are a way of life; but India is relatively well-
placed with regard to primary fuel sources. There are very large reserves of
coal and nuclear ores, and considerable hydro-electric potential. Recent
petroleum and gas discoveries have begun to be exploited and prospects are
bright for further discoveries. The basic elements of the infrastructure
needed to serve the economy have been established; in absolute terms the
irrigation, railway, telecommunication, road and power systems are each
among the largest in the developing, and in some cases the developed, world.
However, considerable gaps remain as the situation varies greatly from state
to state.
5.        Given the size of India's population, its annual increase of 13 mil-
lion people is such as to absorb a large portion of any provision to increase
standards of living. It is not possible to discern any significant increase in
the incomes of the vast mass of the rural and urban poor, who number 200
million with a per capita income of US$70 per annum or less. Although food-
grain production may be persistently underestimated, there has been no perma-
nent increase in per capita foodgrain consumption recorded in aggregate
statistics since 1960/61. Many years after the initial target, primary educa-
tion is still not universal. The labor force has grown faster than employment
and a considerable backlog of unemployed exist. Nevertheless, there has been
progress, with per capita income increasing on trend 1%-1.5% per annum; birth
rates falling to below 37 per thousand from levels of 45-50 per thousand at
the start of the 1950's; life expectancy increasing from about 32 years in the
1940's to 45-50 years in the 1970's; school enrollment rising from 32% to 65%
of children in primary school ages and from 5% to 29% of children in secondary
school ages since 1950/51.
6.        The rate of growth of GDP has been 3.5% per annum over the period
since Independence and 2.8% per annum over the period 1969/70 to 1976/77.
These low rates of growth are only partly due to low availability of inves-
tible resources, although there have been times that foreign exchange was a
severe bottleneck. The net transfer of resources from abroad has never been
above 3% of GDP and fell to as little as 0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74.
India's saving effort has grown steadily since the beginning of planning
in 1951, when it was 9% of GDP, to its recent level of 20% of GDP, which
compares well with other countries' saving performance at the same level of
per capita incomes. Despite a doubling in the rate of investment, from about
10% of GDP in the early 1950's to about 20% at present, the trend rate of GDP
growth has not increased. This marks a decline in the efficiency of capital
use which transcends fluctuations due to weather, war or international terms
of trade shifts.
Recent Trends
7.        In many respects economic conditions during the last three years
have been significantly different from those prevailing in previous years.
In the late 1960's and early 1970's, the economy faced several shortages--
foodgrains, agricultural and industrial inputs and foreign exchange--which
retarded production and investment and often led to price increases. An
adverse shift in terms of trade starting with the oil price hike in 1973 and
continuing with the foodgrain and fertilizer price rises in the following



-3-
year greatly increased the cost of acquiring these essential commodities
abroad. These external shocks combined with a spate of bad weather played
havoc with the economy through 1974/75, causing slow growth in production
and investment and a record level of inflation.
8.        Since the excellent monsoon in the summer of 1975, a new situation
has arisen. The period 1975 to 1978 has been characterized by much greater
price stability, enhanced agricultural and industrial output and comfortable
foodgrain and foreign exchange reserves. The new situation was a combined
result of domestic policies and fortuitous circumstances. The increase in
foodgrain stocks was only in part due to improved policies and programs. The
more decisive factor has been the three good-to-excellent monsoons coming on
top of substantial foodgrain imports in 1975 and 1976. Industrial output
increased on average by 7% a year in 1975-1978 compared to 3% in 1970-75, due
to greater power availability, better management in the public sector, improved
labor relations, better transport and some increase in demand derived from
increased incomes due to improved harvests, greater exports and higher levels
of public investment. The most dramatic turnaround ocurred in the balance
of payments, with a sharp real reduction in the import bill helped by good
harvests and increased domestic production in iron and steel, fertilizer and
oil, which reduced demand for imports The supply of foreign exchange was
also greatly increased by a significant step-up in the volume of exports, an
increase in foreign aid and a substantial jump in remittances from Indians
working in the Middle East, Europe and America.
9.        In 1977/78, the growth of GDP was about 5%, a recovery over the
rate of 1.6% in 1976/77 but less than the 8.5% reached two years earlier.
Prices, which had been rising during 1976/77 after a decline in 1975/76, were
stabilized; wholesale prices at the end of March 1978 stood at about the same
level as in March 1977, and the yearly average was only 5.4% above that of
the previous year. Exports in 1977/78 are estimated at US$6.4 billion and
imports at US$6.6 billion. The inflow of invisibles from abroad at US$1.4
billion and net aid disbursements of US$1.2 billion more than offset the small
trade deficit of US$200 million and IMF repurchases of US$330 million to in-
crease reserves by US$2.1 billion to US$5.8 billion by end of March 1978.
10.       The 1977/78 foodgrain crop may exceed the 1975/76 record level of
121 million tons due to very good weather and increased input use. Support
purchases could result in peak foodgrain stocks as high or even higher than
in 1977, when they were 21 million tons. In addition to ample and evenly
distributed rainfall, more intensive and widespread use of three crucial
inputs--irrigation water, fertilizer and extension advice--contributed to
the bumper harvest. Fertilizer consumption surged 30% in 1977/78, continuing
its recovery from the depressed level of 1974/75. Annual additions to irri-
gated area have been on average of 2 million hectares since 1975/76 compared
with 1.3 million hectares per annum achieved from 1969 to 1975. An improved
extension system, which has been getting heartening results, has been intro-
duced in several states and is slated for further coverage.



-4-
Development Prospects
11.       India faces the future with large stocks of foodgrains, high and
rising external reserves, excellent rabi crop expectations, price stability
and good prospects for sustaining the improved supply of foreign exchange.
The circumstances present a great opportunity for further promoting the devel-
opment of the Indian economy. The Draft Five Year Plan for 1978-83, discussed
though not yet approved by the National Development Council, responds to this
challenge by projecting a rapid growth in real terms of both overall investment
and public plan expenditures. Investment is to rise on average by 10.7% per
annum and the economy is expected to grow on average by 4.7% per annum during
the years 1978-83.
12.       The new Draft Plan reveals an intention to reorient the country's
development towards improving the living conditions of the poor. This is
reflected in its principal objectives: (i) the removal of unemployment and
significant underemployment; (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living
of the poorest sections; and (iii) the provision of basic needs to low income
groups. To achieve these objectives, the Government proposes to emphasize
agricultural development, cottage and small scale industries, area planning
for integrated rural development and the provision of minimum needs. As a
first step towards complete removal of unemployment, the Plan envisages the
creation of a large number of new jobs through a considerable expansion of
construction activity as well as a boost in the consumption levels of the
poor--which in turn would require the production of the necessary wage goods,
largely in small-scale, labor-intensive units. Specific programs to achieve
these objectives are still in the making.
13.       In order to achieve a sizable rise in the income of the poorest
classes of society, the Draft Plan--in conformity with the Janata Party policy--
places prime emphasis on the development of rural areas. A major impulse for
agricultural development will be provided by the expansion of irrigation and
related agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers and better farming techniques.
The Draft Plan argues that efforts to increase productivity should be sup-
plemented by measures with a redistributive impact such as supporting small
farmers and small industry with institutional credit and material supplies
and assistance for marketing. The Draft Plan also intends to complement the
creation of employment and the increase in rural productivity by providing
basic services to those groups which have so far been unaffected. For this
purpose, the minimum needs program launched at the onset of the Fifth Plan
is being revitalized and accelerated.
14.       The allocation of the Draft Plan outlay for the next five years
reflects these priorities. Out of a total expected spending of US$81 billion,
US$35 billion--43%--have been earmarked for rural development programs includ-
ing agriculture, irrigation, fertilizer and social infrastructure expenditures
directly benefitting the rural areas. The share of these sectors amounted to
37% during the Fifth Plan period and to 40% in the Annual Plan for 1978-79.
It can thus be expected to rise further during the next four years. Similarly,
spending on the minimum needs program in 1978-83 will absorb 6% of the plan
resources, as compared to less than 3% in the Fifth plan. On the other hand,
the shares of industry and of transport and communication have been reduced.



- 5 -
15.       There is considerable scope for stepping up growth in agriculture.
The most promising development is the sharp increase in government outlays
and improved project implementation for irrigation. There are also indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slump
in the early 1970's. Other favorable indicators include the spread of an
improved system of extension of more states and the recovery of fertilizer
demand. With regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is an
increased awareness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects
can be much increased not only through command area development, but also
through improved design standards in major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Nevertheless, comprehensive improvement in water management remains a distant
goal, particularly in existing systems and where farms are small and frag-
mented. The bulk of the increase in private tubewell development in the last
few years has come from the Eastern Region, where more and more farmers are
sinking wells to enable them to grow a winter crop of wheat in addition to
providing better water control for the summer rice crop. Improved water man-
agement would make such investments even more productive. Increased farmer
incomes from the recent good harvests, somewhat lower fertilizer prices and
grain prices supported at incentive levels have encouraged farmers to apply
considerably more fertilizer. Finally, the reorganized and improved extension
and research system which has been introduced recently in several states in
northern and eastern India holds out the hope that sound advice will reach
many more farmers in both irrigated and rainfed areas and will raise their
productivity significantly. The improved extension system is an excellent
example of how the growth effort can and must be structured so as to increase
the incomes of small and marginal farmers, who work 25% of the cultivated land
and account for somewhat more than 25% of production; more importantly, these
farmers make up about 70% of the rural population and constitute the majority
of those living below the poverty level in India.
16.       Industrial prospects are somewhat more difficult to discern.
Moderate growth in 1977/78 after an excellent year in 1976/77 suggests the
persistence of problems plaguing the sector since the mid 1960's--large
unutilized capacity, stagnant capital formation in the private sector and
low productivity growth. Lower investment than expected, of course, is one
of the reasons for low capacity utilization in capital goods industries,
which make up a significant portion of the sector. Low buoyancy of demand for
industrial products from all sources--not only from investments but also from
agriculture, exports and import substitution--has been a basic constraint.
Further import substitution cannot be a major source of growth for manufac-
tured goods in the future because most opportunities for efficient import
substitution have been exploited. Higher effective demand from increased
growth of real incomes from greater productivity in both agriculture and
manufacturing, sustained increases in exports and increased investment,
particularly from the public sector, all can raise demand for industrial
production.
17.       The new industrial policy of the Janta government and the orienta-
tion of the Draft Five-Year Plan emphasize small scale industry over heavy
industry and have accordingly promoted such measures as product reservation,
credit rationing, and, within the small scale sector, plans to initiate special
efforts for the growth of the "tiny" sector. While the priority accorded to



-6-
the small scale sector is laudable, there are doubts about the efficacy of
the policy measures chosen. Past experience indicates that other factors
are also crucial to its development, particularly effective demand, quality
control, prices and marketing techniques. Some small scale industry is cap-
ital intensive and not well suited to as rapid employment generation as is
hoped; nor can all goods be efficiently produced using small scale technology.
18.       India's population growth rate of about 2% is not high in comparison
with that of most developing countries. Moreover, the rate is on the decline,
after growing steadily census to census from 1920 through 1970, both because
the birth rate continues to fall and because mortality will not fall as
steeply as in the past. Family planning acceptor rates slowed down in the
wake of the abandonment of the 1976 population policy after the 1977 general
elections and the momentum of the program has yet to be recaptured, particu-
larly in Northern India. However, the new Government has reaffirmed its
commitment to a voluntary family planning program and has budgeted the re-
sources to carry it out. Over the longer term, with a sustained family
planning effort, it should be possible to bring the birth rate down from its
1970-75 level of about 37 per thousand to about 23 thousand to the end of the
century, implying a population growth rate somewhat under 1.1%. Our "best
guess" projection of India's population in the year 2000 is 885 million. Many
of the benefits of family planning policy will only be felt beyond the turn of
the century; the decline in fertility will, however, bring about an earlier
change in the age structure of the population. The school age group will grow
more slowly or not at all after 1981, thereby reducing the pressures on the
primary and secondary education systems. However, the labor force will
continue to grow at a faster rate -- 2.5% per annum -- until well into the
1990's, resulting in an increasing proportion of the population in the labor
force from 40.8% to 45% in 1991.
19.       The government's goal to eliminate unemployment in 10 years implies
an expansion of the number of jobs at the rate of 9 million per annum -- 7
million new entrants to the labor force and the asborption of 2 million or
so formerly unemployed. The majority of these will have to continue to be
absorbed -- judging from the prevailing composition of the labor force -- in
agriculture and the unorganized small scale sector. The absorptive capacity
of the modern organized sector is unfortunately low; its employment elasticity
is expected to be no more than 0.5.  Given its low current share of output,
even rapid growth of this sector would not make much of a dent in the backlog
of the unemployed. Employment in the organized sector has been growing at
about 2.2% per annum in the past ten years, less than the labor force growth
rate, and all of this in the public sector. Private sector employment has not
grown at all since 1966. While the labor absorption elasticities of the small
scale sector may be higher in some cases than that of the large scale sector,
a major effort to expand production must succeed before an appreciable employ-
ment impact will materialize.
20.        In the short run India's balance of payments should not be a con-
straint on growth and development in the next few years. With good medium-
term prospects for India's exports, the expected continuation of growth in
invisible receipts and the potential for an increase in net aid disbursments,
the net availability of foreign exchange to finance merchandise imports is
projected to rise over the next five years, in current prices, from US$8.7



-7-
billion in 1977/78 to US$16.7 billion in 1982/83, an average of 14% per annum.
Given the unlikely need to increase rapidly imports of some traditionally
important items -- e.g., petroleum, fertilizer, foodgrains, edible oil and
cotton -- other imports can increase at the rate of 20% a year over the next
five years.
21.       Altogether, these currently favorable circumstances present the
opportunity to double India's trend rate of growth of per capita income from
the average annual rate of 1.5% that prevailed for the last thirty years to
3% over the next five, and thereafter. This requires a continued fall in the
rate of population growth below 2% per annum and a rise in the growth of GDP
from the historical rate of 3.5% to 5.0% per annum.  Both of these targets
are within reach. The first should be achieved barring a total abandonment
of the family planning program. The second requires improved efficiency and
increased investment by both the public and private sectors; it also means
more fully harnessing the gains from trade through international specializa-
tion implying a strong export effort and continued easier access to imports.
In addition to enabling a faster rate of per capita income, the present
situation allows for increasing the coverage of the population's minimum
needs. This requires formulating and administering effective, efficient
programs of public investment and, of course, requires larger public outlays.
22.       With the enhanced resources at India's disposal, the economy is
poised for a higher rate of economic growth. The Government is moving to
take advantage of this opportunity with increased public expenditure envisioned
over the next five years, and the liberalized trade policies recently announced.
It is yet too early to know whether the moves made so far will be sufficient
to achieve the desired targets or whether additional steps will be necessary.
Assured international support for India's development effort will be an im-
portant factor in moving the Government to take greater risks in pursuing a
dynamic development program directed at meeting the huge needs of its large
and impoverished population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
23.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 53 loans and 97 deveiopment
credits to India totalling US$2,013 million and US$4,934 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$890 million has been
repaid, and US$2,120 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1978.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1978,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$14.5 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$29.4 million, US$22.9 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of March 31, 1978, is also included in Annex II (page 2).



-8-
25.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
26.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
27.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry.
Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most
projects. This is particularly the case in such high priority sectors as
agriculture, irrigation, rural water supply and medium and small scale in-
dustry.
28.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to be,
provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank



-9-
lending. As of March 31, 1978, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,159
million, of which US$594 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net
amount outstanding of US$565 million.
29.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1977, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$13.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was 28%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1976/77, about 14% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN INDIA
General
30.       Agriculture is the most important sector in India; it engages 70%
of the labor force, has recently contributed about 43% of value added and
accounts for a major share of exports. Consequently, investments in agri-
culture have been given priority by GOI and the State Governments, espe-
cially since the mid-1960s, and deserve continued emphasis in the future.
31.       Since independence, the overall growth rate of agricultural pro-
duction has averaged about 3% per annum. This low overall rate of growth
obscures considerable variations over shorter periods of time, between crops,
and between regions. The overall rate is very much affected by the serious
droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972 and 1974. At the same time, the
success of high yielding varieties of wheat led to annual increases in wheat
production of about 20% between 1967 and 1971, and three consecutive favorable
monsoon seasons in 1975, 1976 and 1977 resulted in bumper crops in these years.
Other foodgrain crops, notably rice, have not enjoyed anything like the same
success as wheat, mainly because of the difficulties of developing high
yielding seeds. Consequently, the effects of the green revolution, which
primarily affected wheat, have been concentrated in northwestern India.
32.       Despite the progress made in many aspects of food production,
India's agriculture remains heavily dependent upon the weather. A major
factor in reducing this dependence is the expansion of irrigation and the
extent to which more effective use can be made of existing investment in
irrigation facilities. The Government is also placing emphasis on the im-
proved supply of inputs such as seeds and fertilizer, agricultural credit,
and extension services.
Irrigation
33.       Up to 1964/65, the irrigated area in India increased at a rate of
only 2.1% per year, of which about two-thirds was from surface water resources



- 10 -
and one-third from groundwater. Since then, the rate of increase has about
doubled, mainly through an accelerated program of groundwater development.
At present, the total irrigated area is approximately 45 million ha, of which
about three-fifths is irrigated from surface sources and two-fifths from
groundwater.
34.       The pace of surface water development remained relatively constant
at about 0.5 million ha per year until the end of the Fourth Plan (1969/70-
1973/74). During this period, actual increases in the surface irrigated area
lagged behind GOI's physical plan targets for more rapid development. A
major problem was the continuing tendency of the States to start a large
number of projects, which, given the limited financial resources, could only
be constructed slowly so that benefits accrued with much delay.  However,
in recent years, budgetary allocations have grown rapidly and the authorities
have increased their efforts to complete on-going projects. As a result, the
new area brought under command in 1976/77 was 1.1 million ha or about twice
that achieved in any single year before the start of the Fifth Plan in 1974/75.
However, while the increase in area brought under the command of new surface
irrigation projects is impressive, the increase in area actually irrigated
has been more modest than the figures imply - particularly in the case of
major and medium irrigation schemes due to inadequate distribution and drain-
age systems. In areas actually receiving water, irrigation efficiencies
remain low and water supply is unreliable.
35.       The Second Irrigation Commission of 1972 and the National Commis-
sion on Agriculture, which reported in 1976, also found that the underutili-
zation of irrigation potential was attributable to the lack of integrated
development in the irrigation areas, insufficient farmer training, and lack
of efficient extension services and of administrative coordination. It has
been estimated that the majority of recently completed irrigation projects
require additional investments up to US$600 per ha to make them fully pro-
ductive. Accordingly, GOI and the State Governments have adopted various
measures to improve utilization, and a Command Area Development Department
has been set up in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture to coordinate work
on selected high priority projects. Such measures for command area develop-
ment (CAD) include public investment in irrigation-associated infrastructure -
such as drainage, roads, markets, agricultural extension and research - and
private investments, mainly at the farm level - such as land shaping and
leveling, watercourse lining, field channels and drains.
36.       In view of the emergence of high productivity farm technologies
dependent on effective water control - and given India's already substantial
investment in surface irrigation - the economic return on investment that
improves water delivery or facilitates better use of the water provided
can be very high. Consequently, rehabilitation and modernization of irriga-
tion infrastructure as well as command area development are being given high
priority by GOI, and a relatively large proportion of public sector invest-
ment in irrigation has been allocated for these purposes. Plan allocations
have been supplemented by the resources of agricultural and commercial banks
participating in financing command area development programs through farm



- 11 -
credit. In addition, major institutional changes have been introduced affect-
ing the coordination of services in command areas and the administration of
credit. Moreover, new projects are being designed, implemented and operated
on the basis of improved technologies.
37.       While emphasizing the need to improve water utilization through
command area development, the Government is at the same time pursuing the
objective of increasing the area under irrigation, in particular where only
incremental investments are required. Thus, completion of on-going irriga-
tion developments is given equally high priority as command area development.
Agricultural and Irrigation in Gujarat
38.       Gujarat, with an area of about 196,000 km2 and a population of
about 30.7 million in 1977, is one of India's most advanced States. It is
relatively urbanized (29%) and has a large modern manufacturing sector, which
together with mining and related activities contributes on average about 30%
of Gujarat's net domestic product. But agriculture, whose contribution to
Gujarat's net domestic product averages 36%, is predominant in the State's
economy. Also, while the industrial sector (valued added) in Gujarat has
grown over the last fifteen years at a slower pace (3.7% p.a.) than industry
nation-wide (4.6% p.a.), growth of agriculture in the State has been faster
(3.0% p.a.) than nationally (2.0% p.a.). Agriculture employs about 65% of
the labor force in Gujarat.
39.       The State consists of2three distinct geographic areas.  First is
the Gujarat mainland (85,000 km ) formed by extensive coastal plains flanked
by hilly terrain in the east. This area slopes gently towards the west and
southwest. The State's four major rivers (Tapi, Narmada, Mahi, and Sabarmati)
and numerous small streams, which traverse these plains, cause widespread
flood at frequent intervals. Poor natural drainage resulting from the low
gradient has caused water-logging and salinity on 2 significant scale. The
second area is the Saurashtra peninsula (65,000 km ). A number of small
rivers originate in its central table land and run radially into the sea.
In recent years over-exploitation of groundwater in the coastal areas has
resulted in salt water intrusion into tMe shallow water table. Finally,
there is the Kutch land mass (46,000 km ) where large areas are saline and
unsuitable for agricultural production without reclamation.
40.       Of the 18.8 million ha area of Gujarat, for which land use is
reported, about 9.8 million ha are under cultivation. There is little scope
for increasing cultivable land except through reclamation of desert, saline
and ravine areas. The cropping intensity is only 107%, one of the lowest in
India; but, given the low rainfall, it cannot be significantly increased
without irrigation. At present, only about 15% of the cropped area (1.58
million ha) is being irrigated. This figure is less than two-thirds of
the national average, and only two States (Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra)
have a lower percentage of their cropped areas irrigated. The ultimate
potential for irrigation from all sources in Gujarat is estimated at 3.2
million ha, of which roughly 1.5 million ha each would be irrigated from
groundwater and from major/medium surface schemes, while the balance would
be irrigated from minor surface systems. Development of irrigation from



- 12 -
surface sources, however, is limited by a number of factors. All rivers,
except Narmada and Tapi, are seasonal. The topography is unfavorable and
makes construction of major infrastructure costly. The catchment areas of
the major rivers extend to a large part into other States of India, which
subjects Gujarat to water sharing agreements with the upper riperian States.
Such agreement has not been reached for the Narmada, but the matter is now
pending with a GOI tribunal, whose allocation of Narmada waters between
Madhya Pradesh, Maharastra and Gujarat is expected within two years.
41.       Gujarat's climate and soils are particularly suitable for cotton,
groundnuts, and tobacco, and the State produces about one-quarter of India's
cotton and groundnuts and about one-third of its tobacco. Cotton and ground-
nuts are the most widely grown crops in the State. Cereals - primarily pearl
millet, sorghum, wheat and maize - and pulses account for less than half of
the cropped area. As a result, Gujarat is a net importer of foodgrains,
and in normal years foodgrain production is about I million tons short of
the State's requirement of 5.5 million tons.
42.       Gujarat has a tropical monsoon climate.  Annual rainfall ranges
from less than 300 mm in the northwest to over 2,000 mm in a small area in
the southeast, but most of the State receives 500-800 mm. However, rainfall
is highly unreliable regarding both timeliness and amount, and this has made
Gujarat extremely susceptible to droughts, which the State experienced not
less than 25 times since 1900. The latest drought years were 1972/73 and
1974/75 when foodgrain production fell to 50% of its normal level.
43.       Gujarat's labor force constitutes 31% of its total population.
Farmers and agricultural laborers account for 43% and 22%, respectively, of
the labor force. About one quarter of the population belong to traditionally
disadvantaged groups: tribes (18%) and scheduled castes (7%). In a normal
year, about 40% of the rural population has incomes below the poverty line
(US$70). Poverty is heaviest in the eastern and southern parts of the State,
where two-thirds of the population live below the poverty line. The average
farm size in Gujarat is 4.1 ha, but there are large regional variations and
in general, due to agro-climatic conditions, farms in the low rainfall areas
are significantly larger than in high rainfall areas. The land ceiling in
Gujarat is 4.1 to 10.9 ha for land irrigated from a Government source, depend-
ing on soil type and reliability of irrigation water. In rainfed areas, the
ceiling ranges from 8.1 ha to 21.9 ha. For each family member in excess of
five, the ceiling is increased by 20%, up to a maximum increase of 100%.
44.        Because of the generally low and unreliable rainfall in Gujarat,
irrigation development is a prerequisite for a significant increase of
agricultural production, and consequently has been given increasing priority
by the Government of Gujarat (GOG) since India's Independence (1947). At
that time, there were only two small ancient canal systems in Gujarat and the
area irrigated from wells was only 400,000 ha. In the early 1950s, three
major surface schemes were started: Mahi Right Bank Canal with a cultivable
command area (CCA) of about 143,000 ha; Kakrapar with a CCA of about 225,000
ha; and Shetrunji with a CCA of about 57,000 ha. On all three projects,
progress of dam/weir construction was relatively rapid but canal construction



- 13 -
was lagging far behind. The Bank Group's first financing for surface irriga-
tion development in India financed the construction of the Shetrunji canal
system (Cr. 13-IN of November 22, 1961, US$4.5 million). Like other irriga-
tion projects of that time, the Shetrunji project failed to achieve its agri-
cultural potential due to inadequate agricultural supporting services and
lagging construction of field channels and drains by the farmers. The prob-
lems encountered with projects such as Shetrunji have since led GOI, the State
Governments concerned and the Bank Group to reorient their concept of sound
irrigation development toward a more integrated approach. In 1960, the Ukai
project was started to provide carry-over storage for the Kakrapar project and
to extend the CCA to a total of about 375,000 ha. This project is still under
construction and a major program of on-farm development, drainage and modern-
ization works has been added. The Kadana Irrigation Project in Gujarat
(Cr. 176-IN of February 9, 1970, US$35 million) was the first of a second
generation of Bank Group-financed irrigation projects in India. Besides the
traditional irrigation infrastructure, this project included some elements
of command area development, in particular the construction of field channels,
drains and landshaping and financing of these works through institutional
credit, the construction of market roads, and an agricultural support program.
This project is now basically completed, about two years behind schedule due
to two extreme floods, which disrupted dam construction. A project completion
report is scheduled for late 1978. Groundwater development in Gujarat has
accelerated since Independence. In the 1950s, the area irrigated from wells
increased by about 3.5% annually. In the 1960s, the pace of groundwater
development almost doubled, and diesel pumps replaced the traditional lift-
ing devices. In several areas, the limit of groundwater resources is being
approached. The Bank Group has been directly involved in groundwater devel-
opment in Gujarat through the Gujarat Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 191-IN
of June 3, 1970, US$35 million), which was fully disbursed on March 31, 1975.
A project completion report found that about 81,000 farms representing a total
population of 480,000 benefitted directly from the minor irrigation component
of the project, rather than 25,000 farms as estimated at appraisal. The
overall economic rate of return for the project's minor irrigation component
was 28%, compared to the appraisal estimate of 23%.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       In support of GOG's development plan for medium-scale irrigation,
the proposed project would finance, over the five-year period 1978/79 -
1982/83, the construction of new medium irrigation projects (MIPs) and the
modernization of existing MIPs. All MIPs that meet technical and economic
criteria established among GOI, GOG and the Association would be eligible for
financing under the credit. Most important among the criteria are full lining
of the canals and extension of the distribution system to serve 8 ha blocks
instead of the traditional 40 ha blocks. It is estimated that about one-third
of the approximately 30 MIPs now under construction and about ten new MIPs to
be started in the next five years would be eligible for financing from the
credit. Together, these projects would account for about three-quarters of
GOG's total expenditures for construction of MIPs in the period covered by the
proposed project. When completed, these MIPs would provide irrigation to some



- 14 -
63,000 ha throughout Gujarat. The project would also provide modernization
for about five existing MIPs covering about 55,000 ha, in order to raise them
to the standards set by the established criteria. Stream flow measuring and
project monitoring and evaluation would also form essential elements of the
proposed project.
46.       The project was prepared by GOG with assistance from Bank Staff.
It would closely follow the pattern introduced by the Orissa Irrigation Proj-
ect, for which a US$58 million IDA credit was approved on September 6, 1977
(Cr. 740-IN). The project was appraised in October/November 1977. A sup-
plementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III. A report entitled
"India - Staff Appraisal Report - Gujarat Irrigation Project," Report No.
1943-IN, dated May 18, 1978, is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in April/May 1978. The
Borrower and GOG were represented by a delegation headed by Mr. J. K. Sibal.
The Project
47.       The proposed project would support a five-year time-slice (1978/79-
1982/83) of Gujarat's development program for medium irrigation. At present,
projections for investments in MIP construction in the project period amount
to Rs 1,313.4 million (about US$152.7 million). In addition, budget expendi-
tures totalling Rs 220 million (US$25.6 million) are projected for moderniza-
tion of existing medium irrigation schemes through FY1982/83. The size of
the program has been determined on the basis of GOG's budgetary limitations.
It does already take into account the additional funds that GOI would make
available to GOG from the proposed credit, but excludes potential advance
plan assistance from GOI, the annual total of which has averaged about Rs 150
million in the past. GOG's capacity to implement projects of this kind has not
been a limiting factor; in fact, it appears that GOG would have no difficulty
implementing a more ambitious MIP program. The project would include con-
struction, over the next five years, of medium irrigation projects covering
about 63,000 ha throughout Gujarat. Eligibility of MIPs for inclusion in the
project would be determined through special procedures (para. 48 below) and
on the basis of criteria (para. 51 below) agreed upon among the Association,
GOI and GOG. IDA financing would cover all expenditures on MIPs designed and
constructed in accordance with the agreed criteria during the 1978/79-1982/83
period. On-going MIPs and MIPs started in 1978/79 would be completed under
the project while MIPs started in 1979/80 or later would only be financed
from the credit up to 1982/83. However, any MIP started under the credit
would be completed in accordance with the agreed criteria (Section 2.02(a)
of the Project Agreement). About ten MIPs under construction that can be
modified to meet the agreed technical and economic criteria and about ten new
MIPs are likely to be included in the project. The five-year expenditures on
construction of MIPs that meet the criteria are estimated at Rs 948 million
(US$110.2 million), of which about one-quarter would be for completion of on-
going and three-quarters for new MIPs. The balance of Rs 365.4 million (US$42.5
million), out of the total five-year MIP construction program of Rs 1,313.4
million mentioned above, consists of MIPs that cannot be modified to meet the
agreed criteria. In addition, the project would encompass existing MIPs,
covering 55,000 ha, that can be modernized to meet the standards established



- 15 -
for new MIPs. Five-year expenditures for MIP modernization works are esti-
mated at Rs 220 million (US$25.6 million). A network of automatic discharge
measuring stations to improve the hydrological data base for the planning of
future major and medium projects, and project monitoring and evaluation
studies would also be included.
48.       Basic data requirements, specific criteria for planning, design and
construction, and standards of economic viability have been established for
MIPs to be included in the project. The economic criteria would ensure that
individual MIPs would have an economic rate of return of at least 12%. The
procedure of financing a time-slice of GOG's medium irrigation program, in
combination with the establishment of technical and economic criteria, pro-
vides an opportunity to review in depth a large part of Gujarat's irrigation
sector and to make an impact, statewide, on technical and economic standards
applied in MIPs.
49.       Each MIP would consist of an earthfill storage dam with a gated
spillway, a fully lined canal network delivering water through outlets serv-
ing 8 ha blocks, and a drainage network connected to natural drains. The
average cost would be about US$1,740 per irrigated ha, ranging from US$1,400
to about US$2,090 per ha. This is substantially higher than in major irri-
gation projects of the same standards in India (averaging US$1,160 per ha).
This is so since in a typical MIP the (costly) dam accounts for about two-
thirds, and the distribution network for one-third, of project cost, while
in major irrigation projects this ratio typically is reversed. Due to size,
number and distribution of MIPs throughout the State, it would not be feasible
to establish command area development organizations for individual projects.
Instead, proper water supply to each farm would be ensured by the extension
of the canal system from the standard 40 ha outlets down to turnouts serving
8 ha blocks. Assurances have been obtained from GOG that the State department
of agriculture would establish irrigation demonstration plots in each MIP area,
prepare a layout for each 8 ha block served by an outlet, showing the design
of water courses, field channels and land shaping, and assist the farmers in
implementing these works (Section 2.02(c) and (d) of the Project Agreement).
In addition, GOG has given assurances that staffing of the agricultural ex-
tension services in each MIP area would conform with statewide standards to
be established by GOG and the Association and, thus, would essentially follow
the pattern adopted in other Bank Group financed command area development and
agricultural extension projects in India (Section 3.05 of the Project Agree-
ment). An assurance has also been obtained from GOG that it would, if neces-
sary, strengthen the input supply, credit, storage and marketing facilities
available to farmers in MIP areas (Section 3.08 of the Project Agreement).
50.       Modernization of existing MIPs, which is also included in the
proposed project, is part of a larger program of GOG to redress the major
deficiencies of both major and medium irrigation schemes which have been built
previously to lower standards. The principal works would be: to extend the
canal system down to regulated outlets serving 8 ha blocks, on the average;
lining of the whole canal system; addition of control structures to enable a



- 16 -
better regulation of water deliveries; and local drainage works. Costs of
these works are estimated at US$465 per ha. A river gauging network included
in the project, consisting primarily of automatic river stage recorders, would
allow continuous river flow measurements instead of the currently practiced
float measurements twice daily, and thus improve the hydrological data base
for planning future projects. Project monitoring and evaluation would focus
on the costs and benefits associated with the improved design and construction
standards introduced under the project.
Project Implementation
51.       Appraisal and progress review by IDA of individual MIPs would not
be practical. Instead, these would be carried out by the Appraisal Committee
(AC) of GOI's Central Water Commission (CWC), which was established for the
same purpose in the framework of the recently approved Orissa Irrigation Proj-
ect (para. 46 above). The procedures for sub-project preparation, appraisal
and progress review would conform to those established for the Orissa Project.
The AC is headed by a Chief Engineer, who reports to the Member, Planning and
Progress, of CWC. Its staff at present consists of a director, six engineers,
two agriculturalists and one economist. The AC's appraisal and review work
under the Orissa project has been satisfactory. The AC would be further
strengthened during the implementation of the proposed project and, thus, CWC
has made arrangements to gradually increase AC's staff in accordance with
specified manpower co-efficients, which would be adjusted in the light of
experience gained during project implementation. Under the general guidance
of IDA, the AC would appraise and monitor the progress of individual MIPs
in accordance with the technical and economic criteria and procedures agreed
with IDA (paras. 45 and 47 above). Suitable MIPs have been identified in the
Perspective Plan of Gujarat 1974-84. Initial investigations for proposed MIPs
are carried out by a Water Resource Investigation Circle of GOG, whose report
would also include preliminary designs, cost estimates and a tentative imple-
mentation plan. GOG has given assurances that a Project Preparation Committee,
headed by the District Development Officer, would be established for each MIP
to be financed under the proposed credit (Section 2.02(b) of the Project
Agreement). Subsequent to the approval by GOG technical and administrative
departments and by the Chief Engineer (Irrigation Projects), and after inc-
lusion of approved MIPs proposals in GOG's annual development plan,. which
would in turn require the approval by GOI's Planning Commission, the selected
MIPs would be submitted to the AC for appraisal. The AC would visit the
project area and for each MIP prepare a project summary, to be submitted to
the Association. If the MIP meets all established criteria, costs less than
Rs 70 million ($8.1 million) and has a benefit/cost ratio better than 1.0,
the CWC/AC would be authorized to approve the project. In all other cases,
the project would be reviewed in detail by IDA, which would base its decision
on an analysis of Project Reports and Summaries supplemented by field visits,
if necessary. It is expected that about 8 eligible MIPs representing more
than 60% of the IDA financed investment program, would be subject to prior
IDA review and approval. Preparation, appraisal and approval of moderniza-
tion of existing MIPs, essentially lining of canals down to 8 ha outlets,
would follow the same procedures. In addition, Bank Group staff would
participate in CWC/AC's appraisal of the first modernization project.



- 1 7 -
52.       The AC would also closely monitor the progress of preparation,
implementation and operation of the MIPs. Periodic progress reports would
be submitted to IDA. The main activities of IDA would concentrate on assess-
ing the quality of AC appraisal and review work, spot checking whether the
agreed criteria have been followed, reviewing procurement procedures, check-
ing the financial records kept by GOG, assessing the continuing appropriate-
ness of the established criteria, and examining content, timing and adequacy
of the reports to be submitted by the AC to the Association.
53.       The Irrigation Projects Branch of GOG's Public Works Department
(PWD) would be responsible for the implementation of all irrigation works.
Progress of project implementation would be reviewed by the AC three times
during each year. The Irrigation Branch of PWD is in charge of operation
and maintenance. GOG has given assurances that, under arrangements satis-
factory to the Association, the dams and related structures constructed under
the project would be periodically inspected in accordance with sound engineer-
ing practice to determine whether there are any deficiencies that may endanger
their safety (Section 3.06 of the draft Project Agreement). Assurances have
also been obtained from GOG that it would provide adequate funds at all times
to operate and maintain the facilities completed under the project in accord-
ance with sound engineering standards (Section 3.07 of the Project Agreement).
In 1977, a Project Preparation and Monitoring Cell with a multidisciplinary
staff was established in order to better integrate agricultural development
aspects in the planning of irrigation projects. Water allocation, on a
rotational basis, would be established at the beginning of each irrigation
season by the Canal Advisory Committee, which includes staff from PWD and
GOG's Department of Agriculture, and farmers' representatives. This com-
mittee would be strengthened so as to enable it to coordinate all other
activities pertaining to irrigated agriculture.
Project Cost and Financing
54.       The estimated total cost of the project is US$170.5 million equiv-
alent (net of taxes and duties, which are negligible), including US$28.3
million (17%) in foreign exchange. The principal cost components, net of
physical and price contingencies, are: construction of MIPs (US$83.1 million)
and modernization of MIPs (US$19.0 million). The balance is made up by river
gauging networks (US$0.7 million), monitoring and evaluation studies (US$0.2
million), design and management (US$14.4 million), physical contingencies
(US$19.4 million) and expected price increases (US$33.7 million).
55.       The proposed credit of US$85.0 million would cover 50% of project
cost, including all foreign exchange cost and US$56.7 million of local costs.
Local cost financing is justified in India for projects such as this for the
reasons discussed in para. 27 above. GOG would finance the remaining 50%
of project costs. GOI would channel the proceeds of the credit to GOG on
the standard terms and arrangements on which development funds are being
provided to State governments by the Center.
56.       The United States Government and GOI are at present considering the
possibility of channelling US$30 million of US-AID funds to GOG in support
of GOG's development plan for MIPs in addition to the proposed IDA credit.



- 18 -
If this proposal materializes, GOG would be able to step up the pace of medium
irrigation development, to which it attaches highest priority. Its outlays for
this purpose over the next five years would be revised from US$170.5 million
to about US$215 million. The additional funds would be used in the same way as
the proceeds of the proposed credit. In particular, the mechanism, developed
by GOI, GOG and the Association, for preparation, appraisal, approval and imple-
mentation of MIPs (para. 51 above) would be adopted for the additional invest-
ment. Procurement would also follow the pattern set up under the proposed IDA
credit. It may, however, become necessary at the time to adjust disbursements
from the proposed credit in such a way as to ensure that funds from the IDA
credit and from the US-AID are disbursed in the ratio 85:30. The economic
justification of the proposed IDA project would not be adversely affected by
the increase of GOG's medium irrigation program. Nor would any additional
risks arise.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be used to finance:
civil works for the construction of new MIPs (US$67.0 million), civil works
for the modernization of existing MIPs (US$16.0 million), equipment and
vehicles (US$300,000) and technical services (US$200,000). The remaining
US$1.5 million would be left unallocated.
58.       Civil works would be labor intensive, relatively small and scat-
tered throughout the State, and restricted to seasonal construction. In
these circumstances, it would not be feasible or economic to combine them
into contracts large enough to attract international contractors. It is
therefore, proposed that they be carried out by local contractors in accord-
ance with GOG's present practice for on-going MIPs. Current practice is to
contract most of the construction works for dams, spillways and distribution
networks after local competitive bidding. Gujarat has a well developed con-
struction industry and the procedures for local competitive bidding are
satisfactory. Some of the minor works would be awarded under small unit
price contracts. Force account would be used only when required by safety
or quality considerations, or where the use of heavy machinery is required,
and would be limited to a maximum of 10% of all civil works. The estimated
cost of vehicles and equipment to be procured under the project is US$292,000
net of contingencies. All of this total represents contracts of less than
US$100,000 each, for which international competitive bidding would be quite
inefficient. These items would therefore be procured through normal procure-
ment procedures of GOG, which are acceptable to IDA.
59.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed for approved MIPs
against 60% of expenditures on civil works. Disbursements for directly
imported vehicles and equipment would be made against the foreign exchange
cost. For locally procured items, disbursements would be against the ex-
factory price or, where the ex-factory price is not available, against 70% of
cost. For technical services, disbursements would be made against 100% of
expenditures. Disbursements for force account work and for payments of less
than Rs 100,000 under civil works contracts and Rs 50,000 for vehicles and
equipment would be made against certificates of expenditure submitted by GOG.
The supporting documents for these payments would not be submitted to the



- 19 -
Association but would be retained by GOG for inspection by IDA project review
missions. Full documentation would be required for all other disbursements.
The credit would be expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1984, about
one year after completion of the project.
Benefits and Economic Justification
60.       The proposed project would assist in expanding the area under irriga-
tion by about 82,000 ha and increase the productivity of existing irrigation
projects. At full development, the project would increase foodgrain production
by 113,000 tons, oilseed production by 25,000 tons and cotton production by
27,000 tons. It would generate about 10,000 and 12,000 additional full time
jobs in farm and non-farm sectors, respectively. The increased agricultural
production, net of input costs, would be worth about US$43 million equivalent
annually. Foreign exchange savings would amount to US$52 million per annum.
61.       According to the economic criteria for the selection of MIPs, CWCIAC
would be authorized to approve projects with an economic rate of return exceed-
ing 12%. Based on an average investment cost of US$1,740 per ha and on projec-
ted typical cropping patterns, the average economic rate of return of MIPs to
be constructed (81% of project base cost) is estimated at about 19%. For
modernization of MIPs (19% of project base cost), costing US$470 per ha on
average, the economic rate of return is estimated at 26%. The average economic
rate of return on these components, which account for 99% of project cost net
of contingencies, is 01%.
62.       Net farm incomes would rise substantially under the project.  At
present, they are estimated at about Rs 1,910 for the medium size farm (about
2.0 ha) in Mainland Gujarat, where over three-quarters of the area to be covered
by GOG's five year MIP program is located, and at about Rs 4,520 for the median
size farm (about 5.0 ha) in Saurashtra peninsula. The project would raise net
farm incomes roughly five-fold. The percentage of farm households below the
poverty line (US$70) would be reduced from 69% to 13%. Similarly, the share
of farm households with a per capita income less than the national average
(US$150) would fall from 94% to 35%.
Cost Recovery
63.       If costs for capital investment under the project were to be
recovered from beneficiaries over 50 years at 10% annual interest, the annual
charge to farmers would amount to about Rs 1,510 per ha. Recovery of costs
for operation and maintenance (O&M) would require an additional charge of
Rs 70 per ha annually.
64.       The prime vehicle in Gujarat for recovering capital and O&M cost
for irrigation works is the water charge. Water charges depend on crops and
range at present from Rs 27/ha for kharif crops other than paddy to Rs 585/ha
for sugarcane. For the projected cropping pattern of the MIPs, the water rate
would average about Rs 104/ha. In addition, a local cess of 20% is levied on
the water rate, which would bring the total assessment up to about Rs 125/ha.
The present water rates in Gujarat, together with those in Maharashtra, are
the highest in India. GOG reviews and revises the water charge every two or



- 20 -
three years. Over the last decade, the rates have increased about 2% annually
in real terms, reflecting increased agricultural productivity. The next re-
view of water charges is scheduled for June 1978. In addition, GOG is in
principle authorized by the Irrigation Act to collect a betterment levy, the
amount of which would be determined by the increase in land value due to the
specific irrigation project. However, the assessment of the betterment levy
has been successfully challenged in the courts as in most other States, and
the betterment levy is not being collected in Gujarat. Additional revenues
would, however, accrue to GOG from incremental tax collection. GOG's revenues
from the agricultural sales tax would increase by an estimated Rs 120 per ha
brought under irrigation from MIPs. Taking into account all actually col-
lected charges and taxes, total GOG revenues would increase by Rs 245/ha due
to the project and, assuming a discount factor of 10%, GOG would, thus, recover
about 16% of the Rs 1,580/ha required annually (para 63 above) to recover costs
of O&M and of capital investment.
65.       As a result of the project, net farm incomes would increase about
fivefold (for present incomes see para. 62 above). The average "project rent"
(net incremental income less the necessary rewards to the farm family for its
labor, entrepreneurship and cultivation risk) is estimated at Rs 3,000 per ha
at full development of the project. Since total annual charges to the farmers
(para. 64 above) would represent only about 9% of the project rent, they would
leave ample incentive to project farmers to use irrigation water. In fact,
there would appear to be scope for a significant increase in the water-related
charges. However, there are large variations between farmers in the benefits
accruing from irrigation. Until it is technically and administratively pos-
sible to levy water charges on the basis of the volume of water actually used,
the Government will tend to set water charges at a level sufficiently low to
give sufficient incentive to the use of irrigation water by farmers at canal
"tailends," where water supply is less reliable and benefits from such irri-
gation fairly low. The technical standards introduced under the project are
specifically designed to ensure that each farmers in the command area receives
a reliable water supply. Thus, there is a clear justification for collecting
higher charges from the farmers benefitting from new or modernized MIPs.
Consequently, an agreement has been reached with GOG that it would, by Decem-
ber 31, 1982, review the water and water-related charges in the State, and
implement a system of such charges to ensure recovery of annual operation
and maintenance costs and, to the extent possible, cost of infrastructure
investment. This system would be based on the outcome of the review after
paying due regard to IDA's comments. Due consideration would also be given
to incentives for, and payment capacity of, farmers (Section 3.03 of the
Project Agreement).
Project Risk
66.       The risks associated with the project are essentially those normally
associated with irrigation projects in India. A special risk stems from the
delegation of primary responsibility for field appraisal, approval and routine
progress reviews for qualifying MIPs to a relatively new, little tested organ-
ization in the Central Government. However, the arrangements for approval of
the sub-projects and the expanded reporting requirements that would permit the
Association to identify problems early and to intervene directly, if necessary,
would minimize this risk.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.          The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
State of Gujarat, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
68.          Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
69.          I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
7O.          I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 10, 1978






ANNEX I
Page 1
INDIA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2                   -
INDIA                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     3260.5                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.    1797.5                        1900      1970   ESTIMATE            INDONESIA      PHILIPPINES   BRAZIL**
_- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - --  _- -- -- -- ---- - _-- -- -- -- - --  _-- -- -- -- ---
GNP PER CAPITA (USsl                      60.0     100.0       150.0             130.0        230.0       550.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           434.9     547.6    620.4  /A             117.6        36.9        92.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       133.0     167.0      189.0               62.0        123.0        11.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       247.0      308.0      345.0               411.0       375.0        49.0
VITAL STATIStICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          43.2      41.0       37.0                45.9        44.2        38.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           23.9       19.0      17.0                20.6        13.2         9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       139.0/a        .      130.0                  .        81.0        110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YES)       41.7       47.2       49.5                  ..        55.8        S9.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2        2.9       2.B                 3.2         3.3         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2:51 b.0   2.3       2.1                 2.0         3.0         2.9
URBAN                                  2.5 .      3.2       3.1                 3.7/a       4.0         5.0
URUAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           17.9       19.8       20.6               17. 51      27.6        56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.0       41.8       40.1                44.0        45.6        42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.9       55.3       56.7                53.5        51.6        55.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.t        3.1       3.2                 2.6         2.8         3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.8       9.6                 0.9         0.9         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 tA.       1         '.1j                 ..         t
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          71.0   14585.0   37658.0                259.3      320.0        250.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..       18.7                 -.         2.0         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        175000.0  218000.0 261000.0/a                         12400.0    29400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (1)          71.0       69.0      69.0                   ..       55.o/a      40.4
UNEMPLOYED (x OF LABOR FORCE)           4.8 /d   4.4 /b    4.4J5,.                 ..         7.6         7.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             26.7       25.0 /c      ..                  .           .-       35.0/a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             51.7       53.1 7     ..                            54.0         62.075
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              4.1        4.7         .                            36           3-0
LONEST  401 Of HOUSEHOLDS             13.6       13.1    3i.. *-                                       10 .1,
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED By TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         ..         ..                  .           ..       45.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..         ..                  .           .          1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              5840.0Le_ 4890.0    4220.0              26370.0           ..     1910.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         5310.0.     220.0/d  3680.0/e            7830.0/ -        .      3220.0  b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           2590.0 L   1610.0         ..             1640. 6-    850.0        260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          95.0      92.0       89.0                91.0        93.0       109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               55.0      53.0       48.0                43.0        45.0        64.0
-OF WHICH         AND PULSE         19.0]     16.0       12.6                14.0        22.0        39.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES t-4             44.0         ..         ..                  ..         6.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       41.0       63.0       65.0               75.0        113.0        87.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     23.0       30.0       29.0               15.0         49.0        68.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       t2.0      11.0                12.0        18.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                       6.0        ..         ..                29.0         S.o tb     17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                 24.0       33.0       36.O.              59.0           ..        64.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 2.6        2.8         ..                  ..         2.1         1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                         .          ..         ..                 ..        76.0        73.0 /c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(x OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..         ..         .                   ..       23.0        48.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (I)                      ..         ..         ..                  ..        7.0          8.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           5.0       21.0      25.0                114.0       39.0         60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            0.7        1.0        1.0                 2.0         8.0        25.o
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            46.0      114.0     143.0                 20.0       23S.0       491.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.2        0.3        0.3                 0.3         2.0         2.7
------------------ - ---------- - -- -  ---------- --------------                 -  ------- ------ ----------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2
NOTCS
5,1... othecie  notd, data for 1960 refer co any year between 1959 and 196L, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, nd for Moust Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1976.
**   Brasil h.. ben selected .  n objectiv    otstry b .au w  of it. misen ad  aoeperebla problees  of r-gional inequality.
IND IA        1960    /c  1951-61 average;    /b  1951-60C    /c  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15 and over;
Id Cstimated by National S_mpl Survey, in term of the average number of peraon/weeks of unmeploymnt as percentage
of total personl/weks to the labor force;    La  1962;    /f  Registered, not all precticing in the country;               &  Including
idwives;    /h  1958:    L   1960-62.
1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 *ad 65 and over to tot1l labor iorce age 15 and over;    /b  Estimated by National Saple
Survey, in terms of the averaga nomber of person/weeks of unenploy_nt as percentage of total person/weeke in the totel
labor force;    /c  1967-68;    /d  Including midwives.
MOST RECENT ESTDATE;    /a  1978 aid-yexr population and labor force estimated at 640.4 and 261 millions respectively;    /b  Ratio of
population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  1977;    /d  Eatimated by National Sample
Survey, in tare  of the average number of person/weeks of unamployment as percentage of total person/weeks
in the labor force;   /I  Including midwives;    /f  Population 10 yaarm and over.
INDONESIA      1970    /e  1961-71;    /b  1971;    /c  Including midwives.
PHILIPPINES   1970    Ic  Aa percentge of mploymnt;    /b  Not including private vocational achoole.
BRAZIL         1970    la  Economically active population;    /b  Hospitel prsonnel;    /c  Int ide only.
R13, May 2, 1978
DwQ7SI01S Of SOCIAL 7NDICATORS
Land Ares (thou W.2)                                                                     Population par nurinR person - Popoletion divided by nuber of practicing
Toal - Total  urface ar  comprising lnd are  and inland water.                             male  nd f la a  gradusta nurce, "trained  or 'csrtifi d" nursec, and
Agric. - Most recent estimate of agricultural area ued tamporarily or pores-               auxiliary personnal vith training or experinc.
nantly for cropc  p-eture* mrkat & kitohen gardens or to lie flo,.                        vlaio "l   hspuital b*d - Population divided by .,br of hoapital bd.
available in pblic, nd private generl and cpecic1m-d hospital and
CNP par capita (US$S  - CNP per capita aestimtc at current market price                    rehabilitation center; .solude   nursing home and establishments for
calculatd by a    conversion wmthod as World Sank Atlaa (1974-76 basis);                 eutodial and prenntiv  car.
1960; 1970 and 1976 data.                                                              Per capita supply of calories ( of requireents) - Computed from energy
equivalent of net food supplies available in country, per capita per day;
ppul.tion and vital *ttisti-c.                                                             available supplies conpriae donestic production, iLporte lose eports, and
Population (id-yar million) - Aa of July first  if not  vailable, versg                    chengu in atock; net aupplias exclude animal feed, seds, quntitie used
of two end-year aetimatam; 1960, 1970  nd 1976 dota.                                     in food pro-ssing end losees in distribution; rquirinnt were ea timoted
by FAo bsed on physiological needs for nol activity  nd health conaid-
Population daneit - per su rt kb  - Mid-year popultion per square kilometar                erine  nvirotal temperature, body wighte, age  nd cex distributions of
(100 hctarsr) of total *rsa.population, and  tlowing 101 for usm et hov-bhold lvel.
Po.ultion deonity - per * ouxre kb  of agric. lend - Computed so above for               Per capit supply of orotein term  per dal - Protein content of per capita
agricultcra1 lend only.                                                                  net upply of food per da   met supply of food is defined  s above  r quire-
menta for a11 countries  atablished by USDA Economic Reoeeah Srvies
Vitl etatietic                                                                            provide for a minim    llosance of 60 gram  of total protein per day, end
Crude birth rat  Pe. thousand, "erase - Annual live birth. per thousand of                 20 gras of aniaI and pulse protein  of which 10 grms *hould b  animaI
oid-ye-r population; ten-year sritheatic  versS   ending in 1960 sd 1970,                protein; thbe- atandard  are lower then thoa  of 75 gren  of total protein
and fiv-year average ending in 1975 for most recent  atimte.                             and 23 grama of anil protein *a an averge for the world, propoeed by FAO
Crude death rate Per thousand  -vrage - Annual dextb per thousand of mid-year              in the Third World Food Survey.
population; tan-year srithxetic average.  nding in 1960 and 1970 end five-             Per capita protein supply from animl and pula - Protein aupply of food
-a.r averge ending in 1975 for moat recent *etimetr.                                     derived from  niml. nd pulses in grama per day.
infant  ortality rete (/thou) - Aunuol deatha of infanta under opn  year of age          Death rats f/thou) maes  1-4 - Annual death. per thon-..d in age group 1-4
per thounend live birth.                                                                 years, to children in thie eg. group; euggsted aa an indicator of
Life axectancy at birth Cyre) - Average nuabar of yeara of life remaining at               mlntrition.
birth; usually five-year averags ending in 160, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries                                                                          Education
Gross reproduction rats - Average n-ber of live daughtera a woman will bear               Aduartld enrollment ratio - primry school - Enrollment of a11 ages as per-
in hbr norm.   reproductive period if  he  popxriaee  prsent  ga-.pecific                c-ntage of primary .chool-age population; includes children agd 6-11 yers
fertility rate-; usually fiveyear *verege  ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 but adjuated for differnt length. of primary eductiom; for countrias with
for developing coontri.                                                                  univeral eduation, enroll_ent ay exeed IOOX sinc  so             pupils ar  below
Population srovtb rate fXl - totel - Compound annual grovth rtam  of mid-year               or *bove the official school age.
population for 1950-60  1960-70 and 1970-75.                                            diuted enrollment reoti  -             secndarv chool - Computed as abov; aecondary
poplation growth ret (1) - urban - Computed like groth rate of totel                       education requires at least four years of approved primary in truction;
population; different definitiona of urban  reaa my effect comparbility of                provides generl, voctional or teacher training inmtructions for pupil.
data among countries,                                                                     of 12 to 17 years of  ga; corre.pondnce course  ar  generally  xcludd.
Urbn PoVoulation (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different            Yer  of schoolina provided (fire  and  econd lev-le) - Total yars of
d.finitions of urban rea  my affect comarability of data amo   countrim.                  echooling; at econdary  evel, vocational mnetruction mey be partially or
completely  xcludd
w  tructuer  (percent) - Children (0-14 ye.r), onrking-ag. (15-64 Fear),                Vocational eroll=  nt (  of secondary) - Vocational ihatitutiona  include
and retired (65 year. and over) as percent.aeR  of mid-year population.                   techicel, indutrial or otber programs which operate independently or a
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of poplation under 15 nd 65  nd over to those                  depart_unte of secondary institutiona.
of ag. 15 through 64.                                                                   Adult literecy rate (1) - Literate  dults (abl. to read and  rit.) ae per-
Economic depende.-Y ratio - Ratio of poplation under 15 and 65  nd over ti                  e.ntage of total adult popultion aged 15 years  nd over.
the labor force in ag  group of 15-64 year.
Family plannin.  - acceptore (cumulative. thou) - Cumulative nu ber of acc ptors          Hweing
of birth-control devicea under aupics of national faily plnning program                 Person  per room (urban) - Average n,ber of persona  per room in occupied
ainc- inception,                                                                          conventional dellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-pemnent
F-miI planninc  - u ers P of married woent - Fercntage  of  married women of                structures end unoccupied parte.
child-bearing age (15-44 year)  .o use birth-control devices to a11 married            Occupied dwellings witbout piped water (X) - Occupied conventional dwellings
wosne in .mne  eg- group.                                                                 in urban end rural  -se without inmide or ontaide piped water facilities
es prcontage of all occupind dwellings.
b,ploynent                                                                                Acc.s to electricity (2 of all dellings) - Conventional dwelling with
Total labor forte (thousand) - Economicelly active persona  including apd                   eltricity in living qurter   s percent of totel dwellinge in urben  nd
forc   nd unployed but excluding houew ives, atudent., eto.; definitions                  rural areas.
in various countrs are not comparable.                                                  Rural dvellir connacted to elctricity t2) - Computed as  bove for rural
La bor force in  griculturo  2) - Agricultural labor force (in farting, foreetry,           deellinge only.
hunting and fishing) as perentage of total Iabor forc.
U-noPlYed (2 of labor force) - Unemployed ar uaually defined  e perann  who               Consueption
ar  able  nd willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day, rmained out            Radio receivers (par thou pop) - All type  of recsivers for radio broadcaste
of a job, and seeking work for a specified nninue period not exceeding one                to general public per thousand of population; exclude  unlicenmed recivers
weak; my not bh  comparable betwn countrioe  due to differeet d.finitiona                 in contriea and in ya   when rgistration of radio aet we in effect'
of unnployed  nd  ouree of date, e.g., mplo nt office statiatica, apli                    data for reent years my not be comparble  ince  oat ountries obo1iahed
aurvey., copuiaory unemployment inaursoe.                                                 licening.
Pfsaxer cera (per thou  o) - Pa..enger care comprise motor C-   eeating
Ince  di.tribution - Percentage of pri-vt  inme, (both in ceah  nd kind)                   aea  than eight person;  ecludd   bulaecee, harsee  nd military
reiv-d by richeat 51, richest 20X, pooret 20X, nd poorst 40X of honse-                    vehicle.
hold.                                                                                   Electricity (kWy/vr per cap) - Annual consomption of industrial, cmercial,
publi  and private  lectricity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Distribution of land ownership - Percentage  of land owned by wealthiest 101                beed on production data, without allwanc  for losses in grid. but  low-
and poorat 10O  of land ownr.                                                             Ig fnr imports and  xports of electricity.
Newprint (k-/yr par cap) - Per capita annual consumption in kilogrm
halth and Nutrition                                                                         estimated from domeetic production plus net i-ort  af wame,print.
Population par physician - Population divided by nuber of practicing
physician. qualified from a medical *chol at univerity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3
UCOIoe mY.PmE  ILT
GDP P8 CPTA IN 1976    u s l S
GROSS NATIolNAL PoLUOT IN 1976/77 V                                                     AMNAL RELT OF OWI (it.  smwssg*   I 2) /
ust Bin,                                                   1960/61-1%6AJ65    196".96'            197071-1975/76
GNP at Market Prioes           86.04     100.0                                               3.9                 3.8                2.9
Gros Domestic Investmet        16.62      19.3
Gross National Saving          18.18      21.1
Current Account Balanoo         1.56       1.8
Resouroe Gap                   0.95        1.1
ORUPU. LABOR FORE AND PRODUCTITITr IN 1971
value Aded (at fLater coOt)                 zLr r                ,l Per Wrer
U  Bln,   j                IE1~~~~~m.  %;Is                    of Witiama Avers
Agrioulture                    24.5             46.6               130.0     72.1             188         64
Industry                      11.8              22.3               2D.2      11.2             582        199
Services                       16.5             M1                 %a.2    JM19                          186
Total/average                  52.6            100.0               18D.4    100.0             292        100
GOVUDNNET FIuAcC
GCnepal Government A                                           Centrel  Covermt
ll.Bn)             of GIP                                 (R. Bin)            a of GDP
1976/77      1976/77   1974/75-1976/77                       1976/77       1976/77   1974/75-1976/77
Uui.rent Roelepts               147.46         19.1           17.9                              85.78        10.9          10.4
Current Expenditures             140.18        18.2           16.2                              42S                         96
Current Surplus/Deficit           7.28          0.9            1.7                             - 0.47          -            0.8
Capital Expenditure. .ft/        59-05          7.6           7.1                              40.39          5.2           5.0
Exteral Assistance (net)         11.21          1.5            1.7                              11.21         1.5           1-7
MONEY. CaRDIT AND PhIaNS        1970/71    i2Ln        1973t74    1974/75    1975         1976/77      8ertember 1976    Stor  1977
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of perod)
Yonq and Quasi Mo                105.7      142.2       169.0      186.9       215.0       262.6          238.2             284.8
Bank Credit to Public Seotor(net) 56.9       82.5        92.9       102.6      109.1       117.3          112.7             130.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector    56.7        76.o        90.1       109.5      127.5       161.0          144.0             170.0
(Peroentage or Inde" Numbr)_, I-                        Ja    19T7      J        
Money and Quasi Money as % of GIP  24.5      27.3        26.4       25.5        27.6        31-3
Wholeeale Prioe Index
(1970/71 = 100)              100.0       116.2       139.7      174.9       173.0       176.6          178.8             183.3
Annual percentage changes ins
Wholesale Prioe In                 7.7       10.0        20.2       25.2        -1.1         2.1            7.5             - 2.5
Bank Crdit to Public Sector (net)  8.6       19.6        12.6       10.4         6.3         7.5            4 7              1 15.8 1/
Blank Credit to Private Soetor    17.3       18.0        18.5       21.5        16.4        26.3           24.9              11.9i/
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at market prioes, calculated by the oovereic toenique used in the World Atlas.
All other oonversions to dollars in this table are at the average excoha    rste prevaling aring the period oovered.
A' Quick Estimates.
,/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including ome observatiam before first year and ons
observation after last year of listed period.
/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
/ All loans and advaunes to tbird parties have been netted out.
,/ Nlt bank credit to Governmnt Sector.
5/ lank credit to Comercial Sector.



ANNEX I
Page 4
BAIANCE OIP                            974175       1972 ?S            !                                                     utoe /   Nm D     ( 1n E  t974/75 - 1976/77)
REports of Gooda                        4,174        4,665         5,7           6.400                                       Goods          515           11
Imports of Goods                       -5,665       _6,084        -5,95        -6,600                           S379r 379                                 8
Trade We'ns                            -1,49t       -1,419        -  190        -  200                           Tea                        296            6
m8  (net)                                 215          310           411           500                           Jot.hNoaotores             294            6
Leatbar and Leather
Resource ao                            -1278        -1t109           215           300                                   ProduSts          268             5
Clothing                  257            5
intere.t Faeents (not)                -_  198       -  216           1 35       -  130                           Im  Ore                   238             5
Other Faotor PVeeta (net)                               -         -          -                                   Cottm Tertiles             223            5
Net Transfers  j/                         257          470          7V           1.000                           Otlo                   tOA2
total                    4866          100
Waelnos o03 Current A U                 1,217       _  855           820         1,170
Offioial Aid                                                                                                     UTORMiAh L. NARCH 31 12977 
Disbu soents                        1,761        2,341        1,953          1,840                                                                    Bil
Amortiszation                        -515         -531         ,56.         - 630                            Outetnding and Disbursed                13.6
Trensaotions with IMP                     522          242          536         - 330                            Undibureed                              1.2
All Other Ites                           -589         -403          m               23                           Outstsnding, includidlng   disbureed    i6.8
ID wooin Reserves _)                      38         -794       -1,575         -2,073                           1153 SlVICC RAIO FOR 1976/77           14.4  pwroent
Groose Reserves (and year)              1,378        2,172        3,747          5,820
Net Resereso (snd year)  V/               758        1,365        5,276          5,670                            rIWIl  LE     G. Goosmb-r  1. 1977  (oSj n1)
Fuel and Related Naterial                                                                                                                          IBRD       IDA
Imports                                 1,451        1,417        1,580        1,e80                             Outstanding and Diblurd          489.0     3,560.5
of ehidei Petmlseumo                 1,451       1,417         1,580        1,810                             Ondisbursed                     674.9      1,257.0
of whiah- Patml-  1,451  i,4'17    1,590        1,800                            ~~~~~~~Outsteading, includig
Exports                                    26           43           57         n.a.                                  Undisbursed               1,163.9     4,1T7.5
of ehicht Petroleum                    17            22           21         n.e.
RATE OF EXCHlNG
Prior to aid-Deooober 197t1    ,    81.00 - Re 7.5                                                               After end Jl  1972    a   Ploating Rate
R- 1.00 = VSt.1i33333                                                         Spot Rate JanuaY 31, 1979
Iid-Deoomber 1971 to          s   VS81.00 = Re 7.27927                                                                     appror. vst1.00 = Re 8.063
and June 1972                  Re 1.00 = tS80.137376                                                                    Approx. Rs 1.00 = J8$0.124
h/ Estimated.
|Fig/ouro  given nover all invetmeineam1 s (net).  lajor payments are interest on foreigu loame  and
charges paid to IMF, and major reipt is interest earnd on freign aseete.
j/ Figures given inolude workere' re_ittancs but secluds official grnt assistance, which in incuded
witbin offioal aid disBursements.
R/ Eoludes not uss of IV credit.
,J Amortisation and interest payments on foreign loam as a peroentages of merchandise eprts.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 311   1978)
118$ MillioJ'/
Loan orUSKilo/
Credit No.          Year      Borrower                     Purpose                               (Net of Cancellation)
Bank      IDA      Undisbursed
40 Loans/                                                                                 i;109.6
51 Credits fully disbursed                                                                           2,04.6
267-IN              1971       India        Wheat Storage                                     --        5.0        3.4
294-IN              1972       India        Bihar Agricultural Markets                        --       14.0        9.1
312-IN              1972       India        Population                                        --       21.2        6.1
342-IN              1972      India         Education                                         --      12.0         9.3
356-IN              1972       India        IDBI                                              -        25.0       10.5
377-IN              1973       India        Power Transmission III                            --       85.0        3.1
378-IN              1973       India        Nysore Agricultural Markets                       --        8.0        6.9
902-IN              1973       ICICI         Industry DPC X                                  67.5       --         5.8
390-IN              1973       India        Bombay Water Supply                               --       55.0       25.3
403-IN              1973       India         Telecommunications V                             --       80.0        3.4
427-IN              1973       India         Calcutta Urban Development                       --       35.0       10.1
440-IN              1973       India         Bihar Agricultural Credit                        -        32.0       14.9
456-IN              1974       India         HP Apple Processing & Marketing                  --       13.0        9.9
481-IN              1974       India         Trombay IV                                       --       50.0       11.6
1011-IN              1974       India         Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                         52.0       --        34.8
482-IN              1974       India         Karnataka Dairy                                  --       30.0       26.0
502-IN              1974       India        Rajasthan Canal CAD                               --       83.0       52.5
520-IN              1974       India        Sindri Fertilizer                                 --       91.0       18.2
521-IN              1974       India         Rajasthan Dairy                                  --       27.7       25.8
522-IN              1974       India        Madhya Pradesh Dairy                              --       16.4       15.3
626-IN              1975       India        Drought Prone Areas                               --       35.0       24.3
1079-IN              1975       IFFCO         IFFCO Fertilizer                               109.0       -_        66.2
1097-IN              1975       ICICI         Industry DFC XI                                100.0       __        27.4
532-IN              1975       India        Godavari Barrage Irrigation                       --       45.0       22.2
541-IN              1975       India        West Bengal Agricultural Development              --       34.0       25.4
562-IN              1975       India         Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                     --       24.0       18.4
572-IN              1975       India         Rural Electrification                            --       5710       46.0
582-IN              1975       India         Railways XIII                                    --      110.0       16.7
585-IN              1975       India        Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                        --       40.0       36.4
598-IN              1975       India         Fertilizer Industry                              --      105.0       90.8
604-IN              1976       India         Power Transmission IV                            --      150.0      149.6
609-IN              1976       India         dadhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                     --        4.0        3.8
610-IN              1976       India         Integrated Cotton Development                    --       18.0       17.7
616-IN              1976       India         Industrial Imports XI                            --      200.0        1.7
1251-IN(TW)          1976       India         Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                      145.0       --       142.8
1260-IN              1976       India         IDBI II                                         40.0       --        37.0
1273-IN              1976       India         National Seed                                   25.0       --        25.0
1313-IN              1976       India         Telecommunications VI                           80.0       --        36.1
1335-IN              1976      BRRDA          Bombay Urban Transport                          25.0       --        21.2
680-IN              1977       India         Kerala Agricultural Development                  --       30.0       30.0
682-IN              1977       India         Orissa Agricultural Development                  --       20.0       20.0
685-IN              1977       India         Singrauli Thermal Power                          --      150.0      137.0
687-IN              1977       India         Madras Urban Development                         --       24.0       23.5
695-IN              1977       India         Gujarat Fisheries                                --        4.0        4.0
1394-IN(TW)          1977       India         Gujarat Fisheries                               14.0       --        14.0
690-IN              1977       India         West Bengal Agricultural Development             --       12.0       12.0
712-IN              1977       India        Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development           --       10.0       10.0
715-IN              1977       India         Second ARDC Credit                               --      200.0      175.9
720-IN              1977       India        Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                         --       23.0       23.0
728-IN              1977       India        Assam Agricultural Development                    --        8.0        8.0
1473-IN              1977       India         Bombay Nigh Offshore Development               150.0       --       104.5
736-IN              1977       India        Maharashtra Irrigation                            --       70.0       70.0
737-IN              1977       India         Rajasthan Agricultural Extension                 --       13.0       13.0
740-IN              1977       India        Orissa Irrigation                                 --       58.0       58.0
1475-IN              1977       ICICI         Industry DFC XII                                80.0       --        79.0
* 747-IN              1978       India         Second Foodgrain Storage                         --      107.0      107.0
* 756-IN              1978       India         Second Calcutta Urban Development                --       87.0       87.0
8 761-IN              1978       India         Bihar Agricultural Extension & Research          --        8.0        8.0
*1511-IN              1978      -India         IDBI Joint/Public Sector                         25.0      --        25.0
Total                                                                 2,013.I 4,933.9
of which has been repaid                                              854.4     35.5
Total now outstanding                                                 1,153.7  4,898.4
Amount Sold                               133.2
of which has been repaid               111.5                           21.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                        1,137.0  4,898.4
Total undisbursed (excluding *)                                         593.8  1,299.0
* Not yet effective.
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments.                                                                            Aoril 1978



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                Amount (US$ million)
Year          Company                               Loan      Equity   Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.                1.5        -         1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                 0.9        -         0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                     1.4        -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                          0.2        -         0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.              0.7       0.3        1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.               0.8       0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.             11.8       1.0       12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                 1.0       0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                    1.0       0.1        1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6       2.9       11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                 15.1       3.8       18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                            6.6        -         6.6
TOTAL                             49.6       8.8       58.4
Less:  Sold                                6.0       1.6        7.6
Repaid                            14.5        -        14.5
Cancelled                          6.2       0.7        6.9
Now Held                          22.9       6.5       29.4
Undisbursed                        5.3        -         5.3



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-;
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$598.6 million in FY77 or 80% of Bank Group
commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$1,893
million as of March 31, 1978, corresponds roughly to commitments over the
preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime which would be expected
given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium and large scale
industries, which are often employing high technology and are export oriented.
Loans 1097-IN and 902-IN are fully committed and disbursements have reached
73% and 88% of total loan amounts respectively as of March 31, 1978, which
is slightly ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Credit No. 440 provides US$32.0 million over three years in support
of a lending program for 50,000 units of tubewells and pumpsets in the Tirhut
Division of Bihar. Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than esti-
mated Dollar/Rupee exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
with appraisal estimates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date by one year
to June 30, 1978, and to extend the project area to cover the whole State of
Bihar. The physical targets should be achieved by revised closing date and
disbursements are expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The above agricultural credit projects are similar in structure,
being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farmers through
credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily in minor irrigation.
Credit 715 is a continuation nationwide of the previous program of agricul-
tural credit projects, which were confined to individual states. Apart from
initial start up problems with the individual state projects, mostly due to
the introduction of new lending criteria and lending terms, progress under
these projects has been satisfactory.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 6, 1978 (expected);
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The US$15.9 million project, co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000 ton capacity bag warehouses envisaged
under the project (as revised) were completed and became operational in 1975.
The construction of five grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after
delays due to cement shortages and is expected to be completed by December
1978. The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain
Storage Study was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating
the proposal for the Second Grain Storage Project which was appraised in
February/March 1977 and approved by the Board on November 15, 1977.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project provides US$13.0 million to promote the development
of apple processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading
and packing centers, cold storage facilities, a juice processing plant, road
improvements and cableways. The project also includes on-farm cold storage
and oak mushroom production. The main executing agency is the Himachal
Pradesh Horticultural Produce Processing and Marketing Corporation (HPMC).



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
The project encountered initial delays due to managerial and technical prob-
lems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome these difficul-
ties. Land is expected to be acquired for all packing and grading sites
by early 1978. The Project Preparation Report for the juice processing
plant has been completed and found satisfactory, and tenders on the equip-
ment are being called. The road improvement programme is progressing
satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites are also expected to be completed shortly. As a
result of the significant improvement in project implementation during the
past year, disbursements have recently gathered momentum.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date:  July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily. The closing date of
Credit 403 was extended by one year to December 31, 1978, to cover the
delivery and installation of imported transmission and switching equipment.
Disbursements under Loan 1313 have commenced.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The drawdown of Credit 377 was slow initially and as a consequence
it has been necessary to postpone the Closing Date to September 30, 1978
(originally September 30, 1977). However an amount of US$84 million had been
disbursed by the end of March 1978 and the balance of US$1 million should
be disbursed well before the revised Closing Date. Disbursements under
Part A of Credit 604 (US$120 million) have been slow with only US$0.4 mil-
lion disbursed at March 31, 1978. However, contracts aggregating about US$50
million had been awarded by March 1978 and disbursements should now accelerate.
This Credit included a supplementary Credit of US$30 million under Part B to
meet increased costs of equipment scheduled under Credit 377-IN; of this
amount some US$26 million has been committed leaving an amount of US$4 million
for load despatch equipment which should be committed by June 30, 1978.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project
completion may be delayed by about 18 months due to longer than expected
delivery times for critical equipment and to reflect the current situation
with respect to the use of the Credit proceeds. Under the Sindri project
plant construction and erection is proceeding generally according to schedule
except for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays in receipt of some
materials. Commencement of commercial production is expected by March 1978.
The anticipated cost to complete the project is presently running within bud-
get. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a change
in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of engineering
contracts. The project is now progressing satisfactorily based on naphtha as
feedstock. Site work has begun, process- and time-critical equipment is being
ordered, and engineering work is well under way. Credit 598-IN is designed
to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments.  The Central Government has submitted a list of sub-
projects to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the
above, the project is likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date:  July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory.  The project includes
training of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and
evaluation of the project's economic impact. As of June 30, 1977, develop-
ment plans had been completed for 48 of the 50 project markets. The remain-
ing 2 are pending land acquisitions. Appraisals and loan sanctions had been
completed for 13 and was in progress for 18 markets. Farmers and traders
served by the 8 market yards now in operation report more efficient marketing



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
activities and improved farmers' terms of trade. Progress under the Karnataka
project is improving. As of August 1977, when the project was last reviewed
appraisals for 36 of the 39 project market yard plans had been completed by
participating banks and 25 of these 36 approved by ARDC. Construction is in
progress at 33 markets. In an attempt to accelerate project progress, more
liberal lending terms have been provided to APMCs and Market Intermediaries
(MIs) for construction of shop-cum-godowns. The project is expected to be
completed by the closing date (December 1979) and to achieve its major
objectives of making farm produce marketing more efficient and improving
farmers' terms of trade.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended to June 30, 1979.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointment of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in both Assam and Bihar.
Disbursements which have been slow because of initial delays should
accelerate now that construction and equipment procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Loan No. 1260  Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1551  IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978 (expected);
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries and in
strengthening the State Financial Corporations involved, the second operation
(Ln. 1260) was approved on May 18, 1976, and more than 10% of the loan amount
had been authorized by mid-March 1978.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and an unforeseen addition of a supplementary study
on sewage disposal, the project is now progressing relatively well. All of
the major contracts for the water supply components have been awarded and
it is forecast that works will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply
of additional water (455 mld) in the last quarter of 1978; completion of
water treatment works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistic-
ally forecast. Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August
1977) has allowed engineering design of the project sewerage components to
proceed, so that completion of construction of these works is now scheduled
for 1980 two years later than originally forecasted. Financial performance
of the project entity is satisfactory and all covenants are being met.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1978
Utilization of the Technical Development Fund has been slower than
anticipated and the closing date has been postponed by one year to allow
completion of disbursements from the Fund which has been fully committed.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 10, 1978
(expected); Closing Date: March 31, 1983
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases in
project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to
accommodate the project to funding available. It is now expected to be
substantially completed by March 1979. Agreements have been reached on
consultants services and technical assistance, as provided for under the
project.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services; slum improvement; small-
scale and cottage industry; and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city.  The
water supply and sewerage; road and traffic improvements; bus transport and
technical assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in
water supply and transport.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 500 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions, as envisaged under the project, have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. The response
of small farmers to the project is excellent. GOMP has plans to cover all
districts in the State. Technical services investments are being made.
Contracts have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress
has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives
at the village level. Plant-designs are ready, and procurement is making
adequate progress. Based upon the good results experienced, COR is planning
to expand the form of dairy development to all other districts of the State.
Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment jointly with Rajasthan and
Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to a recovery of considerable
time lost earlier in the Karnataka project.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)          Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 11, 1978
(expected); Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory. An April 1978 mission-which supervised Cr. 720
Periyar Yaigai found that construction of the project commenced in March 1978.
The Public Works Department (PWD) has set up a strong construction organization
headed by a Special Chief Engineer in order to complete the project on schedule.
Monitoring of flows in irrigation canals will start in June 1978. A system
operation plan is under preparation and GOTN has appointed a Committee to
study water and water-related charges in Tamil Nadu.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$34.0 million over four years mainly for
minor irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro serv-
ice centers, and support of related government services. Although disburse-
ments have been slower than anticipated there has been a considerable improve-
ment in project organization and administration during the past six months
and disbursements are expected to improve considerably during the next twelve
months. The physical progress of shallow tubewells, and of deep tubewells
for the Minor Irrigation Corporation is satisfactory. IDA, GOWB and ARDC
are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such as organizational
problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service centers; and
finalization of designs for water distribution systems and irrigation
schemes. Positive results, particularly for the water distribution systems
are expected shortly.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:  September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 16, 1978 (expected); Closing Date:
June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 6,
1978 (expected); Closing Date: October 31, 1983
These projects totalling US$63 million finance the re-organization
and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of adaptive
agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early and
sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects.  The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. The project's components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum. Pro-
ject actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The Project consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now twelve States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time of



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the cumulative
value of contracts entered into or about to be entered into at February 28,
1978 was US$50.32 million leaving an outstanding uncommitted balance of
US$6.68 million. The full amount of the Credit is expected to be committed
by mid 1978 and it should be fully disbursed by the closing date of
December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The project was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production in steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year to
September 30, 1978 in order to complete implementation of the project. Dis-
bursements as of March 31, 1978 were 85% of the total credit amount.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase
in three states.  The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. (Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit.) A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This project supports seed industry expansion in the public and
private sectors; improvements in seed quality control; strengthening of
breeding and seed technology research; and development of a reserve stock
scheme. Institutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly
at the state level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily.  Project imple-
mentation, however, slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to
organizational problems. Project progress is now being made since approval
of the project by the new Government in September 1977 and is anticipated
to gain further momentum as GOI is about to appoint the two top officers
of the National Seeds Corporation.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Disbursements have been delayed somewhat because of delays in pro-
curement action. However, contracts for bodies and chassis for 325 single
deck and 175 double deck buses have been awarded and some 144 buses have
been delivered.  Bids for an additional 200 buses are being evaluated.  Civil
works contracts have been awarded for 8 to 15 bus facilities, and 13 of about
traffic engineering schemes.  Delays are expected in implementing some BMC
traffic engineering schemes and the BEST workshop schemes although steps are
being taken to minimize such delays.  Consultants in organization, adminis-
tration, financial management systems, accounting and development planning
are at work assisting the Borrower, the Bombay Metropolitan Regional Devel-
opment Authority. The beneficiaries of the loan, the Bombay Municipal Corp-
oration and the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking, have selec-
ted consultants in traffic engineering and operations and management assist-
ance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Progress is good. All project implementation units appear
to be competent and enthusiastic and the project is progressing as antici-
pated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Singrauli project is the first stage of the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in the Gov-
ernment's program for the development of large Central thermal power stations
feeding power into an interconnected grid. It is proposed that the Bank
Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to
construct and operate these power stations, and the development program has
gotten off to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily and the project is proceeding on schedule with land acquisi-
tion almost complete. Site levelling is in progress and contracts have been
awarded for major plant (turbogenerators, boilers, transformers).
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and are expected to be commissioned
by May 1978. Bids for well and processing platforms at Bassein have been
received and are under review. Disbursements increased rapidly during March
at US$45.5 million and is expected to keep pace with appraisal estimates.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
THIRD TROMBAY THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project.
1-1/2 years
(b) The agency which prepared the project.
Government of Gujarat, Public Works Department;
Government of India, Central Water Commission
(c) Date of first presentation to Bank and date
of first mission to consider the project.
Not applicable/June 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission.
September 1977
(e) Date of completion of negotiations.
May 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness.
July 1978
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) Gujarat to complete any MIP started under the
credit, in accordance with the agreed criteria
(para. 47);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Gujarat's department of agriculture to establish
irrigation demonstration plots in each MIP area,
prepare a layout for each 8 ha block served by
an outlet, and assist the farmers in implementing
these works (para. 46);
(c)  Gujarat, if necessary, to strengthen the credit,
input supply, storage and marketing facilities
available to farmers in MIP areas (para. 49); and
(d)  Gujarat to provide adequate funds at all times
to operate and maintain the facilities completed
tder the project in accordance with sound engineer-
ing standards (para. 53).






IBRD 13257
MARCH 1978
INEDIA
R A                                                                                         GUJARAT
P  A  K  I S  T  A  N                                                                                                                                                      Major and Medium Irrigation Projects
12           -_             ,, 8            /                                         COMPLETED           ONGOING            NEW
4,                        11     a       *      / -  1 ,5{ n                                  J < DAM SITED      I                -                  I
E A               \                        i-=T =X77 - _ J=   =t BAN                                           ASAU                                                   
F                           \          y =j                                             BANAS=- =   =   =- =2  =   =    =    9   ::PA NPL,   > /                           MAJOR COMMANOS  . .
3                                                                              G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANTIWAOJ
:777, 7                                                                                                PROJEC,                                                  (                                                          MAJOR ROADS
MAJOR RAILROADS
:     112i0                                                                          MAJOR TOWNS
K  U                        125                    A                                                                                       D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ISTRICT BOUNGARIES
V                                                                                                                                               -. -              O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TATE BOUNDARIES
K' 20   :2',        _                                             >                                                       i                                                                           --   8RVERS
r,~~~~-,->,                                     3~~~~~~~~~~~                     l.~~~~     y           JZVVZXX ~~~~~~~~ RANN OP KUTCHI
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ ' 50                                                                                                                                                        6d' ' eGV:Q ,;, -*C'9 
;                            \D  0.1017137                       FOR EXPLANATION GEE SEPARATE TABLE
G-11,         u~~MA~I                    s~c                                       2 
0  > N ~~~'                              >>s    \T         <      1;E::\ 4Mb ~t    A-  K          I           S          -     ~<  HJA
AWARK7 RK                                               -
T    - ~ ;' A                                                                      Ml                                                                                                                           1-0Tt= : ; ':gf ;V      : ;IAS^   t>TE    '=  o a a     x
~~~~~~~~~~~\13                              0         140                                                  30103.N:    :\L<.:gAts:   :   
O   lt  32     48    0  A                   AMBELI              131 0 ,> i        :                     /3 |l* *                                                                         \M/Ei
.'                     E=                                                 .=AMR  1                                                                                       .                ......
JUNAG A A        M   6      '      p                                                                                                               '
137                                                                         X 3                                                                                 .                     )
77  /                      LI I                                                                                             7- =pr'rnx~,'aN      H      I.
700ERAL
41    48~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                        N ~~~~~~~PAKISTAN'                         BH GUTAN
'3   -~~~~~,--'"                                                                                                                  A              -' t~~~~~~~~~91Q,
-                                                                                   7--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W  t
L                                                                                                                                                                                                     . j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARL  ----O
M ILOEES
-             GAl~S  LANKA



