CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 808 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Gujarat Irrigation Project)
t-ween
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 17, 1978


﻿CREDIT NO. 808 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 1978, between INDIA, acting by its
President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the State of Gujarat,
acting by its Governor with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the State
of Gujarat the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
State of Gujarat;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Gujarat" means the State of Gujarat, a State of India
or any successor thereof;


﻿-2-
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Gujarat of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement; and
(c) "MIP" means a medium irrigation project comprising a
cultivable command area of between 2,000 and 30,000 hectares.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eighty-five million dollars ($85,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreementa
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 1


﻿-3-
and July 1 commencing July 1, 1988, and ending January 1, 2028,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
January 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall enable Gujarat to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Gujarat to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Gujarat in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall ensure that the procedures
for approval and monitoring of MIPs as set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement are adhered to.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Gujarat would be able to perform its obli-
gations under the Project Agreement; and
(b) Gujarat shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof; namely that the event specified in
paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and Gujarat.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as   an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the execution and delivery of the Project
Agreement on behalf of Gujarat has been duly authorized or rati-
fied by all necessary governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Gujarat, and is legally
binding upon Gujarat in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date October 16, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary of the Department of
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Zconomic Affairs
New Delhi, India


﻿-5-
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INDIA
By /s/ N.A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a) new MIPs                67,000,000       60%
(b) existing MIPs           16,000,000       60%
(2) Equipment and
vehicles:                      300,000
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
(b) locally                                  100% of local
procured                                 expenditures
(ex-factory)
or 70%
(3) Technical services              200,000        100%
(4) Unallocated                   1,500,000
TOTAL        85,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower;


﻿(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) re-
allocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associa-
tion are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such   expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project crasists of the following:
Part A:   Completion of on-going and execution of new MIPs in
Gujarat.
Part B:   Modernization of existing MIPs in Gujarat.
Part C:   Establishment of automatic discharge measuring stations,
and acquisition of vehicles for their operation.
Part D:   Preparation of evaluation studies and monitoring of the
Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 3
Procedures for Appraisal and Progress
Monitoring of Medium Irrigation Projects (MIPs)
A.   The Central Water Commission under the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Irrigation of the Borrower shall maintain an
Appraisal Committee which shall be responsible for appraisal
and monitoring of the progress of individual MIPs. Except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, the procedures for
appraisal and monitoring shall be as follows:
1.   Preparation.
Gujarat shall be responsible for the preparation of
each HIP. The Appraisal Committee shall monitor the progress
of the preparation of MIPs through field visits and review of
reports, plans, specifications, contract documents, construc-
tion and procurement schedules.
2.   Appraisal.
Gujarat shall submit each HIP to the Appraisal Committee
for appraisal. The committee or its representatives shall (a)
visit the MIP area, (b) review reports, plans, designs and
specifications to ensure that the HIP has been designed
in accordance with (i) established technical criteria, and
(ii) sound engineering practices with special emphasis given
to the safety of the dam structure and to the drainage plan,
(c) review and, if required, adjust cost estimates and
schedules of expenditures to properly reflect the likely cost
of the MIP, (d) review the cropping pattern to ensure that it
is realistic and suitable for the HIP area, (e) review
arrangements for resettlement of families affected by the MIP
iii accordance with Gujarat's policies, and (f) review the
adequacy of extension, credit, input supply, transport and
marketing facilities available to farmers in the HIP area.
The review of the design of the dam structure with regard to
safety referred to in paragraph (b) above would be made by
the Central Water Commission with emphasis on hydrology,
geology and structural engineering.


﻿- 10 -
3.   Approval.
Any MIP that meets the established criteria, is designed
in accordance with sound engineering practices, costs less
than Rs. seventy million excluding expected price increases,
has a benefit cost ratio of not less than 1.0 as calculated
in accordance with the established economic criteria, and has
a cropping pattern that is realistic and suitable for the MIP
area, may be approved by the Appraisal Committee for financ-
ing from the proceeds of the Credit. Any other MIP shall be
submitted to the Association for approval.
4.   Implementation.
The Appraisal Committee or its representatives shall
visit the site of each MIP under construction, and review
relevant records, plans, specifications and procurement
schedules in order to (a) ensure that the MIP is constructed
in accordance with the established technical criteria
and sound engineering practices, (b) monitor the progress of
the construction, and (c) assist Gujarat in solving any
technical problems that might arise.
5.   Operation and Maintenance.
The Appraisal Committee shall review for each MIP, for a
period not exceeding two years after completion of each
MIP, records maintained by Gujarat on (a) the area irrigated
in each irrigation season, (b) monthly inflow and water
release data, (c) costs of and organization for operation and
maintenance of the MIP, in order to ensure that the MIP is
operated and maintained in accordance with sound economic and
engineering standards.
B.   Gujarat shall make available to the Appraisal Committee or
its representatives plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents, construction and procurement schedules and other
records in respect of MIPs to be financed under the Project,
as the Appraisal Committee might reasonably request.
C.   The Appraisal Committee shall prepare reports on the conclu-
sions of its appraisal and monitoring, of such timing,
scope and detail, as have been agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.


