CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 808 IN
Project Agreement
(Gujarat Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF GUJARAT
Dated July 17, 1978


﻿CREDIT NO. 808 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and STATE
OF GUJARAT, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Gujarat).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to eighty-five million dollars
($85,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Gujarat
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Gujarat, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Gujarat shall carry out, or cause to be carried
out, the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural and
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) Gujarat undertakes: (i) that each MIP to
be financed under the Project shall be prepared, designed and
constructed in accordance with technical and economic criteria
agreed with the Association; and (ii) that provisions shall be
made for funds sufficient to complete the MIPs started under the
Project in accordance with said criteria.
(b) For the purpose of carrying out each MIP under the
Project, Gujarat shall establish a Project Preparation Committee
headed by the District Development Officer and consisting, inter
alia, of the concerned Executive Engineer and District Officers
from the Departments of Agriculture, Cooperation, Revenue,
Forestry and Fisheries of Gujarat.
(c) Gujarat shall establish an irrigated demonstration
plot in the area covered by each MIP.
(d) Gujarat shall prepare a layout for each eight-hectares
block served by an irrigation outlet, showing the design of water
courses, field channels and land shaping, and shall assist the
farmers in construction of water courses, field channels and
drains, and land shaping.
(e) Gujarat shall adhere to the appraisal and progress
monitoring procedures for MIPs as set forth in Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Gujarat undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by Gujarat to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Gujarat
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclu-
sively for the Project.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. (a) Gujarat shall furnish t - the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plan&, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction ai.d procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, to such extent and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Gujarat: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress
of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but      .n any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Gujarat and
the Association, Gujarat shall prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
Gujarat and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 2.06. (a) Gujarat shall at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) Gujarat shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Gujarat of its obligations under
this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. Gujara. shall cause its departments and other
agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof to maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices their operations and financial condition related to
to the Project.
Section 3.02. Gujarat shall cause its departments and other
agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial
statements related to the Project for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than nine months after the end of each such
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements and the auait
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.03. With the objective of ensuring recovery
of annual operation and maintenance costs, and to the extent
possible, cost of infrastructure investment, having regard inter
alia to incentives for, and payment capacity of, farmers, Gujarat
undertakes to: (i) review the water and water-related charges in
Gujarat by not later than December 31, 1982, and (ii) implement an
appropriate system of water and water-related charges based on
recommendations arising from said review after paying due regard
to the Association's comments, if any, on such recommendations.
Section 3.04. In executing the Project, Gujarat shall
promptly take necessary measures to minimize the risk of malaria
and other water-related diseases in the areas covered by the
MIPs.
Section 3.05. Gujarat shall maintain staffing of its agricul-
tural extension services in each MIP area in conformity with the
statewide standards to be agreed upon between the Association and
Gujarat.


﻿-5-
Section 3.06. Gujarat shall, under arrangements satis-
factory to the Association, cause the dams and related structures
constructed under the Project to be periodically inspected in
accordance with sound engineering practice in order to determine
whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such
structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or
methods of operations of the same, which may endanger their
safety. To this end, Gujarat shall propose to the Association not
later than December 31, 1978 appropriate arrangements for the
Association's review.
Section 3.07. Gujarat undertakes to provide adequate funds
at all time, to operate and maintain in accordance with sound
engineering standards the facilities completed under the Project.
Section 3.08. In order to meet the increasing needs of
irrigated farming for the MIPs constructed under the Project,
Gujarat shall, if necessary, strengthen the credit, input supply,
storage and marketing facilities available to farmers in MIP
areas.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Gujaret thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Gujarat of this event.


﻿-6-
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any partial
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For State of Gujarat:
Secretary Public Works Department
Government of Gujarat
Sachivalaya
Gandhinagar
Gujarat 382010, India
Cable address:
WORKSEC
Gandhinagar


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Gujarat may be taken or executed by a
Secretary to the Government of Gujarat or such other person or
persons as Gujarat shall designate in writing, and Gujarat shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF GUJARAT
By /s/ N.A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of equipment and vehicles, and civil works may be
let on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
under procedures satisfactory to the Association.
B.   1.   Contracts for works included under Part A of the Project
may be let on unit price basis to the local contractors
provided, however, that the aggregate of such contracts
shall not exceed 30% of works under Part A of the
Project.
2.   Contracts for works included under Part B of the Project
may be let on unit price basis to the local contractors.
3.   Works under Parts A and B of the Project for which
safety or quality considerations, or the use of heavy
machinery, are required, may be carried out by force
account provided, however, that the aggregate of said
force account works shall not exceed 10% of all civil
works under Parts A and B of the Project, respectively.
C.   1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $750,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Gujarat shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Gujarat
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suffi-
cient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it


﻿-9-
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with this
Schedule, promptly inform Gujarat and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
Gujarat shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its exe-
cution and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
resnect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with this Schedule,
promptly inform Gujarat and state the reasons for such determina-
tion.


