Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3239-LBR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A
MONROVIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 11, 1982
This document hu a resiteatd distoibuke and may be uised by reipiets  Jy the pwmou   i
teir efkiWd utis. Its mtnts may not otherwise be disclosed without World Hbank a dwrbadon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Liberian dollar
with a par value equal to the US dollar. The
US dollar is a legal tender in Liberia.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -  African Development Bank
CDC       -  Commonwealth Development Corporation
DPD       -  Development Projects Department, of MCC
LBDI      -  Liberian Bank for Development and Investment
LEC       -  Liberia Electricity Corporation
lWSC      -  Liberia Water and Sewerage Corporation
MCC       -  Monrovia City Corporation
MLG       -  Ministry of Local Government
ML&M      -  Ministry of Lands and Mines
MUDP      -  Monrovia Urban Development Preparation Team
NHA       -  National Housing Authority
NHSB      -  National Housing and Savings Bank
PPF       -  Project Preparation Facility
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA - MONROVIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Liberia
Amount:              IDA Credit of SDR 8.9 million (US$10 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    A total of about SDR 3.47 million (about US$3.9 mil-
lion) would be relent to the following implementing
agencies: SDR 1.78 million (US$2.0 million) to the
Monrovia City Corporation (MCC), SDR 1.6 million (US$1.8
million) to the Liberia Water and Sewerage Corporation
(IWSC), SDR 89,000 (US$100,000) to the National Housing
and Savings Bank (NHSB). Relending terms would be
9 percent per annum with repayment over 20 years including
5 years grace.
Description:        The project aims at (i) improving the living conditions
of Monrovia's urban poor by upgrading infrastructure and
providing essential services in three of its most needy
neighborhoods; (ii) developing a municipal management
capability and establishing a solid revenue base in
the municipality. The project would directly improve the
living conditions of about 100,000 people (nearly one-
third of Monrovia's total population) and would include:
improved water supply, sanitation, roads, drainage, refuse
collection, security lighting and community facilities;
equipment, technical assistance and operating costs for
city-wide land adjudication and registry; and training,
studies and technical assistance for institutional im-
provements. The project's major risks are that the main
executing agency may delay project implementation because
of inexperience and that land adjudication may prove more
complex than anticipated, thereby postponing cost recovery.
To minimize these risks major emphasis has been placed on
institutional development by providing resources for
technical assistance, training and studies. On the whole,
the project presents an acceptable level of risk, con-
sidering the benefits which would be derived.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                       -------------US$"000------------
(including US$0.3 million of          Local         Foreign         Total
taxes and duties)
Upgrading                      3,588           3,559          7,147
Land Adjudication                 972            577          1,549
Institutional Development          83            883            966
PPF Repayment                       -            440            440
Total Base Cost                      4,643          5,459          10,102
Physical Contingencies            343            3517           700
Price Contingencies            1,590             945          2,535
Total Project Cost             6,576           6,761         13,337
Financing Plan:
--------------US$ Million--------
Local         Foreign         Total
Government of Liberia       3.3             -              3.3
IDA Credit                  3.3            6.7            10.0
TOTAL                  6.6            6.7           13.3
Estimated
Disbursements:             ----------------US$ '000----------------
IDA FY   1982      1983    _1984       1985
Annual                        1,900    4,300    2,900         900
Cumulative                    1,900    6,200    9,100   10,000
Rate of Return:            12 percent (upgrading schemtes)
Appraisal Report:          No. 3384-LBR, dated November 30, 1981



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A MONROVIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Liberia for the equivalent of SDR 8.9 million
(US$10.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Monrovia
urban development project. A portion of the proceeds of the credit would be
relent to government agencies as follows: SDR 1.78 million (US$2.0 million)
to the Monrovia City Corporation (MCC), SDR 1.6 million (US$1.8 million) to
the Liberia Water and Sewerage Corporation (LWSC), and SDR 89,000 (US$100,000)
to the National Housing and Savings Bank (NHSB). The loans would be repaid
over 20 years including 5 years of grace and interest charges would be 9
percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, entitled "Liberia:  Current Economic Situation
and Prospects" (No. 2662-LBR), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 28, 1979. An economic mission visited Liberia in June 1981 to review
the current economic situation and its principal findings are included in the
following paragraphs. Country data are shown in Annex I.
Structural Characteristics
3.        The growth of Liberia's economy remains heavily dependent on the
performance of the enclave sector consisting mainly of: (a) iron ore mines,
(b) rubber plantations, and (c) forestry concessions. These enclaves are the
main source of export earnings. Iron ore mining is by far the largest single
activity in the enclave sector, accounting for about one-third of gross
domestic product at factor cost. There are only limited linkages between the
enclaves and the rest of the economy; as a result, the benefits of economic
growth have been unevenly distributed.
4.        The income disparities between traditional agriculture and the
(monetized) modern sector are a manifestation of structural imbalance in the
economy. Traditional agriculture has minimal inter-action with the rest of
the economy; however, it supports the majority of the population - as much as
60 percent - who live at, or near, subsistence level. With a population of
about 1.7 million, average per capita GNP in 1979 is estimated at US$500.
While the enclave sector yields a per capita GNP of about US$1,620 compared
to US$780 for the rest of the monetized economy, the great majority of the
population who live in the traditional non-monetized sector have a per capita
income of about US$185 per annum.



- 2 -
Development Plan and General Economic Policy
5.        After completing its first four-year Development Plan, Liberia
has embarked upon preparation of a Second Plan. The first Plan was intended
as the first of a series of multi-year investment programs aimed at meeting
the basic, long-term objectives of Liberia's socio-economic development. These
are: (a) diversification of production; (b) dispersion of sustainable socio-
economic activities throughout the country; (c) greater involvement of
Liberians in development activities; and (d) equitable distribution of the
benefits of economic growth. Performance under the first Plan fell short of
expectations. Investment in the productive sectors was below the original
target, while one-fourth of total expenditure during the Plan period was for
facilities and buildings for the Organization of AfriLcan Unity (OAU) confer-
ence, which had not been included in the original Plan.
6.        The new Government which assumed power in April 1980, reaffirmed
the broad objectives of the First Plan. Work had been initiated under the
former Government on the preparation of the Second Plan (FY82-86) which is
scheduled for completion shortly. The general economic policy statement
issued by the Government of the People's Redemption Council on June 5, 1980
sets out the broad objectives of the new regime. The main thrust of the
economic policy is to expand the country's productive capacity, especially in
agriculture, and to ensure that benefits from economic growth and development
are enjoyed by an increasing number of Liberians. To achieve this end, the
Government intends to encourage local and foreign private investment and give
priority to labor intensive investments. Significant measures taken by the
new Government since its assumption of office include decisions: (a) to
retain the Liberian dollar at par with the US dollar, which remains legal
tender in Liberia; (b) to honor all existing contractual agreements with
foreign private investors and to change such agreements only through negotia-
tions with all parties concerned; (c) to permit free flow of capital, goods
and services; and (d) to regulate labor relations by full protection of the
rights of both workers and management.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        While strong world demand for Liberia's major export, iron ore,
brought large gains in export prices in 1974, the subsequent recession in
industrialized countries significantly reduced demand for the country's
most important export commodities--iron ore, rubber and timber--in the 1975-78
period. With growth performance continuing to be largely a function of
enclave activities, growth of real GDP--which averaged about 6.3 percent a
year in the 1967-70 period and 4.2 percent a year in the 1970-74 period--has
slowed down significantly and is estimated to have beien about 0.7 percent per
year between 1974 and 1978. Economic performance in 1979 and the first
quarter of 1980 had taken a turn for the better, but following the change in
Government in April 1980 there was a setback in growth, and, according to the
preliminary estimates, real GDP is reported to have declined by 4.4 percent in
1980.



- 3 -
8.        During 1974-78, mostly reflecting accelerated international infla-
tion, imports rose by 14 percent annually, exceeding the 5 percent annual
export growth rate. However, the resurgence in world prices of iron ore,
timber and rubber helped Liberia to expand its exports by 10 percent in 1979
and 14 percent in 1980. Oil imports increased from US$15 million in 1973 to
US$103 million in 1979, or one-fifth of the country's total imports. But
higher prices for Liberia's major exports helped achieve a trade surplus of
US$30 million in 1979; the growth in imports has been relatively lower in the
last 18 months due to the general slack in economic activities following the
change in Government. The current account deficit, reflecting substantial
remittances of capital and other factor income from enclave operations,
increased to about US$132 million in 1979, or 13 percent of GDP, as compared
to US$30 million in 1974, or 5 percent of GDP. Rising current account
deficits were financed mostly by private capital transactions, but in the last
two years, official capital inflows have risen substantially.
9.        Liberia has had a long history of sound fiscal management and
public sector resources did not come under undue pressure until the mid-1970s.
Since 1974, the Government has been facing growing budgetary deficits. The
deficit in 1975 was only about US$4.0 million, but by FY1979 had reached
US$161 million, or 79 percent of government revenues. The strain on public
sector finances intensified during 1979-80 and assumed serious proportions
in the aftermath of the change in Government. The decline in public revenues,
coupled with a decision to increase the salaries of low-paid military personnel
from $100 to $250 per month and the payment of pending bills from the OAU
Conference, increased the overall budgetary deficit from an estimated $56
million to $95 million (9 percent of GDP) by the end of the fiscal year. The
shortfall in revenues was caused largely by lower import duty collection in
the last quarter. The doubling of salaries of the lowest grade civilian
employees from July 1, 1980 aggravated the budgetary deficit for FY1981 and
the Government was faced with a serious liquidity crisis when it approached
the IMF in May 1980 for further assistance.
Relations with the IMF
10.       In July 1980 the new Government introduced a two-year stabilization
program to support a standby arrangement with the IMF providing for support in
an amount of SDR 65 million (about US$85 million). Major elements in the
stabilization program included tighter fiscal policies and stricter control of
the financial operations of the public corporations, increased mobilization of
domestic revenues, rationalisation of energy pricing policies, and a freeze
on wages and salaries of Government employees. Limits were placed on new
borrowings with a maturity of one to twelve years and on credit to the
Government and public sector from the banking system.
11.       The Government had introduced the necessary measures to revise tax
rates and levy import surcharges. However, the budgetary deficit in FY81 is
likely to be about $100 million (45 percent of Government revenues), or $25
million higher than the original budget estimates. While revenue collection
is higher by 10 percent as compared to the previous year, it fell short of
the expected yields as a result of a decline in customs duties. There was



- 4 -
There was also some increase in recurrent expenditures beyond budget estimates.
This budgetary imbalance, lack of strict control on the operations of public
corporations, and the consumer subsidy on rice are some of the major issues
which were addressed in the context of the second yeaLr of the stabilisation
program. In this connection the Government announced some important economic
decisions. The consumer subsidy on rice has been eliminated; a new progres-
sive national reconstruction tax has been levied on wages, salaries and self-
employed income, and excise taxes on beer and gasoline have been increased.
The Government also proposes to improve the financial viability of the public
corporations. The IMF Board approved the program in August 1981 and made
available SDR 55 million for the second year of the Standby Arrangement.
12.       Monthly payments for oil imports continue to create a serious
liquidity problem in public sector finances as receipts generated abroad are
not sufficient to meet oil payments and service the public sector's external
debt. A recent infusion of US$25 million provided by the U.S. Government in
form of a grant from the Economic Support Fund will help to ease the situation.
Creditworthiness
13.       Liberia's external public debt outstanding and disbursed was
estimated at about US$495 million as of June 1980. The Bank Group share
of the public debt outstanding and disbursed is presently about 15 percent
and is expected to increase to about 24 percent by 1984. As a proportion
of public debt servicing liability, the Bank Group's share is expected to
increase from 14 percent to 18 percent over this period. Debt service pay-
ments as a proportion of exports of goods and non-factor services were esti-
mated at about 10 percent in 1979 as compared to 5.7 and 7.7 percent for 1974
and 1972 respectively. Public debt service payments as a percentage of
Government revenues (a more meaningful indicator for Liberia which uses the US
dollar as a medium of exchange) declined from about 24 percent in 1972 and 21
percent in 1974 to 16.5 percent in 1978, but again went up to 23 percent in
1980. This upsurge in the debt service ratio has occurred primarily as a
result of short-maturity loans contracted by Liberia Ln the last few years to
finance OAU-related expenditures and meeting the growing budgetary deficits.
In the short run, this increase in debt servicing obligations has created
severe pressures on Liberia's public finances. The Government therefore
sought and obtained in 1980 the assistance of the Paris Club in rescheduling
its external public sector debt maturing during the period July 1980 to
December 1981. In December 1981 further relief was requested and Liberia
obtained an 18 month extension, with extension from October 1, 1982 to
June 30, 1983 subject to renewal of the Standby agreement with the IMF when
it expires in September 1982.
14.       Assuming a continuation of the recent rate of growth in public
revenues and exports (10 percent and 5 percent per annum, respectively)
Liberia's debt service ratio is estimated to increase to about 33 percent
of public revenues and 12 percent of exports by 1985; should there be an
improvement in the country's economic prospects over the next few years, the
debt service ratio would be somewhat lower (around 29 percent) by 1985.



-5-
Although the movement in world prices of Liberia's main export commodi-
ties in 1981 is not particularly favorable, the growth in export earnings
is projected to be higher in subsequent years as a result of the likely
strengthening in demand for iron ore and an increase in iron ore prices.
Forecasts for natural rubber prices also indicate a consistently upward
movement, and Liberia may expect higher yields from the recently replanted
acreage and new planting of rubber. Other on-going agriculture projects
(particularly for coffee, cocoa, palm oil), and successful exploration and
development of other mining resources, including gold and barite, will help
diversify the economy and should result in an acceleration in the rate of
growth of exports during the next three to four years. Public revenues will
benefit from these increased export earnings. However, these prospects are
clearly contingent upon a number of policy measures which the Government has
to initiate and sustain over the next years, e.g., a reduction in the size of
the Government budget deficit, restraint on new commercial borrowings and
public sector credit expansion, increased mobilization of public savings,
maintenance of the traditional openness of the economy, appropriate pricing
and tariff policies, revival of investor confidence, inflow of new private
investment and improvement in the coordination of overall economic management.
Although Liberia has acute short-term liquidity problems, restoration of
growth and stability is feasible, provided the Government is able and willing
to pursue the right course.
15.       In recent years Bank group lending to Liberia has been a blend of
IDA credits and Bank loans; in view of the country's relatively low per capita
income and high public debt service liability, continued IDA assistance is
justified.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
16.       Up to December 31, 1981 the Bank had approved loans (including one
Third Window loan) for 18 projects in Liberia totalling US$135.7 million;
there have been 9 IDA credits totalling US$47.1 million, and one technical
assistance grant of US$200,000 for development planning. IFC has made two
equity investments totalling US$556,000 in the share capital of the Liberian
Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI). The Bank Group assistance has
financed roads, agriculture, rural development, power, education, water
supply, LBDI, small enterprises, and petroleum pre-exploration. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments
as of December 31, 1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Following the change of Government in April 1980, implementation of a number
of projects was disrupted. For the most part projects are now being imple-
mented well, although problems have been caused by the Government's inability
to meet its full share of financing for some projects as a result of the
severe budget constraints.



-6-
17.       The objectives of Bank Group operations are:  (a) to help Liberians
take greater initiative in developing their own resources for the benefit of
their own people; (b) to support policies and programs leading to a broader
distribution of the benefits of economic growth; (c) to help the Government
broaden the economic base and overcome infrastructural constraints to growth;
and (d) to assist the Government in mobilizing development resources from
other external agencies. In furthering these objectives particular attention
is being paid to (a) the need to expand the supply of trained manpower and
(b) measures to strengthen and improve the operations and finances of the
public corporations in Liberia.
18.       In support of the objectives of raising the standard of living
of lower income groups and broadening the productive base, the Bank Group
lending program emphasizes agriculture and rural development. The Bank Group
is currently cofinancing with USAID two agricultural projects in Bong and Lofa
Counties. These projects are designed to (a) assist subsistence farmers to
expand their production base and to increase their productivity and income
through the provision of support services and infrastructure, and (b) help
diversify the country's export and revenue base. A rubber project, co-
financed with the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), will expand
exports and increase productivity and incomes of small and medium size farmers
by strengthening credit and extension services and promoting greater Liberian
participaton in the development of this subsector. The forestry project
which the Bank is co-financing with the African Development Bank (ADB)
and the German Agency for Technical Cooperation, will strengthen the Govern-
ment's forest service, initiate an industrial plantation program, and help
Liberia better manage and exploit its forestry resources. The oil palm
proj- ct, co-financed by the ADB and the CDC, will help expand and diversify
the country's export and revenue base, provide employment, increase the income
level of rural families, and strengthen the institutional capability in the
country for oil palm development. A second phase of the Lofa County agricul-
tural development project has been appraised and negotiated and a credit
proposal will be submitted for approval of the Executive Directors in the near
future. Consideration is also being given to a rural development project in
the southeastern region of Liberia.
19.       In addition to its support for agriculture, the Bank Group is
also assisting the Government in its diversification efforts through exist-
ing lines of credit to LBDI for the manufacturing sector. The small and
medium scale enterprises project, approved in November 1980, will stimulate
economic activity and employment by providing a line of credit and technical
assistance. The Executive Directors recently approved Bank loans for a total
of US$20 million for a project to rehabilitate the Mano River mine operated by
the National Iron Ore Company, which would help maintain existing employment
and increase Government revenues in order to prepare for an orderly transition
from mining to other economic activities in the area. The objective of the
petroleum exploration promotion project, approved in O,ctober 1980, is to
establish Liberia's hydrocarbon potential by attracting oil companies to take
oil exploration permits in Liberia.



- 7 -
20.       Given Liberia's pressing needs for physical infrastructure, the
Bank Group continues to play a leading role in financing development and
maintenance of water supply, roads, and power. A water supply project for
which a credit was granted in 1978 is designed to help rehabilitate and expand
the Monrovia water supply system, extend water distribution to lower income
groups in metropolitan areas, and strengthen the management, staffing, and
finances of the LWSC. The feeder roads project for which a Bank loan was
approved in 1979 is designed to open up the agricultural hinterland of Liberia
in support of the ongoing and proposed agricultural and rural development
programs. The nearly completed fourth highway project has, like earlier Bank-
financed projects, expanded the country's limited basic road network. A
fifth highway project under consideration would improve the country's road
maintenance capability. In the power sector, a nearly completed fourth power
project has expanded the Liberia Electricity Corporation's (LEC) thermal
generating facilities to meet current demand, strengthened LEC's management,
and extended connections to poor urban households in Monrovia. Bank Group
assistance will also be considered to meet Liberia's longer term electricity
needs through hydropower development.
21.       Since the lack of trained manpower is a major constraint to develop-
ment in Liberia, the Bank Group has financed three education projects and is
currently financing preparation of a fourth project through an advance from
the PPF. The proposed project, which is scheduled for appraisal in March,
would continue the emphasis on manpower training and upgrade primary and
secondary education in the rural areas.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Urban Growth
22.       Nearly a third of Liberia's population of 1.7 million lives in urban
areas, over half of which are in the capital city, Monrovia. The city's
annual population increase of about 7 percent, due to both migration and a
high rate of natural growth, has brought its population to about 330,000, over
15 times the size of the next largest town, Buchanan. If current trends
continue the city will double its population in ten years. The pace of
urbanization is straining Monrovia's capacity to provide jobs, infrastructure
and housing for residents.
Land, Housing Conditions, Infrastructure and Services in Monrovia
23.       Monrovia is perched upon a rocky ridge on the Atlantic Ocean at the
estuary of a major river, the Mesurado River. The city stretches along the
northern and southern coastlines in a narrow "L" shape. Inland, an immense
swamp obstructs further expansion and newer settlements have begun to encircle
the swamp. This topography presents a serious impediment to urban growth (see
Map IBRD 15578).



- 8 -
24.       A major problem affecting land development in Monrovia is lack
of security of land tenure due to the absence of a cadastral and ownership
registry throughout Liberia. Although most land is privately owned, there
is often a proliferation of conflicting deeds for the same or overlapping
properties, involving government, tribes, organized community groups, institu-
tions, families and individuals. Lack of clear ownership of urban land
has prevented development of an effective system of mortgages, inhibited land
sales and building construction, discouraged improvement and maintenance of
existing structures and undermined the establishment of an effective real
estate taxation system. Property in Monrovia is rarely bought or sold, and
little new investment is undertaken. Numerous half-built structures can be
found throughout the city largely as a result of land disputes, although lack
of an effective financing system is also a cause of many incomplete structures.
It is estimated that half of the city's population lives in areas needing
upgrading; in addition, over the next ten years, 50,000 new housing units will
be needed to keep pace with anticipated population growth.
25.       Sixty percent of the city's housing stock is of temporary materials.
While the availability of services varies between settlements, most squatter
areas have some services. Access and internal circulation is often by earth
roads or footpaths. Electrical service reaches nearly all settlements,
several of which have over 90 percent individual service, but there is a high
proportion of illegal connections. Security lighting, however, is almost
totally absent and this is considered a contributing factor to the relatively
high crime rates in many areas. Most settlements are served with piped water,
but the system is plagued by fluctuating pressures, illegal connections, and
inadequate maintenance. Of the city's total water production, about half is
lost from leakage and illegal connections. Most areas lack adequate sanita-
tion. The existing sewer and drainage systems in the central area are fre-
quently blocked or broken as a result of inadequate maintenance, and lack
secondary connection lines to service poor areas. Equipment and organization
for garbage collection are also inadequate to maintain acceptable sanitary
conditions.
Income and Employment
26.       Out of the total 60,000 estimated jobs in Mlonrovia, the public
sector accounts for half# and the informal sector accounts for perhaps another
18,000 (of these 10,000 are market women). Unemployraent is high and is
estimated to range from 20 percent to 40 percent of the labor force. About
50-70 percent of residents in low-income settlements fall below the absolute
poverty line of US$310 per capita per annum, or US$130 per household of five
per month, the level at which an average family can just afford minimum
caloric requirements.
Government Initiatives
27.       The Government began focussing attention oni the problems caused
by Monrovia's rapid urbanization five years ago. The municipal government
was restored in 1976, after over 50 years in abeyance, in order to shift
responsibility for meeting the needs of the city away from the national



- 9 -
ministries. Increasing responsibility is to be given to the Monrovia City
Corporation (MCC), a public corporation reporting to the Ministry of Local
Government (MLG). To deal with the problem of security of land tenure, the
Government introduced in 1974 a survey and ownership ("adjudication") registry
under a new Land Registration Act. This replaces the former deed system with
a guaranteed title system legally defining plots and ownership of urban land.
Responsibility for the adjudication process is with a special "Adjudication
Unit" headed by staff of the Ministry of Justice but managed by the Ministry
of Land and Mines (ML&M). Four areas of Monrovia have so far been selected
for adjudication, including the three project locations. Excessively bureau-
cratic procedures, lack of equipment and operating materials, and lack of
indexation of the existing deed archives, have created major obstacles to
speedy adjudication.
28.       MCC is a young institution which is just beginning to formulate its
policies and programs and to assemble its personnel. Its Charter gave it
certain powers (e.g. to buy and sell property, levy taxes etc), but did not
assign it specific responsibilities. However, responsibilities are being
acquired gradually and the city is now in charge of public health services,
refuse collection, public safety, parks, cemeteries and recreation, mass
transit and markets. Additional authority is currently being sought for
drainage maintenance, traffic management, fire services, and development
control (building and zoning regulation). The City Council should be made up
of selected representatives and an elected Mayor and Deputy Mayor; however,
following the April 1980 change in Government, the Council was suspended and
the Mayor is now appointed. Because of the lack of qualified and trained
professional staff, and as a result of frequent changes of mayors and chief
officers, leadership is weak. The problem is exacerbated by lack of revenue;
MCC's own sources of income are minor fees for market stalls, trash collection
and city fines. These revenues, which represent only 7 percent of the city's
budget, are the only ones MCC has authority to spend directly. The remainder
of the City's budget is financed by the central Government. Accounts and
financial controls are non-existent as the Government does not require MCC to
submit annual audited accounts. The proposed project would help shape and
strengthen MCC through technical assistance and by developing a solid revenue
base (see para. 46). Concentrating municipal functions within one agency
would furthermore eliminate overlapping ministerial functions, poor coordina-
tion and duplication of effort and maximize the impact of Liberia's scarce
financial and manpower resources.
29.       More recently, the Government launched a new program for sites and
services for low income groups to be implemented by the National Housing
Authority (NRA) and the National Housing and Savings Bank (NHSB) with USAID
assistance. The project would provide 1,000 to 4,000 serviced plots with
community facilities and construction loans for self-help housing. Technical
assistance is being provided to the executing agencies with the aim of helping
the Government shape a national housing policy. Improvements in the drainage,
sewerage and electricity services to the urban poor have also begun under the
Bank Group-financed Fourth Power Project (Ln. 1600-LBR) and First Water



- 10 -
Project (Cr. 859-LBR). In addition, a sewerage Master Plan for Monrovia was
started in November 1980 to identify measures to reduce the heavy contamina-
tion of the water system and improve maintenance.
30.       To alleviate unemployment the Government has started a number of
assistance programs, including a small-scale enterprises project for which an
IDA credit of US$5 million (Cr. 1076-LBR) was recently approved. USAID has
also approved a line of credit of US$1 million through the NHSB to the infor-
mal sector for small-scale enterprises. Technical assistance and training
schemes are included under both projects, and the Bank supported Third Educa-
tion Project is also reinforcing vocational training. In an attempt to
address urban sector needs more systematically, the Government carried out in
1976-78 a Monrovia Urban Study which led to the establishment of the Monrovia
Urban Development Project Preparation Team (MUDP). The latter's report of
February 1980 is the major feasibility study input for the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
31.       The project was prepared in 1979-80 by MUDP with the help of consul-
tants financed under an advance of US$450,000 from the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF). The advance was granted in two stages: US$250,000 in July
1979 and US$200,000 in August 1980. Appraisal took place in November 1980.
Negotiations were held in Washington on August 26 and 27, 1981. The Liberian
delegation was led by Mr. Rudolph Johnson, Deputy Minister, Ministry of
Finance. The proposed project is described in the report entitled "Monrovia
Urban Development Project" (Staff Appraisal Report No. 3384- LBR, dated
November 30, 1981) which is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors.
32.       The project is aimed at improving the living condition of the urban
poor by (a) upgrading infrastructure and providing essential services in three
of Monrovia's most needy neighborhoods; and (b) strengthening key institu-
tions to provide more effective management and a broader revenue base for
the MCC.
Project Description
33.       The proposed project would include of the following components:
(i)  Upgrading:  improved water supply, sanitation, roads, drainage,
refuse collection, security lighting and community facilities
for about 70,000 settlers of Monrovia;
(ii)  Land adjudication:  technical assistance, vehicles, field and
office equipment and operating costs for land surveys and titling
in the project area under a first phase adjudication program
covering 30,000 people; at a later stage the program would be
extended to the whole city of Monrovia;



- 11 -
(iii) Institutional development: technical assistance and studies to
strengthen municipal management and broaden the municipal income
base.
34.       Upgrading:  Improved services would be provided to Claratown,
Sonewein and Slipway, three existing settlements in Monrovia (see map)
inhabited by about 25,000 people. Another 5,000 people would benefit through
new plots in Claratown to house those who would have to be resettled because
they live in the pathway of new facilities to be constructed under the proj-
ect. House construction loans would be provided to those requiring resettle-
ment. The three settlements were selected mainly for their large population
and poor living conditions. Claratown, being a newer, rapidly growing area of
about 7,000 people, is largely without services. Sonewein and Slipway, with
populations of 11,000 and 7,000 respectively, are older areas with severely
deteriorated services. Lack of adequate sewerage is creating a severe health
hazard in the two older settlements.
35.       Major access roads and footpaths would be improved in all three
project settlements and drains would be built along one side of them. The
project would also provide about 31 centrally located "wet cores", each
containing 12 toilet units, shower facilities and water standpipes nearby.
Refuse collection points would be provided along major roads, with collec-
tion vehicles, loaders and maintenance equipment. Since most families have
power connections, street security lighting only would be provided in the
three project areas. LWSC's water standpipe program would be extended to
other low-income areas of Monrovia, to serve about 40,000 additional people.
Primary education and basic health services would be improved through con-
struction of a new school and upgrading existing ones, as well as through
construction of a community health center and three health units. One new
market would be built and an existing one would be renovated and expanded.
A study under terms of reference agreed with IDA and financed through the
Project Preparation Facility (see para 31), would help MCC review its policy
on markets and the suitability of its current market fee structure. A com-
munity center would be built in each upgraded area to provide space for
community meetings. To avoid sharp rent increases arising from project
improvements, design standards would be kept to basics only. In those cases
where structures would have to be demolished to make way for new works, the
Government would pay compensation to houseowners; land taken over would also
be compensated if clear title can be established.
36.       Land Adjudication:  The project would provide support to the Govern-
ment's ongoing land adjudication program by financing equipment and providing
technical assistance to streamline the adjudication process. Assistance is
envisaged in two phases: the first, which was initiated during project prepa-
ration and is expected to be completed by end of 1982, would establish land
ownership in the three proposed project areas as well as in the West Point
settlement under the USAID assisted project (para 29). The second phase,



- 12 -
to be continued for another three years until project completion in mid-
1985, would aim at strengthening and expediting land aLdjudication throughout
Monrovia. The project would provide essential office and field equipment
needed by the seven adjudication teams involved in the program as well as
technical assistance. Salaries and operating cost of the teams would also
be financed. In the context of this project, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Government would continue to follow land adjudi-
cation procedures and compensation policies satisfactory to IDA (Section
3.04(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
37.       Institutional Development:  Training would be the main element in
the institutional development program.  Most of the training effort would be
directed towards MCC, MLG, NHA and ML&M. Local or regional, and occasionally
overseas, institutions would be used for training. A training officer in MCC
would formulate a detailed training program and supervise its implementation.
The project would also provide for consultants to carry out the following
studies: (a) a Municipal Management Study, which should provide guidelines
for strengthening MCC; (b) a study of LWSC tariffs; and (c) preparation of a
second urban project. The Municipal Management Study would provide a general
review of MCC's operations, including its organizational structure and manage-
ment, revenue accounting systems and staff development: program. The study is
expected to take six months.  Technical assistance would also be provided
to implement the study's recommendations and to help MCC establish an effec-
tive tax collection operation. The LWSC water tariffs study is discussed in
para 47. Consultants would be required to train their Liberian counterparts.
In total, 83 man-months would be included in the project for studies and
technical assistance. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
project would employ consultants under terms of reference and conditions
acceptable to IDA (Section 3.03 of the draft Credit Agreement). The Govern-
ment would review with IDA the results and recommendations of the Municipal
Management, urban project preparation and LWSC tariff studies within six
months of their completion and take IDA's comments into account in taking
subsequent action (Section 3.05 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
38.       Project implementation is expected to take four years with start-up
by mid-1982. Land adjudication has already been initiated. Training will
begin shortly under PPF funding and continue through t-he end of 1982. Primary
responsibility for implementation would be with MCC under the supervision of
MLG. The water standpipe extension program would be carried out by the LWSC
and the Liberia Electricity Corporation (LEC) would carry out the security
lighting investments. LWSC and LEC would ultimately own and maintain water
sanitation and power infrastructure. Land adjudication would be the responsi-
bility of the ML&M. The Steering Committee which guided project preparation
would be maintained under the chairmanship of MLG to coordinate project imple-
mentation and ensure a unified policy framework for a:Ll upgrading programs in
Liberia. Assurances that the Government would maintain this Committee and
include representatives of all government ministries and agencies concerned
with the project were obtained at negotiations (Section 3.02 of draft Credit
Agreement).



- 13 -
39.       A new department, the Development Projects Department, (DPD), has
been established within MCC to carry out the upgrading programs. DPD, through
its three divisions (Technical, Community Development, and Finance) would be
primarily responsible for detailed design and engineering, community consulta-
tion, preparation of tender documents, bidding, contract award, supervision of
construction and project monitoring. Consultants would be employed to carry
out all detailed design and engineering and to supervise construction and
private contractors would be utilized for civil works construction. The
Director and senior staff of DPD has been appointed in consultation with IDA.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that (a) MCC would maintain, ade-
quately staff and provide all necessary resources to DPD to carry out the
project, (b) employ additional specialized staff according to an agreed time
table and (c) consult IDA on appointments to the positions of Director and
Division Chiefs of DPD until completion of the project (Section 2.02 of the
draft Project Agreement). Monitoring and evaluation would be undertaken by
DPD and by the project supervising unit in MLG.
40.       MCC would prepare an opening financial statement in a form satis-
factory to IDA by April 1, 1982, reflecting its position as of December 31,
1981. It would thereafter submit annual accounts, including a separate
account of project expenditures, audited by a firm acceptable to IDA, not
later than six months after the close of each fiscal year (Section 3.02 of the
draft Project Agreement).
41.       NHSB would grant resettlement loans to help move those families
which are in the pathway of upgrading works. During negotiations agreement
was obtained that, for lower income groups wishing to borrow sums below
US$3,500, the normal requirements of maintaining a savings account, and life
and fire insurance and of having title to the land would be waived. A govern-
ment guarantee or a long-term lease with authority to add a 1 percent risk
surcharge to NHSB's interest rate would be acceptable in place of land title.
Mortgage rates would be at least 12 percent per annum with repayment over 20
years (the same as in the USAID project) (Schedule 3 of draft Credit Agree-
ment). The interest rate is slightly below the present rate of inflation (14
percent per annum); because of very tight liquidity in Liberia the inflation
rate is, however, expected to fall to around 10 percent per annum.
42.       ML&M would be responsible for land adjudication through its Lands
and Surveys Department. The adjudication unit under the Department aleady has
some trained and experienced Liberians. Agreement was obtained during nego-
tiations that (a) the seven adjudication teams would be maintained at full
strength of six persons; and (b) four of the teams would be assigned to
project areas (Section 3.04 (a) of the draft Credit Agreement).
43.       Community organizations are well established in the three settle-
ments to be upgraded and have already undertaken, on their own initiative, a
number of improvement programs which demonstrate their desire for improvements
and willingess to pay for them. Community organizations are expected to play
an active role in the design, maintenance and operation of the facilities
provided under the project.



- 14 -
Project Cost and Financing Plan
44.       The total cost of the project (including taxes) is estimated at
US$13.3 million, of which US$6.8 million or 51 percent represent foreign
costs. Taxes and duties are estimated at US$0.3 million. Base cost estimates
are in January 1981 prices. Price contingencies (US$2.5 million or 19 percent
of total costs) are based on projected cost increases for domestic project
inputs of 15 percent per annum over the four-year project period, and 9
percent, 8.5 percent and 7.5 percent on foreign costs for 1981, 1982 and
1983-85 respectively. Physical contingencies (US$0.7 million, or 5 percent of
total costs) are equivalent to 15 percent on civil works. Detailed design and
engineering and construction supervision are estimated at 10 percent of civil
works costs. DPD's salaries and operations are estimated at 8 percent of such
costs. Total contingencies amount to about 32 percent of the estimated base
cost. The cost of foreign consultant services (totalling 83 man-months) are
estimated at US$10,000 per average man-month. A summary breakdown of costs is
shown in the Credit and Project Summary at the beginning of this report.
45.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 8.9 million, equivalent to about
US$10 million, would finance about 76 percent of total project costs, net of
taxes and duties. This would cover 100 percent of the foreign costs and
half of the local costs. Local cost financing is recommended because the
Government is facing severe budgetary constraints and is short of resources
for investment. The Government would dispose of the IDA funds as follows:
(i) SDR 3.47 million would be relent to the implementing agencies in the
following manner: SDR 1.78 million to MCC for sanitary facilities, security
lighting, refuse vehicles and portions of training, technical assistance,
studies and management related to the Corporation; SDR 89,000 to NHSB for
house loans for essential resettlement; and SDR 1.6 million to LWSC for
off-site water and sewerage infrastructure, the standpipe extension program
and the water tariff study. These funds would be relent to the agencies under
subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to IDA, and would carry interest
charges of 9 percent per annum with repayment over 20 years including 5 years
grace (Section 3.01 (c) of the draft Credit Agreement); (ii) the Government
would use the remaining SDR 5.43 million for drainage, access roads, land
adjudication and community facilities, and to finance training, technical
assistance and studies related to agencies other than MCC, the PPF advance
would also be repaid to the Bank out of the Credit.
Cost Recovery and Affordability
46.       About 85 percent of project cost would be recovered through citywide
property tax charges. One of the project's main objectives is to gradually
develop a solid revenue base for MCC by strengthening citywide property tax
collection. Property tax is emphasized because: (a) it is an existing tax for
which there are already manpower and administrative capacities; and (b) the
potential for increasing public revenue is considerable as present collection
is very low--about 20 percent of potential yield based on present assessments.
Legislation giving MCC authority to collect property tax in Monrovia, and
retain 30 percent of the total sum collected, is being, enacted.



- 15 -
47.       In addition to property taxes, residents would pay for consumption
of power and for water and sewerage services. Power tariffs are governed by
rate of return covenents with the Bank under Ln. 1600-LBR. Since the extent
of individual water and sewer connections is unknown (due to the high number
of illegal connections) the project would introduce charges for water at
standpipes. Standpipe water has been free so far with the Government having
an obligation to reimburse LWSC for it. The Government has not, however,
fulfilled its obligation to LWSC and it is doubtful that the Government could
afford the cost of this service if it were to be expanded further. User
payment for water consumption is therefore required if LWSC is to expand and
service its network of standpipes. Agreement on the introduction of water
charges which would enable LWSC to service its debt under the subsidiary loan
agreement and cover administrative and operating costs was obtained during
negotiations (Section 4.04 of the draft Credit Agreement). Tariffs and the
method of collection would be determined under the tariff study to be under-
taken by LWSC (para. 37). Until such collections are demonstrated to be
effective, the Government would continue its obligation to pay LWSC for water
at standpipes.
48.       Upgrading costs under the project are relatively low--US$100 per
beneficiary or US$500 per household. Assuming that up to 15 percent of total
income could be spent on property tax for services and recurrent utility
charges, monthly tax payments and minimal utilities charges would be afford-
able by 94 percent of the area's residents, or families earning a minimum of
between US$25 and US$30 per month.
49.       As the collection of property tax has been poor, various steps are
envisaged under the project to improve administration. A first essential step
is the completion of land registration undertaken under the land adjudication
component. Property valuation, the second important step, is currently being
undertaken under a USAID-financed technical assistance program. The Municipal
Management Study would attempt to identify a method for improving property tax
collection and would be tested initially in the project areas. Three man-
months of technical assistance is included in the project to help initiate the
system in project areas. Assurance were obtained during negotiations that MCC
would seek to improve each year the level of collection of property taxes and
afford IDA the opportunity of commenting on progress made, establishing yearly
tax collection targets which would be satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.03 of the
draft Project Agreement).
Procurement
50.       Goods and services under the project would be procured in accor-
dance with Bank Group guidelines. Contracts for civil works including community
facilities and refuse vehicles totaling about US$7.3 million or 55 percent of
the project's cost would be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding. Civil works contracts for the three settlements would be tendered
together, but grouped in such a manner that bids might be submitted for each
separately or for the total package. There would be local advertising and in



- 16 -
the Development Forum, with notification to embassies of Bank-member coun-
tries, Switzerland and Taiwan. Contracts for goods and services costing less
than US$250,000 each and for aerial photography and mapping, in all totalling
no more than US$2 million, would be awarded in accordance with local procure-
ment procedures satisfactory to IDA. The remaining project costs would be for
resettlement loans, compensation, staff salaries and operating costs, training
and technical assistance.
Disbursements
51.       Disbursement would be on the following bas:Ls: 70 percent of total
expenditures for civil works; 70 percent of total expenditures for housing
loans; 100 percent of foreign or 75 percent of local expenditures for equip-
ment; 100 percent of consultancy services and training; 65 percent of project
related operating costs and salaries of MCC and ML&M. Disbursement for civil
works, consultancy services and training and all major equipment representing
about US$8.5 million would be made against fully documented contracts and
receipts. For other individual small expenditures (housing loans, operating
costs and minor equipment), disbursement would be made against statements
of expenditure. Though MCC has recently set up basic accounts for the project
which are satisfactory to IDA, the establishment of accounting and auditing
systems satisfactory to IDA by other agencies which propose to obtain disburse-
ments through statements of expenditure would be a condition of disbursement
for all items on which a statement of expenditures would be used (Schedule 1
para 4(d) of draft Credit Agreement).
52.       In view of the shortage of resources being experienced by the
proposed executing agencies it would be necessary to provide prefinancing for
certain project expenditures to initiate project implementation. Revolving
funds would be used to pay for locally procured goods and operating costs
where direct payment by IDA would not be practical. Immediately after credit
effectiveness, an IDA disbursement of US$300,000 equivalent would be paid into
a revolving fund account which the Government would establish as a condition
of effectiveness with the National Bank of Liberia (called the "Special
Account") for purposes of the project. The account would be replenished by
IDA on receipt of satisfactory evidence of expenditure. The Government would
also open an account (called the "Project Account") to cover items it would
finance, or the relevant portion of them, and would make an initial deposit of
US$100,000 as a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Credit
Agreement). The management of both accounts and the maintenance of evidence
in support of certificates of expenditure would be the responsibility of the
Borrower and MCC (Section 4.01 of the draft Credit Agreement and Section 3.01
of the draft Project Agreement). Suitable reporting procedures and controls
for these funds have been established.



- 17 -
Project Benefit and Risks
53.       The economic rate of return for the three upgrading sites was
estimated by calculating the present and expected market values for housing
and infrastructure improvements. The economic rate of return (ERR) for the
three sites, representing about 34 percent of total project costs, is esti-
mated at 12 percent. In addition, there are unquantifiable benefits from
improved health and education which are expected to be quite substantial.
Benefits resulting from land adjudication are perhaps the most difficult to
quantify but are potentially among the most important. Improved security
of land tenure in Monrovia through establishment of a land registry would
encourage improvement and maintenance of Monrovia's dilapidated stock of
residential and commercial structures; it could stimulate new construction and
remove an important impediment to the development of an effective housing
finance system. It would also provide the basis for improved Government
revenues through more effective property taxation. By strengthening municipal
management and developing an effective property tax system, the project would
also lay the basis for direct cost recovery mechanisms and replicability in
the longer run.
54.       The project would directly improve living conditions of about
100,000 people, or perhaps 20,000 households, representing nearly a third of
the total population of Monrovia. About half of the population affected falls
below the poverty threshold. The innovative nature of the project entails
risks; major ones are: (a) MCC's inexperience as an executing agency; and
(b) the possibility of delays in completing land adjudication, thereby post-
poning cost recovery. A lesser risk is that rents increase beyond what is
affordable by the target population, as a result of upgrading, thereby dis-
placing residents. To minimize the management risk, the project size has
been tailored to what is considered achievable and major emphasis has been
placed on strengthening MCC's institutional capacity. Substantial technical
assistance, training and studies would be provided. To minimize the risk
that the upgrading program could drive up the rents beyond the limites of
affordability, the standard of the proposed services would be kept to those
considered basic only and affordable by the target population. However, rent
increases would be monitored closely during project implementation. On the
whole, the project presents an acceptable level of risks considering the
benefits which would be derived.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The Draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Liberia and IDA and the Draft Project Agreement between IDA and MCC as well as
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



- 18 -
56.       In addition to the features of the Development Credit Agreement
which are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III,
special conditions of credit effectiveness would be: (a) execution and
delivery of a subsidiary loan agreement between the IBorrower and MCC, (b)
opening of the Special Account; and (c) opening of the Project Account and
depositing therein US$100,000. Conditions of disbursement in respect
of expenditures for the NHSB and LWSC components, would be the execution and
delivery of subsidiary loan agreements between the Borrower and each one of
these agencies. The establishment of accounting and auditing systems satis-
factory to IDA by agencies proposing to use certificates of expenditure would
also be a condition of disbursement by means of such certificates (Schedule 1,
para 4 of the draft Credit Agreement).
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors of the Association approve
the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
By M. A. Qureshi
Attachments
March 11, 1982



- 19 -                                       ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                         Page  1
LIBERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LIBERIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVEYGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-        __
TOTAL            111.4                               MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE iNCOME
AGRICULTURAL       6.1             1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
ONP PER CAPITA (US$)                160.0       260.0     500.0                794.2                  1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     87.5       558.8    448.2                 707.5                  1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   978.0     1335.0   1797.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 20.5       26.2      32.3                 27.7                    64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      3.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       11.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2095
POPULATION DENSITY                             I
PER SQ. KM.                       8.8        12.0      16.1                 55.0                    34.3
PER SQ. KM. ACRICULTURAL LAND    163.0      217.0    284.6                 130.7                    94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        45.4        46.7      47.6                 46.0                    40.7
15-64 YES.                        52.0        50.8      50.0                 51.2                   55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.6         2.5       2.4                  2.8                     4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.8         3.1       3.3                  2.8                     2.4
URBAN *                           5.4         5.7       5.6                  5.1                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.2        49.3      48.1           .    46.9                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.3        16.3      13.6      ,          15.8                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.4         3.4       3.4                  3.2                     2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRLED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         96.0       101.0     100.0                 89.9                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  95.0        97.0     104.0                 92.3                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         38.0        41.0      42.0                 52.8                    65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       9.0        11.0      10.0                 16.1                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    29.3        21.9      16.4                 20.2                     7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   44.4        49.4      53.5                 50.8                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..          ..        ..                   ..                    70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      20.0                 27.4                    65.7
URBAN                              ..          ..      64.0                 74.3                    79.7
RURAL                              ..          ..       6.0                 12.6                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCHETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      11.0                   ..                    59.9
URBAN                              ..          ..      35.0                   ..                    75.7
RURAL                              ..          ..       6.0                                         30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        12600.O/c   11754.5    9259.0              13844.1                  1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    5810.1Th    4651.1   2904.0                2898.6                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           711.8       592.0    623.0                1028.4                   471.2
URBAN                           181.3       194.4        ..                423.0                   558.0
RURAL                              ..          .,        ..               3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        27.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                             3.9          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                             1.7/d        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



- 20 -                                          ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                 Page  2
LIBERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LIBERIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960   b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  31.0        53.0       64.0                  73.7                     101.7
MALE                  45.0         71.0      80.0                   96.8                    103.0
FEKALE                18.0         35.0      48.0                   79.0                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0         9.0       20.0                   16.2                     35.3
MALE                   3.0         15.0      29.0                   25.3                     34.9
FEMALE                 1.0          4.0      11.0                   14.8                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)    ..            5.3       3.0                    5.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             32.0        36.0       42.0                  36.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                           12.0         17.0        ..                  23.6                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          8.9/e       15.0      30.0                     ..                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0        11.1        8.1                  32.3                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         102.2       116.1      162.8                  69.0                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION.                          1.5         4.9        5.9                   8.0                      o9.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    0.8          5.2       4.9                   20.2                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6            0.6       1.1                    0.7                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        379.8       480.4      605.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    34.1         32.8      32.1                  36.7                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               80.0        75.6       70.5                  56.6                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  10.0        11.6       13.7                  17.5                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 38.8        36.0       33.7                   37.2                     31.8
MALE                                  51.9         49.0      46.3                   47.1                     49.0
FEMALE                    -           26.1         23.3      21.4                   27.5                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.4       1.5                    1.3                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        61.7/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          72.67F.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         5.37        ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        10. 97
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PeR CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                 381.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      75.0                 156.2                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      137.0                 334.3                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     125.0                 137.6                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       23.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic mearts. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1964;  /d City of Monrovia only;  /e 1962;  /f Population, higher income calculated as residual;
includes expatriates.
May, 1981



-21-                                        ~~~~ANNEX I
Page 3
OUIOSfliUi all SfCIAL  MINCATOI
Pr.L.I  Althoogh Lb.  otc Cr. d.o   f to       sooro    .-oroty jodnd th. eoltS oco-fttiro  ood rObt.it ohoL I- bO.  Sol00.  tbot Ohy -y moot bo It'-
m.tio.-1y  Sompooobl. b--.. of th. look of  t.S.dordL.d d.ft.itOono cod  -o.opt. ...d by diff ....t  SoooSrS.o. ID il..otlog tb. 44t.  Tho 4.0  ., Soon
tb.1.66, Soo1.1 to ioS.orlb   -wd.r  of -moitodo. wlodtt. tr-dS, Pod obotoori..  t.l.   -J...     diiff-oaooo b.toSe e.oeCrioO.
Tb.  Iooroo  top  *O      h1 to *SC.ocouBtry grou  ofi Sb,oblore co.ot,y nodCOoconrgrprth.ed.0 tbo                               rt.io.toSooosy
of S. ob)ot ccery._Cro for 'CatOo  S. .tpl. Oil f         toroor" gruP oboe. 95iddl  100000 No-h Aftic, ted Middle Z.t.e  10 Sb.-0  b-    If S
SoIo-ooienro  Offinti...  to eho rofoc-  Scoop doe. th: I   Sooog   ..tr  pott               xhilotd oriUhorIc1 moor. Eo, Sotk loice....  .od oboo  ocy obo
mocie   f cho coc-tto  ion group h... dArn ta  Shot Sodic.ot.  Ster. Sb.   -.Sr.g of-ooroo              go tho  di.dtcoer  dopoed. -  Sb. oro.ilbtity If 400
oed i. -e o-ifore ..cuttoc mooS b  .-arItd Ic ro ieo    ... It.. of ce  tedfetor. So t.ooebS.  Thb... Lcrg . cr0oyt Songit  ie .tor S  Sb.  01.. of
oldiooeor Stn Ato  ti         c,S ch. ntry cod -..roc  go-    .
tA30 ASiA. Citocood oa.ho.)-                                                                               "I0.5.  o  HcopSeOl "a4 - Stot.l trboo. 0.4 p-r.I - PoptoUsSo  (005.1
So.t.  - 705.1 .or.c Cor.S.  roepr.iot   Iced  -rn  ted tolod octoro.                          tobn,0.  --I) dlioidd by Shio-  -op-cir. DW.. of bWAt.So  bodo
A.rrcocel-  oceoo  f  otcSi   oolo    t. eo  e        p..t.  or poomotoey               ero blat  to pobtic ted priroe  8-ero  cod .p.nl"ood baitSelD   Ce-
for crp.pot..      . motb_ t nod Mitoh.: bo-=o  or 00 ii.L fYlbo; 174..hbtltoto    oor.KupS ISr.-b.eththoot.O  p.omooely ... (0 .
by SC  o. St .-a pbyoii.e.. Ithloo.t  poidiegptriol  ..g-
OP PM  CAPITA (US$) - Wo   . oyr oottt.o               --r,r enthoc prc... o..-                  41.1 Sol  000 nt tel.o.   loo   opol.  bo=orret. tm..     oomndbooltb
-Utced by .-e -cro.i.. motbd noWorld Book Atl.. (1977-79 boot.); 1960.                         neod  "ototl roue.r 00  t              :.tn  fof.Cd by S phyn.ioo  (hot by.
1970. tod 1979 dot..                                                                           meictI eoutneoo, _.oc. eldoitfo.t O.)  hi.b off.r te-pt                L-e
dcti.. nod "r-id. S 1Iiecd o.. o.  f .odiot for11iitoD.  o- Scotai-
SHERGY CMOIICOPTO   PEIt CAPITA - Aoco-1 roooptioe of  -aoiL1 -o.ry Cr...1                       t10.1 pSrpo.oe othor boptel.o t.n1od. 0W0HO.       opnioor1bpioo
ted ttgoto., p-otolcn.    ...rt 1 ". .ed hydc-., .oro-  Iod Soi.-Mo1 nbc-                      ted  -Jro  boepittir tootorroolhpitol. tod  "oirat ted -torigy
triolty) to kilcgLr.e of-oo  oqulotlo-  par..-pit.; 1960. 1970. nod 1979                      coeSor.  SporIiend bo-pitoto .-o Soldod Illy no.o t0.1l.
dot..                                                                                        Ae.L.otrt OoL.Rc.Pito  Sod - 200.1  -bo  of nde1i.o          So or diOo
Airo  hUoICtlS diridad by Sb. lob,~o  ofhd..
POPCO.ATION ADO  VITAL. STATISTICS
Tnti1 Pprcitttc. Kid-Yoot (th c....do - A. of J.1y 1; 1960. 1970. ned 1979 ISW
ftb..  -cutto   (-o...ct of t... i) - 5.0io of obon to total popt.ntiool                       A m2occd.   ..Bic.I   c     r of -     Indirid.t Sb  oboe.. blifio  Iett.0
dtff.rout do     tirutt. of orhc.. o  oty offort roeyotbilily of doto                       ted tboir sin motto.  A bcnrd.o or lodsrt ooy or -Y 0.t b. i.n.Idd Re
AI0M  ro-ti..; 1960. 1970,. td 1979 d.tt.                                                   oh. hb onSohoid for oto"ttoIrn  P..,0000.
Potottit i. ytt  000 - Crru  P.P.lot.o  projorISio Sro bo..ed 00 1980                boo  f =oao  pof  rc   Vo.1nbe   n  -ood  ocoopiod ceoIloe.l
SoeI  opltln PP11 by ci;.,ed .-0 ood thoir errrll ty ted f-liltlytt-oo.                   dr.olli.So.  o-porti-oty.  0-e111et  nertd. oo-pnmo           ottooICoro.
ProJotiou P.rmrr  for  _toritly rct_  _oprin. of rhin_ tomb. .ou_                         ceneopd Dolt0.
IS& lhf. Soprtocy S0 blrrth c-ro.icg  i0th r-tnoy'. pr ..pit. boooe                     A.n... to fboooirit, (ourrot If   tlOfo-) - to..'so.-.. 
LPSol. ted Onfo. llf. onoroy  -thtbeiit SC 77.5 VS.or.  Th.0 p.r.-                        Cnetoeoao   d.rlitbng  00th IototinIty ietotg905.0t   05.0
motor. f-r fert.ility rot. a1-I     S ho. roo  torloeo.    d.cli.. to                     of t=0.1  oon. td  -ero         U0.. rootirl
f..tilitynorotdicg Sc Itrom   10cc) 004 Y000 0.0117 plnoot  porcmooc..
Sorb rootry1 tobrho  n.l.gcnd oto of thono 01.0  -hootmol... If  -lttity              IMC.,,.
nod foroillty trodo_ I noproJorcic  P.,"poo..                                           Adbutod eorolleot ft0I..
-tioor,ouultio      I0 c  roLcooy porclttio tI          r   .0   reb.10.                    Preryohct-tto.                g.0. 00  0 na    - Ore.. to001. mo" So  feoLo
tho birch 0t.0 to .001 to oh d..rh tor.1ond .1orhoog  otrtororo-                             eolm       nI ol-ioottc  rISyloo                 P po e..... Pof roopooSi
0.10  roouout.  Th  IS 10.hlodoltr.   .oolyOt. dorioot                                      prtnety ouho-ogS. poo      Sie;orroly i-1lodo   rhLU-n  oS 6-11
01.. ropLo.on  lclof ono  0    p            tdrir  ro..C.  Ohm 00th   =.Lr-io               ynoo. hot .djoocd for diffotoo  Inerh. of PoIety7  &SooISsISS  f.
of se    rP.p.r. it... t            Ttl, h. nenrloogr  poPolaic  .1 I..                     ocetric nobh coi-orol .40t.510. tou.t oty Sooood 106 poo00.
-.ot.etd  e rho bo1o of rho poJortod rho-.torooti. rf tho poputioti                         00.0  00.oPl   r ho,,LSbo . 00  thrSb. offiott1 tbol    oft M..
I. rho your 2000. -d  b  lhot.oofc  dolion of f-otility Lotto to Coploco-                                 _I040,obo -_eto. oto no  fnol  - C-tned to- ohor.  0000.407
moo 1,01.                                                                                   edttooo   -Pqiro ... ...SCfo  you, of opprord pIeey lomotreetd.e
lea  00000,         1.tltinrr IS tochd - Tb. your oboe  t.ti-Coy popalttiom                   prnrdou $S.roI. -ociet.n  tooho  -rlins OeotrmetOom ft  p.90
.i.. b.o hoa.  -ourhd.                                                                      nootI1y If 12 t0 17 ynoo- of .0.; otnOodnr neon   r  ISIoclly
P., oc. ho. - tld-your popul.ti. p00 oq-r kilottoo  (100 hMCC---) of                        1aotiool ooime Sio ot of ooo                       oly -btniiomi 000050000
torl o.  1960  1970 nod 1979 4.0..                                                          t-oold. Oocboi-1. ind-.cIl. or            ` orhortil prgm  o Ibotooo Oed,o.d-
Potso.ho.ogrrol_ro  lord - Comput..  no  b.r. fnr ng ct.rcLS   Load4                     ctly -rna d.p-rtmot  If ooroodoey L..tt.L-oe.
pooZy; 19610. 1970 ted 1976 d,t..                                                           P,Oltobt rti  -4ro or,  WeD oooedo   - T,.-  et.dee   sou"todR
poou.ttn A. trooooofr.ror~  -ChIldrou (0-14 y ..o. ), -kIg-.g. (15-                  NrIs ' td Soucodry1..  diridod by SromS of tooto.: 00 Sb.
64 your.) .nd rotrlrd I65 you. ted oo)n   or           nIeof .14-your pop...-ttt                       tin1.0.
lot:  90  197.0.Ioud 1979 dot..                                                       .4.1  liter.r  Lot. (ouroor  - Lito.-t.  d.41t. (.b. on roa  -4 -it.)
P.oltc  irot           (Pr., ... oo) -ro-1 - Anno  growh lo.o. of 00.0I ol-                    So I P-o.-,n   of Stoo ... I   0I  Pu.P.tol,eo  .$d 15 Yo.te 0.4 000.
yno  popl.Oloo..  Icr 1950-WI   907.0417-9
PtouLtrto  iroh hRn (.rO )                 I rbr     Ao`I. groh I.too If otboo PoPe-      CWOOSWTIE
lotou   for 19     l                                                                                 ., 50-60.t1960-70. .rd 1970-79.  P,:= :,0  nt C, oo,th-nond oDoUotoIee  - p..owe,e LSr. eoi.- oa000
tro. Birth       h.Sr      ...tto. fd) -. Aot1 lit. biotho pot thcooced of oid-y,-nr  nolg1.  thou olghO  potonmo  oerlo. Dow.oooo   boo..  0.4
popolttorloc  1960. 1970. ted 1979 dt0..                                                    fhitocy ouhOol...
Cloud.ot   tto (;rotb_ roocd) - Ato-oI d00-b. p.r thooted. of .l-ytt101 brtror  foot thoonoe  Pooootlat ) - All ty.mo f --I-.eo  foe onus
poo.r       =16.  90  ..  99  oo                                                             bodot. 00 8_1ro  pabli. pot tbeotoed of  pDoltoo ISod.o n,
Cr     t crdoro   .O-A.og    -.btt  doghornI  _00  wII  boor L.                          I      Ioeod trirr  10   -.I..0  -d in Yoo obs rgout-tmii   .4 toI.
b.t --rmI ..Prodotl. P"riod if oh. .npcc-n  ponono  n-oeof100n-                               00.0 to of Ofolte; d..n for .orne  yooe moq, ou  ho n..F.. la 000
tility oat...; Soctly fit.yo        LSS.t5. Soudbo  to 1960. 1970,. td 1979                 sIDt oa,ttIoo tolhod IIonelig.
bal,Plono    A .. eot.  sc t (Obuoadt.)- A-1nuolebor .0  -rrpotraT  ooIo.CotSno                                          poo.l-Oim  -.T -9rrI.SV  for bpo.doo   00
Otmi, Poonno   Ono. Iorror  f        Vmttedeoc).- Po.o.o.gC oS.    sorted             -sroaSin  00d 00 yoo..  h.. fte tr-ti.. of TV  eSt. -C  I effort,
-us  of child-boorIo  nsa (15-64 your.)  hbo .oo btrt-b-o-ro  d-itOn  t0                   Betoo  CioLotito Co.t tbo.oood ouol-ioo) - Ohm. th. 09.00   Ot
oIl Snrrltd   no 10 one  ag. StooP.                                                         m a%--doof 0001  noonro. IIetorte   -."oP-p". defne  noI So IP-oo
peblIontio  d-,ed prienil  to C. Co. CAt   goonrol .n.  It 1. SoeIDSnemi
IOo AIM OUTITIOU                                                                                 0  ho -do11y  If it app-Dr no 10.0   foo   0       C0. 'so.
W.40  of ?r0d Pedu-tion Pur C.rit. (1969-71-1000 - Oodou of p.r ..900i no,.                 C0o    Anoo1 Att.odcouo "ur Cnt.Pler boo  -           .d te b. SSAL of
pCod  otoo. of .11 food ro-edltioo.  Poodotion ou1ed.n S.d ted foed Sod                     ti.Cht mold d-or8tg  h. yroll oldo  edoim .              4010.-I.  l
10 I0 oc1-d-r your booto.  CSoidtto   co  priodty Soodo flo          . ootooo               0.d mobl. Soalt.
itotnd of ou.t) rhi.h ao adibl.'o on  rtinort.   (orrff oote
000ar  orlde).Aur-ior  tro..d-tio  00 oorh..coty ID bc..ad -5LAO& OO 101
oot  IIt.ers  p.odocor prir- cItht.; 1961-65.1 7o70.  d 1979 dttt.                        T.-t Ltbt PonF.      hood   - bteIottly ortir. P.-0. SorbodOta
Po 0.0tcc ....l of raoro  (erae  f                -ooro t.) - CoSpcomd Uro                 teedfree0.   tnlYod hotCoe ods  ho-neioos  Coednet.  Vo..
DooatSy oqotroto  of tot f cd trylO. S_otlblo 00 -ot" t-y.  -pi.o                         nortlg P.PI.tnOlo  of AU1 tat.  ft5.10.155c . iStao.i    noneenps or
P.. day.  A-oLobl. ..ppli.. -.mort.  doontir rr_d-ro., 0p,00. lone                        out onatr.bl.; 1960. 1970 -4 197        0.
,,P,,    td  boo   o  tr.Ot  oplo.004   cot   od   oeeIel  Cooc)-  co-                                              lbo   oc   o  ooePo  f001loo   ea
qotIIto  od to food pc.tt. cod boI               tdL itbuo.    tcita                A.Tio-lt... Co-r-o   - Lobor for.. I0 fontsg. U-oty. fratia  -Ad
mon.  -ur  ..titoed by PAo bh...d oc phyolotoir-l nod. f-r no 1a 001-                    fiebln C. Poorot.n.. S.of totl. cbor forte; 0940. 1970 ad 1979 4.S..
,fSy ted benith onoutd-rtg  trroeo tl   o.....cr.. body weight., . ta                   lderu Coorrot) - Lobor f-rr- Se.t.   rmtuto . nfotorfta
.,Sodl0 dot.ibottoc of tr       o. ad tllootc  10 porroct  ctf.  0000  O                       I-d oct Irtoy. Sou-  ted So. oa P.---ua. If t0001 lobor fort; 1940,
booobd1001  11-51970.td197   at.                                                           1970 cod 1979dSt
Por 00100   rtl of r Sio  (ot-e tot do,) - ProetS1 OOoOOct of Pot raPet.           Poretrpiouio 3.0  (Peolle C        e,ml,ta     a        trtto mo
out oupply of ford p.r d.y.  cot ..pply of food IS doti tod  0tho.  S.-                   ocIoty C.---  .rcreo.d*   oot   oe  .0d Onetl  Itbo  forot ISo
qobrno     Co f.11 rIt o--I..  -btthi.bd by US0A0V  itrd. f 00 Loj.otor                    . e.gooaIf  -.0001. sItne  fesln "--I poedtteo  010- ta.   PootoreroO
P.looert f 60 Sine. of tort1 protoo S.r dty nod 20 Cota of cr10.l ted                     1960. 1970. cod 1979 400..  Thomo t-  USAg   -  US0.  p.oiioIpc010   000-
pl.op  frtt., of chir  10 Zoo  ool  hoonmo  prtoOt. 2T . o"te-                           .ofle-ieo oS.-o   -OOo-t If tho poPoItotio . td Iota t'e- C-.  A
nod.oro  ororobtc0100  of  5 *ro  o   ot-  -toote.d 23 LOn of                      Coo S  OintO. 000 foe  -oncal.ozc
0.0001 p-ot.in  otcor         for -h uId,  -ropOd by T60 I0  Mh Third                   t,oso CM V ooed..ttlS     a - Loll. If pp.pnlao1   1eo   5       60d.04 00d
Sott  Poo  Sooy;196-65. 1970 no  0977 d00..                                         00O.000lbrf_.co.
P.r ociotr.      i *r to    o I . cnml ned "IS.0 -fPotnil ouppty of foad do-
tiedfo.noel-nd 0,10.I  ,to    a   s;061-65. 1070 Lo   970.                               teorc
Otto  fact dotiod   ro      . ob.; 1960 197  cod: 0979 4.0S                                ofdb197.abdt
LioOtotn_OOtb  or)-Aara   nhr  fytoo tiCU--d.h   0-lb                 , retIng        ft fcl0ti001.0..  -            (both Ly   ..,nxoro .o.ooned -f  nR-. y 10d000
UATo btrh  106.1970 fl04if 1979 d        16017tod  97 dt.                                     ned oh-.1.d.h.oayo.   tbentdrbonni
Lif.o   Itttlt   a.(o  hcnd  A-.co. doobo Ifo                 of10.0 oldf S on. loct        bomoo T   Abt1-L   oclo ot.. .   Soielate  COO     ISrtorID If p- nhendy    nt
o000tO  hornit  U.ttoroc0 roclt 00-i Iocn. Ifhao.E.nod.tta  - y.                           K.odOrtMaIIty odtqo-to d0  p1th  -id.-bt.l r-fod1-           omoo    ..
hoIf   yoo p.th ...ta. d oISrict. 0   oot)0throooboer.  t   t.nfodbn
p.totno  cf. WbltoAbrtm   rrlotr..Ort  op-trotoh
rond-rdnohb  rt t       roft.p~ ... hoc0..o   bt o.           Otrt                        nmtethd7otoo   o  ho-roo  o   t                       Ao   n  tn  .roo-o.
_tooouiecon  0014tpO           Ibo   h.huofoo p".& boro. of Oh  hoaaoi                    OOOotdPootOo S              . holct PvoI    Soro   .00irreO-ob
V---.   th.ft  -p-ti-  .p.1 ti    .1. .. -b ..d  art)    Porr...ofpoIuI1Oos  nthL.  :tediturnE  -bo  Pr                                , ..Pito.
do=tore boo. Or- S M- diop.oporc-i    L-    of crf oftoh.Udbay in fSrchio  o.- p.o-
ftottr actoor ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~        ~        ~       ~       ~      ~ ~ Sh                   I I~.gL -o
Arc.. toLIcrto l.oo.1 (rrcor of roolsl.d- ,s....rAb.  SC rrsO_
I    IShe   f  orOtth.,urt.  c  rr               hoodh   cro   lpol  to7-                                                                              
tSceeoo-ofot O  ro              .. i .  PptteP f00    oroe  dO.y o.i II y 0000tI.040tL                                             -b     Id.. 1   W   .    S
oCt0  qotiin   tro.                                                                                                         SSISI. A-hooO tootirdroty  O.to
mob  cdS 00.1E.   - orlt.cor.o-   peor_ rn        it000  ai_ 0000.    uo



-22 -                                   ANNEX I
Page 4
ICOtHMIC INDICATORS - LIBERIA
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1979                                         A2NUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7 1971 CONSTANT PRICES)!
US$ Mln.       S                                 1974-78             1979
GDP at Market Prices             890.0       100.0                                 1.6                4.8
Gross Domestic Investment        218.6        24.6                                11.5               20.5
Gross Domestic Saving               ..        12.6
Current Account Balance         -113.2        12.7
Exports of Goods, NFS            551.6        61.9                                -7.5               -1.3
Imports of Goods, NFS            536.6        60.2                                 4.8              -11.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value Added                         Labor Force-/               V. A. Per Worker
USS Mln.       2                       '000     X                    US$        X
Agricultle                       328.0        35.0                    324.8   47.5                  1009.8    73.4
Industry-                        217.0        23.0                     39.6    5.El                 5480.0   398.8
Services                         395.0        42.0                     73.5   10.7                  5374.0   391.1
Unallocated                                                           246.1   36.C_
Total/Average              940.0       100.0                    684.0  100.0                   1374.2   100.0
GOVER*fENT FINANCE
General Government                            Central Government
(   Mln.)         X of GDP                 (USS Mln.)               %of GDP
197       197      196 - 7               1980-814/         1980-815/   1976-806/
Current Receipts                   ..         ..         ..                 220.0               20.8         20.4
Current Expenditures               ..         ..         ..                 220.5               20.8         15.4
Current Surplus                    ..         ..         ..                  -0.5                ..           3.5
Capital Expenditure                ..         ..         ..                 126.0               12.0         12.8
External Assistance (net)          ..         ..         ..                  45.0               4.3           6.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974           1975           1976           1977           1978           1979
(Million US$    Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                                                 .
Bank Credit to Public Sector          4.0            2.2            0.9             4.7            9.4           61.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector        72.7           76.8           83.1          109.2           132.1          146.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 2 of GDP    .                 .              .
General Price Index (1963 - 100)1/
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                  19.5           13.6            6.0             5.8            8.6           11.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector          ..           -45.0          -59.1          422.2          100.0           656.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector         ..             5.6            8.2           31.4           20.9            10.7
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "UNallocated" consists mainly of
unemployed workers seeking their first job.
7| Over 80 percent is accounted for by iron ore.
Consumer Price Index (September, November 1964 - 100).
.4/ 1980-81 budget estim.ates.
5   GDP estimates for 1979 are preliminary and subject to change.
6/  Fiscal years 1976 to 1980
Not *pplicable.
,, Not available.
June 1981



ANNEX I
- 23 -                        Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-80)
1977     1978      1979                                            US$ Mln.         Z
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS            458.0    500.1    551.6           Iron Ore                           291.3         53.8
Imports of Goods, NFS           -490.1   -535.6    566.7           Rubber                              86.4         15.9
Resource Gap (deficit = -)       -32.1    -44.5    -35.5           Diamonds                            34.5          6.4
Logs or Lumber                     62.0          11.4
Interest Payments (net)           -6.7    -10.8    -22.0           Coffee                              28.5          5.2
Workers' Remittances             -27.5    -32.5    -35.0           Palm Products                        3.0          0.5
Other Factor Payments (net)    -68.0    -92.8    -78.8             Cocoa                               12.0          2.2
Net Transfers                     30.8      32.2      37.7         All Other Commodities               23.5          4.4
Balance on Current Account    -104.5   -139.4   -113.2                  Total                         541.2        100.0
Direct Foreign Investment-1        8.1    -10.5    -58.4           EXTERNAL DEBT, JUNE 30, 1980
Net l-LT Borrowing                38.3      64.5    123.6
Disbursements                   50.0      78.7    178.0                                                  US$ Mln.
Amortization                   -13.7    -14.2    -54.4
Sub-Total                   -19.8    -54.0      65.2         Public Debt, Incl. Guaranteed             533.3
Capital Grants                     ..        ..        ..          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 -
Other Capital (net)              -35.3      79.6       ..          Total Outstanding and Disbursed          533.3
Other Items n.e.i.                51.1       .          .2/
Increase in Reserves (+)           4.0      25.1    -48.0          DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980-'
Gross Reserves (end year)           ..       ..        ..                                                     %
Net Reserves (end year)
Public Debt, Incl. Guaranteed             7.9
Fw*' and Related Materials                                         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                -
orts                                                         Total Outstanding and Disbursed            7.9
of which:  Petroleum         103.2     68.8      84.6
Exports                                                         IBRD/IDA LENDING, (JUNE 30, 1980) (MILLION US$):
of which: Petroleum
IBRD       IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding and Disbursed          53.6       18.0
Through - 1971                       Since                      Undisbursed                         66.3       25.9
US$1.00 = 1.00                       US$1.00 = 1.00              Outstanding Incl. Undisbursed   119.9         43.9
1.00 = US$                           1.00 - US$
1/ Includes errors and omissions.
2/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services
Not applicable.
Not available.
June 1981



- 24 -                           ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1981)
Loan or                                                           Amount (US$ Million)
Credit                                                             less cancellation
Number   Year      Borrower               Purpose             Bank      IDA /a   Undisbursed
Nine loans and three credits fully disbursed                  28.47    10.96
1055    1974  Liberian Bank for        Second Development
Dev. and Investment    Finance                 4.0                  0.06
577    1975  Rep. of Liberia          Agriculture                       6.0        0.65
1156    1975  Rep. of Liberia          Third Road             27.5                  1.32
1266T   1976  Rep. of Liberia          Second Education        4.0                  0.38
1323    1976  Liberian Bank for        Third Development
Deve. and Investment   Finance                 7.0                  3.54
1417    1977  Rep. of Liberia          Education               6.3                  2.08
700    1977  Rep. of Liberia          Agriculture                      7.0         2.73
786    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Rubber Development               6.0         4.26
839    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Forestry                         6.0         4.33
Development
859    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Monrovia Water                   8.0         3.22
Supply
1544    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Rubber Development    7.0                    7.00
1573    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Fourth Highway         13.8                  0.40
1600    1978  Liberian Electric        Fourth Power           10.0                  0.16
Corporation                                        /
1644    1979  Rep. of Liberia          Feeder Roads           10.7                  8.43
1765    1979  Rep. of Liberia          Decoris Oil Palm       12.0                 11.46
1076    1980  Rep. of Liberia          Small & Med.-Scale
Enterprises            -        3.2         3.20
1907    1980  Rep. of Liberia          Petroleum Explo.        5.0        -         0.95
Total                                         135.77    47.16
of which has been repaid                     15.44      -
Total now outstanding                         120.33    47.16
Amounts sold                          0.41
of which repaid                     0.41      0.0
Total held by Bank and IDA                    120.33    47.16
Total undisbursed                              35.78    18.39       54.17
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 25 -                           ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1981)
Fiscal
Year      Obligator            Type of Busienss       Loan      Equity      Total
1966     Liberian Bank for    Development
Development and       Finance Company
Investment                                             0.250       0.250
1977     Liberian Bank for    Development
Development and       Finance Company
Investment                                             0.306       0.306
0.556      0.556
Less Sold                                              0.001       0.001
Now Held by IFC                                        0.555       0.555



- 26 -                           ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(Status as of September 30, 1981)
Loan No. 1266T-LBR    Second Education Project:  US$4.0 Million Third Window
Loan of June 7, 1976;. Effectivie Date:  July 8, 1976;
Closing Date: August 31, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is nesaring completion after
delays due to shortages of construction materials and unusually long rainy
seasons. The extension of a teacher training institute was completed on
schedule and within appraisal cost estimates. Eighty-five of the one hundred
planned primary school units have been completed. The technical assistance
program has been completed and most of the fellowships have been awarded. The
only major activity which is outstanding is the educational publications
component. The overall project is expected to be completed in mid 1982, about
two years behind the original target date.
Loan No. 1417-LBR   Third Education Project:  US$6.3 Million Loan of
May 26, 1977; Effective Date: July 13, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall, project implementation is about two. years behind schedule
due to poor contractor performance, site changes, and delays in placing
fellows. The Vocational Training Center/Agricultural and Industrial Training
Board, the Forestry Training Institute and three of the four Science and Tech-
nology Centers should begin operation soon. The construction of the fourth
Science and Technology Center will begin soon. The technical assistance
program is being implemented as planned. The fellowship program for the
Vocational Training Center is being implemented satisfactorily but the
remainder of the fellowship program is about two years behind schedule. The
project is expected to be completed about two years behind the original
completion date but close to appraisal cost estimates.
Credit No. 577-LBR    Agricultural Development (Lofa) Project:  US$6 Million
Credit of August 1, 1975; Effective Date: May 26. 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Project performance continues to be satisfactLory in swamp and
upland rice development with 101 percent and 90 percent of their respective
targets to date achieved. About 75 percent of the cocoa targets and 58 per-
cent of coffee targets were met. The main reason for these shortfalls were
the temporary disturbances in field operations in May and June 1980 following
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, aLnd with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                           ANNEX II
Page 4
the April change of government and shortage of planting materials. The
performance of the completely Liberianised Senior Staff continues to be
satisfactory although the Cooperative and Agricultural field staff needs
strengthening. A Bank mission appraised a second phase of this project in
June, and a Credit proposal is being prepared.
Credit No. 700-LBR    Agricultural Development (Bong) Project:  US$7 Million
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: March 15,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project performance continues to be satisfactory. About 100 percent
of upland rice targets, 13 percent of swamp rice targets, 100 percent of cocoa
targets and 85 percent of coffee targets, have been achieved. The project
continues to face difficulties in getting farmers to develop swamp rice.
Project management is adjusting to recent staff changes.
Credit No. 786/        Rubber Development Project:  US$7 Million Loan and
Loan No. 1544-LBR      US$6 Million Credit, both of April 21, 1978;
Effective Date: October 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Satisfactory progress is being made in the management of this
project. However, improving smallholders involvement in the full range of
rubber activities is progressing only slowly. A new Training Officer is being
appointed and training of staff, farmers and tappers should soon commence. The
Bank is considering amendments to the project scope and design, to include
processing facilities. Some 90 percent of project targets are likely to be
attained for 1980/81.
Credit No. 839-LBR    Forestry Project:  US$6 Million Credit of July 28, 1978;
Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
There has been a perceptible improvement in staff morale since
the new Managing Director was appointed. Progress is being made in the
building program and the development of the trial industrial plantation site.
The reduced effectiveness of the Forest Development Authority and of Ministry
of Finance in collecting forest taxes has resulted in considerable arrears
from concessions. This has limited the Authority's role in the sector and the
plantation program has also suffered. Planting is now expected to reach only
63 percent of appraisal targets. The fellowship and training program is
proceeding satisfactorily.



- 28 -                           ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 1765-LBR
Special Action Credit No. 35-LBR
Decoris Oil Palm Project: US$12.0 Million Loan and
US$2.0 Million EEC Credit, both of December 21. 1979:
Effective Date: February 23, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Project performance is satisfactory, and land development is almost
on target with some 1225 ha of nucleus and smallholders land cleared. Pro-
cedures for compensating farmers for land obtained for the nucleus estate are
being developed. Although funding is at times difficult, Project Management
continues to make reasonably good progress.
Loan No. 1156-LBR       Third Highway Project:  US$27.5 Million Loan of
August 28, 1975; Effective Date: October 14, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The construction of a major bridge and an urban main road (5.4 m)
in Monrovia was completed in 1979, and the main trunk road (83 m) was substan-
tially completed in May 1981 after delays due to bad weather, difficulties in
the supply of materials and disturbances associated with the change of govern-
ment in 1980. The feasibility studies of about 98 miles of main roads and an
urban transport study of Monrovia have been completed. The Lofa County Feeder
Road Unit, which became operational in January 1977, has been transferred to
the Feeder Road Project (1664-LBR) after completion of the three-year construc-
tion program. Technical assistance in developing the Planning and Programming
Division of the Ministry of Public Works has been reasonably effective.
Loan 1573-LBR           Fourth Highway Project:  US$13.8 Million Loan of
June 2, 1978; Effective Date: September 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project includes reconstruction and impirovement of the Pay-
nesville-Totota and Paynesville-Robertsfield road, road maintenance, technical
assistance and preinvestment studies. Reconstruction of the Paynesville-
Robertsfield road, financed by the Kuwait Fund, was completed in October 1980.
Rehabilitation of the Paynesville-Totota road was resumed in September 1980
after disruptions caused by the change of government, and is now about 65 per-
cent completed. Detailed engineering of the Ganta-Sanniquellie and Ganta-Tapeta
roads, delayed temporarily, was substantially completed in December 1980. Due
to a shortage of funds and changes in government personnel assigned to mainte-
nance operations, technical assistance for maintenance has not been effective.
During the last six months of their contract, the road maintenance advisory
team assisted the Ministry of Public Works to prepare a study for a follow-up
maintenance project. A project cost overrun of about US$9.5 million is now
expected as a consequence of implementation delays and higher than expected
construction costs due to faster deterioration than foreseen at appraisal
of Paynesville-Totota road; Government is exploring other sources of funding
to complete the works.



- 29 -                           ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No. 1664-LBR         Feeder Roads Project:  US$10.7 Million Loan of
April 4, 1979: Effective Date: April 30, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides for the construction or improvement and main-
tenance of about 700 miles of feeder roads and for the maintenance of a
further 200 miles of feeder roads. The work will be undertaken by three
brigades operated by the Ministry of Public Works. While some of the equip-
ment has been delivered, the project has been adversely affected by the
unsettled situation since the 1980 change of government and, more recently,
by a shortage of counterpart resources.
Loan No. 1323-LBR         Third Development Finance Company (LBDI) Project:
US$7 Million Loan of October 7, 1976; Effective
Date: December 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Loan 1055-LBR is fully committed and should be completed shortly.
Commitment of Loan 1323-LBR has been slower than anticipated (50 percent of
the loan has been committed) owing to depressed economic activity in Liberia
and a downturn in business investment. Following the 1980 political changes
and subsequent general economic difficulties, the quality of LBDI's portfolio
and its financial position have deteriorated considerably. LBDI is now
concentrating its efforts on project follow-up and loan recovery.
Loan No. 1076-LBR         Small and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project:
US$4 million Credit of January 9, 1981;
Effective Date: September 14, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Credit effectiveness and initial project implementation have been
delayed by weak management in the implementing agency (NIC). The consultant
study on industrial incentives and revision of the investment code is underway.
The first of three technical experts will join NIC soon. Minor disbursements
have been made for technical assistance only.
Loan No. 1600-LBR         Fourth Power Project:  US$10.0 Million Loan of
July 7, 1978; Effective Date: December 11, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of expansion of thermal generating facilities
by 26 MW to meet demand up to 1985, power distribution to urban poor, rural
transmission studies and technical assistance for management and training.
Construction of the power plant has been completed, and the two diesel units
are in operation. LEC's financial performance has been severely affected by



- 30 -                           ANNEX II
Page 7
low operating efficiency. A five-man management support team started work at
LEC in July 1978 as a part of the Management Improvement Program instituted
under this loan. Progress of this team has been satisfactory but loan funds
for this component were exhausted in June 1981. LEC is funding a one year
extension from meager resources; additional funding is needed to keep the team
in place after June 1982.
Credit No. 859-LBR        Water Supply Project:  US$8 Million Credit of
January 8, 1979; Effective Date: April 2, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project costs have escalated from $16.1 million at appraisal to
$23.2 million. The Government successfully approached the Finnish Aid Agency
(FINIDA) for funds to finance the local component. Construction works are now
progressing according to plan, except for the raw water intake and pipeline
which are pending resolution of a LEC claim for compensation. The installa-
tion of standpipes in Monrovia's urban poor quarters has been completed.
Unaccounted-for water remains at a high level, almost 50%. Serious revenue
shortfalls continue to plague LWSC but billing and collection are slowly
improving. Government funding of LWSC remains irregular and Government
intends to introduce new funding arrangements based on LWSC's actual cash
needs. The Management Improvement and Technical Assistance Program has not
yielded expected results due to changes in top management, shortages in
counterpart funds and financial constraints. The German Government is funding
a continuation of the program through GTZ.
LoLit No. 1907-LBR        Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project; US$5.0
Million Loan of November 21, 1980; Effective Date:
January 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project seeks to promote Liberia's offshore petroleum potential
by financing a seismic survey; processing, interpreting and integrating seis-
mic data; consulting services for the promotion, auction and negotiation of
new exploration permits and technical assistance to the Bureau of Hydrocarbons
and for energy planning. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
The seismic survey was initiated on March 4, 1981 and has now been completed.
Availability of counterpart financing may constitute a problem in the future
for the implementation of the project.



- 31 -                        ANNEX III
LIBERIA
MONROVIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project - 1 year
(b) Preparation - Government with consultants financed under a PPF
advance
(c)  First IDA mission to consider the project - February 1979
(d)  Date of appraisal mission - November 1980
(e)  Negotiations - August 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness - March 1982
II.  Special IDA Implementation Action
Deposit US$300,000 out of the Credit in the Special Account immediately
after effectiveness of the Credit, to help initiate project implementa-
tion.
III. Special Conditions
(i)  The Government would continue to follow land adjudication procedures
and compensation policies satisfactory to IDA (para 36);
(ii) The Government would discuss with IDA the results and recommenda-
tions of studies on municipal management urban project preparation
and water tariffs within six months of their completion and take
IDA's comments into account in taking subsequent action (para 37);
(iii)  The Government would maintain a Steering Committee under the chair-
manship of the Ministry of Local Government to Coordinate and
carry out the project (para 38);
(iv)  MCC would:  maintain adequately staff and provide all necessary
resources for DPD to carry out the project; employ additional
specialized staff according to an agreed time table, and consult IDA
on appointments to positions of Director and Division Chief of DPD
until completion of the project (para 39);



- 32 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2
(v)  MCC would prepare an opening financial statement in a form satisfac-
tory to IDA by April 1, 1982 reflecting its position as of December 31,
1981 and would thereafter submit annual accounts of MCC operations,
including a separate account of project expenditure, not later than
six months after the close of each fiscal year; such accounts to be
audited by a firm acceptable to IDA (para 40);
(vi) The Government would maintain land adjudication teams; four of which
would be assigned to the project areas (para 42);
(vii)  MCC would seek to improve each year the level of collection of
property taxes and afford IDA the apportunity of commenting on
progress made, establishing yearly tax collection targets satis-
factory to IDA (para 49);
(viii) The Government would open a Special Account and a Project Account
and make an initial deposit of $100,000 in the Project Account and
conclude a subsidiary loan agreement with the Monrovia City Cor-
poration as conditions of loan effectiveness, (para 56); and
(ix) The Government would conclude subsidiary loan agreements with
the Liberia Water and Sewerage Corporation and the National Housing
and Savings Bank as conditions of disbursement to these agencies.
The establishment of accounting and auditing systems satisfactory to
IDA by agencies proposing to use certificates of expenditure would
be condition of disbursement by such certification (para 56).



[ I BERIA
MONROVIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT
.At ,, . f .1 \ = - 1 wX/-vo \ PROJECT
os,                                t      54;2  /                ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~- /                                   NA C'i'A \'AAAA Actool            2
'   1          ~      ~     ~~~/  ]                                      R-<  ;   \A ERroud xd ExAAAAAd MOErke
4,   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ 4 N-~ M,rkoI
i -\ > /   it   X                ~        ~       ~~/    >3   FaI,;T,AAA
S  0      , .    ;  ,        ,'CAl  OF/                       3.        t       ;             "I                      DOHh-1t   t  Rs    oeo    dM S
f /                                 &1; 0  SF 1 . -y
C_RDS  tZ    i  _C]t  \;   X    407DE t; MrA  L                    ff   f ff (sARbF~o    '   "1   SAAII',
tl                      10    ~~~~~~~~~~~5,00
15     0 w, E1711- S,, / R-d   ,d IAgS S
6    S3-  _-C _=o181h - 220d 5St,     '-A -Ap
)          I    c~~~~1 l9h-20,, So / PA.. A -
f-               8~~~~~ IJFK Mod,- (-oro
19   -k,-co
21  PAyAAA-H
22   C,,
'--A ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
~- SIERRA    I,  ("     
A,,A,,,jI,0~ETLOAT.E'    -. -  



